February 13, 2014 | Vol. 112 no. 14 | middleburycampus.com
SKIING 
TRAGEDIES SHAKE 
COMMUNITY
PAGE 6
MIDDLEBURY’S 
DIVERSIFIED 
OCCUPATIONS 
PROGRAM
PAGE 14
REVIEW OF LES 
MISERABLES AT 
THE TOWN HALL 
THEATRE 
PAGE 17in
sid
e
Swipe System to 
be Implemented
Students celebrated the launch of MiddSafe with advocates and faculty advisors in Crossroads.
Joani taylor
Daniel Loehr ’13.5 gave the student address to 126 fellow graduates and their guests in Mead Chapel 
on Feb. 1.  The graduates then trekked to the College Snow Bowl for a ski in their caps and gowns.
courtesy photo
2013.5 SKIS OFF INTO THE SUNSET
Sexual Assault Hotline Goes Live
By Emily Singer
By Emily Singer
STEM-Focused 
Posse Announced
By Ellie Reinhardt
In an effort to cut costs and re-
duce waste, the College will be reor-
ganizing top-level management po-
sitions and introducing a one-card 
swipe system within Dining Ser-
vices. The restructuring comes after 
-
dexo in the fall.
According to Vice President for 
Finance and Treasurer Patrick Nor-
ton, Sodexo was brought in because 
were issues around systems and gen-
eral management that needed to be 
corrected.” Sodexo is a major player 
-
is present among many local institu-
tions, including University of Ver-
mont, Chaplain College and Saint 
Michael’s College.
Though at the conclusion of So-
dexo’s stay, the College decided not 
-
still proved to be valuable.
“[The Sodexo report] validated 
our thoughts,” Norton said. “You 
have a hypothesis and you test it. 
And the hypothesis was that we 
had issues around some systems 
and some general management and 
that’s what came back to us.”
Implementing A Swipe System
As one of the only colleges in the 
nation without a swipe-based meal 
plan, the College does not have a 
concrete method of determining the 
number of students who eat in the 
dining halls. Norton said that down 
the road, the College will likely im-
plement a one-card system. 
Discussions regarding the one-
card system are still in preliminary 
-
ducing a one-card swipe system 
does not necessarily mean that the 
College is moving to a meal plan sys-
tem, and there will be no limit to a 
student’s number of daily swipes.
“What the swipe card does is 
that it eliminates folks who aren’t 
students from going into our din-
ing halls and eating,” Norton said. 
“That’s an issue. It’s hard to deter-
mine how pervasive the issue is, but 
it’s an issue. We’ve heard anecdot-
ally that there are folks from outside 
who go into our dining halls and eat, 
and when you have an open system, 
that’s what happens.”
Initially, the swipe system will 
allow Dining Services to ensure that 
those eating in the dining halls are 
members of the College commu-
nity and that guests pay the rarely-
dollar lunch and nine dollar dinner 
fees.
While dining hall swipes are like-
ly to be unlimited when the one-card 
system is introduced, students can 
have the option of putting points on 
their card and using it for purchases 
at the bookstore or at on-campus re-
tail operations such as the Grille or 
Crossroads. Such a system is widely 
employed at schools across the na-
tion and was once used at the Col-
lege too.
A decade ago, the College em-
ployed a home-grown credit system, 
much like a credit card, that was 
used in the dining halls and food re-
tail operations. Students were able 
to purchase items at The Grille and 
the cost was added to the end-of-se-
mester bill. Additionally, the College 
issued faculty and staff members 
credit cards, the charges of which 
were deducted from their paychecks.
SEE DINING, PAGE 3 SEE MIDDSAFE, PAGE 2
SEE NEW, PAGE 4
On Jan. 24, students and faculty+ 
gathered in Crossroads to celebrate 
the launch of MiddSafe, the College’s 
MiddSafe has been in the works 
for several years and marks a critical 
development in the College’s pro-
gramming to prevent sexual assault 
on campus. The long-awaited activa-
tion of the hotline was made possible 
by both the help of a grant from the 
Department of Justice and the hir-
ing of a Health and Wellness Educa-
tion Director, Barbara McCall, at the 
start of the academic year.
The Task Force on the Status of 
Women Report from 2008 recom-
mended the introduction of a sexual 
assault advocacy program. In the 
wake of the report, the Sexual As-
sault Oversight Committee (SAOC) 
was founded and has been planning 
the sexual assault hotline ever since.
The hotline takes the form of a 
cell phone passed between advocates 
-
tions where the caller poses a risk to 
him or herself or others.
Last spring, the SAOC issued a 
call for student advocates to staff the 
hotline. Applications were reviewed 
by Director of Chellis House Karin 
Hanta and Associate Dean for Judi-
cial Affairs and Student Life Karen 
Guttentag, who then selected 15 stu-
dents to undergo advocate training. 
The advocates underwent 20 hours 
of training that included webinars 
from the Department of Justice, 
conversations with staff members 
at Parton Health Center, Counseling 
McCall’s presence on campus 
acted as a catalyst for the develop-
ment of the hotline, as the role of Di-
rector and Health and Wellness had 
“When I arrived this summer, 
students had already been select-
ed [as advocates], they had gone 
through an interview process with 
members of the SAOC, and I re-
ally had this summer to get to know 
them, get to know the history of the 
program, plan the training and then 
get everybody trained when folks re-
turned in the fall,” McCall said.
“We spent a lot of the fall se-
mester working out the kinks and 
details and the kinds of things that, 
when you’re writing a program plan, 
you might not actually think of until 
you’re in the thick of actually trying 
to get things to happen.”
McCall noted that planning for 
the hotline involved looking at peer 
institutions conducting similar 
work, noting Harvard, Amherst and 
In September 2015, the College 
will welcome 10 new Posse stu-
dents from Los Angeles who have 
shown an interest in pursuing sci-
ence, technology, engineering and 
math (STEM) disciplines. The 
Posse Foundation announced its 
decision in Jan. 2014 to double the 
number of Posse partner schools 
new Posse students will be added 
to a class of 20 Posse students 
from the College’s existing part-
nerships with the New York and 
Chicago Posse programs.
This addition stems from 
President Obama and First Lady 
Michelle Obama’s initiative to 
improve the training and educa-
tion of STEM students across the 
country. The College was one of 
-
ties selected to join an existing 
these ten schools will provide 500 
urban students of different back-
grounds with four years worth of 
full scholarships. The funding will 
variety of institutions.
“I’m really honored as a Posse 
alum and as Dean of the College 
that we were picked by the Posse 
Foundation,” said Dean of the 
College Shirley Collado. “They 
have over forty colleges that they 
could have picked and they looked 
to Middlebury as a place where 
Posse scholars are thriving and 
as a place that was demonstrating 
deep commitment to wanting to 
improve what we’re doing in the 
sciences and for STEM students.”
The Posse foundation recruits 
students who exhibit excellent 
leadership and academic promise 
from nine urban locations across 
to the country and matches them 
with top tier institutions, to pro-
vide an otherwise unattainable 
academic experience for students.
“[The Posse students] have 
| February 13, 20142 NEWS
YouPower Struggles to Spin Wheels
By Allie Cohen
After leadership changes at the end 
of last year rendered the YouPower bike 
room nearly forgotten, new management 
and programming boosted bike use during 
J-term.
YouPower was founded in 2012 by a 
group of students who turned to Mid-
dSTART, the College’s microphilanthopy 
network, to raise money for 10 spin bikes 
linked to generators to be connected to 
the College’s energy grid. Watt-hours pro-
duced by students riding the bikes go di-
rectly into powering the College.
Located in the Freeman Internation-
al Center, the YouPower bike room has 
been used for individual riding sessions, 
free student-led classes, private classes 
and Watt-A-Thons — relay-style events 
in which teams compete to produce the 
largest amount of energy in a set period of 
time.
YouPower’s struggle stems from a lack 
of continuity. In the past, seniors would 
assume leadership roles, spend several 
months organizing classes and schedules 
and then graduate, leaving YouPower 
without a leader. This year alone, YouPow-
er classes did not begin until November.
After this period of uncertainty, Nan 
Philip ’16.5 and Spencer Petterson ’14 are 
at the helm of YouPower and are working 
to improve programming, increase regular 
use and set future goals.
YouPower in Fall 2012 when she served as 
an instructor. After a call for new manag-
ers went out over the summer, she decided 
to seek a leadership position.
“It was something that I really didn’t 
want to see die,” Spencer said noting the 
ecological impact YouPower can have and 
the value of it being a student-run initia-
tive.
 “It took a while for us to get it [YouPow-
er] reorganized,” said Philip, who cited a 
string of miscommunications and misun-
derstandings as a roadblock to YouPower’s 
success.
In spite of past struggles, a recent boost 
in support has left Philip optimistic about 
YouPower’s future. Petterson noted Op-
erations and Events Manager Franklin 
Dean-Farrar and members of the Stu-
dent Government Association (SGA) who 
helped to boost operations and instructing 
YouPower’s leaders on exercise safety rules 
and regulations.
The location of the YouPower bike room 
on the north end of campus, adjacent to 
Ross, Coffrin, Atwater and the Chateau, 
offers an alternative to the athletic center.
“The YouPower room is a great alter-
native to the gym, especially because I 
live in Ross and that’s a long, cold walk in 
the winter,” said Rachel Kinney ’16.5, who 
plans to use YouPower throughout the 
spring semester.
As of Jan. 23, 323 students used You-
Power during J-term, with most staying on 
the bikes for 30-60 minutes. The average 
watt-hours generated by students in an 
hour-long session is enough to power two 
60-watt light bulbs for an hour.
YouPower currently has six student-in-
structors registered, some of whom are of-
who are merely passionate about spinning. 
Philip and Petterson are looking to expand 
their roster and bring on new leadership. 
Information about YouPower student-led 
courses, open ride hours and becoming in-
volved with the bike room can be found at 
go/youpower.
 “It’s cool … to think about the amount 
of energy needed for even the simplest 
things,” Petterson said. “It’s amazing to re-
alize that after I turn my lights off, I would 
have to bike for an hour just to get them 
running again for that amount of time.”
YouPower hopes to ensure future leadership and boost programming this spring.
file photo
MiddSafe to 
Provide Peer 
Guidance
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Castleton State as local or peer schools with 
particularly robust hotline programs.
makes sense for our community, what makes 
sense for Middlebury,” McCall said. “Some-
times that was really close to what someone 
else was doing, and then there were other times 
there’s been a bit of borrowing from past ideas 
and past knowledge, and also using what we 
know about Middlebury.”
The student advocates applied for the pro-
the College’s current system dealing with sex-
ual assault, and because it has the potential to 
change on-campus attitudes toward sexual as-
sault.
“I had been frustrated by the sexual assault 
awareness program during orientation and 
talked to Karin Hanta and Karen Guttentag 
about it and they both let me know when this 
program came up,” said MiddSafe advocate 
Rebecca Coates-Fincke ’16.5. “I thought it was 
a really good way to launch myself into this 
part of campus that’s working toward preven-
tion and support, and I think it’s really helpful 
for people to know that they have peers avail-
able to help.”
Fellow advocate Sophie Kligler ’15 noted 
that the SAOC has developed a number of pro-
grams to raise awareness of and prevent sexual 
assault, but none that are based on peer sup-
port. The peer support component and the 
potential to create meaningful change led her 
to apply to be an advocate.
The goal of MiddSafe is not to tell callers 
what they should do next. Rather, the advo-
to make their own decisions.
“We’re not in the business of making any 
decisions for anybody,” Alex Strott ’15 said. 
“We’re just there to let people know what all 
of their options are, so we might ask them 
what they need from us, what kind of infor-
mation they’re looking for, give them options 
and let them make their own decisions and 
point them toward the appropriate resources.
Coates-Fincke added that, above all, the 
MiddSafe advocates are here to listen.
“We’re available just to take down people’s 
stories… to hear people. If someone needs to 
call and just tell a voice that this happened to 
them, we’re available to take down that story, 
which I think is important to bear witness,” 
she said.
MiddSafe’s reach is expected to extend 
beyond the hotline, as private consultations 
with peer advocates are available and stu-
dents can approach advocates in person or 
set up informal meetings.
Advocates and advisors expect MiddSafe 
to evolve to meet the needs of the community.
“I think the programmatic piece is some-
move through,” McCall said. “We also want to 
put some information out to campus — what 
do folks need to know about sexual assault 
in our community, how can they be thinking 
about best ways to care for themselves and 
care for friends? I think there are going to 
be a lot of ways for MiddSafe to insert itself 
as a proactive, positive force into a lot of the 
conversations that are already happening on 
campus.”
The program is expected to expand both 
its reach and its number of advocates. McCall 
said that MiddSafe did receive several appli-
cations from men, and that the potential male 
advocates simply decided not to continue 
with joining the program.
reach out to the male community on campus 
because this isn’t just a female issue,” Kligler 
said. 
Programming throughout the year - es-
be integral in spreading awareness of Mid-
dSafe’s presence on campus.
“We’ll certainly be talking about what kind 
of role MiddSafe could play in orientation, 
campus],” McCall said. “For example, how 
advocates can remain most visible to students 
as we introduce [new students] to our com-
munity and talk about ways to stay safe and 
ways to get support when they need it.”
To reach MiddSafe, call 802-377-0239
By David Yang
Summer Enviro. Curriculum Revealed
The Middlebury School of the Environ-
ment will open its doors to students for 
six-week program promises to give stu-
dents not only a rigorous interdisciplinary 
training in environmental studies but also 
invaluable leadership and entrepreneurial 
skills necessary to promote social change.  
While the program will be inaugurat-
members have been working to develop it 
for several years. In 1994, President John 
study of the environment 
-
cellence of the college and 
a 1995 taskforce suggested 
the creation of a summer 
school of the environment. 
The College’s environmen-
tal studies program, found-
ed in 1965, is the oldest of 
such programs in the US.
“For the last eighteen 
years we have worked to 
see how such a program 
could be offered, where 
it would be offered, what 
the pros and cons were and what the cur-
riculum might look like,” said Professor of 
Environmental and Biosphere Studies and 
the Director of the Middlebury School of 
the Environment Stephen Trobulak. “It all 
trustees approved our proposal last May.”
The College has been holding summer 
courses for a long time. The School of Ger-
man was established almost a century ago 
in 1915 and the Bread Loaf School of Eng-
lish has been in session every summer since 
1920. By accepting students from around 
the country, the summer programs expand 
the College’s educational reach. 
Bread Loaf and Language School-like sum-
mer program that focused on the environ-
ment,” Trombulak said. 
Students in the program will take three 
interdisciplinary courses. All students will 
enroll in a Sustainability Practicum and a 
course titled Interdisciplinary Understand-
ing of Place: Lake Champlain. In addition 
to the two required courses, each student 
is free to choose a Global Perspectives elec-
tive with topics such as international en-
vironmental negotiation and conservation 
planning. 
“The goal of the program is to offer stu-
dents a high quality education that focuses 
on cutting-edge curricula related to under-
standing the rela-
tionship between 
the humans and 
the environment,” 
Trombulak said. 
The curriculum 
is set up to combine 
the knowledge base 
of environmental 
studies with the 
practical leadership 
and entrepreneur-
ial skills necessary 
to promote social 
change after the 
completion of the 
program.
just the knowledge base necessary to be 
effective at addressing environmental is-
the skills base for doing it so the kinds of 
leadership and communication and project 
management skills,” Trombulak said.
“The goal isn’t to produce activists … 
What it is about is giving students the 
skills they need to succeed professionally 
in whatever domain they choose to pursue 
whether it is business, government, educa-
The blend of academics and practical 
skills is an attraction of the program.
“I am hoping to get the opportunity to 
get to know some folks from other schools 
who are also interested in environmental 
studies and about to jump off into the world 
to try and make it a better place,” wrote 
Isaac Baker ’15, an environmental studies 
program, in an email. “I [hope to] explore 
the MiddCORE-like personal development 
that the program is said to offer — I don’t 
fully know what that will look like but I am 
The curriculum also represents a com-
bination of science and the humanities, 
which the environmental studies pro-
gram at the College emphasizes during 
the school year. All environmental studies 
majors must take a core course titled Na-
ture’s Meanings: American Experiences, 
which includes readings of authors like 
Emerson, Thoreau and Muir. Those who 
major in environmental studies must also 
take their cognates, or electives, outside of 
the natural sciences. This emphasis on the 
humanities stems from the realization that 
environmental issues have to do with man-
kind’s relationship with the environment.
The course about Lake Champlain, in 
particular, embodies the interdisciplinarity 
nature of the study of the environment. 
“The sources of environmental chal-
lenges and the solutions inherently have 
both cultural and ecological roots and con-
straints it is unavoidably and inarguably 
true that to be able to chart an environ-
mental future that works for humans and 
non-humans alike you have to be able to 
understand both the cultural narrative and 
the ecological narrative of a place,” said 
Trombulak.  “It doesn’t make any sense to 
-
ies management in Lake Champlain if you 
don’t understand both the human story and 
the ecological story.”
The priority deadline for School of the 
Environment applications is Feb. 15 and 
“It’s going to be an intensive experience 
in and out of the classroom,” wrote Baker, 
“I’m looking forward to diving in deep.”
“... a high quality 
education that focuses 
on cutting-edge 
curricula related to 
understanding the 
relationship between 
humans and the 
environment.”
stephen trombulak
Director of the  School of the Environment
February 13, 2014 |  3        News
Yoga with Sayre
De-stress and breathe deep in the Proctor 
basement
FRIDAY AT 1:30 P.M.
Free Friday Film 
Love Jones will be playing in Dana.
FRIDAY AT 6 & 9 P.M.
Zumba in McCullough
Take a study break and dancercize!
SUNDAY AT 4 P.M.
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
CCI Hosts Media Alumni Panel
By Renee Chang
On February 14, the Center for Careers & 
Internships (CCI) will unveil the inaugural 
UpNext speakers series, a faculty-moderated 
career panel that brings Middlebury alumni 
from different industries to campus to share 
their work experience with students. This 
week’s event focuses on media and entertain-
ment.
Jeff Sawyer, CCI Director of Employer 
Outreach and Development, says the series is 
unlike any other in that it  “brings three con-
stituencies together, as students, faculty and 
employers converse about topics and common 
interests within a single industry.” 
The panel on Friday will be moderated by 
Professor of English and American Literatures 
Timothy Billings and will feature a diverse 
lineup of alumni panelists, including Kather-
ine Davis ’87, a Political Science and French 
major and current 60 Minutes producer; Rick 
Holzman ’87, a Political Science major and 
Executive Vice President of Programming and 
Strategy at Animal Planet; Richard Coolidge 
’87, a Political Science/French double major, 
and ABC News producer; Beth Levison ’91, 
a Geography/Italian major and documen-
Schozer ’13, an Economics major and pro-
duction assistant at Peacock Productions, an 
NBCUniversal production company. 
UpNext event centers on 
careers in media and entertainment, Sawyer 
wants Middlebury students to look beyond the 
common perceptions of the industry. 
“The series – and Friday’s panel – is in-
tended to build awareness in students so they 
have a nuanced understanding of the various 
components of the career paths they might 
pursue,” Sawyer said. “I want students to envi-
sion the breadth of jobs in the media industry: 
there are careers beyond the two obvious jobs 
of production and journalism.” 
Similarly, Schozer ’13 – a production as-
sistant for Peacock Productions in New York – 
notes the importance of keeping an open mind 
when searching for internships and eventually 
jobs.
“I started off as an Economics major with 
that path,” Schozer said. “I began to con-
sider marketing and production, given that 
many of the jobs intertwine my organization 
and planning strengths. After reaching out to 
alumni through MiddNet, I found an intern-
ship at NBC during my junior year, which re-
ally sparked my interest in production. To me, 
the “UpNext” series is a great opportunity for 
students to realize the opportunities that exist 
and create interest networks within media and 
entertainment companies.” 
Recently, Schozer has worked on variety of 
projects including NBC’s “The Making of the 
Sound of Music Live!,” and “Skywire Live!,” 
a Discovery Channel live event covering Nik 
Wallenda’s walk across the Grand Canyon on 
a tightrope. Gretchen Eisele ’90 was executive 
producer of “Skywire Live!,” which had 21 mil-
lion viewers and won a 2013 Emmy for Best 
Live Performance. 
“During The Sound of Music documentary, 
I got the opportunity to interact and listen to 
people who truly excel in their industry, such 
as with Neil Meron, the executive producer, 
David Chase, a top musical director on Broad-
way, Beth McCarthy Miller, a Saturday Night 
Live television director, and Rob Ashford, a 
renowned broadway director,” Schozer said.
When asked what advice she would give 
students interested in pursuing internships 
and career paths, Schozer encourages stu-
dents to identify their strengths and interests. 
“If you don’t know what you want to do, try 
try, you don’t know.” 
Susan Walker, Associate Director of Career 
Services at the CCI, urges students to use the 
UpNext series as a comfortable setting “to put 
themselves forward to alumni as a means of 
motivating the career discovery process.” 
Similarly, Sawyer encourages students to 
question what exactly employers are looking 
for in order to effectively apply for and take 
advantage of opportunities. 
Friday’s signature UpNext event will be 
held at 5 p.m. in Axinn 229. Students are also 
welcome to attend additional information ses-
sions about working at NBC Peacock Produc-
tions and Discovery and an informal lunch 
– by RSVP on MOJO – with the alumni panel-
ists on Saturday in Ross’ Fireside Lounge. 
“[Future UpNext sessions will likely be] a 
robust cross-section of industries that touches 
all corners of the student body,” Sawyer said. 
“With a focus on industries such as social and 
-
care services, government, and education.”
According to Norton, the College elimi-
nated the system in 2004 because “it was more 
credit, public credit, and why are we a credit 
card company?”
“For employees, it was easy to just take it 
out of the paycheck,” Norton said. “But for stu-
dents, you have to bill them and you have to 
collect, and so the overhead and the time and 
effort just didn’t make a lot of sense.”
After a decade of virtually free-for-all din-
ing, the College will be shifting to a more con-
trolled, but not restrictive, system. The one-
card system will be developed slowly, with 
careful evaluation of data and much student 
input.
“We do not have to go down the road of a 
meal plan,” Norton said. “If one of the big is-
sues we have is around systems and practices, 
and if one of our other issues is that we want 
to restrict our dining halls to people who are 
actually part of the community, then that could 
be solved by hiring an executive director and 
adding a one-card. You don’t need a meal plan 
for that. So that’s the other issue — do we really 
need one?”
The College’s retail operations are largely 
underused. Putting points on a one-card sys-
tem could allow students to eat at 51 Main or 
The Grille without having cash on-hand, mak-
ing it easier to dine outside of the dining halls 
Norton does not see any downside to the 
one-card system because, he argues, it will not 
prove to be restricting and it has the potential 
to increase variety both in terms of where stu-
dents choose to eat and what Dining Services is 
capable of purchasing.
“When the business is aware of how many 
are coming in, they know the income from 
purchasing needs,” wrote Director of Dining 
Services Matthew Biette in an email.
Just as the Weigh The Waste campaign in 
Dining Services spending, tracking the num-
ber of students in the dining halls will allow for 
more accurate budgeting. This could potential-
ly open doors for more local food in the dining 
halls, increased variety and further accommo-
dations for those with dietary restrictions.
Seeking Out New Management
Dining Services at the College is unique as 
Middlebury operates as a 12-month campus, 
rather than the nine-months for which most 
other schools operate. During the normal aca-
demic year, Dining Services operates three 
dining halls on campus, catering services and 
transaction-based retail operations such as 
The Grille, Crossroads and 51 Main. During 
the summer, Dining Services provides food for 
language schools and the Bread Loaf School of 
English over 10 miles away in Ripton.
The frequently changing number of stu-
dents who use the dining halls, evolving di-
etary needs and the complexity of operations 
has led the College to seek restructuring within 
Dining Services and hire an Executive Director 
of Dining in the near future.
“Our systems are behind the times a bit 
and we need to improve them, certainly for an 
institution of Middlebury’s caliber … and com-
plexity of operations,” Norton said. “We have 
to up our game on how we’re managing the 
overall operations.”
In recent years, budget cuts have led the 
College to reduce catering operations, elimi-
nate juice at lunch and dinner and only offer 
breakfast meats on weekends.
According to Norton, the Executive Direc-
tor of Dining will be responsible for the Col-
lege’s three pillars of dining: retail, which en-
compasses The Grille, Crossroads, Wilson Café 
and 51 Main; catering functions; and board, or 
Proctor, Ross and Atwater dining halls.
“[In lieu of an outsourced general manage-
ment model] we need an executive director to 
come in who … can actually bring in the sys-
tems and the practice that we need to get from, 
say, a Sodexo,” Norton said.
“But the idea is to do it ourselves, to remain 
self-operating, and there are a number of rea-
sons for that. One is cost. We would contain 
our costs by selecting an internal hire. Number 
two is that we want connections to new food, 
curriculums being developed, we want more of 
a connection to local markets and we think it 
would be best served if we had that talent in-
house to do it.”
Dining Revamping Systems
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Katherine DavisRichard Coolidge Beth LevinsonRick Holzman Christine Schozer
FRIDAY 8:00-11:00pm
Big Band Classic 
Salsa and Salsa Dura 
from Burlington, VT. 
Donations accepted 
Dominican Republic. 
go/maltdr
SATURDAY 8:00-11:00pm
Mint Julep gives 
performing all the 
sweet and scandalous 
standards from the 
Golden Age of Swing 
and Jazz with a 
THURSDAY 9:00-11:00pm
All ages welcome! 
Beer and wine 
available for 21+ with 
2 forms of ID. 
Free food!
FRIDAY 8:00-10:00pm
An evening of 
open mic and slam 
poetry that raises 
awareness of LGBTQA 
activism throughout 
the years. All ages 
welcome! Beer and 
wine available for 
21+ w 2 forms of ID.
FRIDAY 12:00-2:00am
4 NEWS | february 13, 2014
New Science Posse Class to Hail from California
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
leadership qualities that they bring to a 
campus; they bring a diverse background 
because they come from many walks of life; 
they bring a commitment to education, so-
cial justice, and they bring an eagerness to 
work with people,” said Professor Hector 
Vila, mentor for the New York 12 Posse.
According to Collado, a STEM Posse 
was proposed when the Chicago Posse was 
added in 2011.  This allowed for discussion 
in the science program about the need for 
diversity and where improvements can be 
made and the initiative to diversify the sci-
ences has been well received at the College.
“Nationally, underrepresented students 
tend to major in disciplines outside of the 
sciences,” said Director of the Sciences, Bob 
Cluss. “Ideally, our majors in the sciences 
will make our learning environment richer 
because everyone’s perspective will be ad-
equately represented.”
New York Posse 11 Mentor and Profes-
sor of Chemistry Roger Sandwick believes 
that, “to add 10 students in [the sciences] 
of different backgrounds will add to the 
culture and can only help. It will start to 
encourage the current students of color to 
take the chance and be in there.”
Middlebury has been working to 
strengthen the Science program for a while 
according to Cluss. This has included a 
National Science Foundation grant dating 
back to the 1990s that brought high school 
students to campus for science program-
ming and to engage in research with our 
faculty. Another grant from the Howard 
Hughes Medical Institute later in the 1990s 
supported a program that is similar to that 
of Posse.
The new LA STEM Posse will help to 
both diversify the science program and to 
provide feedback on the structure of the 
science curriculum.
“We’re very enthusiastic about what 
we’ll learn, what we’ll do, and how we’ll 
support [the STEM Posse scholars],” said 
Collado. “They will also play a major role 
in helping us make sure that we strength-
en the STEM program and that things go 
well  Many of our faculty are eager to allow 
this to be a vehicle for them to also do what 
they need to do to make sure that our class-
rooms are inclusive and are allowing all of 
our students to do well.”
“The [new Posse students] will be arriv-
ing at a time when change is taking place,” 
said Cluss. “We are already using or plan-
ning new pedagogical approaches and re-
evaluating the way that gateway courses are 
taught in the sciences.”
Along with its role in helping the science 
program, the new Posse will add to what 
the existing New York and Chicago Posses 
are doing to enhance the college commu-
nity.
 Posse student Biniyam Estifanos ’14 
commented that, “the Posse program has 
been effective on campus in a mission to 
bring diversity to this campus, but I think 
it still lacks diversity, whether that be racial 
diversity, ethnic diversity, any type of di-
versity  I think Middlebury could do better 
with the amount of potential that we have 
and I think that this third Posse coming is 
a huge step towards achieving this diversity 
goal.”
According to Collado, the Posse pro-
gram is neither a minority-based program 
nor a need-based program and so it brings 
diversity to a campus in the broadest sense 
“All of these students are part of this 
community that we are trying to diversify 
messy and uncomfortable,” she said.
This new Posse will also bring demo-
graphic changes to the campus. Collado 
explained that Middlebury was allowed to 
choose the new Posse from a range of lo-
cations and decided on LA because of the 
opportunities that will arise from ties to the 
West Coast.
According to Dean 
of Admissions Greg 
Buckles the Posse pro-
gram in Chicago has 
already proven effec-
tive in increasing the 
exposure of students 
involved in urban and 
outreach programs to 
the College.
In the class of 2017, 
about 19 percent of ap-
plications were from 
the West Coast and about 11 percent were 
from California. Of those from the West 
Coast 32 percent enrolled and of those from 
California, 30 percent enrolled.
“We feel like we already have a good 
foundation [in California] so we thought 
we could better leverage what presence we 
already have there with this STEM Posse,” 
Buckles said.
Buckles claims the new Posse in LA is 
a “tremendous win for us” because, “We 
anticipate that it will help for probably all 
measures; for creating access for tradition-
ally underrepresented students, for helping 
us in LA and the greater LA area in general, 
and then certainly for generating interest in 
Out of the twelve schools that are part-
ners with the LA Posse, the College will be 
the only STEM Posse and so according to 
Sandwick, the College will most likely re-
ceive the strongest science students from 
this area.
“Posse is providing a way for us to com-
municate to a larger public school system 
that Middlebury is a place where you can 
thrive in the humanities, in the social sci-
ences, in the actual sci-
ences and be a STEM stu-
dent,” Collado said. “And I 
think that many students 
out in the world don’t 
know that and public 
school students in urban 
schools don’t know that.”
“I think that the Posse 
merit and how we think 
about academic excel-
lence at this country at 
the most elite institutions,” Collado said. “I 
think that Middlebury is better and stron-
ger because it decided to look at leadership 
as something that is valued.”
Said Estifanos, “I’m excited to see a 
third Posse coming. I think the worries that 
some people have about the third Posse are 
very similar to those we had when Chicago 
came. They might be seen as a third wheel 
but it’s my hope that there’s this open arm 
that’s extended from the current Posses on 
campus to just welcome them.”
“Ideally, our majors 
in the sciences should 
at large, which will 
make our learning 
environment richer.”
Bob Cluss
director of the sciences
 5AdvertisementsFebruary 13, 2014 | 
Two weekends ago, twin fatalities 
rocked the Vermont ski community. The 
two deaths are the latest in a tragic series of 
winter sports-related fatalities that have oc-
curred across Vermont this winter season, 
reminding winter sport enthusiasts across 
the state and the country of the inherent risk 
of snow sports.
Kendra Bowers, a sophomore at the 
University of Vermont (UVM), died in a ski 
accident in Warren, Vt. on Saturday, Feb. 
1st and Torin Tucker, a junior on the Dart-
mouth College ski team, passed away that 
same day during a race in Craftsbury, Vt.
According to authorities, Bowers was 
skiing with friends and family on Saturday 
morning at Sugarbush ski resort when she 
lost control at an intersection of two merg-
ing trails and struck a trail sign. 
Bowers was transported to the bot-
tom of the mountain by ski patrollers and 
the rushed to the Central Vermont Hospi-
tal, where she died roughly an hour after 
she sustained the injury. According to the 
medical examiner who performed the au-
topsy, Bowers suffered a broken neck. The 
Bowers was wearing a helmet when she sus-
tained the injury.
Bowers, a nineteen-year-old Newport, 
R.I. native, was a student of environmental 
studies at UVM, an a cappella singer, and a 
prominent student who was admired by her 
peers at UVM and beyond.
Tucker, a 20 year-old ski racer from 
Sun Valley, I.D., was competing in a cross-
country ski-racing event called the Crafts-
bury Marathon in Craftsbury, Vt. when he 
collapsed in the middle of the race. Despite 
immediate resuscitation attempts, Tucker 
passed away just minutes after he hit the 
snow.
Later medical reports revealed that 
Tucker had an undiagnosed heart condi-
tion affecting his left coronary artery that 
induced cardiac arrest during the strenuous 
50 kilometer race.
The respective schools of the two skiers 
have both held memorial services to com-
memorate the passing of these two accom-
plished students.
Unfortunately, Bowers and Tucker are 
not the only ski fatalities this winter in Ver-
mont. 
Skylar Ormond, a 23 year-old native of 
Canandaigua, N.Y., died roughly two weeks 
before Bower and Tucker on Jan. 17 in a 
snowboarding accident at Killington Resort 
in Killington, Vt. 
Ormond, who was snowboarding with 
two friends when the accident occurred, 
turned sharply to avoid a collision with one 
of his friends, and careened into the woods, 
tree.
Ormond was transported to the Rutland 
Regional Medical Center, where he died of 
internal injuries shortly after his arrival at 
the hospital.
Regrettably, Ormond was actually the 
second person involved in a fatal crash at 
Killington this season. Jennifer Strohl, a 21 
year-old from Jim Thorpe, P.A., went miss-
ing at the resort on Thursday, December 
12th. Her body was found a few feet off of a 
Killington trail approximately six hours after 
she was reported missing. Reports indicate 
that she sustained substantial head trauma 
and that she was not wearing a helmet.
A 45 year-old New Jersey man named 
Lawrence Walck also died on Saturday, Jan. 
11 at Stratton ski resort after a fatal sledding 
crash.
This tragic winter season in Vermont 
is understandably upsetting to skiers and 
riders across the country. The incidence of 
winter sport-related fatalities is nothing new 
in Vermont, however. Skiing, snowboarding 
and other winter sports like sledding and 
skating typically involve high speeds and are 
inherently dangerous.
At mountain resorts that offer winter 
sporting activities such as skiing and riding, 
staff members take great care to ensure the 
safety all visitors. All major ski resorts in 
Vermont operate ski patrols units that are 
trained to respond to injuries, crashes and 
any other crisis situations that may arise on 
the mountain.
The Middlebury College Snow Bowl 
operates its own ski patrol unit. Founded in 
1946, the Middlebury College ski patrol is 
headed by director Steve Paquette and assis-
tant director Sean Grzyb and is comprised 
of highly-trained Middlebury students who 
-
tion.
At the end of the day, however, there 
are some situations that cannot be amelio-
rated by even the most diligent ski patrollers 
and the most comprehensive safety mecha-
nisms.  
A number of factors, including 
the conditions of the snow, visability, 
temperature and human eroror contribute 
to the thousands of ski accidents that occur 
in Vermont every year.
Despite the improvement of safety tech-
nology, the number of winter sport-related 
fatalities has increased steadily in recent 
years. A report published by the University 
of Washington in the spring of 2013 report-
ed that the number of head injuries in young 
people caused by snow sports increased 250 
percent from 1996 to 2010.
A recent article published in The New 
York Times asserted that an increased use of 
ski helmets has not curtailed the incidence 
of brain injuries and death. According to 
the National Ski Areas Association in a re-
cent report, 70 percent of skiers and riders 
currently wear helmets — this represents a 
nearly threefold increase from 2003 — but 
fatalities caused by snow sports have not de-
creased.
While some people believe that the fail-
ure of increased helmet coverage to curb 
brain injuries and death on the slopes is at-
tributable to the limitations of even the most 
advanced helmets to mitigate massive head 
trauma, others believe that helmets give ski-
-
tion of their safety, encouraging them to en-
gage in risky behaviors.
Whatever the underlying reason for the 
continued prevalence of brain injuries and 
deaths on the slopes, recent events in Ver-
mont provide a harrowing reminder of the 
importance of safety when participating in 
snow sports. 
The National Ski Areas Association rec-
ommends that all skiers and riders adhere 
to the principles enumerated in a campaign 
called “Heads Up” that began in the winter 
of 1999-2000 as an effort to reduce accident 
frequency by means of education. Their 
guidelines, applicable to all snow sports ac-
tivities, are listed in the table above.
According to Steve Paquette, the direc-
tor of the ski patrol at the Middlebury Col-
lege Snow Bowl, the single most important 
step that skiers and snowboarders can take 
to ensure the safety of themselves and oth-
ers is to take the time to “know the moun-
their abilities.”
As Middlebury students and other snow 
sport enthusiasts head to the slopes for the 
remainder of this winter season, please 
make sure to follow the safety outlines 
posted, be aware of all conditions that may 
affect performance and control and take a 
moment to grab a trail map and review the 
layout of the mountain.
local
Fatalities Shock Vermont Ski Community
Two young skiers died in severe accidents earlier this winter at Killington ski resort in Killington, Vt., above.
Courtey of First Tracks Online
By Conor Grant
courtesy of WPTZ First Tracks online
Kendra Bowers, above left, died in a crash at Sugarbush in Warren, Vt. 
Torin Tucker, above right, died in a cross-country ski race in Craftsbury, Vt.
The ‘Heads Up’ Campaign 
Safety Guide:
ALWAYS STAY IN CONTROL
PEOPLE AHEAD OF YOU 
HAVE THE RIGHT OF WAY
STOP IN A SAFE PLACE FOR 
YOU AND OTHERS
WHENEVER STARTING 
DOWNHILL OR MERGING, 
LOOK UPHILL AND YIELD
USE DEVICES TO HELP PRE-
VENT RUNAWAY EQUIPMENT
OBSERVE SIGNS AND 
WARNINGS, AND KEEP OFF 
CLOSED TRAILS
KNOW HOW TO USE THE 
LIFTS SAFELY
1
3
2
4
5
6
7
- The National Ski Areas Association
21
By Harry Cramer
Ferrisburgh Sail Freight Project       
Presentation in Ferrisburgh
The Ferrisburgh Historical Society is 
hosting entrepreneur and innovator Erik 
Andrus in the Ferrisburgh Town Hall 
on Sunday. Andrus will talk about his 
handmade sail barge that he loaded with 
Vermont goods and sailed to New York 
City on a 10-day journey down the Hud-
son River last year. The event is free.
FEB. 16, 2 PM – 3 PM
Local 
lowdown
Fred Barnes and Sarah Stone Perform 
Onstage in Brandon
The talented Fred Barnes will play the 
piano to accompany singer Sarah Stone 
as she croons romantic Valentines songs 
of Rodgers & Hart, Johnny Mercer, Ste-
phen Sondheim, George Gershwin, Burt 
Bacharach and more. Admission will be 
$15. The event will be held at Brandon 
Music. Reservations are available at 802-
465-4071 or info@brandon-music.net.. 
FEB. 14, 7:30 PM – 9:30 PM
Valentines Dinner Dance in Vergennes
Come on down to the Addison County 
Eagles in Vergennes for a delicious  din-
ner. Food will be served at 6 p.m. After 
the meal, the evening will consist of danc-
ing to the music of the Brown River Band 
from 7-11 p.m. Tickets are $20 in advance 
or $30 at the door. Call 802-355-6011 or 
802-877-2055 for details. Proceeds will 
FEB. 14, 6 –11 PM
Green Mountain Ski and Snowshoe 
Trek in Lincoln
Join some of the intrepid members of the 
Green Mountain Club this weekend for a 
-
ess in the Bristol Cliffs area. Contact trip 
leader Beth Eliason at 802-989-3909 for 
details and updates regarding the meet-
ing place and time
FEB. 15, T.B.D. 
Green Mountain Coffee and 
Coca-Cola Strike Soda Deal
Lauren Sheehan Americana Concert in 
Bristol
Come on down to the WalkOver Concert 
room at 15 Main Street in Bristol to see 
the acclaimed roots Americana musician 
Lauren Sheehan performing the second of 
four concerts in the WalkOver’s Women’s 
Concert Series. Tickets are on sale for $15 
in advance or $20 the day of the perfor-
mance. For reservations contact walk-
FEB. 15, 8 – 10 PM
All-you-can-eat Pancake Breakfast in 
Addison
If you are in the mood for a true breakfast 
of champions, come visit the Addison Fire 
Station this Sunday for an all-you-can-eat 
breakfast consisting of plain and blueber-
ry pancakes, sausage, bacon, home fries, 
coffee, hot chocolate and orange juice. 
Adults pay $6, kids under 12 only $4, and 
all funds raised will be used to purchase 
equipment for the Addison Volunteer Fire 
Department.  For information call 
802-759-2237. 
FEB. 216, 7 AM– 11 PM
Coca-Cola announced last Wednes-
day that it will buy a 10 percent stake 
in Green Mountain Coffee Roasters 
(G.M.C.R.), an investment of approxi-
mately 1.25 billion dollars. In return, 
Green Mountain will produce the com-
pany’s single serve  beverages
G.M.C.R. stock skyrocketed nearly 
25 percent after the announcement, clos-
ing at $114.85. The company plans to use 
the investment for product development 
and to buy back shares.
Green Mountain Coffee began in 
1981 as a little cafe in Waitsfield Ver-
mont. In 2005, Mcdonalds began selling 
the coffee in the Northeast, and in 2006, 
G.M.C.R. aquired Keurig Incorporated.
The Keurig, a home-brew single 
serve coffee machine, has staved off 
competition from myriad imitators, 
most markedly Starbucks’ model, the 
Verismo. Green Mountain Coffee plans 
to release the Keurig Cold in 2015. The 
machine will utilize Keurig’s pod-based 
technology to produce carbonated sodas 
and waters, sports drinks, juices, and 
even teas.
Since the Keurig system currently ac-
counts for over 90 percent of G.M.C.R.’s 
revenue, the company plans to change 
its name to Keurig Green Mountain In-
corporated.
Brian Kelly, chief executive of the 
company, said that Coca-Cola’s global 
market makes for “the perfect combi-
nation” with G.M.C.R.’s technology and 
household expertise. “The cold beverage 
business has built brands that are glob-
al,” Kelly said, and he believes that it can 
do so with Keurig.
Coca-Cola hopes to use its new part-
nership with G.M.C.R. to expand its 
already significant market share and 
ensure the continued prevalence of Co-
ca-Cola products in American homes.
Green Mountain Coffee could en-
counter competition from SodaStream, a 
company that advertised in Super Bowl 
XLVIII in a bid to reach a broad North 
American audience. By early Thursday 
stock had dropped just 2 percent; ex-
perts believe that Pepsi may back the Is-
raeli company in response.
The deal is unwelcome news for Da-
vid Einhorn, whose hedge fund, Green-
light Capital, has accused G.M.C.R. of 
misleading shareholders. Einhorn first 
raised concerns about the company’s ac-
counting practices in 2011, and shares 
dropped a whopping 80 percent in the 
months after the accusations.
G.M.C.R.’s deal with Coca-Cola took 
financial experts by surprise. Coke has 
traditionally relied on restaurants and 
bottlers to deliver their product. How-
ever, “Coca-Cola sat down at the home 
beverage table,” said Scott Van Winkle, a 
Boston analyst with Canaccord Genuity, 
“and went all in on their first hand.” 
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters uses 
the popular Keurig coffee system.
A number of competitors of Green Mountain Coffee Roasters have produced 
imitation products, such as Starbucks’ Verismo coffee-maker, pictured above.
courtesy of Turner.com
courtesy of Cool Material.com
 7local  | February 13,  2014
Notes from 
the desk
Kyle Finck ’14 is the 
Editor-in Chief from New 
York, N.Y.
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifi-
able events; the use of vulgar language or per-
sonal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article 
that contains any of the aforementioned will be 
removed before publication. Contributors will 
be allowed to reference prior articles published 
in the Opinions section or announcements for 
the public record. If a reference is made to prior 
articles, the submission will be considered a let-
ter to the editor.  The Campus will not accept or 
print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed 
by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as 
reviews, columns, editorial comics and other com-
mentary, are views of the individual contributors 
and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submis-
sions at 800 words or less. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at 
www.middleburycampus.com. To be considered 
for publications, submissions must be received by 
5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic 
year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and busi-
ness offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, 
Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is 
produced on Apple Macintosh computers using 
Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press 
Republican in New York. The advertising deadline 
for all display and classified advertising is 5 p.m. 
Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Mid-
dlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business 
phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribu-
tion concerns to the Business Director. First class 
postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
Don’t Swipe Dining Under the Rug
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kyle Finck
MANAGING EDITOR
Alex Edel 
BUSINESS MANAGER
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Emily Singer, Nate Sans, Ellie Reinhardt, 
Eliza Teach, Claire Abbadi 
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol,  
Edward O’Brien, Isaac Baker
SPORTS EDITORS 
 Alex Morris, Joe MacDonald, Fritz Parker
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Conor Grant
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Isabelle Stillman, Emilie 
Munson
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Ben Anderson, Leah Lavigne 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anthea Viragh, Paul Gerard, Rachel Frank, 
Michael O’Hara
DESIGN EDITOR
Olivia Allen
ONLINE EDITORS
Greg Woolston, Maggie Cochrane,  
Ellie Alldredge
COPY EDITORS
Dan Bateyko, Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Ian Stewart, Greta Neubauer
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
decided by the 
editorial board.
I recently asked a top administrator 
what percentage of the faculty read the 
Campus in some capacity every week. 
“What do you think?” She asked me.
“Fifty percent.” 
“Try twenty,” was the response. 
Twenty percent is unacceptable. Faculty 
members, you are part of our community. 
To receive a paycheck from Middlebury 
College, you 
should be 
expected to do 
more than just 
teach. What 
makes our 
c o m m u n i t y 
special is that 
e v e r y o n e 
does more. Custodians do more than just 
tidy rooms, doling out smiles and advice. 
Administrators do more than just make big 
scale decisions, and students are expected 
to do more than just go to class. Faculty 
should be held to the same standard. Our 
community thrives on the fact that nobody 
lives in a vacuum, and it is not acceptable 
for faculty members to teach four classes, 
advise a few students, and go home. This is 
not just a day job, and the best of our faculty 
don’t clock out at 5 p.m. You are teaching us 
teaching us life. Faculty, it is time to reinvest 
in our community. 
When you live in a vacuum, you 
make decisions in a vacuum. That has 
consequences. When a professor sent out 
a casting call to nearly a 100 women of 
color encouraging them to audition for the 
role a wet nurse role in the play “In the 
Next Room,” many students responded 
with anger. If that professor had followed 
coverage of Chance the Rapper’s concert 
and the forum which brought to light  larger 
issue of marginalized groups, would the 
email have been sent? If that professor had 
understood the complex racial tensions and 
feelings of isolation that many students 
had eloquently expressed in the Opinions 
section of the Campus, would that email 
have been sent? 
Nov. 21 showed both the decaying 
status quo and glimmers of light in faculty 
engagement at the College. That Thursday, 
the Faculty Educational Affairs Committee 
(EAC) met to discuss the fate of summer 
internships for credit. The same day, the 
Campus published an editorial under the 
headline “Give Credit Where Credit is 
integrated student and faculty concerns. 
reads a voice of the student body on an 
important academic issue facing the future 
of the liberal arts education, we have a 
problem. Students are ultimately the 
consumer of the College, and we deserve a 
faculty that is invested in our community. 
But later that day, Amy Wax gave a 
contentious lecture on diverging family 
structures and moral deregulation that 
many of the attendees crammed in Hillcrest 
found pedantic at best and racist at worst. 
While Murray Dry’s decision to sponsor 
Wax was controversial, he showed once 
again why he is the Gold Standard for 
community engagement. He consistently 
weaves Campus articles and editorials into 
his classes and discussions with students, 
even sending feedback to individual 
reporters. Professor Dry, your engagement 
does not go unnoticed, and I need your help 
in spreading the word to the 80 percent of 
your colleagues whose eyes are not on this 
page. 
This is not an attempt to toot our own 
members reads a newspaper devoted to 
reporting on our community and tackling 
issues that affect everyone in our 
community, that screams 
apathy. The Campus 
is one of the 
o n l y 
spaces that brings together issues 
concerning the faculty, staff, students and 
administrators every single week and allows 
all parties to throw in their two cents. 
It is unfair to characterize a group as 
diverse as the Middlebury Faculty with 
a single adjective. I have been taught by 
professors like Deb Evans, who began 
class by asking her students about the 
issues affecting them, and numerous other 
professors who take a genuine interest 
in their students’ concerns. But how is a 
issues are affecting students who never set 
foot in Bicentennial Hall? 
This is not an assault on the faculty. It 
is an invitation. Open the paper, get angry, 
tell us we are wrong, bring an editorial into a 
class discussion, write an op-ed, but for the 
sake of our entire community, it is time to 
reinvest. 
Faculty: This is Required Reading
If before this issue of the Campus 
hit the stands, you were to walk up to a 
student in Proctor and ask them what they 
think about the new dining swipe system 
coming soon, most would 
look back at you puzzled. 
“What swipe system?”
Here’s what we know. 
A swipe system will be 
implemented. This is not 
a meal plan. Students will 
have unlimited swipes; 
the swipe system is only 
meant to keep out people 
“riding the panther,” who are eating in 
the dining hall without paying for it. The 
system is meant to collect data — to learn 
how many meals we are serving and how 
much it costs per meal. This data will then 
be used to look critically at our dining 
system. More data is never a bad thing. But 
the decisions that are made from that data 
could be. We welcome the much-needed 
information. All we ask for is a seat at the 
table when we decide what to do with it. 
While this system is still in its infancy, 
we need student input in this process going 
forward. All the information we know is in 
this week’s Campus. As we move forward 
towards a swipe card system and possibly 
a meal plan, it is vitally important that 
the administration be as transparent as 
possible.
Our dining system has long been a 
stalwart of community at Middlebury, one 
of the main things our tour guides laud 
on their treks across campus. At a school 
with increasingly few common spaces, the 
dining halls operate as a student center. 
They are where groups meet, where friends 
run into each other, where we can take a 
breather from the pressures of courses 
and extracurriculars. The openness of 
our dining system creates the strong 
community that attracted many of us to 
a school where navigating class privilege 
is tricky, dining remains a level playing 
that equality is key. What and how we eat 
in our dining halls affects us every single 
day; therefore, we need to be involved in 
this process going forward.
Adjusting our dining system could 
A one-card system, for example, could 
provide a debit card of sorts where students 
could also buy food at the Grille, 51 Main, 
and other College-operated venues without 
having to carry cash. But this transition 
must occur delicately, for even minor 
changes could rock the boat and change 
ways we interact as a community.
Just as there were committees on 
alcohol and the honor code - both issues 
with great impact on students  - there 
should be a committee on dining, with 
student representatives working with 
faculty, staff and administrators.
Once this data is collected, we should 
help decide what the next steps are. 
Evaluating our dining system could be a 
J-term class, just as we did with Carbon 
Neutrality. There are already many 
students interested in food issues — from 
Eat Real to Weybridge House to the 
campaign for the new Food Studies minor 
— and they could be valuable assets to any 
decision-making bodies.
Moreover, we need the opportunity 
to ask questions and engage as a student 
body. We need someone to address our 
concerns about the swipe system, because 
we have an incomplete picture. This 
announcement has been made without 
adequate details to quell student anxieties, 
and with such a touchy subject, rumors are 
Collado, Patrick Norton and whoever 
is named Executive Director of Dining 
Services — need to answer these questions 
and solicit student involvement quickly 
before this plan turns into something it’s 
not.
Nolan Ellsworth
Amr thameen
| february 13, 2014 9opinions
How we (Shouldn’t) Approach PEople at Midd
Prioritizing the Poor
To honor Valentine’s Day, what bet-
ter to discuss than relationships and sex? 
Middlebury is probably not unique in its 
messed up idea 
of courtship. 
Think about 
how you usually 
meet the people 
you sleep with. It’s at a party full of 
grimy, sweaty students that you weave 
your way through. As a woman, it’s com-
mon to have someone grab your butt and 
push it into his or her crotch, as you wait 
for a sign of approval from your friends. 
The music is loud, and it’s pretty much 
dark anyways, so do you even really 
know what they look like? It’s sad that 
that’s all the courtship we need to ex-
change saliva with someone and, maybe 
later on in the night, perform the most 
intimate act you can with someone. 
The classic booty text has the same 
function. We’ve all sent them and gotten 
them — that post 10 p.m. “hey what are 
you up to tonight?” or if you’re feeling 
really courageous, a “we should meet up 
later.” I even know someone who was 
told she was being taken to the Grille to 
talk, and then went straight to Painter to 
a guy’s room because she was so drunk. 
Alcohol is no excuse for disrespect, 
but we have set our standards so low that 
even a gracious ‘hello’ from last night’s 
hookup the next day seems like a gift 
from God.  Yet we all, myself included, 
complain that nobody here dates, hook-
up culture sucks and nobody treats any-
body well. I’ve heard several girls say, “I 
can’t text him because I don’t want him 
to think I’m crazy” or “I have to give it 
a few days because I don’t want him to 
think I’m already attached” or “I’ll just 
wait for him to text me or I’ll text him 
next weekend”. 
Why should we have to wait to text? 
Why is it always that the women are of-
ten stereotyped as being clingy, emotion-
this stereotype didn’t exist, I think that 
the hookup scene would be less emo-
tionally draining. I have had experiences 
and have seen my friends have experi-
ences where a guy will ask a girl to hang 
out and watch a movie or prophesize his 
desire to take her on a date. A few week-
ends of casual sex, and then they never 
talk again. Expectations build if you set 
not when it’s peppered with sweet things 
that give someone hope for more. Even a 
text the next day saying “I had so much 
fun last night, hope to see you soon” can 
be interpreted as “he is totally into me,” 
because why else would someone be 
bothered to text you the next day? 
Hookup culture exists because we 
are attractive people around the same 
age who are stressed out, want to have 
fun and we have a lot of choices. But 
what about people who aren’t conven-
tionally attractive? What about exoti-
cizing? I have heard so many minorities 
say that they feel like white people don’t 
think they are attractive or they feel like 
nobody wants to hook up with them ex-
cept to “experiment”. It could just be 
that people are attracted to those similar 
to them, so for students that have grown 
up in a homogenous environment, only 
But attractive people are attractive 
people, so why is there a stark lack of 
bi-racial couples on campus? Shouldn’t 
we move out of our comfort zone and be 
open to new possibilities? 
As someone who is colored, I have 
had my ethnicity referenced in every 
sexual interaction I have had on this 
campus. I’ve hooked up with guys who 
have told me that they’ve never hooked 
up with someone of my ethnicity before, 
that their parents would think this is 
cool since they’ve traveled to my coun-
try of origin, or that they really like the 
food from my country. I know Africans 
here who have had several comments on 
their penis size — how many of us have 
heard “once you go Black, you can never 
go back”? I’ve heard girls describe guys 
by saying “he has a thing for Asians” or 
“he lost his virginity to an Indian girl, so 
maybe he likes them.” People of color 
are often sexualized and experimented 
with, and through this are othered. 
I think that I am really pretty. Just 
not here because here the image of beau-
ty and what’s acceptable in a partner is 
so skewed. I feel like people don’t see 
me as attractive and am surprised when 
someone approaches me, all because I 
know other minorities feel this way too 
— you either feel like you stick out and 
everyone is looking at you, or that no-
body sees you. It’s never blending in. 
We slap a racial label on minorities 
the second we see them and then de-
have you ever heard of someone having 
“White Fever”? We have to remember 
that whether you’re making out with 
someone or having sex, it’s with a per-
son, not a race. You connect with people, 
not their ethnicity. We aren’t foreign. 
We’re just a few hues darker! There 
seems to be a sort of fear of more than 
a one-night stand with someone who 
looks different or speaks differently be-
cause it’s the unknown. 
We are in a liberal arts school and 
are supposed to learn, change and grow. 
We can’t do this unless we get rid the 
blinders with which we entered college. 
So the next time you’re at Atwater, try 
talking to the girl you hope to dance 
with. Or ask your Proctor crush on a 
date! Don’t let race be a 
boundary or a reason 
for you to make your 
move and defy the 
rules of hookup 
culture.
warm Glow
Hudson Cavanagh ’14 
is from New York, N.Y.
Brown Eyed 
Girl
The philanthropic sector in the U.S. is 
broken.  
According to Jeffery Sach’s estimate 
in his book, The End of Poverty, just $175 
billion dollars an-
nually over the 
next 20 years, 
-
ciently, could end 
living on less than $1.25 a day. The estimate 
is likely wildly optimistic; nonetheless, it il-
lustrates both the enormous potential of 
properly applied charitable dollars and the 
relatively feasible scale of funding needed 
When Sach’s book was published in 
2005, United States philanthropic giving 
(not including foundations) was a total of 
increased over 25 percent in less than a 
decade, to over $316 billion (though lower 
than the pre-bubble high in 2007 of over 
funding, the philanthropic sector is struc-
-
est. The scope of the misallocation of chari-
table dollars owes to three main factors.
we are largely driven to give by emotional 
rather than rational reasons. Donors be-
have like consumers, rather than investors, 
meaning that how riveting a charity’s “sto-
ry” or “brand” is often more important than 
the evidence of their cost-effectiveness (“re-
turn on investment”). This characteristic 
Great marketing, not empirical evi-
-
ity: Water (3.5 million people served) from 
Evidence Action’s Safe Water Dispenser 
project (roughly 1 million people served). 
donor behavior, the later’s intervention is 
based on better empirical evidence, includ-
ing multiple Randomized Controlled Trials 
(RCTs), oversight of academics at the fore-
of impact on recipients. 
Donor issue selection is also often 
emotionally driven, as in the case of an in-
dividual who gives to Lyme disease founda-
tions because they lost somebody dear to 
the disease, even though most would agree 
that preventing malaria has the best impact 
on human welfare on the margin. 
The second factor is the lack of infor-
mation available to both donors and non-
-
ing — and costly — to measure and compare 
the real-world impact of charities because 
of unintended consequences and indirect 
effects. The effects of deworming efforts on 
long-term education, for example, could 
very well be better or worse than widely as-
sumed, despite there being multiple RCTs 
designed to answer this very question. 
Sometimes donors lean on false prox-
ies for cost-effectiveness, like  measuring 
like Charity Navigator are more harmful 
than helpful in this regard: comparisons of 
overhead (non-program related operating 
expenses) distract from the fact that differ-
ent interventions can be orders of magni-
tude more impactful than others. In fact, 
overhead can, depending on context, be the 
best investment an organization can make, 
best practices in diverse contexts.
The third factor is our misguided char-
itable tax-deduction policy. Because tax 
deductions for charitable contributions are 
impact, tax deductions accrue whether 
one gives to the Guggenheim or to prevent 
mother-child transmission of HIV during 
birth in vulnerable communities. This pol-
we care about matters as much as giving to 
the neediest. Clearly, the preventing HIV 
transmission matters more on the margin. 
A 2007 study from The Center for 
Philanthropy at IUPUI found that while 
households that make less than $100,000 
focus around 36 percent of their giving on 
the needs of the poor, those that make over 
a million commit less than 22 percent of 
their giving to such causes, although  the 
wealthiest (top 10 percent) were the most 
generous to all causes, donating a greater 
percentage of their income to charity than 
any other (there were other divergences 
too, like the top 10 percent prioritizing the 
Arts and medical research, while giving a 
smaller percentage of their donations to 
substantially different giving priorities be-
tween classes, but most relevantly about 
how most Americans prioritize helping the 
poor.
In total, only 26 percent of charitable 
contributions go to the domestic poor, 
while only 4.6 percent of giving goes to help 
the poor abroad. In 2005, less than one 
-
ted poor people, with no reason to believe 
this trend has reversed from contemporary 
data (for which I did not have the same de-
tailed analysis). 
Here’s the kicker: according to a recent 
CBO report, of the $39 billion dollars the 
U.S. spends annually on charitable tax de-
ductions, 80 percent goes in tax relief to the 
donors who give the least, in proportion to 
total giving, to the poor: the top 20 percent. 
Such tax deductions represent only 0.1 per-
cent of after-tax income for families in the 
middle quintile, but a walloping 1.4 percent 
of after-tax income amongst the richest 1 
percent. Tax deductions accrue dispropor-
tionately to people who support the needs 
of the poor the least, when the policy would 
-
ligent, impactful giving by tying deductions 
to empirical impact as determined by an 
unbiased, third party. 
The principal problem with giving in 
the U.S. is not the generosity of Americans, 
but how that money is distributed. Donors 
are bad at choosing which charities to give 
to; charities face distorted incentives to 
market well, rather than be accountable; 
and charitable tax deductions incentivize 
counter-productive behavior with regard 
to the global poor. These factors contribute 
to the morally catastrophic distribution of 
U.S. donations, with those most in need of 
aid shouldering the burden. 
HOUSEHOLD INCOME:
Tier 1 = < $100,000
Tier 2 = $100,000-$200,000 
Tier 3 = $200,000-$1 million
tier 4 = $1 million or more
tier 5 = overall U.s. income
total giving focused on the poor 
by household income tier
who gives what?
effective giving to the pooR
by household income tiervs.
= X% GIVEN 
EFFECTIVELY 31%36% 38% 29% 22%
data courtesy of  the center on philanthropy at indiana university. Graphic by olivia allen 
Nolan Ellsworth
opinions10 February 13, 2014 | 
We’re All Wolves of Wall Street
An article in the November 13, 2013 
edition of the Campus, “Racial Casting 
Call Criticized” quoted Debanjan Roy-
choudhury ’16 as 
saying that “be-
ing a student of 
color at Middle-
bury is kind of 
class.” I hope that after this piece comes 
out, someone quotes me saying that 
being a student of color at Middlebury 
means nothing more than that you are 
a student of color at Middlebury. Ev-
erything else you feel about that is your 
own doing. Everyone warns you about 
the culture shock. Nobody ever said that 
you have to let it affect you negatively.
Maybe this comes with my personal 
identity, but I don’t 
really relate to ev-
ery issue with which 
students of color 
-
sue. I have trained 
myself not to let triv-
ial things separate me from that which 
what I truly believe. If I believe that 
I can make it in this world regardless 
of my social class, of my ethnic back-
ground, or of my gender then I should 
do my best to try. I do not make extra 
obstacles for myself and I feel like that 
separates me from a handful of the other 
students on this campus. I do not care if 
wealthy students throw wealth-themed 
parties for other wealthy students. I do 
not care if I get a cast calling for a the-
I do not care if a demographer tells me 
that people that share my race and class 
don’t often amount to anything. I do not 
care because I am here.
I am here because I want to succeed. 
To succeed you should learn from those 
who have succeeded before. So listen 
to them. Everyone is ignorant to some 
extent. Teach them about your world 
and, in exchange, have them teach you 
about theirs. I’m taking advantage of my 
resources. I’m networking. I’m learning 
about the world I never had access to, 
and I’m learning how to make it work 
for me. People might cringe to read this, 
but when Murray Dry spoke at the panel 
said, “don’t worry about it, be happy 
that you’re here,” I couldn’t help but feel 
the same way.
Now, saying that I don’t care about 
what the demographer said or even sim-
ply agreeing with one of Murray Dry’s 
statements doesn’t mean I don’t care 
about what I’ve left behind or who I am. 
I don’t need either one to tell me what 
I already know. I live it every time I go 
home to gang violence, the drug wars 
that come with it and the impoverished 
community in which I have lived my 
entire life. When I get back to Middle-
bury, it is those memories that help me 
push through the next ten page paper, 
through the next French text analysis, 
through the next three all-nighters and 
meal-less days I power through in the 
library. I’m trying to be successful for 
everyone I’ve 
left behind — 
so I can give 
back and teach 
them the se-
crets to suc-
cess we have 
been denied our whole lives. 
I am not saying I have never had 
a bad experience at Middlebury. The 
rigor of everything constantly depresses 
me because it’s a reminder of the abys-
mal education I received my whole life. 
Spanglish is not an acceptable means of 
communication, I have to put up with 
Americanized Mexican food, and I can’t 
expect people to waltz instead of grind 
-
ery few weeks. I want to see more brown 
and black faces. It’s rough. I’m sure 
these setbacks are not unique to me. But 
these are all things that I can get over 
and cope with. I’m not willing to make 
more problems for myself. I don’t see 
the logic in it.
I want to be an educator. I want 
to be a mentor. I want to be that step-
ping stone that is too often overlooked 
because it hides beneath the water’s 
surface. I can’t do that if I constantly 
over-analyze and judge the white, upper-
middle-class society I chose to immerse 
myself in for every mistake they may or 
may not have made in an attempt to ca-
ter to what they assume are our needs. I 
have my share of worries, but I never go 
too focused on the task at hand.
Reader oped
Jeannette Cortez ’16 
is from Philadelphia, Pa.
Not Like Taking a Fifth Class
Citizen 
Kanye
Nathan Weil ’15 is 
Geneva, Switzerland.
“Everyone warns you about 
the culture shock. Nobody 
ever said that you have to 
let it affect you negatively.”
This has been a good year for movies. Tom Hanks 
gave a mesmerizing performance in Captain Phillips, 
Mud captured the spirit of the South with subtle grace, 
and 12 Years a Slave depicted 
slavery without resorting to re-
visionist comedy and violence. 
The movie that most blew me 
away, however, was Martin 
Scorsese’s The Wolf of Wall 
Street. Unsurprisingly, as Wolf 
has garnered as much criticism 
as acclaim, ambivalence towards its 180 minutes of re-
lentless and unabashed sex, drugs, and pump & dump 
isn’t really an option. 
The Wolf of Wall Street tells the story of Jordan Bel-
fort, a former stockbroker whose career was cut short 
by dozens of felony convictions on charges of securities 
fraud and money laundering. Indeed, he cut himself 
short. This wasn’t hubris; it was intentional criminality. 
As one of Belfort’s prosecutors and Middlebury graduate 
Joel Cohen ’84 says, “[Belfort was] a guy who woke up ev-
ery day [...] and said, ‘What crimes can I commit today?’
Scorsese does not shy away from bringing these 
crimes to life. In almost every scene, we see Belfort or one 
of his cronies break the law. They are constantly under 
suspects), they inaugurate a new elevator in their build-
ing with a statutory rape, and, of course, they establish 
Statton Oakmont with the sole purpose of scheming and 
stealing from investors. Yet, for every crime, there is a 
victims are not given the focus or face-time they deserve. 
I’d agree if this was a movie about condemning Belfort, 
but it’s not. Wolf is about a lot more than that.
hooker’s ass before abruptly cutting to him receiving con-
jugal road head while speeding down the Long Island Ex-
pressway. If you saw the movie and weren’t at least a little 
you. From there, the movie barely slows down, orgies and 
drug binges become commonplace, but so does Belfort’s 
-
pulsive liar and a cheat, to both his clients and his wife, 
Nadine. In one of the darkest scenes of the movie, Belfort 
hits Nadine before driving drunk and high with his young 
daughter in the passenger seat. There should be no doubt 
in anyone’s mind as to the moral depravity of the title 
character and yet he just seems so likable and inviting. 
Perhaps its a testament to DiCaprio’s performance, but 
you can’t help but want to spend a day with Belfort. 
Wolf is less of an exposé of Belfort’s crimes than a 
mirror of the American psyche. Last week nearly eight 
million people watched ABC’s The Bachelor, now in its 
eighteenth season. That’s right, millions of people actu-
ritual. A year after twenty children and six adults were 
murdered at Sandy Hook Elementary School thirty-two 
million people had purchased “Grand Theft Auto V” and 
not a single law had been passed by Congress to restrain 
gun violence. Justin Bieber’s marijuana use is headline 
news and Robin Thicke can make a song about rape into 
a platinum record by putting naked women in the mu-
sic video. The only thing more exciting to the American 
people than a movie about drugs and violence is a movie 
about drugs and violence starring a woman in black 
leather. We tell ourselves that these are guilty pleasures, 
but such assertions are nothing more than evangelical 
pretension.
With Wolf Scorsese tests this lust for perversion: 
villain? Needless to say we failed the test quite miserably. 
People criticize the director for glorifying Belfort, but not 
the viewer for eating it all up. Art is made so that those 
who encounter it question the very fabric of the world 
around them. A simple recitation of Belfort’s transgres-
Journal than the silver screen. In Vladimir Nabokov’s 
Lolita, a middle-aged man, lusts after a 14-year-old girl, 
Harry Zieve Cohen, tells me that the brilliance of the book 
least some excitement in reading about the protagonist’s 
wicked behavior. This analysis also holds for The Wolf 
of Wall Street
denounce are exactly what makes it so great. Indeed, the 
-
fort is evidence that they, like I, were unable to fully re-
sist the attraction of vice. In portraying Belfort as a hero, 
Scorsese makes us the villain. Could we really say he’s 
wrong? In portraying Belfort as a hero, Scorsese makes 
us the villain. Maybe he’s on to something...
samantha wood
A recent student initiative suggests that 
Middlebury’s system of academic require-
authors of the proposal, Daniela Barajas 
’14.5 and Rana Abdelhamid ’15, criticize the 
AAL requirement for failing to embody the 
College’s commitment to expose students to 
a variety of the worlds’ cultures and civiliza-
tions. Their proposal is rapidly gaining trac-
tion: it is the most successful initiative in the 
history of the We The Middkids online plat-
form, and last week it gained an endorse-
ment from SGA President Rachel Lidell.
The proposal is right to point out the 
oddity of lumping Africa, Asia, and Latin 
America together. This label cannot be 
explained in terms of geography or cultur-
explainable as a transparent and inelegant 
attempt to avoid calling a spade a spade – 
that is to say, to avoid using the label OTH 
The proposed initiative would keep the 
eliminate AAL and instead require students 
Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Carib-
bean, the Middle East, and Europe. On the 
surface, it seems inherently logical to disag-
gregate the AAL region into its constituent 
regions, as well as to recognize the Middle 
East as a distinct region.
But this suggestion masks a sea change 
-
rope) would no longer be required. Students 
could graduate without ever having taken a 
class covering the cultural and civilizational 
heritage of Europe – the Western heritage 
that is the fount of Middlebury College.
The authors of the proposal concede 
that the NOR requirement should remain 
in place, out of deference to Middlebury’s 
geographic location. But Middlebury’s po-
geography. Middlebury is physically located 
in North America, but it is a Western edu-
cational institution, and as such it cannot 
be viewed as separate from the European 
tradition. Middlebury’s structure as an in-
stitute of higher learning dates back to the 
European Middle Ages; its values harken 
from the European Enlightenment. The 
fact that Western civilizations are especially 
emphasized at Middlebury is wholly appro-
priate, and should remain so.
This initiative suggests that the college 
errs somehow by emphasizing the study of 
Western cultures and civilizations. By privi-
leging the study of North America and Eu-
rope over the rest of the world, they argue 
that it demeans non-Western thought. But 
the existing set of requirements does not 
somehow “minimize” the importance of 
non-Western culture and civilization. Any 
student worthy of admission to Middlebury 
can recognize that non-Western thought is 
neither uniform 
nor somehow less 
important.
But a four-
year education is 
limited in scope, 
and cannot possibly encompass the study of 
the entire world. Choices have to be made, 
and, given the cultural roots of Middle-
bury itself, it is reasonable that Middlebury 
students should expect their education to 
uniquely emphasize the Western tradition. 
One would hardly think it fair to criticize 
al-Azhar in Cairo for paying disproportion-
ate attention to the Arab cultural heritage, 
or Peking University for focusing on the 
achievements of Chinese civilization.
I commend Ms. Barajas and Ms. Ab-
delhamid for their work. Many students 
have undoubtedly pondered Middlebury’s 
graduation requirements and speculated 
on how to improve them, but they have cre-
ated a logical, well-reasoned, and cogent 
proposal and have unsurprisingly gathered 
to urge the scrapping of the AAL require-
ment, I believe their proposed solution 
would move Middlebury’s curriculum in an 
inauspicious direction.
With this in mind, I would like to pres-
-
ing around the bush, why not bring back 
the OTH requirement? What OTH lacks 
in political correctness, it would make up 
for in intellectual honesty. The exhaustive 
nature of the OTH category would at least 
recognize the inherent futility of trying to 
rationally subdivide the non-Western world 
into neat little groups. One need only look 
at the proposed new categories to see that 
any such attempt will result in an inelegant, 
-
quirement, for instance, would still lump 
together over half the world’s population, 
including the bulk of the world’s Buddhist, 
Hindu, and Muslim civilizations. If the goal 
is to bestow a greater respect for the diver-
sity of non-Western cultures, this hardly 
seems an improvement over the status quo.
The winds of change are in the air. 
President Liebowitz is leaving. Rumors sur-
round the future of the honor code. Now 
Middlebury’s degree requirements also 
to be a Middlebury student. Although I will 
likely not be around to witness the conclu-
sion of these trends, I trust in the Middle-
bury community to resolve these issues 
logically and in the spirit of cooperation, 
collegiality, and reasoned discourse.
Just Call AAL Other
Reader oped
Max Kagan ’14  is from 
Freeport, Maine.
| February 13, 2014 11opinions
Last night I had another terrible ex-
perience with Western Union. It was sup-
posed to transfer my money to my friend in 
need in Rhode 
Island within 
a minute. But, 
the transac-
tion was not 
p r o c e s s e d 
until the next day. I spent four hours try-
full name and identity. I guess Uncle Sam 
is really careful about its foreign nephews, 
name. 
but was denied my rights as a customer. 
15 minutes because of a stereotyped iden-
tity. Sometimes, I feel so ashamed and em-
barrassed that I can’t see the eyes of people 
they hate me for wasting their time by be-
-
wished that I could dig into the earth and 
hide myself from the embarrassment. I can 
write tons of such examples but I want to 
seen by me. 
-
-
-
cal ambitions. Sometimes, I feel I was born 
-
tured with walls that I need to climb and 
climb to get somewhere. 
and seen as an inferior person. I spent six 
years inside the house and feared going 
in anger because we delayed them too. For 
-
nally got to enter because I was with two 
inspector let me in not because I had all 
-
-
-
not easy at all, and there are tons and tons 
can’t stand up again. But, I did and I will 
up this easily. 
Since childhood, I saw many different 
-
ban, the racist Iranian regime, the corrupt-
many other types including Uncle Sam’s. 
Sometimes, I feel my experiences force me 
towards anarchy. Since childhood I needed 
proud. I am not genius for sure. I am sim-
life. 
been many times that I wished some natu-
chapters of my life. Hope to me stands for 
conform more because I am here in this 
world with no other option. If I dress up 
-
types, less scrutiny and easier life. Imagine 
-
ditional cloth or with a simple shirt and 
would treat me differently in all three situ-
ations.
my friends.
Reader oped
Jaweed Ahmadi ’15  is 
from Kabul, Afghanistan.
All Men Are Created Equal?
Emily Cox
I am writing as an alumnus and recent 
in support of 
the student 
cultural orga-
Included, and 
in particular 
their cam-
-
college seems to place an emphasis on the 
-
the world by lumping them together into 
such that a student’s course of study 
geographical and cultural range.
liberal arts schools in this country, trum-
classes each year with statistics about the 
numbers of countries and states repre-
-
I hope that students, professors, and ad-
ministrators will come together and sup-
port this important campaign.
Sincerely,
diversity in the curriculum
Letter to the 
Editor
Nathan Jandl ’05  was 
a visiting instructor over 
J-term.
The More Beautiful World
tamir williams
The Middlebury Campus| february 13, 201412 13features
language tables 
head waiter
ricardo martini ’16
Ricardo Martini, is a language table super-
star. He started working as a humble Italian 
waiter during the J-term of last year, and af-
ter just one semester, was chosen to be a head 
waiter this past fall. Martini  says the position 
of Head Waiter is more than being a “glori-
fied bus boy” in the dining room. “Behind the 
scenes, you have to clean the space, you have 
to mop, wipe down counters, grab the bread 
and salad, make sure everything’s there, the 
dishes are there, the utensils. At the end of the 
day, it’s under your belt that everything goes 
smoothly.” When hiring new waiters/waitress-
es, Martini said he looks for applicants who 
are “patient and attentive and will actually put 
in an effort into translating the menu; that’s 
why google translate and word reference ex-
ist!” 
Martini  also pointed out a key difference in 
shifting roles from a waiter to a head waiter. 
“You have more creative freedom as a waiter 
than as a head waiter where you have to act 
more like a responsible manager.” He recalled, 
“One time [as a waiter], I wore a suit and I 
was part of the Italian Mafia serving them the 
food.” However, Martini’s favorite memory as 
a language table waiter was serving special 
birthday treats to tables accompanied by a 
hearty performance of “Buon Compleano!”
 “One thing I like to do with language tables 
is make people feel important,” Martini said. 
“They’re not just students sitting down [for 
a meal]; they’re key members of the culture 
they’re sitting at. I truly believe your mind 
changes based on the language you speak. 
Different cultures influence your thoughts 
and that’s something great that can happen 
in a place like Ross Dining.” Martini  is now 
being promoted to the co-manager position 
alongside senior veterans, like Cameron McK-
inney ’14 and Niko Lambert ’14.
usher
jiayi zhu ’14
“This is a really good time to be thinking 
about becoming an usher,” Jiayi Zhu said, 
“because half of the current staff is going to 
be gone by the end of this year, so we need 
people to be trained now.” There are few jobs 
on campus that make you look more profes-
sional than being an usher. The white-top-
black-bottom classic attire exudes an air of 
professionalism. You have most probably by 
now seen an usher at work: they check your 
tickets and hand you a program at the door, 
lead you to your seat in the concert hall and 
do a whole host of other things that you nev-
er noticed. These include checking that all 
the exits are clear before an event begins, for 
example, and picking up the programs on the 
floor and in the seats after everyone has left. 
“Getting the job was quite straightforward,” 
Zhu said. “Shannon Bohler-Small [Arts 
Events Manager] did an informal interview 
with me and asked me where the toilets are 
and how to go from the CFA [Center for the 
Arts] to Old Chapel, for example.” You only 
need to have been trained for crowd manage-
ment to be qualified for the job, since most 
things can be learnt on the job. “What I like 
about my job is that I get to go to the CFA 
for theatre performances, concerts and dance 
shows that I wouldn’t have gone to otherwise. 
It’s mostly our community members that 
make the most out of these opportunities,” 
she said.
bike shop mechanic
parker peltzer ’17
An avid mountain biker, Parker Peltzer 
spends many of his evenings at Middlebury 
Bike Shop teaching students how to repair 
their bikes or even construct new ones entire-
ly from spare parts. Having worked in a bike 
shop throughout high school and during his 
most recent gap year, Peltzer first learned the 
craft of fixing bikes through reading books 
including Zinn & the Art of Mountain Bike 
Maintenance and by watching repair videos 
online. “Fixing bikes has always been some-
thing that has felt familiar to me and remains 
something I enjoy,” Peltzer said. “What I love 
most about my job at the shop is how enthu-
siastic the students are about fixing their own 
bikes here. Students who come in are ready to 
put in hours working on their bikes.” Interest-
ingly, Peltzer recalls that he first landed the 
job through a stroke of coincidence in a game 
of Nerf War. “I was at BiHall at midnight and 
one of the guys I was playing Nerf War with 
said he had to wake up early for the Tour de 
Farms, and that his bike was broken. I went 
and I fixed his bike and he happened to know 
who to talk to about a job opening at the bike 
shop.” When asked if he had any advice for 
future prospective bike shop teachers, Peltzer 
encouraged students to drop by the workshop 
and get to know the work, the space, and the 
other mechanics. “As long as their skills are 
ready to go, I’d say that the most important 
quality is the ability to teach and communi-
cate with others.”
lead help desk 
computer 
consultant
Anis mebarki ’15
Anis Mebarki’s rapper name at the Help 
Desk is A.M.—in part because of his initials 
and in part because he voluntarily takes the 
early morning shifts. He is “genuinely happy” 
to go to work each day. He greatly respects 
his boss, Joe Durante, who Mebarki feels is 
training the Help Desk employees for work 
in the real world. “It’s way more than a job,” 
Mebarki said; you get to learn, serve, and get 
paid. Mebarki has always enjoyed working 
with computers. Before coming to Middle-
bury he owned a Linux machine, an alter-
nate operating system to Mac or PC which 
“iwas a full time job” but taught him a great 
deal about computer operations. When he 
arrived on campus in the fall of 2011, Me-
barki saw an advertisement for positions at 
the Help Desk, applied, and was interviewed 
and selected for the job. Within that year, he 
worked his way up to become a lead comput-
er consultant, which, coming from Algeria, 
felt like the American Dream to him. At the 
Middlebury Help Desk, if not everywhere in 
the US, Mebarki believes that hard work re-
ally pays off. 
STUDENT 
EMPLOYMENT 
SPOTLIGHT
gift planning 
meghan buckley ’17
Maybe one of the farthest “on campus” jobs 
for students is the post of Office Assistant at the 
Gift Planning Office, which is located off cam-
pus in the Painter House, across the street from 
Middlebury Inn. 
Every afternoon, Monday to Friday, Meghan 
Buckley, makes the hike from her room at Hep-
burn to her desk at the Painter House, home of 
Middlebury founder, Gamaliel Painter, where 
she begins her two hour shift of answering 
phones and calling alumni. 
“Depending on the weather, it can be a fifteen 
to twenty minute walk. Most days, I make it 
there in about fifteen.”
Buckley, who landed the position after she saw 
a posting on the Student Employment webpage 
earlier this year, says she didn’t realize “there are 
so many people who work at the college behind 
the scenes, making everything work for us. They 
put in so many hours, so much of their time, and 
I had no idea.”
“The up is hearing about different alum’s expe-
riences from their time here. It makes me really 
appreciate the time I have here and makes me 
want to make the most of it.” 
crossroads 
marketing director
naila jahan ’15 
The brilliance of the Princess Peach and All 
That Razz smoothies at Crossroads Cafe has 
finally been uncovered. Naila Jahan, Mid-
dlebury’s own vibrant Junior, has adopted 
the role of Marketing Director at our favor-
ite student-run cafe. Illustrating the range 
of employment opportunities, Naila’s job is 
simple: to make Crossroads sexy. Respon-
sible for utilizing social media to publicize 
the cafe, Naila also collaborates with other 
workers to create new drink flavors, as well 
as their corresponding clever names. Her 
proudest accomplishment has been indepen-
dently designing a new Crossroads website in 
hope to attract more attention from students. 
Although it can be difficult when an execut-
ed idea does not find success, the ability to 
simply “get [her] creative juices flowing” is 
her favorite part of the job. How did she land 
this gig? Connections. After getting a job at 
the cashier her first year with the help of her 
neighbor that already worked there, Naila 
gradually moved up to her marketing direc-
tor position. Now, as the café greets more 
and more popularity each year, it is exciting 
for Naila to simply see the growing waiting 
list of students who wish to even work at the 
youthful cafe.
theater set maker
lydia delehanty ’17 
When Lydia Delehanty arrived at Middle-
bury she was an experienced performer and 
musician, but had no knowledge about the-
atre and the backstage work that goes into 
a production.  She saw a job posting for set 
construction on the student employment 
page and jumped at the chance to exercise 
her brain “in a way that classes don’t.”  She’s 
been building sets for Middlebury’s various 
theatre productions, most recently Pentecost, 
since late September and is happy to have a 
job “that’s active and actually requires think-
ing.”  Her main reservation about building 
sets?  “I get covered in dust a lot.  I end up 
leaving looking like I either have grey hair or 
really really bad dandruff.”  Despite the dust, 
Lydia plans to continue working set con-
struction for the rest of the year.  As she told 
me, before the job “I couldn’t have actually 
gone and been like oh I can build this thing, 
but now I feel like I could do that.”
  
 
vladimir kremenovic 
’17
Vladimir Kremenović, a first-year from 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, has been working 
at the admissions office since his first week 
in college. Admissions is one of the most 
sought after gigs by student employees, and 
Kremenović made sure to get on the job three 
months before he even got to Middlebury; 
with his job interview taking place on his first 
day on campus. Now, he helps with filing and 
documentation at the Admissions headquar-
ters in the Emma Willard house, occasion-
ally answering emails and phone calls and 
answering questions for prospective students 
and their families. He stated that good com-
munication, openness and “a good spirit” are 
key skills for a job at Admissions. The strang-
est part of working with Admissions, he says, 
are the amount of questions, some ridiculous, 
that come from parents rather than the pro-
spective student themselves. Although he ac-
knowledges that alphabetizing files can get 
tedious at times, he enjoys the job, especially 
interacting with and meeting new people, 
saying that his favorite part is being able to 
contribute to a prospective student’s decision 
in coming to Middlebury, that, as he puts it 
“might change their life.” His advice to nov-
ices searching for jobs is to contact the offices 
directly and as early as possible, instead of 
waiting for online postings.
by hye-jin kim, adrian leong, renee chang, ali lewis, anastasia 
capatina, izzy fleming, nevie wetmore, jiya pandya
1
1
2
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
3
4
5
6
7
8
14 features | February 13, 2014
By Isabelle Stillman 
Can You Be My Friend?
One Student’s Journey in Middlebury’s Special Education High School
Jack and Nicole have spent every weekday 
awe of the people she works with and the 
isabelle Stillman
 
59.91% 17.02% 7.98%
addison schools’ students with IEPS fail to spend an 
appropriate amount of time in regular classrooms.  
80%
% OF DAY SPENT IN REGULAR 
CLASSROOM SETTING:
40% 0%
% OF STUDENTS WITH 
IEPS WHO SPEND THE 
ABOVE PERCENT IN 
REGULAR CLASSROOM 
SETTING
*IEP
(INDIVIDUALIZED EDUCATION PLAN): 
STUDENTS WHO QUALIFY FOR SOME 
SORT OF SPECIALIZED EDUCATION
STATE
GOAL:
ADDISON
REALITY:
79% 7% 3.75%
% OF STUDENTS WITH IEPS WHO GRADUATE FROM HIGH
 SCHOOL WITHOUT SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES
90 V. 70.07
STATEWIDE
ADDISON 
COUNTY
SPECIAL EDUCATION IN 
ADDISON COUNTY, VT
AUTISM:
1/88
AMERICAN CHILDREN 
HAVE THE DISORDER
1/54 BOYS
1/252 GIRLS
A 10X INCREASE IN THE PAST 40 YEARS
[
By Harry Cramer
Tenny, One; Mother Nature, Zero
After just a few minutes aboard the white 
maintenance truck, Luther Tenny, the man 
in charge of calibrating snow removal, no-
ticed that I had forgotten gloves. Buzz, as he is 
fondly known, kindly offered me his own, and 
explained that the success of campus snow re-
moval depends on the entire crew.
“The campus is divided into North, Cen-
tral and Athletics,” he informed me, “and all 
of the entrances around every building have 
to be clean.”
After snowstorms like Wednesday’s, a 
variety of departments work together to clean 
up campus. 
“It’s not just the landscaping crew,” said 
Tenny. “It’s the custodials, the carpentry, elec-
trical, Plumbing, HPAC – we all come in as a 
team.”
The various crews are each assigned to 
sections of the campus. 
“Say you got crew eight,” Tenny said, 
“They’ll take care of Bihall, the Mods, Ridge-
line woods, the Bunker house, Aidiron-
dack view [...] they know what section to go 
through.”
Workers also carry radios to contact each 
other and Luther, who may reassign them 
-
ally lauded his “men” for their expertise and 
hard work. 
“There are a few guys who have been here 
“[Roger Bagley] can run that backhoe like 
you can move your hand,” Tenny said as we 
drove by the massive machine. “He could pick 
up a glass on the ground without breaking it.”
Although machines like Bagley’s account 
for some of the work, many areas can only be 
cleared by shoveling. If all ten crews are work-
in three or four hours.
Not all of the shoveling is straightfor-
ward, either. The top of Bihall is cleared with-
out snowblowers because ventilators could 
draw fumes from the machines into the build-
ing. “It’s big and it’s windy,” Tenny said of the 
roof. “So you’ll throw over a shovel, and you 
gotta duck because sometimes it comes right 
back at you.”
Since the campus has roughly 200 build-
ings, 13 miles of sidewalk, and spans across 
300 acres, certain buildings take precedence. 
Public Safety, both dining halls, residences, 
-
oritized.
As Mr. Tenny drove by the Feb. orienta-
tion in Axxin, he gestured towards the build-
ing. “Right now the freshman are coming in 
with their parents for the luncheon,” he said, 
“so we want to make sure that whole area is 
clean.”
Many bleary-eyed students began their 
spring semesters with an early meal in Ross 
or Proctor. However, in order to keep the din-
ing halls open after the storm, maintenance 
began their work long before 8 a.m.
“We’ll come in at three in the morning. 
[...] We do most of the plowing in the morn-
ing,” Tenny hollered above the din of the 
truck’s engine. “Right now we’re just trying to 
stay on top of it. I’ll have all of the shovelers 
come in at six.”
Although the job is taxing, Tenny laughed 
when asked if clearing the sidewalks so stu-
dents can walk to spin class has made him bit-
ter over the years. 
“I’m not bitter,” he chuckled. “I’m just 
amazed at what we do. I want other people to 
realize that we work hard here.”
15featuresfebruary 13, 2014   
There are two types of people at Mid-
dlebury: those who are in committed rela-
tionships and those who wish they were. If 
you’re not in a “Midd Marriage”, you’re ro-
mantic life is limited to either alcohol-fueled 
hookups or banishment to the desolate land 
of loneliness.  We’re pinned between mean-
ingless sex and sexless solitude. Certainly 
Middlebury would be a better place if we all 
just dated a little more.
We have a collective interest in asking 
others out, getting asked out, going on dates, 
sampling for soul mates. Yet at the individ-
ual level, we’re often unwilling to step into 
this dangerous territory; the fear of embar-
rassment is very real.  I’m not sure if it’s the 
chicken or the egg, but our reluctance to take 
the “get-smashed-go-cray” atmosphere that 
dominates Middlebury weekends.
Admit it, you’re afraid to ask her out. 
With this column, I venture that I’ve got the 
best excuse of anyone to ask girls out, and 
yet I’m nervous with every approach. If I’m 
not nervous, it means I don’t care enough 
However, what’s worse than the unnerving 
approach is when I let feigned apathy mask 
my fear of rejection, and use it as an excuse 
to do nothing.  It’s easy to get cold feet and 
say, “Oh, I don’t really care that much.”
After all, I regret what never happened 
vastly more than I regret whatever has. The 
sting of a rejection fades a lot quicker than 
the lingering pangs of wondering, “What if?” 
There are times when I’m rooted to my seat, 
sickened by my pathetic inaction.  I know I 
should do something, but instead settle for 
a sleepless night, frustrated at my chicken-
hearted swooning.
And as far as leaps of faith go, roman-
tic ones are the best ones to take.  You can’t 
be more vulnerable with someone than by 
sharing your feelings; people have emotion-
less sex all the time.  Forget what the doc-
tors say, the heart is far softer and more 
delicate than the penis. (Don’t think about 
it too much.) But truly, you win the most 
when you risk the most.  It’s beautiful to be 
vulnerable.
What it comes down to is this: a healthy 
dating scene is like the legendary stone 
soup. We’ve all got our singleton vegetables 
that we’re afraid lose by putting out on the 
table, but maybe if we throw it all into the 
pot and mix around a little bit, we can make 
something delicious for everyone to share. 
You can’t drag your feet to a party then 
blame everyone else for not being fun. If we 
want dating to be a part of our culture, we 
each have to make an effort to date.
Tomorrow is Valentine’s Day; it’s also 
the full moon, which makes it an exceptional 
day. You don’t have to be in love with some-
coffee.  The whole point of casual dating is to 
trial run romance before anything gets too 
serious. Go for a country drive through Rip-
Tomorrow night I want to see everyone out 
Organic Garden. C’mon now, take a chance!
I’m no authority on dating, just another 
kid who wished he dated more.  In any case, 
-
ing the bluest shade of blues; it’s subjective 
and circumstantial.  This column represents 
nothing more than my opinions about the 
predicament of not-dating at Middlebury 
and my effort to inspire a romantic rebel-
lion. Let me know how your perspective co-
incides or differs at rkim@middlebury.edu.
Dining, Dating 
& Dashing 
By Ryan Kim
Snow removal expert Luther Tenny enjoyed hours of plowing after last week’s storm.
Paul gerard
When I asked, he told me it was too hard 
to explain and that he was confused, but 
sometimes he says it was because the other 
kids do not look as young as him. I asked him 
if this was the only thing that mattered in 
friends.
“It matters nice and have fun with them,” 
he said, then shook his head. “It’s too hard to 
explain.”
“Maybe I’ll be too jealous of them because 
they have too deep voice and I don’t have deep 
voice. I wish my voice changed, I wish I was 
in puberty. Like a year ago I was saying,” – he 
made his voice high – “Mom, when will my 
voice change?’” He laughed.
One day, Nicole and I stood in the corner 
of the kitchen, when Jack scuttled over and 
leaned in between us.
“I have a question,” he said, staring at my 
nose. “Are you a Christian?” His eyes were 
wide and serious, his words coming quickly. I 
nodded.
“So that means you believe in God?” I 
nodded again. “So that means you believe 
in Jesus?” Nod. “So that means you believe 
he died on the cross for our sins? So that 
means you believe you’re going to heaven?” 
I was overwhelmed. I hadn’t thought about 
these questions for a long time, but I nodded 
again. “That’s good,” he said, bobbing his head 
violently up and down. “I’m happy.”
Jack used to talk to Nicole about 
Christianity all day, until Nicole told him one 
day they weren’t going to discuss it anymore. 
A few times, Nicole tried to explain her views 
to Jack, and after listening to her talk about 
reincarnation for a while, he started to nod 
along. Then he said, “I believe in Jesus,” and 
told her reincarnation is the work of Satan, his 
Dad’s views coming back through by heart. 
From time to time, Jack asks Nicole if she 
believes in Jesus now, but she never does. It 
disappoints him for a moment, but does not 
seem to affect their relationship otherwise.
One-on-one, Jack seems easier to talk to, 
but his thoughts and ideas always surprise me 
as they come out percusively and quickly.
After baking cookies one morning, we 
were sitting together in the planning room, 
when Jack spotted a doodle in my stack of 
loose papers. It was a green pen dinosaur. He 
stopped mid-sentence and sat up straight.
“Did you draw that?” he asked. I said yes, 
and he laughed, grabbed the paper and took 
my pen to the sheet.
“Hey, that’s my paper,” I said, trying to get 
him to stop. He giggled mischievously. “It’s 
not nice to take people’s things and draw on 
them.” I couldn’t get his attention; he was 
absorbed in the cartoon creature. After a 
second, he held the paper up and looked at me, 
a full smile on his face. He had drawn a speech 
bubble coming from the dinosaur. “Hi Jack.”
I smiled. “Ok, I’m not mad anymore.”
But that same day in Social Skills class, he 
was less charming. “Can I draw now? Can I 
draw can I draw?” he repeated, banging his 
hands on the table, while the rest of the class 
tried to focus on the problem-solving exercise 
at hand – Mr. O’s daughter was sick at school, 
but how could he help her if he has to stay at 
work? 
“Can I draw now? Can I draw now? Can I 
draw now?” Jack said. He was bent at the 
waist and his shoulders smushed against the 
edge of the table. “Can I draw now? Can I draw 
now?” 
Mr. O took the opportunity to redirect the 
class discussion. Jack’s desire to draw and his 
inability to do so during class became the new 
problem the group had to solve. The other 
students immediately engaged in the issue 
at hand, paying no attention to Jack’s antics. 
Jack did not so much as look at Mr. O. Mr. O 
began to write out Jack’s various options on a 
bullet-pointed worksheet. Jack could either: 
1) keep asking, 2) start misbehaving or 3) 
negotiate.
“Stupid eee crap.” Jack’s forehead hit on 
the table, and his signature high-pitched “e” 
not react, focused on Mr. O’s words. 
“Stupid eee crap.” Then Jack was up out 
of his chair and at the glass door that leads 
outside. “I think there’s a train.” 
A moment later he was back at the table. 
Class discussion had not paused. Thirty 
seconds later, Jack said he thought there was 
a train again, and this time was out the door, 
into the negative eight degree morning. Mr. 
O did not pause the lesson, trained instead to 
let Nicole and Jack sort out the issue while he 
worked with the other students.
Later that day, I sat next to Jack at the 
beginning of math class, and he babbled 
throughout Lynch’s instructions.
“Do you believe that Jesus died on the cross? 
I like you. Do you know the m word? Are you 
responded with a ‘b’ noise, bouncing his lips 
against each other. Across the table, Melissa, 
blinking her big brown eyes and pursing her 
small but usually smiling mouth, asked him to 
stop, and he did. Deep down in the train tracks 
of his brain, he knows how he is “supposed to” 
behave.
Nicole doesn’t know if Jack will be able 
to hold a job when he graduates from high 
school. It will take him a while to learn how to 
interact with people socially. 
“Even if he bagged groceries at the 
supermarket, he needs to learn not to get 
in people’s faces and not to ask a million 
questions,” she said.
DO’s ultimate goal is to place their graduates 
in steady jobs, but Jack’s ambigious future 
is not an exception among the pool of DO 
alumni. “Success” seems an almost irrelevant 
are too varied and individualized. 
About a third of DO alumna hold full-time 
jobs and live completely independently. Others 
work part time and live with family members 
or friends. Graduates who test below 70 IQ 
points qualify for adult services, and receive 
formal assistance, usually through Counseling 
Services of Addison County (CSAC). In 2012, 
DO had ten graduates, eight of whom had 20 
to 25 hours per week employment and two 
of whom declined employment because they 
were moving out of the area. In 2013, all four 
of DO’s graduates had paid employment upon 
graduation — one was full time, three were 20 
to 25 hours per week. Overall, Lynch estimates 
that half of her students graduate with adult 
services requirements.
As for Nicole, she won’t be with Jack 
next September. The center is an hour-long 
commute from her home in Burlington, 
an unsustainable commitment, she 
told me, with clear sadness in her eyes. 
“I don’t know if there’s anywhere else 
like this. This is a very special place.”
For now, Nicole and Jack will continue to 
hang out together, watching trains and baking 
cookies, even though Nicole is not a Christian, 
and Jack is not sure if she is his friend. 
One day I asked Jack if he ever tried to 
make friends with the other kids at DO.
“I don’t really have friends here,” he 
answered. “But you’re kind of my friend.” 
He looked away and scratched his head. 
“I don’t have that much – I don’t have 
– much friends – here much friends 
– I think you’re my only friend here.”
I was curious. What made me different than 
the other students?
“Because you’re a Christian,” Jack 
the end of it against his head. I told him lots of 
people are Christian. 
“Uhh…I like the sound of your voice,” he 
said quietly. “Your voice sounds calm and 
kind. You’re a Christian which is good, it 
means you’ll go to heaven some day.” His voice 
was slow and soft. “And you’re a nice person.” 
I told him he is a nice person too.
Special Education in Action
Continued from previous page
16 advertisements
Join your friends and follow @middcampus 
on Instagram for exclusive previews to other 
Campus publications.
| February 13, 2014
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Wadjda
2/15 3 AND 8 P.M. DANA AUDITORIUM
The Dick Forman Jazz Group
2/15 8 P.M. MAHANEY CENTER FOR THE ARTS
The Vagina Monologues
2/14 8 AND 10:30 P.M. HEPBURN ZOO
Les 
Miserables,
Les Mis
Les Mis
Les Mis
Les Mis
Les Mis. 
Les Mis
 Les Mis,
Les Mis
 Les Mis
Les Mis
Les Mis
Les Miserables
Les Mis. 
By Leah Lavigne
Les Miserables
anthea viragh
Middlebury Brings New Life to Classic
As the lights went dark in the Middle-
bury College Dance Theatre on Jan. 30, the 
audience waited with anticipation to see 
Flicker light up the space with new works 
by student dancers, choreographers, poets 
and artists. A culmination of a J-term proj-
ect directed by Aoife Duna ’16.5 and Octa-
vio Hingle-Webster ’17, Flicker showcased 
spoken word to dance. 
For Duna, Flicker began as a dance 
showcase.
“The production started out with the 
goal of creating a supportive place for new 
dancers to explore and create their work,” 
Duna said.
Though the event was initially intend-
ed to highlight only one art form, Flicker 
rapidly expanded to include various artis-
tic disciplines. During J-term students got 
together each week to share their progress 
and critique each other.
“The weekly meetings allowed artists 
to dig deeper into [their] creative visions,” 
Duna said.
The evening began with “Artski,” a 
short cinematographic exploration created 
by Adeline Cleveland ’13.5 and Sarah Briggs 
’14. Stop motion photography allowed the 
audience to see color swirling onto Cleve-
land’s and Brigg’s chests and faces as the 
also forayed into the artistic possibilities 
themselves trailing red fabric and balloons 
behind them down a ski slope.
en la Calle,” meaning “There is a child in the 
street.” In her tender portrayal of the vul-
nerability of a lonely child without a home, 
and bore on her shoulders. Throughout the 
possibilities of strength and child-like joy 
in the face of hardship.
In keeping with Flicker’s goal of pro-
viding an outlet for a wide range of artistic 
silence, rolling up her shirt as she leaned 
forward and executed an undulating belly 
pursuing one’s desires despite setbacks, 
which brought smiles to the audience.
“The Ways We Gaze,” choreographed 
and performed by Hingle-Webster and 
dancers Dave Yedid ’16 and Vladmir Kre-
menovic ’17, was set to a dance party beat 
that gave the piece the energy of a night 
out. The intensity of movement and the 
of the dancers matched that energy, as the 
lyrics of “Sweat (On The Walls)” by John 
Tejada raised the questions, “What do you 
think about at night?” and “What is it that 
brings you here?” The most striking im-
gaze of the dancers into the audience, each 
reaching straight ahead with one hand and 
-
fully around one eye, as if demanding that 
the audience respond to the questions. 
Celeste Allen’s “All These Bitches 
Crawl” was a dance and spoken word ex-
ploration of the artist’s sexuality and her 
struggle over time to navigate that part of 
her identity in a society that pressures and 
sexual self-expression. The interaction 
with sexuality was brought into physical 
form with the use of a chair, which Allen 
sat on, stood on, overturned and eventu-
ally carried with her at the conclusion of 
the piece. The performance alternated be-
tween dance portions in which Allen em-
bodied a sexual character to the sound of 
well-known songs with sexual themes, and 
spoken portions when Allen would interact 
with the chair as a representation of her 
sexual identity outside of herself. This con-
trast between a physical self with the music 
and an emotional self in silence raised the 
question of who we become when we allow 
the often degrading messages of popular 
music to cover our own voices. 
“Sunday Roast,” a dance piece about a 
dysfunctional family dinner, was reminis-
cent of images of Thanksgiving gatherings 
gone terribly wrong. Choreographed by 
Molly Rose-Williams ’14 and performed 
and Molly Stuart ’15.5, the piece began with 
an uncomfortable scene around a dinner 
table with one chair missing, forcing each 
disgruntled member of the family to squat 
at different moments during the piece. 
The situation quickly deteriorated into an 
animalistic scene of chaos in a well-crafted 
blend of dance and theater in which the 
smallest member of the unfortunate family 
is placed on the table and mock-carved like 
the very meat the family had been eating 
before. This less-than-subtle allusion high-
lighted the ridiculous nature of the victim-
ization of one’s own family members when 
dinner interactions go awry. 
At the only moment in the evening 
when two pieces directly intermingled, the 
dinner scene’s dramatic climax was inter-
rupted by the sound of a doorbell, which 
placed the family back in their seats as two 
guitarists entered the stage and were greet-
ed by the family. The dancers of “Sunday 
Roast” soon cleared the stage and left Matt 
Spitzer ’17 and Auberin to their piece, “Par-
ody of Two Guys Playing Guitar.” The pair 
performed two lighthearted songs, joking 
between the pieces that they didn’t know 
why the audience was laughing.
Breaking from the playful tone of 
Spitzer and Strickland’s performance, Kre-
menovic’s “Proshlost” presented a more 
dramatic tone enhanced by the shadowy 
blue stage lighting. Kremenovic performed 
a morning routine, going through the mo-
tions of a shower and venturing out into 
the day with arching leaps and dramatic 
falls before returning to the beginning of 
the routine and starting over several times, 
each more desperate than the last. Even-
tually Kremenovic broke from the routine 
and stripped to  a pair of nude briefs, giving 
naked before the audience, Kremenovic’s 
movement felt free and honestly expres-
sive without the routine motion the clothes 
symbolically tied him to. 
Duna, kept the intense tone alive as dancers 
Vargas ’17 and Rose-Williams performed a 
dance of dreams and nightmares. Through 
the intricate and beautifully executed cho-
reography, the dancers’ depiction of fear 
triggered a kind of frozen observance from 
the audience that was unnervingly close to 
the experience of real nightmares. 
Alan Sutton ’15 brought the audience 
back to reality with his spoken word per-
formance of “Kinky Voices,” in which he 
brought out a desk and painted his nails 
while recounting a piece that simultane-
ously played behind him in video form.
Cameron McKinney ’14 began “This-
Worldiness,” which he and visiting faculty 
member Tiffany Rhynard choreographed, 
with the shocking initial visual of walk-
ing onstage slowly dragging a skeleton 
attached to his ankle. McKinney’s motion 
throughout the piece was characteristically 
precise and intentional, but the most stun-
ning moment in the piece was McKinney’s 
embodiment of primate-like movement. 
The evening of varied artistic endeav-
ors closed with “Opus One,” artistically 
-
formed by Middlebury’s tap group On Tap. 
The joyful tap piece contrasted brightly 
with the modern dance styles of the other 
dance pieces and ended Flicker on a high 
note. 
Duna and Hingle-Webster plan to put 
on future Flicker productions each month 
of the spring semester.
“We hope to continue creating this 
space for student-created art and commu-
nity on campus,” Duna said. 
All interested individuals can contact 
Aoife Duna (aduna@middlebury.edu) or 
Octavio Hingle-Webster (ohingleweb-
ster@middlebury.edu) for information on 
those productions.
The Olympic conversation at lunch the 
-
ganisms (GMOs). Someone mentioned that 
Russia is attempting to ban GMOs outright 
(check out the Feb. 3 article on the Russian 
news site RT under the headline “Total ban 
on GMO food production mulled in Rus-
sia”). There was much head shaking around 
the table over the fact that, in the United 
States, the government is struggling to even 
get GMOs labeled. Someone commented 
that it seemed wrong to be messing with the 
plants and animals that make our food in the 
laboratory, conjuring images of pipettes and 
test tubes and 75 percent ethanol. 
It is interesting to note the strong emo-
tional response many seem to have to GMOs. 
I routinely get emails from Food Democracy 
“Dear Will, If you haven’t heard, apples 
are the single most popular fruit served in 
school lunchrooms across the U.S. and a fruit 
so iconic it was the fruit that inspired Isaac 
a new GMO apple, using a new “gene silenc-
ing” technique that could interfere with the 
expression of genes in humans, even silenc-
ing vital human genes, potentially causing 
serious health problems.”
Of course, my immediate emotional re-
company sell such an apple?  But then, the 
Molecular Biology and Biochemistry major 
in me pauses; what is this new “’gene silenc-
ing’ technique”? And how does it work? And 
what vital human genes does it silence? And 
where is all of the research that proves these 
claims? Where is the data? 
Some quick Google work reveals that 
the company in question is Okanagan Spe-
cialty Fruits, which strives “to develop new 
commercial tree fruit varieties that offer 
from growers to consumers,” according to 
their website. 
-
tion is a strain that the company has created 
called Artic® apples. The company claims 
that the apples do not brown from “bruising, 
cutting, or biting.” 
Apparently, scientists at Okanagan Spe-
cialty Fruits stopped the browning process 
by suppressing production of the enzyme 
polyphenol oxidase (PPO). The technique 
was developed by Australian researchers in 
potatoes. The technique used to silence the 
-
ence. I won’t go into details here, but it’s a 
fascinating technique. 
Where is the research demonstrating 
that the act of eating a fruit expressing PPO 
on human health? Entire books have been 
written on the subject. It is vast, complex and 
intricate, and there is no easy answer to the 
question of the safety of GMOs. 
emotional response to GMOs expressed by 
-
ing and disturbing. Though, for the record, I 
like Monsanto equally disturbing. 
When an email about GMOs starts with 
a fact about school lunchrooms, I see an emo-
tional and populist appeal that demonstrates 
a complete lack of willingness to dig deeply 
into the issue of GMOs and critically exam-
ine its many facets. In twenty minutes with a 
computer and Internet access – hardly deep 
digging –  I found an entire semester-worth 
of work. Anyone receiving Food Democracy 
Internet, and could come to the same con-
clusion. 
To my lunchmates the other day and 
is lots of work to be done around the issue 
place in society. Please don’t jump to emo-
tional conclusions. Start reading, thinking 
and questioning. It’s the only way we’ll ever 
arrive at a rational, reasonable solution. ’84 Center for the Arts, Jan. 30.
rachel frank
Let’s think a little 
Harder about gmos
Flicker Lets Student Art Shine
By Mandy Kimm
february 13, 2014 | 18arts SCIENCES
SC ENCE
soc etyand
By Will Henriques
february 13, 2014 | 19arts SCIENCES
By Oakley Haight
A fair number of these films are fa-
mous in one circle or another, but have 
yet to have the Middlebury Reel Critic 
stamp of approval. Now they can rest as-
sured that they are truly the best films of 
2013. 
The Act of Killing: This is a movie 
that attempts to do no less than change 
our understanding of history. Its method 
might also change our understanding of 
how fact and fiction can be used in film. 
Director Joshua Oppenheimer says in 
an interview that the 1960s Indonesian 
genocide would be like murdering every 
intellectual in America and then mak-
ing a national legend out of the murders, 
celebrating them for the next 50 years. 
The murderers say they stylize their past 
killings after Hollywood gangster mov-
ies; what Oppenheimer has done is cast 
those killers, now in their 70s, in a “fic-
tional reenactment” of their murders. 
We see the murderers write and stage 
their past killings and then star as them-
selves, committing the murders again in 
a strange movie within the documentary. 
The result is something altogether new 
in film, something both real and surreal, 
containing a few of the most interesting 
and perplexing moments I’ve ever seen 
in film. Who is acting here, and when? 
When are these people being honest and 
can they even know that themselves? Do 
these people feel guilty? If they do, how in 
the world could anyone possibly deal with 
such guilt? 
12 Years a Slave: Steve McQueen’s 
terrible and beautiful depiction of evil and 
injustice. It’s a movie that has appeared 
on more top 10 lists of the year than any 
other, with a big-name cast and a big bud-
get, and it’s a movie that is far better than 
the moralizing Hollywood History Lesson 
it might appear. The politics of what it 
represents will win 12 Years an Oscar, but 
what makes 12 Years special is its lyrical 
photography, which allows us to watch 
Solomon Northup, after a botched hang-
ing, dangle from a rope on a tree, between 
the earth and the sky, for an unbroken, 
silent 2 minutes, while Northup chokes 
and spits in his state of figurative and lit-
eral limbo. It’s an apt metaphor for the 
movie’s method in general, and just one 
example of McQueen’s conviction and 
masterful artistic direction.  
Stories We Tell: This is another 
documentary which pushes conventional 
filmmaking boundaries, and should be 
categorized in its own genre. Stories We 
Tell is concerned with the limits of narra-
tive and memory, as applied to the human 
ability to re-tell (or tell at all) the stories 
of our lives. It is neither cold nor con-
ceited in its approach to such big ideas; 
this is about as personal a movie as can be 
made, with Polley interviewing her entire 
family about her parents and her child-
hood. The movie builds layer after layer 
of intricacy as everyone in the family has 
a different interpretation of the past. Pol-
ley somehow seems to give all of these 
voices equal credibility. There are many 
great surprises contained in the film; Sto-
ries We Tell remarkably seems to rein-
vent its entire structure to accommodate 
them. The film ends up as something like 
a love letter to Polley’s father, poetic yet 
immediate and shockingly honest. 
Inside Llewyn Davis: A supremely 
intricate meditation on the life of an artist 
and death in general, which also happens 
to be tremendously funny and watchable 
throughout. Llewyn Davis is one of the 
Coen Brothers’ best movies. Though I’ve 
reviewed this film already, it’s worth a 
second mention. See the full review in the 
Jan 22 edition of the Campus at middle-
burycampus.com.
56 Up:  I feel a bond with the Up se-
ries like with no other films I know, and I 
suspect that many people who watch the 
series feel the same. The films’ enormous 
ambition is to document 14 people’s lives 
every seven years, beginning when they 
were seven years old in 1960s London. 
This is a one-of-a-kind project with a stag-
gering 49-year-scope that seems nearly 
impossible to replicate. 56 Up continues 
the experiment in 2013 and finds the 
characters approaching retirement. Their 
challenges have changed but, of course, 
not diminished. These people’s lives re-
semble my life and the lives of people I 
know; they face the same challenges and 
problems, and that is certainly a large ap-
peal of the films. And yet, every  entry in 
the Up series also contains impossible 
miracles and catastrophes that feel im-
probable in life – and then happen to all 
of the characters in all of the entries over 
and over again. It is impossible to know 
how close director Michael Aedpt comes 
to accurately capturing these people’s 
lives. Surely no one can be totally summa-
rized in a 3 hour film (or even 8 of these 
3 hour films), and these people often tell 
us this on camera. But if Roger Ebert is 
right, if movies are the greatest empathy 
machine of any art form, then the Up se-
ries must surely be the masterpiece of his 
maxim and one of the boldest and most 
powerful projects in film history. 
the 
reel critic the best films of 2013
| February 13, 2014Advertising20
Class of 2017.5:
To Join the Campus. 
All you need is an interest in 
jounralism and a little bit of elbow 
grease. 
Email campus@middlebury.edu
The track and field team stayed busy 
over J-term and the duration of February 
break with three consecutive weekends of 
meets. On Jan. 24, the Panthers headed 
up to Canada to participate in the McGill 
Team Challenge in Montreal, a larger 
and more competitive meet than those 
in which they had competed previously.
One of the highlights of the two-day 
affair came when the women’s 4x200 
team consisting of Alex Morris ’16, Jackie 
Kearney ’16, Sara Sobolewski ’14 and 
Lauren Henry ’16 broke the Middlebury 
school record, with a time of 1:47.45. 
“It’s been incredibly hard this year 
without a track to build up any serious 
speed and turnover, so I don’t think we 
had many expectations going into the 
race,” Morris said. “We had never run 
together before as a relay team and that 
showed in our handoffs, but it’s always a 
good feeling to break a school record. We 
all know that there’s definitely a lot that 
can still be improved upon.” 
Laura Strom ’14.5 also had a strong 
showing for the Panthers with her fourth 
place finish, while Emily Mellen ’17 took 
12th in the pole vault, Hannah Blackburn 
’17 finished 13th in the long jump and 
Morris placed 14th in the 600. On the 
men’s side, Jason McCallum ’14 took a 
solid 5th in the pole vault, while Sultan 
White ’17 finished 15th in the 60-meter 
hurdles.
The following weekend the Panthers 
were back in the United States, traveling 
to Hanover for the Dartmouth Classic 
on Feb. 1. On the women’s side, Strom 
once again finished strong in the high 
jump, taking second with a mark of 5’ 6”. 
Morris and Blackburn also performed 
well again, taking second in the 400 
and long jump, respectively. On the 
men’s side, the 4x400 team consisting of 
Alex Nichols ’17, Fritz Parker ’15, Peter 
Hetzler ’14 and Alex Ugorji ’17 took 
second with a time of 3:25.49. Kevin 
Wood ’15 took third in the 3k with a time 
of 8:41.23, while Bryan Holtzman ’14, 
Luke Carpinello ’16, and McCallum all 
finished fourth in their respective events 
of the 60 meters, 1,000 meters and pole 
vault.
This past weekend, Feb. 7 and 8, the 
Panthers headed south for their most 
competitive meet yet, Boston University’s 
Valentine Invitational, which featured 
a flurry of sub-4:00 milers and some 
nation-leading times across the board. 
The day also brought a handful of stellar 
Middlebury performances, as Morris 
broke the standing school record  by .8 
seconds in the 400 meters, finishing in 
57.54 seconds. 
“The 400 I ran at BU was one of my 
best races because it just felt effortless,” 
Morris said. “I’ve been dying to break 
58 ever since I came to Middlebury, and 
was extremely frustrated last year when 
it never happened. To achieve it so early 
in the season is a great feeling as well as 
to break the school record, but for now 
I’m just focusing on each race and trying 
to enjoy every second of it.”
The women’s distance medley relay 
(DMR) team consisting of Alison Maxwell 
’15, Erzsie Nagy ’17, Catie Skinner ’17 
and Morris also posted a solid time that 
placed them in the top 10 in the country, 
running 12:09.02 and taking sixth place. 
On the men’s side, the DMR team also 
ran themselves into a top 10 national 
ranking, as Sam Cartwright ’16, Wilder 
Schaaf ’14.5, Nichols and Carpinello 
posted a time of 10:05.05 in their 
ninth place finish. The men’s team also 
saw another school record broken, as 
Holtzman bested his own mark from 
last year with a time of 22.25 in the 200 
meters. 
“Valentine is always a great meet 
featuring top level competition,” 
Holtzman said. “Both the men’s and 
women’s teams had several standout 
performances and showed that the lack 
of an indoor track is not going to stop us 
from putting up great times. Personally, 
I’m very happy with how I ran. I went 
down to BU two weeks ago to run the 
200 and unfortunately false started, 
so to come back and put up an indoor 
personal best in my first shot at the 
distance is quite encouraging. I hope to 
continue to take off time in the coming 
weeks.” 
The Panthers have one more regular 
season meet at Tufts on Feb. 14 and 15. 
After that contest, their four week indoor 
postseason, in which each weekend 
brings a meet that is more difficult to 
qualify for. 
“This year without having an indoor 
track and not having a normal training 
regimen, all of the January meets were 
all about competing ourselves into 
shape,” Head Coach Martin Beatty said. 
“Now, in February, our last few regular 
season meets are focused on having 
people qualify into the championship 
meets and extending their season.”
The Panthers will have their last 
chance to hit qualifying marks for DIII 
New England’s this weekend at Tufts, 
and those who make the cut will return 
to action the following weekend at 
Springfield and MIT. 
 february 13, 2014| 21SPORTS
School Records Fall For Track & Field
By Fiona Maloney-McCrystle
The Panthers split their four 
conference matchups sandwiching 
February break, dropping a home game 
against Williams and a road game at 
Hamilton, over the weekend of Feb. 1. 
However, the following weekend the 
Panthers rebounded with two victories 
at home against Colby and Bowdoin on 
Feb. 7 and 9. In between, Middlebury 
took to the road and bested Keene State 
on Tuesday, Feb. 4.
Middlebury played possibly its most 
impressive half of basketball all season 
against eleventh-ranked Williams, 
scoring 41 points and holding the Ephs 
to just 25 first-half points. Hunter 
Merryman ’15 opened the scoring for the 
Panthers, hitting his first three shots and 
tallying 11 points in the first 13 minutes 
of play. 
The fast pace early favored the 
Panthers, who shot 50 percent from the 
field in the opening half, torching the 
Ephs’ mixture of 2-3, 1-3-1 and man-to-
man defenses.
Dylan Sinnickson ’15 led Middlebury 
with 12 points on 4-5 shooting from 
behind the arc in the first half, many of 
those looks coming off of pick-and-roll 
sets with Joey Kizel ’14, a play that the 
rest of the NESCAC has yet to effectively 
defend. 
“The Williams game was a tale of 
two halves,” Head Coach Jeff Brown 
said. “Offensively we attacked their 2-3 
zone very effectively, but we weren’t as 
successful against their man-to-man 
defense in the second [half].” 
After the break, Williams began to cut 
into the Middlebury lead on the strength 
of its three-point shooting. Senior 
forward Taylor Epley made a handful 
of threes from NBA range, a shot that 
NESCAC Freshman of the Year candidate 
Duncan Robinson replicated. Trailing by 
three with five seconds left, the Panthers 
ran an in-bounds play from the sideline 
to get Sinnickson a three-point look, but 
his shot was contested and bounced off 
the iron, giving Williams the victory.
In Coach Brown’s record-setting 
434th game as head coach, Middlebury 
lost to Hamilton College on a last-
second jumper on the road on Sunday, 
Feb. 2. Assistant Coach Russ Riley, who 
preceded Brown, led the Panthers from 
1978-97 and previously held the record.
The Panthers were hamstrung by poor 
shooting in the first half, hitting only 
10-33 shots from the field, while the 
Continentals poured it in at a nearly 42 
percent clip, taking a five point lead into 
the half. 
Hamilton opened the second half of 
play on a 12-3 run to go up by 14. The 
Continentals were carried in the second 
half by sophomore guard Matt Hart, who 
scored 21 of his game-high 30 points 
after the intermission.  Toward the end 
of the contest, Hart hit three-pointers 
on three consecutive possessions to give 
Hamilton the lead.
“When a player gets hot like that the 
only way to stop him is to not even let him 
touch the ball,” James Jensen ’14 said, “I 
think it was pretty clear to everyone in 
the gym who Hamilton wanted to take 
the last shot of the game.” 
Kizel tied the game with two free 
throws with 29 seconds remaining.  On 
the following possession, Jensen denied 
Hart the ball, forcing Hamilton senior 
Greg Newton to take the final shot. 
Newton made the go-ahead bucket with 
six seconds left, giving the Continentals 
a 76-74 lead. Middlebury was unable 
to get a clean look at the basket on the 
other end, Newton’s shot thus sealing the 
contest in favor of Hamilton.
Kizel racked up 19 of his 22 points in 
the second half on 5-10 shooting (8-9 
FT), including nine points in the final 
three and a half minutes. Merryman, 
Matt St. Amour ’17 and Jensen joined 
Kizel in scoring double figures for the 
Panthers. 
The Panthers celebrated the class of 
2014 on senior night at home against 
Colby with a convincing 85-64 victory 
on Friday, Feb. 7. Heading into the 
game, both teams had three wins in 
the conference, so the win brought 
Middlebury one step closer to hosting a 
first-round NESCAC tournament game.
After the ceremonies concluded, Kizel 
poured in 30 points, matching a career 
high. The senior guard was successful 
hitting threes in transition, and nearly 
earned a double-double, racking up nine 
assists to go along with five rebounds and 
two steals.
Jack Roberts ’14 led the Panthers 
with seven boards. Sinnickson aided the 
Panther attack with 20 points and six 
rebounds.
Middlebury took a 5-2 lead 2:17 into 
the first half and never looked back. 
“The Colby game was the first time this 
year where we played two great halves 
and really put a team away,” Sinnickson 
said. “That’s the only way games are 
won.” 
Middlebury played its last regular 
season home game against Bowdoin 
and squeaked out a 69-66 victory on 
Sunday, Feb. 9. Both teams impressed 
offensively in the first half, and the lead 
never stretched beyond five points either 
way in the first 20 minutes. The Panthers 
shot 48.1 percent in the first half, but 
were outshot by the Polar Bears, who 
shot 52.2 percent. 
Roberts, who stands 6’8”, had a tall 
order on Sunday afternoon, drawing John 
Swords, Bowdoin’s seven-foot center. 
Swords is the most efficient scorer in the 
NESCAC, shooting at a 70.1 percent clip, 
and averaging 13.8 points per game to go 
along with 9.2 rebounds per game. 
“Covering someone that size is always 
difficult,” Roberts said. “We had a plan 
to limit his touches and we executed it 
well.”
Swords surpassed his averages with 
16 points and 13 rebounds on Sunday, 
but Roberts did a great job of fronting 
Swords and limiting his open looks at the 
hoop. Roberts was one of four Panthers 
in double figures (10), joining Jensen 
(10), Sinnickson (18) and Kizel (19).
With his seventh point of the 
afternoon, with 12:21 remaining in the 
first half, Kizel moved into fifth place 
on the Middlebury all-time scoring list, 
passing Ryan Sharry ’12. Kizel, with 1424 
career points, is 75 points away from 
reaching third place on that list. John 
Humphrey ’88 is the all-time career 
scoring leader with 1844 points.
Middlebury’s largest lead came with 
18:45 in the second half when a three-
pointer from Sinnickson put the Panthers 
up by eight. The game remained close to 
the bitter end. Both teams traded free 
throws down the stretch, until Jensen 
went 1-2 with :08 left to give Middlebury a 
66-63 lead. Bowdoin called a timeout, its 
last, with :05 left, giving the Polar Bears 
an inbounds place from the sideline. The 
ball came in to Matt Mathias who found 
his teammate Grant White in the left 
corner. White drained a three-pointer 
with :02 on the clock to tie the game. 
The Bowdoin bench tried to call 
a timeout, but with its final timeout 
having been used seconds earlier, the 
Polar Bears were dealt an administrative 
technical foul. 
“The whistle blew and I wasn’t sure 
what was going on,” Brown said.
Kizel made three free throws down 
the stretch, and Jensen blocked the last-
second heave from Mathias, sealing the 
Panthers victory.
Between the two weekends of NESCAC 
play, the Panthers picked up 92-86 road 
win at Keene State on Tuesday, Feb. 4, 
in which Sinnickson recorded a double-
double with 26 points and 12 rebounds. 
Kizel had 23 points of his own, Merryman 
had 14 points to go along with six boards, 
and Jensen tallied 10 points.
Unfortunately, the win came at a 
significant cost. St. Amour tore his right 
ACL in the first half, ending his season. 
St. Amour played in 20 games, starting 
nine, and averaging 9.2 points per game.
Middlebury will finish conference play 
this coming weekend with road games 
at Trinity and Amherst. The Panthers 
currently sit in third in the NESCAC, and 
a win in either game will secure a home 
game in the first round of the NESCAC 
tournament.
Men’s Basketball Secures Key NESCAC Wins After Falter
By Joe MacDonald
panther sc0reboard
women’s hockey vs. Conn. College 
Men’s Basketball  vs. Bowdoin 
Women’s Squash vs. Williams
 Men’s Hockey vs. Wesleyan
Women’s Basketball vs. Bowdoin
The women continue their recent 
dominance with an overtime goal 
from Sarah Ugalde ’14.
Panthers clinch third in NESCAC 
tourney with win over Ephs.
Men pull into a tie for third in 
conference with narrow win.
Panthers continue losing ways 
against Cardinals.
Women’s hoops is bumped from 
NESCAC tourney contention with 
big loss.
3-2 W (OT)
69-66 W
5-4 W
2-1 L
92-55 L
It is gut check time for the Middlebury 
men’s hockey team (8-10-2) who will 
face four must-win games in the coming 
two weekends to salvage a season that 
never quite lifted off the ground. In the 
past three weekends, Middlebury lost 
to Bowdoin, then beat Colby and Tufts 
before losing three straight to Connecticut 
College, Trinity and Wesleyan. Despite 
the chilling results, the faithful can point 
to Middlebury’s continued success in the 
shots category and recent stellar play 
from important leaders John Barr ’14 
and Ben Wiggins ’14. Wiggins earned 
NESCAC Player of the Week honors for 
his three goal, two assist weekend against 
Bowdoin and Colby. 
The NCAA championship banners 
hanging proudly in the Kenyon arena 
rafters put significant pressure on every 
edition of the Middlebury hockey team. 
This year, after losing seven of the past 
ten games, the team adopts an unfamiliar 
underdog mentality that may just become 
the missing puzzle piece to the team’s 
inconsistent play.
Thomas Freyre ’14 called the last 
two weeks “embarassing” and candidly 
expressed the need for a “dramatic 
change across the board from seniors to 
freshmen” in order to  compete in the 
postseason. 
“We need to play like underdogs,” 
Freyre said. “No team we play now is 
going to respect us, so we need to earn it.”
The Panthers were seconds away 
from a signature win on the road against 
Bowdoin Jan. 25, but the Polar Bears 
prevailed in overtime. Goals from 
Wiggins, Ronald Fishman ’16 and George 
Ordway ’15 erased a Bowdoin lead. With 
two minutes left, Louis Belisle ’14 gave 
Middlebury its first lead 
with a top shelf wrister 
on a five-on-three power 
play. Two inexcusable 
penalties from the 
Panthers let Bowdoin 
pull the goalie and bully 
in a rebound goal on 
their six-on-three player 
advantage. The home 
team slid in an overtime 
goal to send Middlebury 
packing.  
At several points this 
season, team defense has 
tightened and the power 
play has excelled to lift 
the Panthers easily above 
quality opponents. Yet 
uncertainty at the goaltender position 
and lapses in the unique system still stifle 
the squad like a wet blanket. 
Middlebury took out its anger on Colby 
on Saturday, Jan. 25 and Tufts on Friday, 
Jan. 31. Freyre assisted a tip-in goal 
from Matt Silcoff ’16, then stationed in 
front for a tip-in goal of his own to move 
a critical distance in front of the Mules. 
Derek Pimentel ’15, who assisted the 
Freyre goal, scored one of his own, and 
two Wiggins goals completed the scoring.
The offense kept churning against 
Tufts. Skating on the open ice of a four-
on-four situation in the second period, 
Barr rattled home a shot off 
the post and a minute later 
Belisle finished one of his 
own. Pimentel scored two 
goals in the third period, 
his ninth and tenth on the 
season.  
In most respects, 
Middlebury deserved 
another victory against 
Conn. College The Panthers 
outshot the Camels 34 to 15. 
Mike Petchonka of Conn. 
College put on a show to limit 
Middlebury to just one goal, 
and Liam Moorfield-Yee ’16 
surrendered two on 15 shots 
to concede the game.
Against Trinity and 
Wesleyan, Middlebury dropped into 
two-goal deficits in the first period that 
proved insurmountable.
“Bad starts have been killing us all 
season,” Freyre said, “We respond to 
the other team when we really should be 
dictating the game ourselves.”
Middlebury traveled to Hartford, 
CT to meet the eleventh-ranked Trinity 
Bantams on Feb. 8. The Panthers trailed 
2-0 in the second period when Evan 
Neugold ’16 brought Middlebury within 
one. Twenty-seven seconds later, Trinity 
again stretched their lead to two goals, 
and by the end of the second period the 
Bantams led 4-1.
Barr netted one for Middlebury early 
in the fourth, and with 13:28 remaining 
in the game Fishman made it a one-goal 
contest. The Bantams then sealed the deal 
with a fifth goal a minute later en route to 
the 5-3 victory.
Middlebury surrendered two goals 
twenty-one seconds apart in the first 
period at Wesleyan on Feb. 9. Thirty 
shots from the Panthers yielded only 
one late goal from Jake Charles ’16 on an 
assist from Freyre. 
Despite the recent skid, it is unfair 
to judge this team on wins and losses 
alone. If the team can use its adversity 
to motivate a positive run, Middlebury 
may just get hot at the right time and 
sneak another banner for the Kenyon 
rafter collection. Two back-to-back 
games against third-ranked Williams (9-
3-2 NESCAC) make the road a difficult 
one for Middlebury, but Middlebury is 
confident it can defeat the Ephs and gain 
all the more momentum because of it. 
The Middlebury ski team had a busy 
past couple of weeks, competing in the 
UNH, UVM, and Dartmouth Carnivals. The 
Panthers placed fourth at UNH, third at 
On day one at UNH, the men’s and 
women’s ski teams competed in the giant 
slalom event. Hig Roberts ’14, Christopher 
McKenna ’17, and Ghassan Gedeon-Achi ’16 
side, Yina Moe-Lange ’15 led the Panthers 
with a second place run.
The top three performers for the women’s 
each other, taking home the sixth, seventh, 
and eighth places. Kelsey Phinney ’16 edged 
out teammate Heather Mooney ’15 by two 
seconds in a time of 14:59, and Stella Holt 
’15 was close behind with a time of 15:04. 
The Nordic men – missing key senior Ben 
Lustgarten ’14, who was competing in the 
U23 World Championships in Italy – came 
away with 13th, 32nd, and 36th place 
The following day, Sunday, Jan. 26, the 
alpine teams competed on the second day 
of the UVM Carnival. Roberts paced the 
Shaw ’15 was the top Panther woman, 
placing 16th.
In the Nordic competitions at UVM, the 
women starred on day one, winning the 
sprint event with three skiiers in the top 
Mooney. Phinney snuck in with a tenth-
On day two, Holt was successful again, 
placing fourth, while Cobb again paced the 
men. Middlebury placed third overall at the 
event.
The ski teams then travelled east to 
Dartmouth College to take part in their 
carnival, on Friday, Feb. 7 and Saturday, 
Feb. 8. 
Roberts took advantage of favorable 
conditions to win the giant slalom event in 
eighth.
Moe-Lange remained determined at 
Middlebury women in sixth place.
“The biggest thing for our team as a 
whole right now is resting and building 
energy back up for the coming weekends,” 
Mooney said. “Although our racing season 
is short, it is really intense with two races 
each weekend for six weeks straight. 
for this week is to take it easy and bounce 
Day two at Dartmouth was a mixed 
bag, bringing some great runs and some 
disappointing runs.
In the slalom event, the Middlebury 
alpine team crossed in at 21st, 26th, and 
28th place. The Nordic women also had 
men’s Nordic team did not do as hoped, as 
they took 26th, 40th, and 44th places in the 
20K classic. 
Next, the Middlebury ski teams travel to 
Mass. to take part in the Williams Carnival, 
which is held on Friday, Feb. 14th and 
Saturday, Feb. 15th. 
“[We] will have a pretty normal week of 
training leading up to Williams,” Roberts 
said. “The hill at Williams is steep so we will 
be focusing on the elements that make us 
fast on the steeps this week…As a team, we 
are looking to qualify as many teammates 
for NCAAs in Park City, UT. Also, getting 
top-three in the next carnivals as a team 
would be a great way to enter NCAAs.” 
|  february 13, 2014 22 sports
Men’s Hockey Stumble in Conference Play
By John Wyman
Panther Swim Teams Finish Fast in Home Finale
The men and women’s swim teams 
hosted the Middlebury Invitational at the 
Natatorium during the first weekend of 
February break on Friday, Jan. 31 and 
Saturday, Feb. 1. NESCAC opponents 
Williams, Amherst, and Tufts participat-
ed along with Springfield and UVM. As 
has been the case in past Invites, no team 
scores were kept during the meet. 
“[The Middlebury Invite] is a great 
place for us to rehearse for NESCACs and 
I think the results show that we have a 
lot to look forward to next weekend,” Co-
Captain Mike Oster ‘14 said.
The women displayed their strength 
first and foremost in the relay events, 
winning two and finishing in the top four 
in the rest. The team of Andie Tibbetts 
’14, Jennifer Koide ’17, Jamie Hillas ’15, 
and Morgan Burke ’17 won the 400-yard 
medley relay in 3:59.22, more than six 
seconds ahead of second-place UVM. 
Tibbetts, Hillas, and Burke also teamed 
up with Megan Griffin ’16 to win the 200-
yard medley relay. 
Koide led the way for the women, win-
ning the 200-yard individual medley in 
2:11.62 and the 200-yard breaststroke in 
2:25.04. Nora O’Leary ’17 finished right 
behind Koide in the latter event with a 
time of 2:25.56. 
Tibbetts, a senior captain, was also 
part of three victories, winning the 100-
yard backstroke in 58.57 seconds in addi-
tion to her part in the two relays.
Also earning individual honors for the 
Panthers were Maddy Berkman ’15 in the 
200-yard butterfly (2:11.11) and O’Leary 
in the 100-yard breaststroke (1:08.81). 
“We swam incredibly well overall,” 
Tibbetts said. “It gives us the mental and 
emotional boost we need heading into 
NESCACs.” 
The men’s best race of the day came 
in the 400-yard medley relay, which they 
won in a time of 3:30.39, just ahead of 
rival Williams (3:31.00). Ian MacKay ’14 
led off with a time of 52.77 seconds in the 
backstroke, the second-fastest split of the 
event. He was followed by Stephan Koe-
nigsberger ’16 (breaststroke), who put 
the Panthers well in the lead with a split 
of 56.71 seconds. Teddy Kuo ’15 (butter-
fly) and Paul Lagasse ’16 (freestyle) were 
able to hold off Williams as the Ephs at-
tempted a comeback. 
Though the men did not win any in-
dividual events, they highlighted the 
team’s depth with many top-five fin-
ishes. Michael McGean ’17 was second 
in the 1000-yard freestyle with a time of 
9:44.51. MacKay earned a second-place 
finish in the 100-yard freestyle, stopping 
the clock in 47.65 seconds. 
The most impressive race of the day 
for the women was the 100-yard butter-
fly. The top four finishers were all Pan-
thers, with Hillas finishing first with a 
time of 57.29 seconds. 
The women are tapering their train-
ing this week in order to be ready for the 
NESCAC Championship, which will take 
place between Friday, Feb. 14 and Sun-
day, Feb. 16 at Williams. 
The men, meanwhile, will have an ex-
tra week of training before their Cham-
pionship meet, which will be held Feb. 
21-23 at Bowdoin.
Both the men and women will hope 
to record qualifying marks for the NCAA 
championships, held March 19-22 in In-
diana.
By Kevin Yochim
the middlebury
great  eight
8
Women’s Basketball
A tough season for the Lady 
Panthers leaves a lot to be 
desired.
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Alex’s Assertions
2
WoMen’s Hockey
These girls are cooler than I 
am, and I’m okay with it
Track And Field
Some wicked fast times 
were dropped this weekend
3
Men’s Basketball
Consistency is lacking but a 
clutch win against Bowdoin 
saves them
4 
Squash
NESCAC championships
5
Swimming and Diving
A solid home meet sets them 
up well for NESCACs
7
Men’s Hockey
A winning record is slowly 
slipping away
6
Skiing
A frustrating weekend for 
the ski teams
Ski Teams Hit Rough Patch at Carnivals
“We need to play 
like underdogs. 
No team we play 
now is going to 
respect us.”
Thomas Freyre ‘14 
Defender
11
3
25
4
National ranking for the Campus’ own 
Alex Morris ’16 in the women’s 400 
meter run.
Middlebury skiing alums competing in the 
Winter Olympics in Sochi.
a losing record. They are 8-10-2 so far 
this season.
Shutouts this season for women’s hockey 
goalie Annabelle Jones ’15.
Points for Joey Kizel ’14 in Friday’s 
win over Colby.
by the Numb3rs
30
were very tall, strong, and physical and 
we had to work hard to come up with our 
rebounds.”
The second half was more of the same 
for Middlebury. The Panthers shot just 
30 percent from the floor in the half, 
while Bowdoin played 15 of the 16 women 
on the roster and were still able to stretch 
their lead. The Polar Bears would go on 
to win by a final tally of 92-55.
Kirk and Knox were the only Panthers 
to score in double figures against 
Bowdoin, contributing 10 points each. 
Middlebury managed just 31 rebounds as 
a team on the day to Bowdoin’s 41. 
“We all knew Bowdoin would be a 
tough game and knowing we only had 
a few conference games left definitely 
added urgency,” Knox said. “We all 
really wanted the victory, especially for 
our seniors who have worked so hard 
and put so much time and energy into 
our team.”
With the loss to Bowdoin, Middlebury 
has been eliminated from contention for 
the NESCAC tournament. Sitting at 1-7 
in conference play and in a tie with Colby 
for ninth place, the Panthers would 
lose head-to-head tiebreakers to both 
Wesleyan and Hamilton for the critical 
eighth spot even if they were to win their 
final pair of conference games.
Back in action on Tuesday night, Feb. 
11, for a home matchup with Suffolk, 
the Middlebury women again struggled, 
falling 56-53 in the seniors’ final home 
game.
In first-half action, Middlebury 
struggled mightily from the floor, 
shooting just 18.9 percent in the period, 
including misses on all eight of their 
three-point attempts. Kirk’s tenacity on 
the boards again was a bright spot for 
the Panthers, helping them to keep the 
game close even when the shots weren’t 
falling. Middlebury went into the half 
trailing 22-16.
Coming out of the break, hot shooting 
from Marcus helped Middlebury crawl 
back into the game. Marcus hit a jumper 
with 2:06 remaining in the game to cut 
the lead to one at 50-49, but that would 
be as close as the Panthers would come. 
Timely free-throw shooting down the 
stretch helped Suffolk lock down the 
eventual victory.
Marcus led Middlebury with 18 points 
on 8-18 shooting, including going 7-11 
from the floor in the second half. 
Kirk finished with 12 points and 17 
rebounds against Suffolk for another 
double-double, single-handedly helping 
Middlebury to keep the rebounding 
margin close. Forward Alexis Coolidge 
’15 added eight points off the bench for 
Middlebury.
The Panthers wrap up their season 
with a tough pair of NESCAC road games, 
travelling to face Trinity and twelfth-
ranked Amherst on Friday and Sunday, 
Feb. 14 and 16. 
Ephs Prove Last Nail in the Coffin for Women’s Basketball
February 13, 2014| 23SPORTS
Squash Finishes Strong at NESCACs
As the majority of the student-body 
enjoyed some well-deserved time off 
last week during February break, the 
Middlebury squash teams were hard 
at work. Playing not only an extremely 
competitive schedule but also being 
arguably the College’s most well-
traveled team, the squash teams spent 
their February breaks competing in 
both the NESCAC and Div. III Singles 
tournaments, with both the men and 
women turning in solid performances 
across the board.
In a prelude to their championship 
tournaments, the squash teams 
participated in a round robin at Yale 
before the NESCAC and individual 
tournaments. The women defeated 
their only Div. III opponent, Franklin 
& Marshall, while dropping matches to 
fifth-ranked Yale, 11th-ranked George 
Washington, and a close defeat to 10th-
ranked Brown. 
At the Yale meet, the men fared better, 
albeit against lesser ranked competition. 
Winning two of three matches, the 
men defeated number-20 Brown and 
George Washington, while losing a well 
contested match to 14th-ranked Navy.
Crucial to both teams’ rankings, 
the weekend of Jan. 31 saw the men 
and women take on their NESCAC 
competition for the team conference 
championships. 
The men, seeded fifth in the 
conference, drew fourth-seeded 
Wesleyan in their opening game of the 
competition. Strong performances by 
Parker Hurst ’14 and Andrew Cadienhead 
’17 buoyed the Panthers, allowing them 
to best Wesleyan by a score of 5-4. 
The upset was not easily attained, as 
many of the matches went long. With 
multiple matches going to the fifth 
and decisive games, the Cardinals of 
Wesleyan did not make life easy for 
Middlebury. 
The next game, against national 
powerhouse and top-seeded Trinity, 
would prove to be unfavorable to the 
Panthers, as the Bantams beat them 
soundly 9-0. Other than a strong 
performance from Andrew Jung ’16 the 
Panthers were outplayed down the line 
from an exceptionally strong Trinity 
team that would similarly shut out 
Williams in the final to take the NESCAC 
team championship. 
In consolation play for third place, 
the Panthers took on Bates. The Bobcats 
had an answer for Middlebury’s usually 
formidable top half of the lineup, beating 
the Panthers’ first through fourth singles 
players. Despite sound wins from Wyatt 
French ’17, Reed Palmer ’15 and Will 
Hanley ’15, Middlebury would ultimately 
come up short and fall to Bates 6-3. 
For the weekend, Middlebury finished 
fourth in the NESCAC, outperforming 
their seed, but still not the performance 
a talented roster such as Middlebury’s is 
capable of producing. 
The women’s team, also seeded fifth 
in the tournament, opened against 
fourth-seeded Hamilton. The Panthers 
put on quite the display in their opening 
match, defeating the Continentals by 
a score of 7-2. The lineup has clearly 
benefited from the return of the Dewey 
cousins, Charlotte ’15 and Katie ’15.
The next round found them taking 
on Trinity, who were seeded first in the 
women’s bracket as well. The women 
fared no better than the men; Trinity, 
clearly the class of the NESCAC in 
squash, shut out Middlebury 9-0.
However, Middlebury would rebound 
strongly from this defeat and in the 
consolation game, beating Williams 
5-4 to take third place in the NESCAC. 
With shutout victories from Charlotte 
Dewey and Zoe Carey ’16, as well as a 
well fought come from behind victory 
at first singles from Abby Jenkins ’14, 
the Panthers were able to take down the 
Ephs in a close matchup.
The strong play from the women 
continued in the inaugural Div. III 
Singles Invitational at Bowdoin College 
this past weekend. Sending Jenkins, 
Dewey, Carey and Saskia Pownall-
Gray ’16 to the top-tiered “A” flight, the 
women’s delegation from Middlebury 
had a very strong showing. 
Ranked 29th in the field of 32, 
Pownall-Gray scored the tournament’s 
biggest upset, defeating Williams’ 
number-one player in the second round 
of play, before falling in the next round. 
Carey and Charlotte Dewey also breezed 
past their competition before falling 
in the quarterfinals and semifinals, 
respectively. The biggest splash, 
however, was made by Jenkins, who 
dominated all she played, losing only 
one game in match play on her way to 
taking the singles championship. 
The men did not see that level of 
success from their representatives at 
the tournament, but Jung and Harrison 
Croll ’16 turned in strong performances. 
In the “A” flight, Jung won his first match 
in three straight games, before falling in 
the round of 16. Croll, who entered the 
“B” flight, played sharply, winning his 
first two matches handily before falling 
to the eventual flight champion in the 
semifinals. 
Both the men’s and women’s teams 
return to action for the Team Nationals 
tournament. The men travel to Harvard 
this weekend, Feb. 13-16, for the 
tournament. The following weekend, 
Feb. 20-23, the women will compete at 
Princeton. 
For both squads, Team Nationals will 
provide one final opportunity to match 
up with top players from around the 
country with the intention of improving 
their national ranking.
By Stephen Etna
JOEY KIZEL ’14
Sinnickson leads the team in PPG, 
but the senior captain is on a roll 
right now.
YES
My record says I’m usually wrong. 
So I’m wishing some good luck on 
the Panthers.
Joe macdonald (24-28, .462)
Who will lead men’s basketball in 
scoring in Sunday’s game against 
Amherst?
Will women’s hockey drop either 
game to Williams this weekend?
Closest to: How many rebounds 
will Scarlett Kirk ’14 pull down 
in women’s hoops’ matchup with 
Trinity?
Winter Olympics: Which country 
will sit atop the medal count 
after Sunday’s competition?
JOEY KIZEL ’14
Thank god for Joey Kizel.
NO
I’ll back any team against Williams.
11
Just to make it interesting.
CANADA
Great Britain has one bronze 
medal so far. Go us.
NORWAY
These cats ski like Alex runs. 
Amen, Joe Mac.
10
Kirk averages almost 10 per game. I 
expect at least that many.
CANADA
It’s cold out there, eh?
Also, it’s a miracle that we were 
able to put this issue out.
editors’ picks
JOEY KIZEL ’14
Kizel is going to have to create his 
own shots if the Panthers are going 
to hang with the Ephs.
NO
The women haven’t lost a NESCAC 
game all season, so this seems like 
a safe bet.
12
things on her last weekend in 
Panther blue and white.
Alex Morris (28-24, .538)
CONTINUED FROM 24
Scarlett Kirk drives to the hoop in the 60-55 loss against Williams on Friday, 
Jan. 31.
Michael o’hara
Fritz Parker (29-32, .475)
The Middlebury women’s 
hockey team kept its unbeaten 
streak alive through the end of 
February break; the women have 
yet to suffer a defeat through 14 
games
The Panthers defeated 
Bowdoin on Friday, Jan. 24 
before tying the Polar Bears 
on the following afternoon. 
Middlebury then took two on 
the road at Hamilton on Friday, 
Jan. 31 and Saturday, Feb. 1. 
Middlebury played a mid-week 
game at home against Utica and 
won in a nail-biter, 5-4. Last 
weekend, on Friday, Feb. 7 and 
Saturday, Feb. 8, Middlebury 
outscored Conn. College 6-2 in 
two wins.
Katie Sullivan ’15 opened the 
scoring for the Panthers 5:01 into 
meeting with Bowdoin, which 
Middlebury won 4-0. One minute 
and forty-two seconds later, the 
Panthers’ lead had stretched to 
3-0. Sara Ugalde ’14 netted a 
power play goal with help from 
Emily Fluke ’15, followed by a 
second goal from Sullivan. With 
13:14 remaining in the third, a 
shot from Julia Wardwell ’16 was 
tipped home by Katie Mandigo 
Middlebury’s offense was 
less explosive on Saturday, 
Jan. 25 when the Panthers and 
Polar Bears fought to a draw. 
Bowdoin took the 1-0 lead 
halfway through the game on a 
rebound off of Annabelle Jones 
’15, who had 28 saves and has 
yet to suffer a defeat this season. 
Jennifer Krakower ’14 scored the 
equalizer less than a minute into 
the third period while on a power 
play.
On Friday, Jan. 31, Middlebury 
meeting. The Panthers recorded 
and outshot the Continentals 
34-11. Middlebury was the 
scoring all three goals while on 
the man advantage. Mandigo, 
Fluke and Sullivan each tallied a 
score.
The next day’s matchup 
between the two squads was 
more hotly contested, though 
Middlebury again prevailed, 
this time 3-2 in overtime. The 
Panthers took advantage of their 
power play opportunities, as they 
had the day before. With 14:20 
left on the clock in the second 
period, Fluke gathered a carom 
off the boards and knocked it in 
for the 1-0 lead. Minutes later, a 
slap shot from Laura McConney 
’15 found the back of the net. 
Hamilton scored on a breakaway 
late in the second period, and 
minutes left to play in regulation. 
Seventeen seconds into overtime, 
Fluke tossed a backhander on 
net that the Continentals’ goalie 
seemed to cover up, but the puck 
squirted through for the game-
winner.
More Fluke heroics were on 
display on Tuesday, Feb. 4 in 
the Panthers’ defeat of a visiting 
Utica squad. Utica took an early 
two-goal lead, but Krakower cut 
period. After a power play goal 
from Utica, Krakower again 
responded with her own score on 
the power play, off of assists from 
Carly Watson ’17 and Ugalde, 
making it a 3-2 game. Pam 
Schulman ’17 tied the game when 
she netted her own rebound 
in the last minute of the third 
period. Two goals from Fluke 
after the second intermission 
made it a 5-3 Middlebury 
advantage. Utica found the back 
of the net once more, but in the 
end the Panthers were victorious 
by a score of 5-4.
with Conn. College on Friday, 
Feb. 7 saw multiple shots in the 
opened the scoring with 4.7 
Anna Van Kula ’16 tipped home 
a shot from Victoria Laven ’17 
to tie the game in the second 
period. Fluke sent Middlebury 
into the second intermission 
rebound on a shot from Watson. 
After the Camels tied the game 
in the third, with time winding 
down, Ugalde scored the game-
winner with :57 remaining in the 
contest.
Middlebury shut out the 
Camels the following day, 3-0. 
Mackenzie Martin ’15 scored the 
Sullivan and Fluke added to 
the scoring, securing the fourth 
shutout of the season for Jones. 
Back on the ice for a matchup 
with rival Plattsburgh on 
Tuesday, Feb. 11, the Panthers hit 
a roadblock that they could not 
overcome, falling 5-2 to the host 
Cardinals. While Middlebury 
period goal from Jane Freda ’17, 
Plattsburgh came roaring back 
with a trio of second-period 
goals to seize the lead. Jennifer 
Krakower added a late power-
play goal for the Panthers – who 
were outshot 28-7 in the second 
and third periods – in the losing 
effort.
The Middlebury women’s 
basketball team went 1-2 in a trio 
of games over February break, 
picking up a narrow road win 
over Keene State on Tuesday, 
Feb. 4, before dropping a pair of 
NESCAC home games to Colby 
and Bowdoin on Friday, Feb. 7 
and Saturday, Feb. 9.
Taking a five-game losing 
streak on the road to Keene 
State for a midweek matchup, 
the Panthers were able to 
overcome a slow start to edge 
the Owls by a score of 59-55. 
While struggling from the floor 
in the first half, Middlebury 
capitalized on their 24 free-
throw opportunities – of which 
they converted 17 – en route to 
the win.
Scarlett Kirk ’14 led the 
Panthers with 20 points and 18 
rebounds for a double-double 
against Keene State. Middlebury 
needed all of the help that they 
could get from Kirk on a day 
which saw them outrebounded 
53-36. Elizabeth Knox ’17 added 
11 points in the game.
The Panthers then played 
host to Colby in a matchup 
of two squads angling for the 
eighth and final spot in the 
upcoming NESCAC tournament. 
From the opening tip, the Mules 
were set on establishing their 
three-point game against the 
Panthers, hitting six of 13 from 
long range in the first half to 
jump out to a 37-31 halftime 
lead. Though dominant in the 
paint, Middlebury missed all 
six of their three-point attempts 
in the half as they struggled to 
keep pace.
In the second half, the Mules 
continued to rain the three-
ball, with over half of their 
attempts in the period coming 
from beyond the arc. While 
Kirk’s toughness on the block 
continued to give the Panthers 
an edge under the basket, the 
Mules’ efficiency from three was 
too much to overcome. Colby 
stretched their lead throughout 
the half and went on to win 79-
61.
Kirk recorded another 
double-double in the game, 
pulling down 17 rebounds to 
go with 17 points. Guard Sarah 
Marcus ’14 and forward Rachel 
Crews ’15 had 13 and 11 points 
respectively for Middlebury.
In addition to an enormous 
three-point differential, the 
Panthers shot just 44 percent 
from the free-throw line in the 
game, including 11 misses in the 
second half alone that would 
have helped keep the game 
close.
Returning to action against 
22nd-ranked Bowdoin, three-
point defense was again a critical 
weakness for Middlebury. The 
Polar Bears were able to convert 
seven of 11 from beyond the arc 
in the first half alone. Defensive 
issues were compounded by 
poor shooting and rebounding 
from the Panthers, who fell 
behind early and went into the 
half trailing by 25.
“I think we did fairly well on 
the boards,” Knox said. “They 
sports 24
By Fritz Parker 
Women’s Basketball 
Drop Games at Home 
MEN’S HOCKEY 
DROPS THREE 
STRAIGHT IN 
CONFERENCE PLAY
PAGE 22
SQUASH TEAMS 
FINISH STRONG IN 
NESCAC TOURNEYS
PAGE 23
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Women’s Hockey Skate to Five 
Consecutive Wins During Break 
By Joe MacDonald
SEE WOMEN’S, PAGE 23
Swish.
With the season hanging by a thread, Joey Kizel ’14 had a career-making weekend, scoring 30 
on Friday, Feb. 7, and sinking a last second free throw (above) to seal the deal against Bowdoin 
on Sunday. 
KYLE FINCK
