The Task Force on Alcohol and 
Social Life held four open forums 
during Winter Term to hear candid 
student opinions regarding the role 
of social houses, party registration 
Public Safety on campus and in 
relation to alcohol use. Task force 
Ritter and Dean of Students Katy 
Smith Abbott led the discussions 
and served as forum moderators.
students dissatisfied over Party 
Registration
A forum on party registration 
policies, the second in a series led 
by the task force, took place on Jan. 
proximately 10 students were in 
attendance, but the discussion shed 
ing registered parties.
“The problem with the regis
tered party system is that there is 
no incentive for anyone to throw 
them,” said Dan Lungo ’13, Alpha 
Delta Phi (ADP) president. “The fact 
of the matter is you can get in more 
trouble for throwing a registered 
party and following the system than 
[you can] throwing an unregistered 
party and just going around the sys
tem.” A handful of attendees shared 
Lungo’s sentiments.
A number of possibilities for 
providing incentive to host parties 
were suggested by both panel and 
audience members, including fund
registration system with a more re
alistic timeline.
Representatives from social 
houses and other large residential 
controlling doors and the number 
of students in attendance, espe
cially at larger registered parties. 
Restricted access often leads to 
vandalism or dorm damage, as 
enter the building.
Associate Director of Public 
Safety Dan Gaiotti explained that 
the registration of kegs and other 
alcoholic beverages allows Public 
Safety to more accurately moni
tor alcohol use. Kappa Delta Rho 
’13 noted that Public Safety cannot 
realistically keep track of all alco
enforce. 
where ADP house is located, has 
ins with Public Safety this year by 
holding more small, unregistered 
gatherings where alcohol is not 
served, as opposed to going through 
the formal process of registering a 
party. 
The possibility of student orga
nizations hosting parties in social 
house spaces and mandatory wrist
bands as a means of crowd control 
was also discussed at the forum.
Questioning the Role of Public 
Safety
A forum discussing the role of 
Public Safety was held in the Pear
sons Lounge on Feb. 1, in which 
lege’s alcohol policy to those of oth
er schools. Stanford’s “open door” 
policy was again cited as a potential 
means of creating a safe social set
ting.
per Wale will perform at Nelson 
this spring’s biggest concert.
’12 noted that the majority of 
students who responded to 
in the fall indicated that they 
hop show,” and as a result, the 
committee “put that as the high
est priority in [their] selection 
process.”
ergy, fun show and is excellent 
seen Wale perform, in an email. 
former.”
Wale has produced seven 
mixtapes and two studio albums 
since 2005, including 2009’s 
 and last year’s 
Ambition
with artists such as the Roots, 
Lil Wayne, K’Naan and, notably, 
Lady Gaga, with whom he pro
hit and has garnered over 6 mil
lion hits.
Tickets will go on sale at the 
students; the price will increase 
danceable show that they will 
remember for years — and ex
pect to see an artist that is on 
his way to the top of his career,” 
February 23, 2012 | Vol. 110 no. 15 | middleburycampus.com
HATS OFF TO 
VERMONT’S LARGEST 
CRAFT BREWERY
PAGE 6
THE SKINNY ON 
MIDDLEBURY’S 
SMALLEST MAJORS
PAGES 12-13
MUSEUM OFFERS 
A NEW VIEW OF 
AFRICA
PAGE 16
in
sid
e
In an effort to provide locations for private, indoor phone con
versations in Davis Family Library, Library and Information Ser
Joseph Watson wrote on the LIS blog. The permanent location of 
the booths, Watson added, is the subject of ongoing discussion.
Paul Gerard
PHONEBOOTHS FOR THE 21ST CENTURY
Spring concert 
features Wale
By Kara Shurmantine
Alcohol discussion continues
Andrew podrygula
By Jeremy Kallan 
and Danny Zhang
By Lauren Davidson
SEE UPCYCLING. PAGE 2
SEE ROLE, PAGE 3
ONE SMALL STEP FOR THE ENVIRONMENT, ONE GIANT LEAP FOR MIDDLEBURY
waste management program, 
which will hopefully be introduced 
to the student body during Spring 
program over Winter Term, and 
the group has since been working 
is a recycling system that converts 
collected waste into a variety of 
useful products. The organization 
currently collects waste from over 
28 million people in 20 participat
ing countries.
course that focuses on social en
trepreneurship, originally devel
project where an alum and senior 
vice president of business devel
challenged my students to identify 
and upcycled into usable prod
ucts,” said Associate Professor of 
The project is still in the devel
opmental stages, as the group is 
discussing practical ways to im
plement the program on campus.
cided to collect Solo cups and ink 
cartridges in dispensers that will 
be placed in dorms and other cen
tral locations. The materials will 
materials will be transformed into 
products ranging from notebooks 
to kites.
the environmental council, and 
to go toward collection bins. 
the project will be introduced to 
obtaining dispensers is solved.
“We need to get the containers 
for the Solo cups because we want 
them to be easily stackable,” she 
said. “We are going to do some 
research now on whether we want 
to create our own or if we want to 
The spring concert will fea
ture Wale.
Courtesy
Last week in Britain, devout Muslim and 
Chairman of the Conservative Party Baron-
ess Warsi warned citizens of the “militant 
secularization” occurring in her nation, and 
cautioned against further separation of the 
church and state. 
Her statements were made on Monday 
following a decision by the British high court 
forbidding municipal council members from 
holding prayers during meetings. In the de-
cision, the judges emphasized that prayer is 
a private matter of faith and should have no 
role in public life. 
Warsi responded forcefully in an article 
she sent to the Daily Telegraph, arguing that 
religion is being “sidelined, marginalized and 
downgraded in a public sphere.”
“For me, one of the most worrying aspects 
about this militant secularization is that at its 
core and in its instincts it is deeply intoler-
ant,” she told the British newspaper. “It dem-
onstrates similar traits to totalitarian regimes 
— denying people the right to a religious iden-
tity because they were frightened of the con-
cept of multiple identities.”
As a senior minister in David Cameron’s 
-
net minister, Baroness Warsi is uniquely posi-
tioned to raise this issue in the public sphere. 
Visiting the Vatican on Tuesday, Warsi at-
tempted to gain the support of the Pope and 
the broader Christian community. She ex-
plained, “You cannot and should not extract 
these Christian foundations from the evolu-
tion of our nations any more than you can or 
should erase the spires from our landscapes.”
BBC News reported that Warsi received 
the support of the Queen of England with her 
remarks. 
“We should remind ourselves of the sig-
our nation’s life,” the Queen said.
 David Cameron also welcomed Warsi’s 
visit to the Vatican, stating, “Our relationship 
with the Holy See is an important one and it 
speaks powerfully of the positive contribution 
faith can make to all societies.”
The BBC reported, however, that the Brit-
ish Humanist Association (BHA) pushed back 
against Warsi’s comments. BHA chief execu-
tive Andrew Copson, said “In an increasingly 
non-religious and, at the same time, diverse 
society, we need policies that will emphasize 
what we have in common as citizens rather 
than what divides us.” Copson called Warsi’s 
statements, “outdated, unwarranted and divi-
sive.” 
While tempers have been high in response 
to this religious debate, Globe and Mail col-
umnist Doug Sanders explained, “No one is 
calling for a religious state or attacking faith,” 
but rather that such tension is the result of 
a “showdown, across the West, between two 
-
nition citizens are free to bring religion into 
their public lives by invoking God in the en-
actment of legislation or by wearing religious 
symbols in schools. -
tion, the public sphere is a “neutral space,” 
one in which citizens should have the right 
to freedom from religion. An emphasis on 
this type of interpretation of the interaction 
between religion and the state has been wit-
nessed in France where Muslim women have 
been forbidden since 2010 from wearing full-
face veils. 
Studies indicate however, that British 
public opinion may soon overshadow politi-
cal posturing. In a report conducted by the 
UK-based Richard Dawkins Foundation for 
Reason and Science, researchers found that 
74 percent of all Christian respondents agreed 
-
icy, and that 92 percent of Christians agreed 
that the law should be applied to all equally, 
regardless of personal religious beliefs. In 
the case of religion versus the state, declining 
commitment to faith may eliminate vibrant 
religious life in the public sphere. 
BY BRONWYN OATLEY
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| February 23, 20122 NEWS
Middlebury partners with VLS
By Bronwyn Oatley
Middlebury College has signed an agree-
ment with Vermont Law School (VLS) that 
will provide one to two full scholarships year-
a degree from the highly ranked environ-
mental law school. The partnership will also 
guarantee admission to all other Middlebury 
applicants whose GPAs and LSAT scores 
are equal to or stronger than the median for 
VLS’s entering class. 
According to the Dean of Environmental 
Affairs Nan Jenks Jay, the partnership with 
institutions. She explained, “Vermont Law 
-
plicant pool and Middlebury graduates will 
have more choices when they think about a 
future in law.” 
Pre-law program adviser and Charles A. 
Dana Professor of Political Science Murray 
Dry supported the program, but illustrated 
that, “it is not for everyone.” While Vermont 
environmental law, it is lower ranked in other 
areas of judicial study. 
“The full scholarship provided by VLS will 
be substantial for the selected one or two stu-
graduates will look toward Harvard or Yale,” 
he said.
Jenks-Jay added that the partnership 
serves to increase the portfolio of options 
available to Middlebury students following 
graduation.
“The [scholarship] program will provide 
students with opportunity to obtain a JD or 
MLEP of joint-degree JD/MLEP degree debt 
free. After graduation these students will be 
unencumbered by the need to pay off loans.” 
Such freedom might permit students to pur-
focus on service that the application to VLS 
emphasizes to prospective student appli-
cants. 
Such an emphasis on the establishment of 
partnerships with other high caliber institu-
tions is not new to Middlebury College. 
“None of the programs are the same, but 
the College has had a long standing partner-
ships with Columbia [University] and Dart-
mouth [College] in engineering, which have 
been running for a long time,” Jenks-Jay ex-
plained. These agreements have enabled stu-
dents to obtain masters degrees more quick-
ly, and have reduced the cost of obtaining a 
graduate degree. The College is not directly 
seeking out partnerships with other institu-
tions, but is being opportunistic when pro-
grams present themselves, recognizing their 
desirability to Middlebury applicants. 
“We’re now seeing that prospective Mid-
dlebury students are looking at the full palate 
of opportunities that an institution offers. We 
heard that incoming students were impressed 
with some of the Monterey [Institute for In-
ternational Studies] programs. I wouldn’t say 
that Middlebury is rushing in this direction, 
but we’re pursuing the collaboration with in-
stitutions with whom Middlebury is a natural 
-
portunities.” 
Prospective Vermont Law School student 
Marie Horbar ’09 was pleased by the an-
nouncement of the program. 
“The new partnership with Vermont Law 
School is an exiting opportunity for Middle-
bury students and graduates who are com-
mitted to making a difference through policy 
and law,” she wrote in an email. 
The partnership between the two institu-
tions will take effect immediately, and will 
likely result in the acceptance of one to two 
Middlebury graduates for the upcoming aca-
demic year.
Middlebury,” Jenks-Jay added, “and we’re 
pleased to provide Middlebury students with 
yet another possibility after they graduate.”
buy them in bulk or if TerraCycle is going 
to create a new dispenser for them.”
Once in full motion, MiddCORE plans 
to expand the scope of the project, eventu-
ally collecting other materials, such as paper 
towels.
“Right now we want to start out small 
with something we can manage and see how 
it goes. Hopefully we will expand it to other 
materials,” said Hunt.
One of the main challenges that the proj-
ect faces will be generating participation. 
TerraCycle and MiddCORE will attempt to 
create more incentive to recycle materials 
into their respective containers because Ter-
raCycle will donate 2 cents for each Solo cup 
received and 25 cents for each ink cartridge. 
The money can then be given as a charity gift 
or sent directly back to the College. Another 
idea mentioned was that the collected money 
go toward the annual spring concert.
“We want to make the student body en-
ergized about it and aware of the fact that 
you can dispense of these things,” said Hunt. 
“We are going to have to do a really good job 
of marketing because we recognize that it’s 
not necessarily the most convenient thing 
and not on the top of people’s minds to put 
their Solo cups into the right dispensers.”
As the project gains momentum, Hunt 
hopes that TerraCycle will be introduced to 
students within a month. She also antici-
pates that a TerraCycle club will be set up to 
generate more focused support for reducing 
waste on campus.
“[Middlebury] is now in the process of 
campus movements with a long-term goal 
of diverting more waste per capita than any 
other college or university,” said Holmes. 
“I have no doubt that Middlebury can do it 
—   especially under the leadership of these 
driven, passionate and very resourceful stu-
dents.”
Another member of the project, Alex Bea 
’12, believes that the project will help raise 
awareness for waste management. 
“Seeing as Middlebury is the pilot pro-
gram for other colleges and universities 
around the United States, the potential im-
pact of up-cycling Solo cups spreads far be-
yond the Middlebury campus,” he said.
“Eventually, it would be great if we could 
expand this program into all other kinds of 
waste and try to have as little waste from 
said Hunt.
MiddCORE hopes to introduce TerraCycle around campus in the spring term.
Courtesy: TerraCycle, Inc.
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Upcycling to be introduced on campus
The Jan. 29 meeting of the Student 
Government Association (SGA) began 
with SGA Finance Committee Chair Scott 
Klenet ’12, who presented the Mid-Year 
Finance Committee Report. The Finance 
Committee reported good fall and winter 
terms, with the full report to be emailed to 
all students at a later date.
The majority of this meeting was devot-
ed to further discussion of the MiddView 
Bill, which discusses the future of orien-
The bill, which was passed at the Jan. 22 
meeting, continued funding for the cur-
rent Outdoor Orientation for New Kids 
(OINK) program. The bill also laid out a 
plan stating that the SGA would fund up 
to half of the program’s costs for the next 
three years. Funding in later years would 
then be determined between Old Chapel 
and the SGA.
On Jan. 24, two days after the passing 
of the bill, an open letter was posted on 
Midd Blog criticizing the bill. The sign-
ers of the letter — Michael Polebaum ’12, 
Brittany Gendron ’12 and Luke Carroll 
Brown ’13.5 — though supportive of OINK 
as a program, believe that the administra-
tion should be responsible either for fully 
-
tive funding outside of the SGA. They also 
expressed fear that the currently enacted 
bill simply postpones the issue of fund-
ing such orientation programs and sets 
a precedent of SGA funding this type of 
program. 
At the meeting, Senator Polebaum pre-
sented a bill, co-sponsored by Gendron 
and Carroll-Brown, which would revise 
the previously passed MiddView Bill. Each 
senator spoke to the nature of the bill and 
the program as a whole. Dean of Students 
Katy Smith Abbott and Mountain Club 
Treasurer Caroline Santinelli ’14 were also 
present and contributed greatly to the de-
bate. The discussion lasted over an hour. 
However, in the end, the bill failed with 
one abstention.
Finally, Danny Zhang ’15 presented a 
resolution that asked the administration 
to provide more sanitary measures such 
as hand sanitizer and cat litter in the wake 
of the recent gastroenteritis epidemic. The 
resolution passed unanimously.
The Feb. 19 meeting of the SGA opened 
with a resolution presented by Senator 
Zhang. Zhang is in charge of an ad-hoc 
committee designated to examine differ-
aid for international students and domes-
tic students. His resolution, which asks 
the administration to investigate possible 
resistance.
Next, Kathryn Benson ’13 presented a 
previously discussed resolution that sug-
gests that the administration place all 
textbooks used for courses which are re-
quired for majors on reserve at either the 
Davis Family Library or the Armstrong 
Science Library. The resolution passed 
unanimously.
Later came a report from President 
of the SGA Vin Recca ’12 about the Mid-
dView Bill. He said that, after talks be-
tween him and the administration, Old 
Chapel has promised to fund the entirety 
of such orientation trips after the allotted 
three years of SGA funding. 
Finally came a report on the Spinning 
Room Resolution. The bikes for the spin-
ning room have been ordered, and the 
SGA hopes that the room will be open 
when  students return from spring recess. 
By Ben Anderson
sga update SGA discusses orientation trip funding
commented on Stanford’s policy, arguing 
that if students were allowed to drink in their 
hallways, it would ensure safer drinking and 
foster student bonding.
Task force member Nathan LaBarba ’14 
responded to open door policies by express-
ing concern over the liability of Public Safety 
and questioning its role under such a system.
Director of Public Safety Linda Burchard, 
who has previously worked at Stanford, ex-
pressed similar concerns over liability.
“I’m not sure that an institution can just 
say, ‘Look the other way,’” she said, citing the 
safely in dorms when the law states that any-
one under the age of 21 cannot drink alcohol.
The topic of the presence of Public Safety 
and student accountability proved to be a 
contentious subject. Some argued that it was 
too idealistic to expect the campus to hold 
itself accountable, while others said that stu-
dents show responsibility when they need to 
and thus should be encouraged to do so more 
regularly. 
“Trends at Middlebury are toward more 
liberty for more accountability,” said Hudson 
Cavanagh ’14. “It’s hard to see the absence of 
Public Safety in freshman dorms.”
Dorm damage, using Public Safety as a 
resource and the lack of ownership taken by 
students in the College’s culture were also 
discussed.
First-Years Seek Diversity
was held in the Allen Lounge on Wednesday, 
were in attendance, all of whom expressed a 
variety of opinions on issues ranging from the 
role of social houses as perceived by under-
classmen to the effects of the College’s cur-
Rod Abhari ’15 compared the College’s 
alcohol policy, which he considers “skewed 
schools. He spoke in favor of Stanford Uni-
versity’s “open door” policy. One argument 
supporting the policy is that binge drinking 
would decline, as students would not feel the 
need to drink rapidly behind closed doors in 
order to avoid punishments associated with 
getting caught.
There was also much complaint about the 
lack of diversity in current social program-
ming on campus. Anish Johri ’15 expressed 
a dissatisfaction with the repetitive nature of 
weekends, citing routine pre-games followed 
by parties at social houses.
“I feel like if there were more daytime 
activities, that might allow people to say, 
‘It’s okay if I don’t go out tonight because I 
already had fun during the day,’” said Blake 
Shapskinsky ’15. Others suggested that al-
ternative, College-organized events, such as 
the Brett Dennen concert and theme parties, 
would reduce the focus on alcohol.
would motivate them to organize their own 
social events.
“What would incentivize us is a change 
in the atmosphere from social houses,” said 
Abhari. “Instead, to meet people in a setting 
that’s less about dancing and drunken cul-
ture than about talking and getting to know 
them.”
Both Smith Abbott and Cook Commons 
Coordinator Linda Schiffer informed the au-
dience that there were resources available for 
such as Commons Councils, which can orga-
nize and provide sponsorship for events.
Moving Forward
After the forums had concluded, Ritter be-
lieved them to be helpful in ensuring that the 
task force was on the right track in addressing 
on-campus issues surrounding alcohol. He 
noted the generally low attendance rates at 
each of the forums, but said that the quality of 
discussion was excellent in spite of the num-
ber of students who took part in the talks.
The task force now plans to discuss feed-
back collected at the forums and will write 
recommendations to make amendments to 
-
tions will be completed by April and will dis-
cuss a range of issues and ideas, ultimately 
leading to policy changes that will have both 
immediate and longer periods of implemen-
tation.
I thought it would be hard to go 
abroad to a place with a colder win-
ter than Vermont, but Copenhagen has 
proved me wrong. The Danes, however, 
are hardly fazed by the whipping winds 
and freezing temperatures, and continue 
to bike through the city streets, and even 
over the frozen lakes for an easy shortcut. 
They are kept warm by the overpower-
ing phenomenon of hygge. It is a Danish 
term that has grown out of the cold, dark 
Scandinavian winters, when Danes gath-
er around a source of warmth together. 
Hygge has no exact translation in 
English. It’s a feeling of coziness, fellow-
ship, security and well-being. But this 
loose translation still does not adequate-
ly describe what hygge really is. Hygge 
is going out with a few friends to a cozy 
little café where the couches and chairs 
closely arranged around the coffee ta-
ble. Candles are burning throughout the 
small room and the lights are dimmed so 
low that you can barely tell they are on. 
There is plenty of good food, drink and 
merriment. Raise a toast and feel the 
That is hygge. 
My visiting family has captured the es-
sence of hygge in their small home out-
side of Copenhagen. Spending time with 
them has been one of my favorite parts 
about being in Denmark. Since I live in 
a building with all Americans, I had the 
option of having a “visiting family” to 
act as a host family, except I do not live 
with them. I love going over for dinner, 
where hygge
steadily burns, candles glow and there 
is never a lack of good food or friendly 
banter. When invited to a Danish dinner 
you should be prepared to spend at least 
three hours there. Danes generally have 
a stoic façade and tend to keep to them-
selves in public, but once you sit down 
with a Dane or two they can talk forever. 
When I go over for dinner, there are usu-
ally a few courses, including soup, salad, 
bread and lots of meat.
The last time I went we had a tradi-
. The most delicious des-
serts, ranging from traditional cakes and 
always follow our dinners. Desserts and 
pastries are one thing the Danes really 
know how to do well, adding to the feel-
ing of hygge
bakeries and cafés with the most deli-
-
ful, though, because a small cup of coffee 
is impossible to get for less than 25 kro-
-
can dollars. Whatever happened to a cup 
of Dunkin’ Donuts coffee for $1.49?
Next weekend we will be celebrating 
. It is often described as the 
Nordic Halloween, where children dress 
up in costumes, collect candy and play 
, which translates to 
“hit the cat out of the barrel.” In Medi-
eval times, a live cat would be placed 
in a barrel and children would beat the 
barrel with sticks until it broke and the 
cat escaped. It would then be chased out 
of town, taking bad luck and evil spirits 
with it. Nowadays candy is placed inside 
the barrel, much like a piñata.  
marks the time before Lent and Danes 
celebrate by eating as much as possible 
before the fast begins. 
Eating, being with friends and family, 
celebrating life and having a generally 
hygge time is what makes Copenhagen 
so great. I have fallen in love with this hy-
gge culture and am so excited to see what 
the next three months will hold.
overseas
briefing
BY STEPHANIE MORONEY ’13
Copenhagen, Denmark
February 23, 2012 |  3        News
2/16/12
2/17/12
2/18/12
2/18/12
2/18/12
2/19/12
2/19/12
DATE TIME INCIDENT DESCRIPTION LOCATION DISPOSITION
10:30 p.m.
4:49 p.m
11:53 p.m.
7:34 p.m. 
1:00 a.m.
2:50 a.m.
unknown 
Fireworks Possession 
Missing Juvenile  
Open Container 
Fire Alarm
Property Missing
Vandalism
Attempted Burglary
Fireworks Possession
 Child found
Possesion 
Cooking   
Coat and jacket
College property
Unknown 
Battell Beach  
Axinn Center at Starr Library
Adirondack Circle  
Battell Hall  
Earhart
Voter
Battell Hall 
REFERRED TO COMMONS DEAN
Case closed
Case closed 
Case closed 
Open
Case closed
No suspects
PUBLIC SAFETY LOG February 16-19, 2012
Role of Public Safety debated 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Winter Carnival Schedule 2012
THURSDAY, FEB. 23:
FRIDAY, FEB. 24:
SATURDAY, FEB. 25:
SUNDAY, FEB. 26:
8 p.m. - 10 p.m.: *Fireworks* and 
Bon!re on Ross Lawn (free hot 
drinks) — !reworks will be lit 
around 9:30pm
10 p.m.  - 2 a.m.: Orange Crush 
neon 80s concert in McCullough  
[SOLD OUT] (free neon glow 
sticks and safari sunglasses)
2 p.m.: Middlebury Mountain 
Club Northern Lights Competi-
tion on McCullough Lawn
7 p.m.-9 p.m.: Klondike Rush in 
Pearsons Lounge **21+ ONLY; 
BRING 2 IDs and come hang 
out by the !re with music and 
friends**9 p.m.-11 p.m.: Comedy Show 
Featuring TJ Miller and 
opening act Nick Vatterott in 
McCullough[SOLD OUT]
7:30 p.m.: Ice Show in Kenyon 
Arena
10 p.m.-2 a.m: **WINTER 
CARNIVAL BALL** the MAIN 
event — Nelson Arena, Catering 
by Cafe Provence, 21+ bring 2 
forms of ID, featuring DJ Funk-
Master Flex from NYC Hot 97FM2 p.m.: Ice Show in Kenyon 
Arena
4 NEWS
college 
shorts
COMPILED BY ALLISON FORREST
Men less likely to study 
abroad
Research shows that women are more 
likely to study abroad than men due to mul-
tiple factors. During the 2009-2010 academic 
year, women accounted for nearly two-thirds 
of American students going overseas, a trend 
that is consistent with the last two decades. 
Although some argue that students who go 
abroad are more likely to major in the female- 
dominated majors of foreign language and 
other humanities, business majors are the 
second-largest group going abroad. 
Samantha Brandeur, the director of study 
abroad at Gettysburg College, attributes the 
low proportion of men studying abroad to 
a “bro mentality,” which she believes leads 
male students to be more reluctant to leave 
their campus and established friend group.    
According to Jill McKinney, associate di-
rector of Butler University’s Center for Glob-
al Education, women more commonly go 
abroad because “they [feel] pressure to check 
it off the proverbial to-do list,” rather than 
travel later on in life. 
— The Chronicle of Higher Education
Scholars seek to expand 
online impact of research 
-
ence of scholarly research on social media is 
gaining traction among researchers. Altmet-
rics, which is short for alternative metrics, 
aims to measure the impact of internet-driven 
scholarly interactions. These interactions in-
clude how much research is tweeted, blogged 
about and shared on websites, such as Face-
book. 
Jason Priem, a third-year graduate stu-
dent at the School of Information and Library 
Science at University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, believes that altmetrics has the 
potential to make groundbreaking discoveries 
about the impact of scholarly information and 
how it can best be shared.
Although he believes in the importance 
of peer-reviewing and article citations, he 
and other researchers are working on an alt-
metrics project called Total-Impact, which 
attempts to measure the impact of various 
scholarly publications.
information more readily available to the  av-
erage Web-user, allowing each individual to 
locate articles related to their interests.  
— The Chronicle of Higher Education
Penn State students continue 
tradition of THON
Students at Pennsylvania State University 
continued the tradition of THON, a 46-hour 
marathon of non-stop dancing, which raises 
The dance marathon, which occurred 
between Feb. 17 and Feb 19 shattered last 
year’s record on $9.8 million, this year raising 
$10,686,924, making it the largest student-
run philanthropy in the world. 
Amidst the Jerry Sandusky child abuse 
scandal and the death of former football 
coach Joe Paterno, students were determined 
Paterno, who was an avid supporter of the 
event, spoke there in 2009. “He’s in all of our 
hearts,” Jennifer Evans, a student at Penn 
State told the Philadelphia Inquirer, “But we 
still ‘THON’ on.” Penn State has held THON 
since 1973, and since 1977 students have 
raised more than $88 million for the Four 
Diamonds fund, which helps children at Penn 
State Hershey Children’s Hospital. 
— 
PHIL dept remains understaffed
Amid questions of unsettled debts 
to URI, new MCSE director resigns
By Ian Stewart
Less than three weeks after the opening 
of the Middlebury Center for Social Entre-
preneurship (MCSE), the College reported 
the resignation of the center’s founder and 
including those associated with the non-
he founded and chaired, have recently come 
under scrutiny. The Rhode Island state 
-
tute could only account for $163,000 of a 
$575,000 state grant furnished in 2007 for 
the construction of a new building for the In-
stitute.  Director of Public Affairs Sarah Ray 
wrote that “personal reasons” caused Doyle 
to leave his position.
“We have a son who’s 41 who lives at 
home with us, and he’s autistic, and I was 
-
from Connecticut for months — said on Feb. 
Hartford to Middlebury.”
Though a Connecticut paper, The Hart-
ford Courant, wrote that Doyle claims he 
intended to work with the MCSE only until 
its inauguration, The Middlebury Campus 
reported in January that Doyle had planned 
to move his family to Middlebury in order to 
work full-time at the center.
But according to MCSE faculty director 
Jonathan Isham, a professor of economics 
at the College, his family is not his only con-
cern.
“It’s obvious right now he has very large 
professional challenges,” Isham said.
The construction grant is not the only 
-
ford Courant quoted a University of Rhode 
owes the school $380,000, and in Decem-
the Institute and Doyle, calling for $367,000 
in reparations for unresolved home loans.
“I think if you give it a week or two we’re 
resolving all of that,” Doyle said.
-
dicament came as “no surprise.” “As the 
time got closer to his resignation we were 
increasingly aware that something was up 
and it was likely that he would leave,” Isham 
said. “It didn’t take much, to be honest; all 
He says the College carefully investigated 
Doyle’s background while the potential ex-
tent of his involvement in the MCSE was 
being evaluated last fall. Special Assistant to 
the President Dave Donahue declined offers 
-
ignation or the College’s assessment of his 
According to a January Addison Eagle ar-
ticle, Doyle’s responsibilities included “rais-
ing funds to support the center, developing a 
board, shaping its programs, and establish-
ing strategic partnerships with other orga-
nizations.” Isham — who works alongside 
Operations Director Elizabeth Robinson 
— stressed that Doyle was never to lead the 
center but, rather, that “his sole job was to 
raise money.”
“The structure of having the senior team 
was something that Liz [Robinson] and I in-
sisted on as a way to really honor Alan Has-
senfeld’s gift,” Isham said. Hassenfeld, the 
philanthropist and former Hasbro CEO, has 
been the principle funder of the MCSE.  “We 
wanted to make sure that [Hassenfeld] was 
in very good hands.”
Hassenfeld paid off almost a half million 
dollars on behalf of Doyle’s cash-strapped 
Institute in 2011, according to The Courant.
College Advancement to reevaluate fund-
raising strategies.
“The promise of [Doyle] as a senior di-
rector is that he would bring in monies from 
sources that wouldn’t normally give to Mid-
dlebury; obviously his resignation has ren-
dered that moot,” Isham said. “But we have 
other, and sometimes much, much better 
supporters who have that similar ability.”
Despite the MCSE’s recent anxieties, a 
calendar of events for the spring is taking 
form. Starting March 9, a lunchtime speaker 
-
cial entrepreneurship, including Alan Har-
lam, the head of an equivalent center based 
at Brown University.
“We’re looking at addressing social issues 
in creative ways and maximizing social im-
pact,” said Associate Director of Operations 
and Development Heather Neuwirth ’08 in 
January of the MCSE’s objective. Before the 
center’s opening, both she and Isham high-
lighted the importance of a strong begin-
ning.
“The success of this kind of effort, like so 
many efforts, will depend on its rigor and its 
accountability to know that we’re getting the 
most out of every dollar,” said Isham.
| February 23, 2012
The philosophy department is current-
ly facing an unfortunately perfect storm 
stemming from increased demand for 
years, prompting student frustration and 
calls for additional professors. 
There were an unprecedented 52 de-
clared philosophy majors last may, with 
43 majors and 11 minors as of last month, 
according to Associate Professor of Phi-
losophy and Department Chair Martha 
Woodruff.
“There are a number of areas we don’t 
have particularly good coverage [in],” said 
joint political science and philosophy ma-
jor Josh Taylor ’12. “That’s not to say we 
don’t have great professors, but they can 
only do so much.” 
Taylor noted that the department cur-
rently lacks classes in postmodernism, 
turn of the century American philosophy 
and medieval Philosophy. He said the 
American philosophy shortage has been a 
problem throughout all four of his years 
at the College. 
“Philosophy is always going to be a 
small department, and I understand that, 
but I think an additional professor would 
help immensely,” he said.   
The present staff shortage is due in 
part to assistant professors Steve Viner 
and Lorraine Besser-Jones being on sab-
batical.
“For a small department such as ours, 
two out of six professors on sabbatical is 
[students] want certain courses offered, 
but we just can’t staff them. We’re doing 
our best, and I think [students] under-
stand that.”
To the disappointment of many stu-
dents, the department has not yet applied 
for approval to add any new professorship 
positions.
“It [hiring a new professor] is a dif-
said. “It’s not as if you can have someone 
in two weeks.” 
To hire any new faculty member, de-
partments have to apply to the Education-
al Affairs Committee (EAC), comprised of 
“The EAC looks at requests from all 
departments, knowing they have a limited 
amount of resources,” said Dean of Facul-
ty Jim Ralph. “The committee decides the 
best strategic way to allocate the positions 
available and passes on their recommen-
dations to the President.” 
Ralph said that under College policy, 
the process of increasing the size of the 
department would take two years.
-
cult to get because of budget cuts … many 
departments are trying to get a piece of 
the pie but the pie is getting smaller and 
smaller,” said Woodruff. 
Instead, she has focused her energy 
on retaining Professor Emeritus Stan-
ley Bates and Charles A. Dana Professor 
Emeritus Victor Nuovo. Both were recent-
ly approved by Old Chapel and currently 
teach required courses, which Woodruff 
called “the saving grace.” 
“Even two additional courses a year 
make a big difference,” she said. “Getting 
Bates and Nuovo back into the classroom 
has been a more practical and affordable 
share their wisdom with students.” 
One result of the shortage has been a 
decrease in the number of non-required 
classes offered. 
“All of us [philosophy professors] are 
stretched to the limit in order to provide 
the required courses,” said Woodruff. 
“I teach a range of 10 courses. Unfortu-
nately, that means I can only offer certain 
courses once every three or four or even 
my colleagues.” 
But the department has also come up 
with creative solutions to strengthen phi-
losophy course offerings by enlisting the 
help of out-of-department professors to 
teach interdisciplinary courses that pro-
vide philosophy credit. For example, Chi-
nese Philosophy was offered in the fall 
and taught by History Professor Don Wy-
distributions.
Woodruff expects the class shortage to 
ease next spring when professors return 
from sabbatical. Regardless, she acknowl-
edged that the department might still 
need to apply for additional faculty in the 
long term due to growing interest in the 
discipline.
Besser-Jones said that she is worried 
about meeting student demands in the 
coming years, even if enrollment stays 
constant. 
“I know that we all feel the pressures 
of the increased demand and struggle to 
meet the enrollment demands, while also 
ensuring that those students in the class-
room get the best possible experience they 
can,” she said.
“Class discussion is really an essential 
aspect of learning philosophy, and when 
classes get larger it becomes harder to 
maintain an atmosphere where each and 
every student is actively engaged in the 
discussion.” 
Despite logistical problems posed by 
the shortage, Woodruff said she is grateful 
for the increased interest in philosophy. 
“It’s a good problem to have.” 
By Kyle Finck
Dan Doyle has resigned from his posi-
tion of senior director of MCSE.
Courtesy
localMagic Hat Brewery revels in creativityPage 6
Farming enthusiasts of all ages gathered 
at the University of Vermont during the last 
weekend of February break, Feb. 10-12, for the 
Northeast Organic Farming Association confer-
ence to discuss the future of food in Vermont. 
The student-run Middlebury College Organic 
Farm (MCOF) sent a dozen students to the con-
ference to connect with people on the forefront 
of the local foods movement. 
Activities at NOFA, besides feasts on free 
samples galore, 
ranged from 
seminars meant 
for advanced 
c o m m e r c i a l 
growers to in-
teractive work-
shops for anyone 
interested in ag-
riculture. Some 
of the most 
popular among 
Middlebury stu-
dents were “Herbs and Weeds: How to Tame 
and Delight in Wild Flavors” and “Making Pick-
le Products at Home.”
While Midd Kids seemed to prefer the 
hands-on workshops, there were also seminar-
style lectures ranging in topic from “Food Jus-
tice and Labor Rights” to “Wild Mushroom For-
aging for Personal Use or Added Income.”
Saturday’s keynote address was given by 
Vern Grubinger, coordinator of the USDA’s 
Northeast Sustainable Agriculture Research 
and Education (SARE) program. Grubinger 
outlined his vision of a roadmap to resilience for 
Vermont’s food system, explaining why the state 
should increasingly support local agriculture in 
order to maintain stability in the face of climate 
change and rising oil prices. 
While Grubinger’s address gave the audi-
ence a practical approach to resolving issues 
in our food system, Sunday’s keynote speaker 
Wendy Johnson captivated the audience in a 
more spiritual way. Johnson, a Buddhist medi-
tation teacher and organic gardening mentor 
who hails from the San Francisco Bay Area, 
brought some laid-back California vibes to a 
room mostly full of Vermont farmers and col-
lege students. 
With her Jane Goodall-esque silver-white 
hair and calm demeanor, she was the quintes-
sential aged hippie. Johnson started off her 
speech looking out the window at the bleak 
Vermont landscape, jokingly lamenting having 
to leave the “paradise” of California sunshine to 
come here, all the while commending Vermont 
farmers for making the most of such a short 
growing season. 
Johnson works as a mentor to the Chez 
Panisse Foundation’s Edible Schoolyard in 
garden in the U.S. Jay Leshinsky, former man-
ager of MCOF, used to work with her before 
he helped start Middlebury’s garden. They’re 
still close — during her workshop on “Building 
Resiliency with Mentors,” Wendy gave a shout 
out to Leshinsky and the “beautiful students of 
Middlebury College.”
She reminded all the conference attendees 
“how deeply our lives intertwine with the ele-
mental world” and how important it is to remain 
grounded and optimistic in times of challenge 
and change.  
Overall, the conference was a refreshing 
change of pace from busy college life. “NOFA 
never fails to remind me how much there is to 
learn about organic farming,” said Sara Bach-
man ’13.5. “The entire weekend is inspiring; the 
congregation of farmers and passionate indi-
viduals always instills in me hope and a needed 
sense of power.”
A gathering like NOFA, in which different 
age groups share ideas and collaborate, can be 
b e n e f i -cial to farmers because they can learn 
new tech-niques and network with others. The 
organic farmers who have been in the business 
for years and survived up against subsidized 
products from conventional farms already know 
what works. From trial and error, they have a 
sustainable practices than the younger farmers.
On the other hand, they might be more hes-
itant to try new things for fear that their farm 
can only go downhill, while beginning farmers 
are more idealistic and feel they have nothing to 
lose. Moreover, the younger generation is more 
aware of recent advances in technology that 
The attendees at the conference this year 
seemed younger than in past years, perhaps 
a sign that there are more beginner farmers 
emerging in Vermont. After a hiatus during the 
awareness of food sources, it seems local farms 
are making a comeback.
As times are changing, and as the world 
becomes more interconnected through technol-
access to locally-sourced food is becoming more 
feasible for people of all backgrounds. Confer-
ences like NOFA prove to be a valuable resource 
for those at the forefront of the local foods 
movement. 
A New Era in Agriculture? 
NOFA-VT conference gives hope 
to the local foods movement
By Liia Koiv-Haus
“NOFA never 
fails to remind 
me how much 
there is to learn 
about organic 
farming.”
SARA BACHMAN ‘13.5
Courtesy
Clockwise from the top: Conference participants engage in a seed swapping workshop; seed swapping workshops offer participants a chance to 
learn about seeds; NOFA-VT holds an annual conference at UVM to teach local farmers; one workshop included a nose-to-tail butchering lesson 
with Greylock Farm.
Local 
lowdown
HISTORICAL SOCIETY MEETING
Any history buffs out there? New Febs 
wanting to learn about Addison County’s 
local history? Art Cohn, Executive Direc-
tor of the Lake Champlain Maritime 
Museum, will be speaking about the 
its part in the epic Battle of Valcour Island 
that took place in Lake Champlain in 1776 
at the Addison Fire Station. Donations are 
requested from non-members and light 
refreshments will be served.
Feb. 26, 2 p.m. – 4 p.m.
ST. PETER’S FISH FRY
Take a break from Asian carp and come 
baked haddock, macaroni and cheese, 
fries and green beans at Saint Peter’s Par-
ish Hall. Bring a dessert to share and $9 
for food to eat comfort food to your hearts 
content.
SNOWSHOE/HIKE
Are you looking to explore the Vermont 
woods this weekend, but running out of 
trail ideas? Nola Kevra of the Middlebury 
Area Land Trust is leading a snowshoe 
trip (or hiking trip if there is still no snow) 
through the woods of Ripton. So grab 
some snowshoes from the gear room and 
head up the mountain. There will also 
where the group will be meeting.
VERDI OPERA LIVE BROADCAST
Like opera and wish you could go to the 
Met? Well, you’re in luck because the Met 
is coming to Middlebury Town Hall The-
playing. Staring three opera stars: Mar-
cello Ciordani, Dmitri Hvorostovsky and 
FEB. 25, 1 P.M – 4 P.M.
SCHOOL OF ROCK & ROLL CONCERT
Love rock concerts? Love free stuff? 
This free rock concert at the Town Hall 
Theater is the culmination of a week-long 
intensive program for talented young 
musicians who have been perfecting their 
-
ments that it takes to play in a rock band. 
Hosted by a fellow rocker, Clint Bierman, 
and other local and awesome musicians.
FEB. 24, 7 P.M. – 9 P.M.
LEAP YEAR BIRTHDAY PARTY
celebrate your birthday? Tired of your 
Middlebury is throwing a birthday party 
for all the leap year babies complete with 
cake and leap year tales. Join other Feb. 
only comes around every four years.
FEB. 29, 2 P.M.-4 P.M.
 6local
FARM FRESH
BY RACHEL PORTER
24
By Molly Talbert
There’s beer Magic brewing
  | February 23, 2012
Drinking beer is easy, but making 
it is an art form as demonstrated by the 
dedication, passion, and knowledge of 
the brewers at Magic Hat Brewing Com-
pany in South Burlington, Vt.
Although the current brewmaster, 
Justin McCarthy, stumbled upon a job 
at Magic Hat nine and a half years ago 
when he was looking for any kind of 
work, he is now committed to the art of 
brewing craft beer, which is Magic Hat’s 
specialty.
“There are 5,100 gallons in each 
brew,” McCarthy explained. “We do six 
brews a day, four to five days a week. You 
can do the math,” he smiled while walk-
ing around a mash kettle that contains 
roughly 3,400 gallons of wort – a liquid 
with a high sugar content that is a step 
away from being fermented.
“We do a lot of English-style beers 
here,” said McCarthy. “But, really, we 
don’t like to be held down by that since it 
can hinder the creative process.”
The creativity of Magic Hat is clear 
in everything from their website design, 
to the amount of merchandise in their 
“artifactory” in South Burlington, to 
the popularity of their three year-round 
beers: #9, Circus Boy and Single Chair.
“We love making beer and we want 
high-quality products but, at the end of 
the day, it’s beer, and we want people to 
have fun,” said McCarthy of Magic Hat’s 
philosophy.
The fun that the brewers have at 
Magic Hat is seen in the creative license 
that they have, with plenty of opportuni-
ties to come up with new and innovative 
beers such as the Juniper Rye, an English 
style ale on tap at the artifactory, and the 
upcoming honey wheat IPA, whose reci-
pe McCarthy came up with and that will 
be made with local honey, and be part of 
a Vermont-only spring series.
But Magic Hat also has other inter-
esting projects besides just brewing fan-
tastic and innovative beer.
“We’re working on finishing up an 
anaerobic generator that would be pow-
ered by yeast,” said McCarthy. “There is 
so much waste in a brewery - things need 
to be chilled, lights - and the energy from 
the generator would go back into the grid 
and help offset our energy.”
Here’s how the generator works: 
Magic Hat skims off excess yeast from 
their brews and is able to reuse it for 
future beer (with an ale, the yeast is on 
top, making it easy to reuse, whereas 
in a lager, the yeast is on the bottom). 
Sometimes, though, they produce too 
much yeast and have nowhere to put it. 
This would be the perfect solution to that 
problem.
Magic Hat also takes their “spent 
grain,” what expert brewer Nathan Burk 
describes as “what is left of the malted 
barley after the mashing process,” to a 
dairy in Addison County for cows to eat.
Regardless of the other projects that 
Magic Hat may have, it all relates back to 
the beer that they brew and the custom-
ers that expect consistency and quality.
“Here is where we control every-
thing,” McCarthy pointed out the big 
bank of computer screens in a control 
room in the factory. “Here I can see ev-
erything and, if I forget to flip a switch 
or do something, the computer remem-
bers. Some people say that we aren’t 
craft brewers because of automation but 
I think we are. This just makes sure that 
the quality is consistent. If you have a #9 
you expect the same #9 next time you 
drink it.”
Even with some automation, the 
brewers are very hands on during the 
entire process, pumping honey into the 
honey wheat IPA and chopping pounds 
and pounds of fruit for a fig and date in-
fused specialty beer.
“You get 10 different brewers you 
end up with 10 different beers even with 
the exact same ingredients,” said McCar-
thy.
And, it is that attitude and that cre-
ativity that makes beer lovers continue 
to drink Magic Hat and excited for the 
next new specialty beer or maybe just 
another consistent #9.
Molly Talbert
The whimsical feel of Magic Hat is evidenced by the presence of a large col-
lection of witty signs and creature artwork, such as this bird sculpture, on the 
factory floor.
Jeannie Bartlett
Expert cheese maker, Lea Calderon-
Guthe ’11.5, demonstrating her art in her 
Winter Term workshop.
Winter Term provided me the op-
portunity to spend a month living and 
working in New York City. Needless to 
say, this set-up left little to be desired. 
Outside of my work schedule, there was 
plenty of time to get lost in the city that 
never sleeps and immerse myself in 
what, I have come to agree, is one of the 
most exciting places on the globe.
It is on one of these immersive ad-
ventures that I found myself standing 
in front of a deli counter, inside a well-
known, chain grocery store, staring at 
what appeared to be a case full of local 
cheese. I was immediately intrigued, as 
it had been my quest to satiate loom-
ing hunger that had brought me to this 
grocery store in the first place. Howev-
er, upon further inquiry, I found myself 
staring at a round of cheese produced 
by, the very familiar, Blue Ledge Farm. 
For those of you who are regulars at the 
Middlebury Farmer’s Market, you will 
know that Blue Ledge Farm is a nation-
ally renowned, family-run goat farm, 
located in Leicester, Vt., that has been 
producing homemade cheese for the last 
12 years. It was surprising to me to be 
in a new city and stumble upon a brand 
of cheese that I had previously consid-
ered to be a unique and “local” product 
of Middlebury. This “mislabeling” was 
confusing to me as I wondered what the 
store was trying to achieve by categoriz-
ing a Vermont product as local to New 
York. 
Local is an ambiguous term, often 
with very different meanings existing 
at the national, state, and county level. 
In 2008, Congress defined the term “lo-
cally” as “the locality or region in which 
the final product is marketed, so that the 
total distance that the product is trans-
ported is less than 400 miles from the 
origin of the product; or State in which 
the product is produced.” This definition 
defies boundaries and instead allows 
local to encompass all that falls within 
in a four-hundred-mile-radius. By this 
definition, my Blue Ledge Farm cheese 
spotting in NYC, boasting the local la-
bel, was in fact only declaring what Con-
gress termed it to be. Roughly 260 miles 
separate NYC from Blue Ledge Farm and 
therefore this cheese was undoubtedly 
local.
In an effort to learn more about the 
implications of eating local in Vermont, 
I decided to chat with cheese guru and 
newly minted alum, Lea Calderon-Guthe 
’11.5. Calderon-Guthe has been making 
cheese ever since graduating high school 
and has become an invested contributor 
in the local foods movement. I asked her 
what the benefits of such a broad defini-
tion were when often the intent of eating 
local is to reduce unnecessary shipping.
In an email Calderon-Guthe said, “I 
think it speaks volumes about the im-
portance of local food these days that 
even regional is considered local […] If 
we know that stamping “locally made” 
on our products will interest consum-
ers, it means consumers are thinking 
about where their food comes from, and 
probably also how it was made, and to 
me that’s more important that exactly 
how many miles the food traveled to the 
store.”
Calderon-Guthe makes a valid point. 
Awareness is, as she notes, “the essential 
first step” in increasing the number of 
people who are considering the benefits 
of eating local. For me, the closer one is 
to the place where your food originated 
the more local it is. I far prefer to buy 
my Blue Ledge cheese from the farmer’s 
market as opposed to an NYC grocery 
store; however, I agree with Calderon-
Guthe that awareness is key. Local Ver-
mont cheese in N.Y. is definitely better 
than no local cheese at all. 
The
editorial
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus
Notes from 
the desk
Kara Shurmantine ’12 
is the Editor-in-Chief. She 
is from from Napa, Calif.
editorial board
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
A call for a current events forum
opinions
Hero With a Thousand Faces
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kara Shurmantine
MANAGING EDITOR
Dana Walters
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Ethan Schmertzler
NEWS EDITORS 
Kyle Finck, Adam Schaffer, Emily Singer, 
Allison Forrest
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Carina Guiterman, Isabel Shaw, 
Ian Trombulak
SPORTS EDITORS 
Alex Edel, Damon Hatheway, Dillon Hupp, 
Katie Siegner, Owen Teach
LOCAL EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Molly Talbert 
FEATURES EDITORS 
Michelle Smoler, Leah Pickett
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Amanda Pertierra, Deirdre Sackett, Emily 
Scarisbrick
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anna Clements, Paul Gerard, 
Andrew Podrygula, Jiayi Zhu
DESIGN EDITOR
Ian Stewart
DESIGN ASSISTANT
Olivia Allen
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR
Emily Pinto
ONLINE MANAGER 
Greg Woolston
AD MANAGER
Quinn Proffer
-
-
-
-
reader 
op-ed
Michael Olinick 
is a professor of 
mathematics   and 
Judy Olinick is  the 
coordinator of the 
Russian, German, 
Japanese studies 
departments.
Continuing the Carmola conversation
Conservative political pundits and 
registered Republicans voting for the 
candidate to face Obama in the general 
election have expressed concerns about 
Romney’s conservative values.  Recent 
polls show that social conservatives — 
who make up a significant portion of 
those that will vote in the upcoming 
Michigan primary — have thrown 
their support behind Rick Santorum. 
The Obama administration’s attempt 
to require religious-affiliated groups 
to provide contraception coverage 
has bolstered Santorum’s recent 
surge due to the former Senator of 
Pennsylvania’s campaign focus on 
social issues.  Thus, as Santorum 
defends conservative values, doubts 
about Romney’s fluency with the 
Republican Party line escalate.
Yet Santorum’s track record 
is riddled with 
government spending, 
which contradicts 
a principle tenet of 
conservatism: small 
government.  While 
the separation of 
church and state and 
Obama’s disregard for 
the Constitution are 
certainly important 
issues that the chosen 
Republican candidate 
should confront the 
President with in the 
general election, the 
candidate would do 
better rebutting the 
swelling of government 
under Obama — an 
issue that concerns both Republicans 
and Independents alike.  
Currently, one out of every five 
Americans is dependent on Uncle 
Sam’s assistance.  As this fraction has 
grown, the number of taxpayers that 
pay for these government programs 
has declined.  In 2010, almost 50 
percent of U.S. citizens did not pay 
federal income tax.  Furthermore, 
in 2011, 70 percent of the federal 
government’s budget was allotted 
to assistance programs that only 
increase dependence.  Romney’s 
fiscal conservatism and private sector 
experience would suite him well in 
facing these challenges created by 
the liberal propensity for expanding 
government influence.
Although Romney has been faulted 
for big government “Romneycare” and 
his support for 
the cap-and-trade 
bill, Santorum 
had one of the 
most extensive 
spending agendas 
of any Republican 
on Capitol Hill.  He 
voted to raise the debt ceiling five times 
and voted for wastefully expensive 
projects, such as the “Bridge to 
Nowhere.”  The former 
Senator co-sponsored 
around 50 bills to 
increase spending 
but did not sponsor a 
single proposal to cut 
spending.  In contrast, 
as the governor 
of Massachusetts, 
Romney cut spending 
to create a surplus from 
a $3 billion deficit, 
which subsequently led 
to the upgrade of the 
state’s credit rating.    
In order to combat 
his current slump in the 
polls, Romney should 
prove his conservatism 
to the far right voters 
participating in the GOP primaries by 
reinvigorating concern amongst the 
Tea Party and the American public 
about the rapidly increasing rate of 
government spending and debt levels. 
Romney can portray himself as the 
private sector expert, ready to combat 
out of control government spending 
— something big-spending, social 
conservative Rick Santorum cannot. 
That Thing 
Down There
Joanna Rothkopf ’12 
is from Washington, D.C. 
Elephant 
in the room
Katie Earle ’12 is 
from  Bedminster, N.J.
Lady bloggers Is Romney “right” for 
the party?
reader 
op-ed
College Democrats
Letter to 
the editor
Susan Watson is a 
Professor of Physics.
State of the Union
Drawing strong conclusions from 
limited information
conservatism 
and private 
sector experience 
would suit him 
well in facing 
these challenges 
created by the 
liberal propensity 
for expanding 
government 
| february 23, 20128opinions
To the editor, 
A recent letter to the editor presents 
an argument supporting Dr. Carmola’s 
dismissal from her tenured faculty 
position at Middlebury College [A 
professor’s actions viewed in another light, 
Feb. 16]. To paraphrase, Dr. Carmola 
committed a crime — embezzling funds 
from the Salisbury Historical Society 
— and should therefore face harsh 
consequences, including the loss of her 
reputation and career. The argument is 
tidy and axiomatic: commit a crime — pay 
a price and lose your job. But life is rarely 
as straightforward as we would like, and 
in the messy complexity lay hidden truths 
that muddy our efforts at moral clarity. 
Even compassionate, ethical people 
decisions, and thankfully, our legal system 
is nuanced enough to account for the 
breadth of human behavior. Our justice 
system even recognizes that people have 
the capacity to learn from their mistakes; 
given the opportunity, they can go on to 
become better, stronger contributors to 
their communities and societies.
It is true that Dr. Carmola committed 
a crime. The term “embezzlement,” 
however, conjures up a host of 
assumptions that aren’t borne out, which 
is why the sanction Dr. Carmola received 
probation, community service and an 
expunged record after eighteen months — 
is appropriate and plenty severe, yet may 
seem mild to someone without knowledge 
of the details. Prosecutors aren’t known 
for negotiating sentences of limited scope 
without good cause, as was the case here.
It is also true that, as a result of the 
College’s subsequent 
response to the 
situation, Dr. 
Carmola will lose her 
job. In an effort to 
protect its reputation 
the College has gone 
too far, however, 
choosing a course of action disconnected 
from the measured response of the State’s 
has the appeal of appearing clean, but 
it’s a blunt instrument, equivalent to 
cutting off a limb when staunching a 
wound would have done as well. Instead, 
a strong sanction by the College short 
of permanent dismissal would have 
mirrored the limited scope of the state’s 
sanction, while signaling to the outside 
world that the College had taken the 
offense seriously. 
To those who argue that anything 
other than a full quarantine of the 
professor would have posed a danger to 
students, I’d say let’s give students more 
credit for being intelligent, complex 
individuals who have faced or will face 
their own personal crises. It’s when we try 
to maintain an illusion of perfection that 
we often do real harm. In the process, we 
ultimately deny our humanity.
Sincerely, 
Susan Watson
Last month, President Barack Obama 
went to the U.S. Capitol to deliver his 2012 
State of the Union Address — the last such 
speech before he faces the voters of this 
nation for the second time in November.
In this year’s address, President 
Obama outlined a bold vision for the 
nation, focusing, of course, on the growth 
of the recovering economy. He reported 
to Americans that over three million 
jobs have been 
created in the last 
two years. Many of 
these jobs came in the 
manufacturing sector, 
long thought to be in 
a state of irreversible 
decline.
The president, however, recognized 
how much more work remains in reviving 
the economy. He proposed eliminating 
tax deductions for businesses shipping 
companies that hire American workers. 
He also promoted re-training programs 
to help those out of work readapt to a 
changing economy.
President Obama stressed once again 
that education holds the key to American 
prosperity in the 21th century economy. 
For college students like us, the president 
proposed yet another series of steps to 
reduce the debt burden of a post-secondary 
education. He advocated for extending the 
tuition tax credit and doubling the number 
addition, the president called on colleges 
to come up with innovative solutions to 
keep tuition costs from ballooning to new 
heights.
At a time when tough decisions are 
and debt, President Obama insisted 
that the U.S. government continue its 
long-standing support for research and 
innovation. This “promise of innovation,” 
he said, can help the nation become more 
he called on Congress to make sure that all 
Americans pay their fair share of taxes. It 
is common sense, he said, to ask Warren 
Buffet to pay at least as much as his 
secretary.
In outlining the achievements of what 
his administration has already done and 
putting forth a bold vision for the near 
and far future, the president shows that 
he isn’t afraid to take on big challenges 
or compromise to get things done. That’s 
the kind of leadership America needs right 
now. That’s the kind of leadership you 
should support this election year.
I have a vivid memory of watching an 
MTV promo in PJs and eating breaded 
chicken with ketchup while my babysitter, 
Rita, helped my sister take a bath. It was early 
2011. Ha! Just kidding; I was seven or eight. 
The promo featured a teenage girl sneaking 
into her younger sister’s room to french 
kiss a poster of the Backstreet Boys’ punky 
chanteur A.J. McLean. Obviously, this girl 
was all I knew of how to be hip in the ’90s — 
she was an older sister (same here!), wore a 
tank top (there she was a little ahead of me 
… I didn’t take the plunge until I was 22), 
and probably wasn’t a virgin. I knew even in 
my youthful innocence that I simply had to 
be her. So, while 
my sister bathed, 
I, too, snuck into 
her room and 
had a private 
moment with her 
requisitely framed 
A.J. And as I 
licked his glossy magazine teeth, I felt closer 
to the beacon of post-adolescent cool that was 
MTV Girl, and I felt optimistic that I wouldn’t 
be such a terribly lost child forever.
I maintained a desperate grip on similar 
pop representations of how to be throughout 
my adolescence. I spent hours pouring over 
websites like gURL.com that claimed “a 
different approach to the experience of being 
a teenage girl.” Throughout high school 
I continued to seek examples of better-
than-Joannas in the media, secretly buying 
copies of Cosmopolitan with my girlfriends, 
and reading their sex tips at 1 a.m. under 
their covers, at once shocked, ashamed and 
nervously aware of my newly awakened 
libido. I soon became interested in music and 
started reading Nylon; I wanted to be thin, 
so I read SHAPE; I became ambitious and 
turned to the essays in the back of Glamour 
about 20 girls under 30 who were going to 
change the world. These images of desirable 
potential consumed me but I would be lying if 
I said that the struggle to choose what kind of 
woman I want to be doesn’t still torture me.
But the mission of these female-interest 
publications does not exist unchallenged. In 
her n+1 article, “So Many Feelings,” writer 
Molly Fischer broached the question: what 
happens when female-interest blogs (and all 
publications for that matter) break with their 
espoused ideology in favor of being honest? 
Fischer employs my mainstay, Jezebel.com, 
as her primary example. The blog started as 
a shockingly honest account of the female 
experience, proudly boasting the slogan, 
“Celebrity, Sex, Fashion for Women. Without 
Airbrushing.” In its original incarnation, 
Fischer notes that the site was crass, even 
disgusting: “Jezebel’s appeal had as much to 
do with exuberant provocation as it did with 
inclusion. ‘It was thick and brown and foul,’ 
[Moe] Tkacik wrote of the liquid that issued 
from a 10-day-old tampon. ‘I wanted to say it 
smelled sort of like Vegemite tastes, but that’s 
too kind.’” 
The site’s contributors celebrated being 
exceptionally inclusive, while maintaining 
combination that threatened collapse. The 
tenuous mixture of tones was put to the test 
at a talk called “Thinking and Drinking” 
with comedian Lizz Winstead, during which 
contributors Tracie Egan and Tkacik got 
wasted and joked about rape and STDs. 
“Egan said she had never been sexually 
assaulted because she was ‘smart’ and lived 
in Williamsburg. Tkacik said that she didn’t 
report her own date rape because she ‘had 
better things to do, like drinking more.’ Egan 
called pulling out ‘the most fun way not to get 
pregnant.” Now, I am appalled by many of the 
things the writers said in this interview, but 
the fact that they were brave enough to speak 
as women without speaking for the whole 
gender is admirable and nearly impossible 
in a society that demands ideological 
consistency from women who self-identify 
as feminist or otherwise. But Jezebel did not 
remain unscathed by their sacrilege, and I 
lament the disappearance of the bombastic, 
controversial, and, yes, even at times, 
hateful Jezebel in favor of the inoffensive 
pop feminism and “easy indignation” that it 
features today.
I want to stress that my alarm at this story 
does not concern whether or not Tracie Egan 
is or was crude. When a writer like Gawker’s 
Max Read writes some verging-on-cruel 
post about a fellow male writer, there’s no 
narrative that he’s straying from or abiding 
by. He gets to be an intellect sans associations 
or loyalties while his female counterparts 
have been forced to contextualize themselves 
within the current state of feminism. When 
Moe Tkacik spoke indelicately about her 
experience with rape, why was she accused 
of tarnishing the female sex? Why did I as 
a high-schooler go on three-hour binges of 
reading provocateur Tucker Max’s disgusting 
essays and why has Tucker Max not yet 
been excoriated like Egan and Tkacik who 
sheepishly retreated into print media and TV 
show recaps after their publicity gaff? Why 
can’t an obnoxious woman be an obnoxious 
person just as an obnoxious man doesn’t 
have to fear destroying the good standing of 
his sex? The efforts of the aforementioned 
publications to aid in my generation’s 
if not productive, however, in choosing a 
publication to associate with (and with it a 
demographic) society demands that you exist 
within the parameters that it has set for you. 
Ultimately, women cannot break free from 
these imposed ideological constraints until 
we stop conforming to them.
Red’s Rant
Caleb Cunningham ’14 
is from Denver, Colo.
Community — the name of the game
twit pics: Car(nival)toonsweek in tweets
my date to winter ball! #icesculpturepossibilities
library fart chamber #cellphoneboothalternatives
is it even possible to register for me? 
#PEsessionIIexistentialquestions
made a surprisingly memorable salad at proctor! 
#middvictory
#secondsemestergoals
#bunkersecondsemestergoals
-
ciding to sit at the other end of my crush’s table at din
mailbox #secondsemestergoals  
February 23, 2012 | 9opinions
Remember when you were deciding 
Middlebury was 
school means 
small class 
Here at Middlebury, community is 
encouraging community because 
students are going to work more 
neighbors), and the teacher is also the 
at their houses, encouraged to disregard 
brings their own social connections 
is somewhat mitigated, thereby 
with only three dining halls, two main automata
should
By Dylan Redford
By Dylan Levy
abroad last semester! 
Man, I wanted to 
ask that girl out!
 I’m totally trash 
talking that dude later
 on Middfesh
my date to winter ball! #icesculpturepossibilities
| february 23, 201210advertisements
Nominate Your Peers for 
Student Leadership Awards
GO/AWARDS
Deadline is March 2
awards and prizes to honor students for their 
leadership and engagement in campus and community life.
Otter Creek 
Used Books
has moved down 
creek from Main 
. to Marble Works.      
 Check it out. Windows!  Books!             
      Look for the blue awnings.
Always buying used textbooks.
99 Maple Street, Marble Works
802-388-3241
260 Court Street
Middlebury 
802-388-5400
M-F 9-7 | Sat 9-6 | Sun 9-5
WELCOME MIDDLEBURY
COLLEGE STUDENTS
OPEN NIGHTS & WEEKENDS
SEVEN DAYS A WEEK 
HALF-PRICE COLOR WEDNESDAYS!
1-800-SUPERCUTS | www.supercuts.com 
LIKE US ON 
PAPER?
Like us on 
Facebook
Follow us on 
twitter
@middcampus
JOIN OUR PACK
WRITE FOR THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE INTERESTED, EMAIL CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
11advertisementsfebruary 23, 2012 | 
Internship Action Week
February –March , 
Finding and Funding Your Summer Internship:  
Everything You Need to Know
Monday, February 27
12:15–1:15 p.m. 220
Cook Commons Internship Info Sessions 
for First-Years and Sophomores
Monday, February 27
6:15-7:15 p.m.
Brainerd Commons Internship Info Sessions 
for First-Years and Sophomores
28
4:30-5:30 p.m.
Ross Commons Internship Info Sessions 
for First-Years and Sophomores
28
4:30-5:30 p.m. 3
What About Summer?
Internships and Summer Employment
 29
4:30-5:30 p.m.  220
Wonnacott Commons Internship Info Sessions 
for First-Years and Sophomores
 1
12:15-1:15 p.m.
Finding and Funding Your Summer Internship:  
Everything You Need to Know
1
6:15-7:15 p.m. 103
Atwater Commons Internship Info Sessions 
for First-Years and Sophomores
2
12:15-1:15 p.m.
102
Summer Internships
2:00-5:00 p.m.
go/summerfunding
go/mojo
EIA Campus Ad 2.12.indd   1 2/20/12   10:25 AM
AVOID 
BRAIN FREEZE
 
 
Heat things up  
this summer at McGill
www.mcgill.ca/summer
 summer.studies@mcgill.ca 
Check Out Our
NEW WEBSITE
www.nbmvt.com
Watching your back.
We’re here for you 24/7. Anytime, anywhere. 
Spend less time waiting in line and more  
time doing what’s real to you. 
Bank Real. Live Real.
real
life
1-877-508-8455
BRA S SB B S
 
WHY 
CHOOSE 
CLASSICS?
 
“For me, [classics is] 
the liberal arts degree,” said 
classics major Barrett Smith 
’13, pointing to the fact that 
the curriculum manages to mix a 
variety of the humanities — history, 
language, literature, philosophy, and 
political science. A classics major might, 
for instance, learn about Roman political 
history while reading Cicero, or study ancient 
philosophy while translating Lucretius.
For Associate Professor of Classics Marc 
Witkin, classics is about both, “understanding 
the ancient world itself and the range of enduring 
articulated in the literature of Greece and Rome.”
And although classics places enormous emphasis 
on language, Witkin says that, “quite apart from the 
value of studying the languages as a means to gain 
access to the ancient texts in the original, [classics is 
about] how to write, how to make sense, how to speak 
clearly and think clearly; the study of the literature 
itself is a study of what human beings know and why 
we know it, or 
how we come to 
know it.”
T h e 
department is 
small, which 
means that 
campus,” Smith said.
For instance, this year, his Greek professor 
found out that he couldn’t make the scheduled 
Friday section of class and promptly 
rescheduled it for Thursday. Even in larger 
literature classes, which usually enroll 
about 25 students to Greek classes’ 
four, professors often send out emails 
to students at the beginning of the 
semester asking what students 
have read and what they want 
to read, adjusting the syllabus 
accordingly.
“I feel like I’ve 
had much more of 
a voice in what 
I’m studying 
in the 
c l a s s i c s 
department [than in others],” 
Smith said.
Classics majors generally see the same people in 
many of their classes — many of which are very small — 
so in addition to lots of individual attention, “students in 
language courses tend to have a real esprit de corps,” said 
Witkin.
WHAT DO YOU HAVE TO DO?
The 14-course major is, “an enormous challenge” said 
Witkin, and both Smith and Witkin point to the language 
take at least 10 semesters of an ancient language, Latin, 
ancient Greek, or ancient Hebrew: six in one ancient 
language and four in another. At another school, this 
major might be called “Latin” or “Greek.”
“It’s very, very intensive [on language],” Smith said. 
And given the extremely small classes, “you absolutely 
have to do all of your language work because you 
absolutely cannot hide.”
Middlebury’s classics major is unique in that it also 
entails civilization and culture classes in addition to the 
language requirements. While the language classes focus 
on reading and translation, students in civilization classes 
simultaneously study the ideas behind ancient texts while 
reading them in English.
“It’s always a mix of reading small portions of the 
text in original Greek or Latin,  but getting a broader idea 
of what the author is doing form the lecture courses in 
English,” Witkin said. “What’s unique about Middlebury 
[is that] we have we have courses that clearly introduce 
students — without having to know Greek or Latin, but 
taught by professors who do — to the major areas of 
ancient history, drama, literature and philosophy in 
comparable-sized college that mounts that kind of effort.”
In offering language and lecture courses that 
complement each other in this way, Witkin says, the 
department tries to help the student see an entire 
“reconstruction of the world in which the words and the 
text had a meaning and made sense. The same courses also 
attract students to the study of Greek and Latin who might 
not otherwise have discovered their interest.”
Classics is also unique from other disciplines in the 
fact that majors are all expected to have read a set of the 
same 36 classic texts by graduation. Over Winter Term of 
designed for each individual to test “everything you’ve 
ever learned in Latin or Greek,” Smith said. The 
department tests students’ knowledge of the 36 required 
texts by designing the exam to cover language skills and 
general knowledge through both essays and an oral exam.
 
WHO DOES CLASSICS?
When Smith arrived at Middlebury, he was unsure 
of how he would tie his interest in Latin in high school to 
his desire to attend medical school. Eventually, although 
he’s still pre-med with a minor in physics, Smith says he, 
“settled on [classics instead of a science major] because 
it’s a really, really challenging major and 
of my 
classes 
that I 
took here, it 
felt like the most 
educating … I realized 
my classics classes were 
educating me as a full 
person.”
 Although many classics 
majors are like Smith and studied 
Latin in high school, Smith says 
that, “There’s a really cool diversity 
within the dept; it’s not just humanities 
people.”
One reason for this might be the 
great diversity of career options available 
to classics majors. For example, Smith 
remembers hearing that the Central 
Intelligence Agency (CIA) often recruits classics 
majors, because, “you have to show a serious 
aptitude in languages, critical thinking, and in 
reading incomplete, problematic, fragmented 
what it’s trying to say.”
Witkin has known all along: that “there isn’t a better 
training for the mind than the studying of those two 
languages.”
 
WHY IS IT SO SMALL?
The study of two separate languages and 
civilizations is tough, and is a pursuit that Witkin 
equates to “having Japanese and Chinese in the 
same major. That’s a challenge.”
But aside from that challenge, “I think more 
people would discover the intrinsic value of 
studying ancient language if they discovered the 
intrinsic worth of ancient literature,” Witkin 
said. “And they can only do that if they elect to 
take those courses in English.”    
Another challenge confronting 
the major, Witkin thinks, is the 
“understandable [fact] that people don’t 
see direct relevance between their 
lives and this stuff. I think it’s less 
obvious to students what majoring 
in classics is and how that might 
translate into a career. The 
but employers can 
certainly appreciate 
them.”
 
CLASSICS
12 13features
WHAT 
IS WAGS?
This year marks the 20th 
anniversary of the program, which 
Professor of Theatre and Women’s and 
Gender Studies (WAGS) Cheryl Faraone 
describes as studies that have “a lot to do with 
the lived experience.”
The major has seen increasing popularity, and 
Faraone attributes that to both the faculty and student 
interest.
“There are more and more faculty who are coming in 
to teach in any discipline have studied gender issues, gender 
identity,” she said. “It’s becoming as normal as apple pie, and 
students who become aware of that want to see the integration.”
The major is “very much connected to the ideas of diversity 
that Middlebury is becoming more and more aware of as the 
culture is becoming more and more aware,” she said.
 
WAGS AND “INTERDISCIPLINARITY”
“This is exactly what liberal arts should be,” said Faraone of 
WAGS’ ability to draw connections between different disciplines. 
Each WAGS major must hone in on an academic “focus area,” 
whether geography, French or economics, and use their senior work 
to tie their WAGS major to this chosen academic discipline.
A WAGS major focusing on the performing arts might, for 
example, enroll in Faraone’s class on “Contemporary Women 
Playwrights,” a class with an explicitly WAGS focus. And like other 
interdisciplinary WAGS classes, this class uses the WAGS “lens” to 
examine the topic itself.
“Any discipline in the arts is going to have gender in it whether 
It is this idea that the program has adopted in its approach 
to every academic discipline.
“Almost every WAGS class is also rooted in some other 
discipline, which has given me a huge opportunity to 
explore more areas,” said WAGS major Claire Powers ’12. 
“And even though I’m not sure if I’ve ever taken a WAGS 
class of only WAGS majors, I kind of like it that way — 
it keeps things new and interesting.”
Faraone says that one of the most unique 
aspects of the major is the fact that, “The 
major itself gives you a focus, and you’re 
able to integrate it,” into some other 
discipline. 
WAGS majors see 
this foundation of 
interdisciplinary 
interaction as 
relating strongly to the idea 
of a liberal arts education.
“I think [WAGS classes] really 
reinforce the idea of our liberal arts 
education; it’s just one more important way 
to complicate and question the world around 
us,” said Powers.
The overarching idea, Faraone says, is that, 
“Over the last quarter century those [disciplinary] 
boundaries have started becoming more permeable 
… Things are not separate but can be very powerfully 
interconnected.”
 
WHO STUDIES WAGS?
“One of the misconceptions is that [WAGS] is a major for 
women only,” Faraone said. “We have courses on masculinity, 
heterosexuality, transgender identity … so people who come 
from all of those universes are and can be WAGS majors.”
Even the name of the major has progressed to help it “cast 
a wider net,” Faraone said. The major was originally called 
“Women’s Studies,” 
but “gender became an 
extremely important part 
of it; a lot of programs 
are changing their names 
the discipline is actually 
studying,” Faraone said. 
A potential name change 
that other schools have chosen, for instance, might be 
“gender and sexuality.”
Faraone also thinks that since WAGS majors also have 
to be prepared for a good amount of unpredictability and 
type of student.
“Because faculty in WAGS participate, not 
erratically, but not as frequently as you would 
in your home department, [the student 
has] to be willing to take the leap: more 
time talking to the adviser, more time 
researching options that you would in 
a more conventionally structured 
major,” Faraone said. “It’s 
the adventurous [who 
become WAGS 
majors].”
WHAT IS 
COMPUTER SCIENCE?
Professor of Computer Science Daniel Scharstein wants 
to make one thing clear: computer science does not mean endless hours 
sitting in front of a computer entering repetitive computer programs. And although 
he acknowledges that programming is the basic skill every computer science major must 
have under his or her belt, Scharstein says, “There’s a misperception that computer science is all 
about programming. In a sense, it’s one of the most revolutionary disciplines … computer science is about 
being creative and coming up with new ways of looking at old problems; it’s a really creative discipline.”
directions. One is the “logical, precise thinking” that one learns in the classes, and the other is in the 
wide array of interdisciplinary applications.
The possibilities for interdisciplinary interaction are almost limitless. Schartstein says that one can “take 
expertise. For instance, in one class offered this semester, “Computing for the Sciences,” students studying 
“One of the coolest things about it is that even with basic programming you can make your life so much easier; 
you can speed up everything you’re doing,” said Will Potter ’14.5, a computer science major minoring in economics. 
“In my econ classes, I don’t do any math on a calculator; I do all of it on my computer. I can set up my equations, put in starting numbers and it 
calculates everything for me… having that facility on the comp really helps a lot.”
Computer science teaches a new way of thinking, Scharstein says. “If you start looking at different problems, and say, ‘well how can I apply 
computation to this problem?’ that is a whole new perspective,” he said. 
 
WHY THE PROGRAM IS SMALL
Scharstein thinks the main challenge confronting computer science, an industry that has very high rates of post-grad employment and salaries, is 
advertising.
science.’”
One problem is the fact that many students never encounter computer science in high school, and so enter other disciplines they already know they 
like when they arrive at college before ever trying anything different.
“[Computer science] is misunderstood in that people assume it’s impossible,” said Potter. “It’s just a foreign concept for many people, programming 
computers … I think there’s a huge stigma around computer science; people really scared going in … [when] the reality is they’ve made it really easy 
to start programming with all the languages that have come out now.”
“We have lowered the bar a little bit,” Scharstein said about the effort to attract more students to these courses through less intensive 
classes. However, he cautions that there’s no way around the fact that, “Computer science majors do need to be able to handle that technical, 
logical thinking.”
Despite these challenges, the program has seen steady growth since the slump it experienced after the burst of the dot-com bubble 
in 2000, which saw numbers dip by about half. The current 100- and 200-level classes are both full, having jumped in overall 
enrollment from 40 to 50 students a few years ago to over 100. This uptick at Middlebury is part of a nationwide trend, which 
is helped in large part by the fact that people are beginning to recognize the demand for computer science majors.  
part of it is the economy: word’s getting out that it’s a good skill to have.” Also, “it’s ‘sexy’ again to know how to 
program.”
Essentially, Scharstein says, computer science is “one of the better-kept secrets at Middlebury.”
 
COMPUTER
SCIENCE
WOMEN’S and
HOW MANY TIMES HAVE YOU HEARD SOMEONE SAY “I’M AN ECON 
MAJOR,” “I’M STUDYING E.S.,” “I STUDY ENGLISH”? BUT HOW OFTEN 
DO YOU MEET A CLASSICS MAJOR? WE THOUGHT SO. HERE’S A LOOK AT 
THREE OF MIDDLEBURY’S SMALLEST DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS.
NUMBERS REPRESENT FALL 2011 ON-CAMPUS DECLARED MAJORS. STUDIO ART ALSO COUNTED 9 MAJORS. SOURCE: GO.MIDDLEBURY.EDU/FACTBOOK
ECONOMICS
172 MAJORS
10.8%
ENVIRO. SCI.
114 MAJORS
7.2%
CLASSICS
5 MAJORS
0.3%
SELECTED  
THESIS TITLES
MARCHING ON 
ROME: THE PUBLIC 
AND THE PRIVATE 
IN CIVIL STRIFE AT 
ROME
ONE BIG 
DEFLATION: THE 
ORGANIZATION 
OF JUVENAL’S 
SEVENTH SATIRE
SELECTED  
THESIS TITLES
AN INVESTIGATION 
OF VISUAL 
FEATURES 
FOR LOCATION 
RECOGNITION
EVALUATING THE 
PERFORMANCE OF 
MULTIPLE MODEL 
ESTIMATION 
ALGORITHMS
COMP. SCI.
9 MAJORS
0.6%
WAGS
6 MAJORS
0.4%
ENAM
99 MAJORS
6.2%
MINI
M J RS
14 TOTAL 
MAJORS/
MINORS:
3 MALES
11 FEMALES
| February 23, 2012
14 features
WARM WEATHER
Suddenly, everyone on 
campus is constantly smiling.
WARM WEATHER
This does not feel like the 
time for Winter Carnival.
PARTIES ARE FUN
First weekend back. Very 
little homework. Excitement.
PARTIES ARE FUN
... and four people went to the 
hospital on Saturday. YIKES.
TOUR GROUPS
Always good for making us 
feel special.
TOUR GROUPS
It’s exhausting being people-
watched so intensely every day.
WINNERS&losers
taste cheese     
     chopsticks
BY JIAYI ZHU
+
wi
th
As a continuation of a multigenera-
tional Middlebury student project, eight 
Middlebury students participated in a Win-
ter Term independent project to produce 
a hydrogen-powered internal combustion 
engine to be used in a tractor. Henry — the 
into existence.  
The idea was conceived by two 
the use of hydrogen as an alternative fuel. 
They then found four eager students willing 
-
pants have passed down the tractor to be 
continued by a new group of physics enthu-
siasts — this year, for a Winter Term proj-
shop space, use of tools and the technical 
assistance that made the project possible. It 
-
composed of a spectrum of students rang-
-
tor to run smoothly on hydrogen. 
“A tractor is about as simple as an in-
ternal combustion engine gets,” said phys-
ics major and project participant Alex 
parameters that we could control to get 
the maximum horse power that we could 
from propane … and then to run it on com-
-
-
puter engine control unit. This software 
and injection timing. They also overhauled 
the engine and added a new fuel system in 
order to prime the tractor for hydrogen. 
“The goal was always hydrogen, the 
The tractor originally ran on propane 
gas and the class then switched it to run on 
compressed natural gas, which produces 
greenhouse gases but is still more environ-
mentally friendly. 
-
to perform well, but when it does, the envi-
-
ham. 
-
gen as a fuel in an internal combustion en-
“Hydrogen, if combusted at a low enough 
temperature, only produces water and it is 
also easy to generate.” 
While hydrogen offers an alternative 
fuel source, it also has its practicality draw-
“Hydrogen does have an energy stor-
very dense and can currently only really be 
stored at high pressures.” 
hydrogen-powered internal combustion 
engine.  
would not be practical for a personal ve-
As expected, given the fact that they 
were attempting such an ambitious project 
during the short span of Winter Term, the 
team did run into a few logistical problems.
“Though we admittedly had some 
“We struggled to get compressed natural 
the fuels we needed until midway through 
achieve their goal.  
While the group succeeded in getting 
the tractor to run purely on hydrogen, there 
are still some issues that need to be ad-
dressed — one of them being that the trac-
horsepower out of the potential 23,” said 
due to the old fuel regulator. 
Another issue is appropriate hydrogen 
-
“Hopefully in the near future, hydro-
more of a proof of concept at this point.” 
The future of the hydrogen tractor is 
hopeful for small-scale agricultural appli-
cations. 
a farmer has a small wind or solar instal-
lation on their own land that can be elec-
come out and fuel their tractor with the 
no expense to themselves, in a completely 
sustainable fashion.”
The project will continue informally in 
the spring with the goal of improving per-
formance so that the tractor can be used 
 
Henry the hydro-tractor comes alive
By Isabella Stallworthy
so cute!” I always hear people marveling at 
-
from the front. I also have a cute journal, 
cute planner and cute stationary. I use the 
are no smiling face images to choose from 
-
scribe an Asian girl in general. It is as pow-
read when I was in high school is called 
ViVi
Vivi
-
ent trends in it, but I have to say, the main-
in it, regardless of their age, will always 
put on their innocent and harmless smile. 
a chocolate factory, always cute and color-
ful, bringing the warmth to the readers. 
Their readers are around the age of 20- to 
30-years-old. Yes, 30. Thirty is not late for 
being cute. 
Vogue could be Vivi
Vogue
and red. It is rather simple comparing to 
ViVi
I get from Vogue is of elegance (and sexy 
the clothes, it seems that the design and cut 
essential component in Vogue. 
ViVi -
her lollipop in hand, imagining herself as a 
-
dent woman — a grown-up who has her 
her life in the real world. 
The fashion style represents charac-
teristics of the different cultures in some 
sign next to my face; one of my friends has 
— has continued collecting Hello Kitty well 
into her thirties.  
but as an Asian coming from a cute pop cul-
ture, I have learned the necessity of coming 
the beginning so I constantly lost control 
of myself and started to speed up. My re-
what? I learned to go down the trail after 
three hours of class. 
sometimes. Instead of handling the situa-
tion by myself, I turn to someone for com-
fort, especially when it comes to sports and 
manual labor. Admit it or not, the expecta-
tion of girls being cute is somehow related 
to showing the solidity of male and the fra-
gility of female. Although there is nothing 
wrong with cuteness as a fashion style, I do 
hope I can be more independent and strong 
The Middlebury Campus| February 23, 2012
on environmental conscientiousness, 
Middlebury has recently established a lo-
at connecting people informally in cities 
throughout the world for the purpose of 
topics in a relaxed, relatively unstruc-
event calendar. 
hold informal discussions about various 
last year, the group has discussed every-
thing from sustainable food projects to 
the Middlebury community is welcome 
and encouraged to share their views on 
green solutions to ecological situations 
-
ticipants, discussed at length and with 
environmentally friendly burial.   
Throughout history humans have 
sought to overcome it and have tried to 
avoid it, but have generally come to ac-
cept the inevitability of death. Despite 
the personal and emotional process of 
laying a loved one to rest, the modern fu-
-
vices and cemeteries in a social ritual that 
some might consider both automated and 
impersonal. However, the rising trend of 
home-based or “green” funerals offers a 
much more intimate, eco-conscious and 
funerals. 
-
hind green burial is, “to go out naturally 
and with as little harm as possible to the 
based on environmental values and cost, 
while others choose a do-it-yourself ap-
proach for spiritual and religious rea-
sons.” 
These services are usually conducted 
-
cally involve placing, “an un-embalmed 
body directly into the earth in a biode-
grave liner,” he said. 
-
balmed body from spoiling for several 
days leading up to a funeral may seem 
the burial. 
it serves more of a cosmetic purpose,” 
-
into the earth, 30,000,000 feet of hard-
funeral costs have risen dramatically in 
recent years, on average ranging between 
on the location, and avoid the potentially 
detrimental effects on the environment 
caused by cremation emissions. Although 
cremation is much cheaper than a tradi-
fossil fuel and other harmful substances, 
such as mercury. 
 There have also been local initiatives 
to encourage the growth of green burials. 
on private property rather than in a costly 
cemetery plot under recently-introduced 
be allowed to register their property as 
designated green burial grounds for other 
-
ed in nearby Lincoln supports this bill and 
is planning on devoting some acreage for 
green burials should the legislation pass. 
Despite the gloomy nature of this 
was effective in achieving the overall goal 
-
cate about developing green alternatives 
that many people simply do not consider. 
“Green” means leaving little in wake
By Geoffrey Brown
15features
“Meditating is really interesting be-
cause we begin to look at our minds and how 
we actually operate in the world,” said Pro-
fessor of Studio Art and Co-Director of the 
Art Department John Huddleston. “I think 
mediation can help us be open to different 
things without over thinking them; that’s 
really great for creative activity. That’s sort 
of how I started meditating — to become a 
better artist.”
Huddleston moved to Middlebury with 
-
ate school in San Francisco. He has now 
been teaching at the College for about 25 
years. 
that they hired on an ongoing basis in the 
art department,” Huddleston said.  
“I was always a little bit interested [in 
photography] but I took a great photogra-
phy class in college and it really inspired me 
to do it on my own,” he said. 
Afterwards he decided to do it on his 
own for a few years, and then ended up at-
tending getting a graduate degree in it. 
Middlebury was purely by accident. 
“I visited the campus …  since I came 
up here to ski but I didn’t really know much 
about it,” he said. “In the beginning it was 
just a job that I was taking to be quite frank, 
but you know, it’s really great. There are a 
lot of excellent things here.” 
Regardless of what brought him here, 
Huddleston has developed a deep fondness 
for Vermont, as well as a growing interest 
in its landscapes and farmlands. He has 
recently published his second book titled, 
“Healing Ground: Walking the Small Farms 
of Vermont.” He is currently circulating 
another book proposal that focuses on the 
Northern forest, which is a big part of the 
Vermont landscape, expanding from New 
York all the way to Maine and then up into 
Canada. 
Huddleston’s passion for photography 
has been the basis for other forms of aca-
demic inquiry, evident through his publi-
book project, “Killing Ground,” which won 
an Andrea Frank Foundation Grant, pairs 
Huddleston’s photography with historical 
photos from the Civil War. 
“The Civil War was photographed a lot 
-
mented that way,” he said. “So there was 
a lot available for me to pair up with my 
pictures. It is not an exact correspondence, 
scenes of terrible killing and slaughter.  A lot 
of the places we fought in now have houses, 
shopping centers and gas stations. It says a 
lot about our culture, how it has evolved and 
changed.” 
Huddleston is currently working on a 
project photographing churches and histor-
ical ruins in Mexico, in a study of Mexican 
spirituality and its history.
Whether he is examining religious 
monuments in Mexico or traipsing through 
the Vermont wilderness, photography holds 
a great deal of meaning for Huddleston. 
“It means a lot to me just being able 
to invest time in these different geographi-
cal areas and also in different parts of my 
life,” he said. “Our connection to the Earth 
is hugely important and so seeing how we 
have treated it or what it has become is re-
ally important.” 
Huddleston wants his projects to go be-
“We can talk about the pictures in many 
different ways,” he said. “But I would en-
courage everyone to look at my pictures and 
photography in general with a keen eye and 
an open mind and see what you can come 
up with. I think photography has a very in-
timate relationship with life – we are photo-
graphing what we are actually seeing.” 
While Huddleston is a talented artist, 
he is also a professor. While some believe 
that art is geared toward those who are ar-
tistically inclined, he expressed the belief 
that art and creative work is an important 
part of education and critical thinking, re-
gardless of a student’s artistic aptitude.
“I think everyone has a creative side to 
to nurture that a little bit,” he said. “We are 
a very positive and encouraging department 
and 80 percent of our students are not art 
majors. We do critique and are honest about 
what’s working and what’s not. I think what 
students learn in making art — coming up 
with a creative solution to a problem — re-
ally applies to everything. Endeavoring in 
that creative activity can be helpful in any 
line you are taking.”
February 23, 2012   
staff sp  tlight: John Huddleston globe med
update
Hi, my name is Joanne and I will be 
writing a bi-monthly GlobeMed column 
this term. I was born and raised in the 
U.S. but I moved back to Taiwan when 
since. Health issues have always been 
relevant to me, beginning when I was a 
child, as standards of living were high but 
the sheer amount 
of people inhab-
iting the cities 
in Taiwan made 
it the breeding grounds for various viral 
outbreaks.
There is also no doubt about my in-
terest in the realm of nutrition and food 
supplies for people around the world — 
last semester we had the chance to focus 
on the burgeoning nutrition gaps between 
developing and developed countries and 
research shows that while we may have 
feed the entirety of the global population 
there are still many places that experience 
varying levels of famine. This raises a few 
questions for those of us who have shown 
interest about the issue of poverty and 
starvation: why are we incapable of deal-
-
cies as a global community, and what is 
GlobeMed’s initiatives have provided 
an exciting opportunity for me to explore 
another aspect of global health in regards 
to other nations and initiatives in effect 
around the world. Our recent fundraising 
projects have included a Holiday Giving 
Campaign, Ski Race, HIV/AIDS Aware-
ness Week and a lecture by Brian Concan-
non, president and CEO of Institute for 
Justice and Democracy in Haiti. 
We have also already raised more 
than $10,000 through our recent part-
nership with Gardens For Health Inter-
national for their Gukura project that will 
serve more than 120 households a year, 
the new health center. The health center 
aims not only to provide annual tests for 
malnutrition and dietary diversity but 
also to increase dietary awareness within 
these families enrolled in this program. 
Hopefully this will foster greater inde-
pendence in their abilities to provide and 
produce nutritious foods for personal 
consumption. Indicators of progress on 
these arenas, tested periodically through 
surveys given to the recipients of this pro-
gram, include Household Dietary Diver-
sity Scores (HDDS), Household Hunger 
Scores (HHS) crop yield, knowledge on 
malnutrition, weight-for-age and mid-
upper arm circumference. 
We were also fortunate enough to 
have been able to invite Ellen Halle ’13 to 
present her research to GlobeMed. Halle 
spent her semester abroad in Costa Rica 
to work on issues related to nutritional 
status and food security of the migrant in-
digenous group, the Ngobe, who work on 
coffee farms in Costa Rica. One important 
focus in Halle’s research was nutritional 
transitions that are currently underway 
among the Ngobe groups. For example, as 
they are no longer doing sustenance farm-
ing, the Ngobe have become dependent on 
cheap foods, such as rice and junk food, for 
part of their diet. Halle has been working 
-
ness in national conferences concerning 
the circumstances of the Ngobe, and has 
collected resources that may hopefully aid 
the transition of the Ngobe to more sus-
tainable and healthy nutritional diets. 
We hope that through these initiatives 
GlobeMed will become further involved in 
addressing today’s global health issues in 
countries such as Costa Rica, and even-
tually help others become aware of the 
growing problems in nutrition and pov-
erty that we will face in the near future.
JOANNE WU
GlobeMed member
By Jackie Park
Slate editor talks about media’s future
By Michelle Smoler
Were it left to me to decide whether we 
should have a government without newspa-
pers, or newspapers without a government, 
I should not hesitate a moment to prefer the 
latter.”
 In his lecture entitled “Government With-
out Newspapers”  Jacob Weisberg, editor-
in-chief at large of Slate Group — a series of 
online publications — references this quote, 
written in a letter by Thomas Jefferson, in 
an attempt to emphasize the political impor-
tance of newspapers and the implications 
inherent in the current degradation of the 
newspaper industry. 
Understood as a basic freedom in de-
mocracy, newspapers have historically been 
seen as the watchdog of government. Were 
government not subject to the criticisms of 
its people, those in charge would become 
wolves, devouring the sheep. Weisberg em-
phasized the absence of newspapers during 
Europe’s exploitation of colonized America. 
Moving forward to modern day, he identi-
their lack of independent print. The ques-
tion Weisberg sought to answer, however, 
is — does the shrinking of the newspaper in-
dustry endanger the potential for journalism 
What he concluded is that despite the passing 
of the era of newsprint as a medium, journal-
ism, the agency for the spreading of news, is 
at its peak.
“There is a really interesting paradox 
never been a worse time to be a newspaper, 
but there has never been a better time to be a 
journalist,” he said.
In terms of reaching wide audiences, 
digital media allow writers to reach a global 
audience. Whereas in the past, Weisberg 
readership of its print source, “now if you 
started a blog and it caught on — reaching ev-
eryone in the world simultaneously, instanta-
neously — for journalists who want to be read 
you cant imagine the value of that.”
This notion brings to light the transition-
journalists start their career at a small news-
paper and continue on through their career 
until they reach a national paper. These op-
portunities have been closed off. However, 
Weisberg stated that this transition away 
from journalism as a profession has made 
way for new opportunities.
“You don’t need credentials the way you 
way you want to. The barriers to entry in the 
profession have come down.” 
In a more practical sense, Weisberg ex-
pressed the dangers of drawing a line to de-
done through special access and rights, shield 
laws that protect journalism.
amendment for journalists … or anyone. The 
-
ing requirements or rules it puts the govern-
ment in the position of deciding who is and 
isn’t a journalist.”
Weisberg stated that consumers have the 
ability to pick and choose and therefore it is 
incumbent upon them to act as their own 
gatekeepers.
news, Weisberg expressed the advantages of 
digital news in providing personalization for 
its consumers. He sees it developing in the 
form of social media.
“News is hard to personalize because what 
you’re interested in is want hasn’t happened 
yet. … It is starting to happen in social media. 
Friends and people you “follow” are such a 
good proxy for your interests.”
 Weisberg cited Twitter as being the most 
revolutionary social medium in terms of per-
sonalized news. 
“If you follow people on Twitter you create 
a mirror of relevance for your own interests … 
the more important something is to you the 
While Weisberg represents himself as a 
proponent of digital news, having spent most 
of his life involved in developing the medium, 
he acknowledges that the transition between 
print and digital news will leave some gaps.  
      While some have sought to answer this 
question by supporting government spon-
sorship of newspapers — what Weisberg 
journalists” — or sponsorship from other 
organizations in an effort to transition into 
business structure where income is provided 
by several sources.
“Drawing support from a number of dif-
ferent sources … can be healthy … because 
you are not so dependent on anyone,” said 
Weisberg.
Weisberg cited National Public Radio 
(NPR) as a thriving news source that receives 
this sort of hybrid sponsorship. While he 
noted the structure of this kind of system can 
make the business nearly unmanageable — 
NPR has acted without anyone in charge for 
some years now — he emphasized the jour-
nalistic and editorial well-being of the busi-
ness.
While Weisberg’s conclusions regarding 
the future of newspapers were not hope-
ful, his enthusiasm for the potential of both 
journalism and news consumption was un-
deniable. For would-be journalists in the 
somewhat disheartening. However, others 
were intrigued by the changed role of journal-
ism and a craft and found Weisberg’s outlook 
on journalism as a craft and its social func-
tion to be encouraging.
 “As someone who is unfamiliar with the 
craft of professional journalism but loves to 
procrastinate by browsing The New York 
Times online, I thought the talk with Jacob 
Weisberg was quite informative,” wrote Ricky 
Chen ’13 in an email. “I especially liked what 
he said to aspiring journalists in the room: 
start a blog. I agree with him that the craft is 
becoming more democratized, and that with 
daily practice, a blogger can perfect his or her 
writing and reach a greater audience.”
Jacob Weisberg, editor-in-chief of Slate 
Group, talks to a full room on Monday.
Adam Schaffer
Professor of Studio Art and Co-Director 
of the Art Department John Huddleston 
helps a student with classwork. 
Andrew Podrygula
arts sciences
We review the new 
PlayStation Vita!
Page 17
don’t
miss
this
Dynamics of Roman Portraiture
Pieter Broucke, director of the arts, professor of his-
tory of art and architecture and associate curator of 
ancient art, discusses the museum’s 2010 acquisition 
of a portrait of the late Roman empress Tranquillina. 
Sponsored by the Museum of Art. Free.
3/1, 4:30 P.M., CENTER FOR THE ARTS, ROOM 125
Screening of “Little House in the Big House”
“Little House in the Big House” is a documentary pro-
duced by Artist in Residence Tiffany Rhynard and her 
sister, Kim Brittenham, with their production company 
Sisters Unite. It tells the story of  a Vermont women’s 
prison where, over a period of a year, inmates build a 
3/1, 7 P.M., AXINN CENTER, ROOM 232
Open until April 22, the exhibition “Environment 
and Object: Recent African Art” at the Kevin P. Mahaney 
’84 Center for the Arts embodies the College’s environ-
mentally conscientious initiative with its biomass gas-
program.
The exhibition, curated by Lisa Aronson, an asso-
ciate professor of art history at Skidmore College, and 
John Weber, Dayton Director of the Tang, features art 
that ranges from 3D pieces to prints. Some works em-
brace the idea of recycling, especially the 3D pieces com-
posed entirely of plastic bags. However, the photographs 
are what really highlight the urgency of the environmen-
tal call for action. 
One of the featured works, George Osodi’s Oil Spill 
Near Farm Land Ogoni, like the tripartite piece by 
Georgia Papageorge, , 
contains a divisive motif. With a man dividing the back-
drop into two, the blackened, destroyed earth against the 
stretch of vegetation, Osodi’s print is symbolic of the cur-
man represents the current generations, especially us, 
who are truly the only “resistance” against the rapid dete-
rioration of the environment, but it is also ironic that we 
ourselves are the cause of this destruction, as shown by 
cut down stalks and other foliage. The anxiety of the art-
ist is clear as the black columns of smoke dwarf the green 
plants, an imbalance in the composition reminiscent of 
the painting  by the 
19th century American landscape artist Thomas Cole. 
Both Cole’s and Odosi’s works highlight the contrast 
between the desolate earth and the green, “untouched” 
land with palm trees present in both artworks. For Cole, 
the inclusion of the palm trees in the composition of the 
 alludes to Psalm 92:12, “The righteous will 
-
dresses the rapid and expansive industrialization of con-
temporary New England and the consequent devastation 
of nature.  
In his “Essay on American Scenery,” Cole reprimands 
an America that developed at the cost of its landscape 
and reasons: “We are still in Eden; the wall that shuts us 
out of the garden is our own ignorance and folly.” 
Although it is doubtful that Odosi is making the 
same references as Cole with his photography, the same 
message and the same exigency are conveyed.
Barthélémy Toguo’s featured works, on the other 
hand, continue this pointed narrative but, rather than 
focusing on nature itself, commentate on the intercon-
nectedness between the environment, politics and eco-
nomics. His another print, has multiple fac-
ets, but as a visual art, it is rather simplistic. It highlights 
our currently unavoidable dependence on oil as well as 
the resulting environmental damage and political con-
tentions. 
These works are only a few of what the new exhibi-
tion at the Museum of Art offers to students and Middle-
bury residents, and it is thanks to the Christian A. John-
son Memorial Fund and the Friends of the Art Museum 
that “Environment and Object” is able to be exhibited at 
the College.
Artists revisit environmentalism in new museum 
exhibit, focusing on African work
By Jamie Lee
An assortment of the works presented in Middlebury College Museum of Art’s recently opened exhibit, “Environment and Object: Recent African Art.”
Courtesy
Of Gods and Men
Under threat by fundamentalist terrorists, a 
group of monks stationed with an impoverished 
Algerian community must decide whether to 
leave or stay. In French with English subtitles. 
Sponsored by the French Department. Free. 
2/25, 3 AND 8 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
arts SCIENCES17
Last week, Senegalese artist Viyé 
Diba was in residence to set up his in-
stallation Nous sommes nombreux, et 
nos problèmes avec  (We are Numerous 
and So Are Our Problems).  It is part of 
the larger “Environment and Object: Re-
cent African Art” exhibit at the Middle-
bury College Museum of Art, which runs 
from Jan. 27 to April 22. Whereas tradi-
tional African art has long been enjoyed 
in the West as a curiosity, the contem-
porary African art on display is largely a 
reaction to environmental issues on the 
continent, lending it a different kind of 
appeal.  Many of the works critique the 
unbalanced economic system that has 
exploited African resources and contrib-
uted to social, political and environmen-
tal disarray. The artists construct these 
works, fittingly, from junk and found ob-
jects, or “things the West [threw] at us.”
After finishing his training at the 
National Institute of Art in Senegal in 
the early 1970s, Diba taught art in high 
school before beginning his professional 
career in 1985. He later studied at the 
University of Nice, France, receiving his 
PhD in urban geography. Currently, Diba 
is a professor at the National School of 
Arts in Dakar, Senegal.
From the beginning, his interest 
in art stemmed in part from a similarly 
deep interest in the environment. 
“I have always been interested in 
the relationship between people and the 
space they inhabit,” he said. “The history 
of the environment is related closely to 
the attitude people have in that space.”
Many of Diba’s pieces are crosses 
between paintings and sculptures, and 
they stretch our understanding of how 
each medium should occupy space. In 
recent years, his work has become more 
political, and he has also focused more of 
his time on installations.  In many ways, 
this is a natural progression in Diba’s 
exploration of space and environment. 
In Nous sommes nombreux, et nos pro-
blèmes avec, for example, one is thrust 
directly into the downtown streets of 
Dakar. By creating a metaphorical recre-
ation of the streets of Dakar, Diba puts 
the viewer inside the environment so 
that there is a direct physical interaction 
with the space. The photographs on the 
wall of the installation that each show 
“one different problem in Dakar” are 
visual aids that help the viewer imagine 
the world of the Dakar streets. On the 
floor of the installation are small plastic 
bags filled with paper cut-outs of peo-
ple. These bags are similar to the ones 
in which peanuts are sold in Dakar and 
show how plastic, an item that has only 
recently come into African culture, has 
cluttered the crowded streets and sur-
rounded the Senegalese’s space just as 
globalization has surrounded the African 
continent.
Diba considers himself an artist 
before an activist, and his conversa-
tion highlighted this at certain points. 
When  asked what were the advantages 
of conveying his message through art as 
opposed to in writing — as a journalist 
might — he pointed out that he has not 
thought about this before.
“For some people it is easy to access 
things visually, and for others it is easier 
to read things ... I’m just doing what I 
want, really, which is art.”
Diba offered advice for aspiring art-
ists: “To be an artist is to believe in your-
self.  You don’t train to be an artist. It is 
your own choice. My first question to my 
students is why they came to study art. 
They said they came to become artists. I 
tell them they made a mistake. My role is 
just to help you discover yourself.”
Nintendo has always been the un-
disputed king of handheld gaming. Ever 
since the Game Boy, they have dominated 
that market. After the release of the Nin-
tendo DS, Nintendo’sa dual screen hand-
held that popularized the use of touch 
screen technology within gaming, Sony 
threw its digital hat into the ring with 
the original PSP. It was sleek and it was 
shiny, but it was riddled with problems 
such as a terrible battery life, dead pix-
els, one analog nub and a now dead me-
dia format (the UMD, or Universal Media 
Disk). Not to mention the incredibly rac-
ist advertising campaign that involved 
two cartoon squirrels.
As the years went by the PSP held 
its own with its newfound ability to store 
games onto its memory card and its solid 
library of titles such as God of War, King-
dom Hearts, Final Fantasy and Persona, 
among others.  However, with the dawn 
of the Nintendo 3DS, Sony has once again 
gone handheld-to-handheld with the 
PlayStation Vita (PSV) which releases 
stateside on Feb. 22.
The first thing that one notices about 
the PSV is how big it is. Portable, it is not, 
but it is surprisingly light. On the surface 
you’ll find a brightly backlit LCD touch 
screen roughly the size of an iPhone. 
The PSV features the d-pad and the four 
face buttons that PlayStation fans are al-
ready accustomed to. The biggest change 
is the presence of two analog sticks — 
and they are actually analog sticks this 
time around. Everything feels respon-
sive, physically sturdy and right where it 
should be. At first I thought the face but-
tons may have been too small, but as I be-
gan to actually play it, I realized that even 
with my big thumbs, I was hitting exactly 
the buttons I wanted, no more, no less.
The PSV home screen will feel imme-
diately familiar to anyone who has used 
an Apple device with a touchscreen. It’s 
just as responsive and navigating various 
pages of the main menu involve a swift 
swipe from the user. Various pre-load-
ed game demos and videos littered the 
screen in a somewhat unorganized fashio, 
but it felt natural to just push the button 
for the app I wanted to load. 
During my time with the PSV I was 
able to play a variety of its upcoming ti-
tles. Little Deviants, a game about ador-
able little creatures that fight robots, is 
used primarily to showcase the PSV’s 
ability. I only played this game to try out 
the trackpad located on the back of the 
PSV. While it is intriguing that Sony is 
attempting to implement something that 
would use otherwise idle fingers, it feels 
really awkward. I’m not the biggest fan of 
the trackpad, but it is completely possible 
that developers down the line can find 
more creative ways to implement its use. 
As far as I can see, the most it will be able 
to do is supplement a gaming experience 
and not make it its focus. 
I then tried out the latest Wipeout, 
Sony’s signature future-racing space 
game. Wipeout truly showed what the 
PSV is capable of. It featured clean, crisp 
visuals with no lag whatsoever even dur-
ing the fastest of races with multiple vehi-
cles on the screen. When I first booted the 
game, the load time was long enough for 
me to acknowledge it, but no load screens 
were ever found again during my time 
with the game, even in between races. 
This was something I found in common 
with most of the PSV demos, something 
that I am completely ok with, especially 
if you consider the fact the PSV will still 
have the PSP’s sleep mode where one can 
turn off the device, only to continue ex-
actly where they left off in a later moment 
in time. 
Wanting to play something a little 
more to my taste, I loaded up the PSV 
Uncharted game. Fully voiced and fully 
rendered, no detail was sacrificed in this 
tiny package. Frankly, it felt I was playing 
a PS3 game, except for the fact it was ly-
ing in the palms of my hands. While the 
demo was only a short chapter of the por-
table adventure, the game had clever uses 
for the touchscreen such as quick time 
events. This is definitely a title I have my 
eye on. 
Finally, much to my delight, I saw 
that there was a demo of Gravity Rush, 
the game that piqued my interest in the 
PSV when I first read about it. A beauti-
ful third-person Japanese action game, it 
was my first time with a game that used 
both the PSV’s analog sticks. If you’ve 
played any console game that required 
you to control your character with the left 
stick and the camera with the right, you 
will feel right at home. This is a big deal 
because it means that proper third per-
son and first person games will finally be 
possible on this handheld. No more static 
cameras or awkward control schemes. 
Rejoice! 
The visuals of Gravity Rush threw me 
back to the Persona games. You play as a 
girl who obtains the ability to manipulate 
gravity. She can turn her own personal 
gravity in every direction that she wants, 
and impressively this is all done with a 
simple three-button system. It’s incred-
ibly fluid and keeps the action flowing. 
You are then tasked to use this ability in 
creative and specific ways to combat the 
various enemies you encounter as well as 
to explore the environment. Regrettably, 
Gravity Rush will not be a PSV launch 
title, which honestly, had the potential to 
be a killer app. 
 When the PSV releases it will 
come in two models. The Wi-Fi-only 
model will cost you $250, while its 3G 
counterpart will cost $300 plus the data 
plan. Why anyone would ever buy the 3G 
models, I do not understand, but if you 
want to make what is already a luxury 
item more expensive, be my guest. While 
I will be buying one of these, it will not be 
at launch. Sony doesn’t exactly have the 
best track record with hardware launch-
es. The original PSP had all those prob-
lems I listed earlier and the PS3 was $600 
with no interesting titles at launch and 
the year that followed. The PSV also feels 
very fragile, but obviously I wasn’t going 
to test this by dropping it or anything of 
the sort. The PSV left me quite impressed, 
and is my favorite of the next-generation 
handhelds, but I’m going to give it some-
time to simmer just to allow more games 
to be released as well as the possibility of 
a price drop. The PSV has potential — it 
just needs some time, but it’s well on its 
way. 
one life left
BY SANTIAGO AZPURUA-BORRAS
february 23, 2012 |  
Sp  tlight on: Artist in residence viyé diba
By Grady Trela 
Diba’s installation, Nous sommes nombreaux, et nos problémes avec (We are Numerous and So Are Our Problems), as 
it appears in the Middlebury College Museum of Art’s recently opened exhibit, “Environment and Object: Recent African Art.”
Courtesy
| february 23, 201218 arts SCIENCES
My first exposure to John Green’s 
Looking for Alaska was in my children’s 
literature course last semester. We’d 
been discussing censorship and the chal-
lenging of various books, and my profes-
sor brought up a video in which Green 
addressed his views on the banning of 
his book. For some context on this video, 
Green and his brother stopped speaking 
for a year except by video, which they 
posted on YouTube to each other every 
day. I was immediately struck by the in-
telligence and quick wit of this author, 
who clearly believed in what he had 
written and didn’t feel the need to cen-
sor anything in his novel, because those 
elements were helping him get to the 
greater truth. 
To quote Green paraphrasing Wil-
liam Faulkner, “I am not interested in 
the facts, only the truth.” That is exactly 
what Looking for Alaska does. It finds 
the truth despite the facts, and speaks 
with the voice of an adolescent splen-
didly.
The novel is split into two parts, be-
fore and after, which makes writing any 
sort of review for it rather difficult, since 
I cannot talk at all about the after. I will 
just have to leave that in as a 
hook to you, and assure you 
that this is a first-class novel 
worthy of your time. 
Yes, it was written for 
high schoolers. But honest-
ly, at this point, who cares? 
I’m just as interested in 
reading about awkward first sexual en-
counters and the idiosyncrasies of teach-
ers now as when I was sixteen. 
Green has mastered the high school 
voice, such that I immediately loved 
the main character, Miles “Pudge” Hal-
ter, and would have probably been his 
friend. In fact, as I was reading I really 
wished that I was in Pudge’s friend cir-
cle. He is also desperately in love with 
Alaska Young, the typical enigmatic and 
troubled teen girl who is heartbreakingly 
beautiful and never going to be with him. 
It is Green’s talent to write voice so well 
that each character is distinct, but be-
lievable, that makes the novel successful.
I’m a sucker for language in general, 
and when not working in his charac-
ters’ voices, Green displays 
his skill of creating a scene 
or a feeling that is beautiful 
without showing off. This is 
not the prose of James Joyce, 
and yet there is a beauty in 
simplicity, in explaining the 
details of a mundane dorm 
room or particularly dull professor that 
still turns into polished and wonderfully 
readable writing. For me it also helped 
that the Alabama boarding school where 
the novel is set is based quite heavily 
upon the boarding school one of my best 
friends attended, and being able to link 
her stories into the background knowl-
edge that Green works off of was a fun 
personal endeavor for me.
So I’ve babbled for a while, and you 
are sitting there still wondering why on 
earth you should read this book. It is not 
enough that I tell you to? No, in all seri-
ousness, this is a novel that covers the 
full scope of human emotion. I laughed 
out loud, I cried, I felt awkward for some 
characters and thrilled for others. 
There is everything on these pages, 
and Green has given the story to his 
reader in a way that is easy without be-
ing patronizing. He wants the reader to 
understand grief and love and humor 
and all that is essentially high school, 
while also still acknowledging that a six-
teen year old can have elevated thoughts, 
even existential questions about life. It 
is a successful novel that is most cer-
tainly on my re-reading list, and a novel 
I feel may just be worthy of the title “The 
Catcher in the Rye for this generation.” 
There now, you have to read it, just 
to see if I’m right. Don’t you love the pull 
of a grandiose statement?
b0oking it
BY HALLIE WOODS
looking for 
alaska
John Green
WANT A PIECE OF THE ACTION?
The Middlebury Campus is seeking new writers and online editors for 
the upcoming spring semester. Positions are available in the following 
sections:
To express your interest, send an email to campus@
middlebury.edu detailing any previous experience and 
the section(s) you wish to write for.
NEWS
ONLINE  
LOCAL NEWS
FEATURES
SPORTS
OPINIONS ARTS&SCIENCES
 February 23, 2012 | 19advertiseMENTS
BE A PART OF a TRADITION
the 
campus 
has 
printed 
for 106
Years.
join us  
for 107.
Whether you care 
about politics, 
sports, investigative 
journalism, the arts, 
food, scandal or film, 
there’s space for your 
words. 
campus@middlebury.edu1905
1955
2005
2012
00010101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000
10101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010
10100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101
00000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001
01011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010
11110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101
00100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001
00100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001
01010111101010100100101010101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010
11110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101
00100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001
00100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001
01010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010
10111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111
01010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010
10100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001
00101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001
01010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101
01010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010
10101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010100101111101
00010101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101
01010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010
10100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000
00101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001
01011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111
10100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101
00100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101001001001010101111010101001001
01010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101
01010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010
10101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010
10101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101
01011010100101010101010101001011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101
00100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001
01010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010
10101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010
10101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101
01010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111110101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100
10010101010101010101010101101010010101010101010100100101000010111110100010101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100
10101010101010101010101101010010101010101010100100101000010111110110101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010
10101010101010101101010010101010101010100100101000010111110100010101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101
01010101010101101010010101010101010100100101000010111110101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101
01010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010
10101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010
01001010000101111101000101010101001010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010
10111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111
01010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010
10100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001
00101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001
01010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101
01010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010
10101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010
10101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101
01011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101
00101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001
01010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101
01010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010
10101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010
01001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010
01010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100
00101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001
01111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111
01000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011
01010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010
10101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010
00001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010000
01010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010000010101
11101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010000010101111
01001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010000010101111010010
01001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010000010101111010010010
01010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011011010101010000010101111010010010010
10101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010000010101111010010010010101
01111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010000010101111010010010010101011110
10101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010000010101111010010010010101011110101
01001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010000010101111010010010010101011110101010010
01010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010000010101111010010010010101011110101010010010
10101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010000010101111010010010010101011110101010010010101010
10101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010
00001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010000010
Do you like multimedia? Read blogs? Listen 
to podcasts? The Middlebury Campus is 
looking for a team of online editors to put 
their web-savvy skills to use producing 
online-only content for the Campus 
website. 
Email campus@middlebury.edu if you’re interested.
 20 advertisements   | February 23, 2012
february 23, 2012| 21SPORTS
Men’s hockey splits last games of regular season
the period scoreless on both sides. 
The second period proved more 
rewarding for the Panthers as they got 
on the board just three minutes into the 
period. Pollock scored from the right off 
of a power play in his fourth goal of the 
season. 
Throughout the rest of the period, the 
Panthers held the advantage with a 17-4 
shooting advantage over the Lord Jeffs. 
Attempts from Chris Brown ’13 and Freyre 
were thwarted by LaRose, forcing the 
Panthers to leave the second period with a 
1-0 advantage. 
The third period proved to be the 
Panther’s downfall as they lost the shot 
and allowed Amherst to score two goals 
and leave Kenyon Arena with a win. In 
Jeffs held a 9-0 shots advantage over 
Middlebury. In their 10th shot, the Lord 
Jeffs put themselves on the scoreboard 
tying the game at 1-1. Amherst gained 
third period with a short-handed shot from 
Andrew Kurlandski. 
The Lord Jeffs held a 13-3 shot 
advantage over the Panthers in the third 
period while the Panthers held a 31-21 total 
shot advantage for the game. Late goals 
from the top seeded Lord Jeffs proved to 
be the Panther’s downfall in their attempt 
to kick them off of spot in the rankings.  
While Amherst will host No. 8 seed 
Hamilton, Middlebury will host Wesleyan 
the Panthers lost 5-4 to the Cardinals early 
in the season, more recently they beat the 
Cardinals 3-2 on their home rink. 
The team ended last season in 
home and will look to avoid that fate this 
year.  The team beat out the Mules twice 
this season, 3-1 and 3-2, avenging for last 
WOULD YOU 
LIKE A TASTE 
OF...
JOURNALISM?
THE CAMPUS
SEEKS WRITERS
FOR AL
SECTIONS.
EMAIL
CAMPUS@
MIDDLEBURY.EDU
CONTINUED FROM 24
Tom Freyre ’14 looks to pass while under pressure from Hamilton defenders. The 
Panthers avenged their earlier 3-0 loss, beating the Continentals 2-1.  
andrew podrygula
GREATER 
Their last game gave the team and 
forward. 
In general they are just a much 
higher scoring team then the men. 
Owen Teach (8-6, .571)
katie siegner (70-85 .452)
Damon Hatheway (39-30, .565)
Dillon Hupp (97-84, .536)
Alex Edel (53-64, .453)
Will the men’s basketball 
team’s margin of victory be 
Who will score more goals Will the Middlebury ski 
teams place in the top three 
Who will win the NBA dunk 
GREATER
I never hesitate to take the over 
with this team.
I foresee this team rebounding in a 
big way.
GREATER
The men’s basketball team is 
peaking at exactly the right time.
The girls put up points like Alex 
gets sports editors picks wrong.
GREATER
An answer of greater for a team 
thatt’s greater than their opposition.
Their body of work over the season 
is far superior to that of the men’s.
The key in this one will be if there is 
any snow.
With Jeremy Lin on his side, he 
can’t lose, right?
This is their touranment. The kid can jump out of the gym. 
But how will we defend home snow 
if there’s no snow?
Too athletic and too unprdictable. 
He’s bound to put on a show.
Last week they regained their top 
three place and will stick to it. 
GREATER 
Go big or go home. Any team that Lauren Greer’s on 
has my vote. days; I don’t see them sliding into 
fourth at their only home carnival.
Win goes to he with the best name.
editors’ picks
panther sc0reboard
Men’s hockey vs. Amherst 
men’s track & field  New Englands 
men’s Basketball vs. Williams
Women’s Hockey vs. Plattsburgh
men’s Squash vs. Navy
2-1 L 
Eighth
73-61 W
4-4 T
5-4 L
Third-ranked Amherst stole the win 
from the Panthers with two third-
period goals in Sunday’s game.
After a slow start, the Panthers 
pulled away from Williams with 
high-percentage free throw shooting.
The team continued their record-
breaking ways with new s c h o o l 
records set in the mile and the 3,000.
With 48 seconds remaining, Sarah 
Ugalde ’14 tied the game for the 
Panthers on a 2-v-1 play.
The Panthers dropped a hard-fought 
match, ending Nationals and the 
season ranked 14th in the nation.
THE CAMPUS+THE INTERNET
MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM
NEW, LOCAL, OPINIONS, FEATURES, SPORTS, ARTS & SCIENCES
IT’S ALL THERE. LOG ON TODAY
| February 23, 201222 sports
Women’s hockey catches Cardinals in tie
The Middlebury women’s hockey 
team continued their season with a mid-
week matchup against the second-ranked 
Norwich Cadets last Tuesday. The game 
proved tough for the Panthers, as they 
suffered their first loss after a six week 
winning streak. Middlebury was able 
to net 3 goals, but the Norwich offense 
proved superior and the Cadets won 5-3.
After a scoreless first period, the vis-
itors took a 2-0 lead at the outset of the 
second period with goals from Maggie 
Woodward ’13 and Emily Fluke ’14. Nor-
wich countered, however with five unan-
swered goals over the next 32 minutes 
to take a three-goal lead. The Panthers 
drew a goal back with less than 10 sec-
onds remaining in the game from Mad-
eline Joyce ’14, her fifth of the season. 
The fourth-ranked Middlebury 
women then hosted their final game of 
the regular season, facing the Platts-
burgh Cardinals on Sunday. This is the 
second time this season these two teams 
faced off. The previous matchup was at 
the Panther/Cardinal Classic in Novem-
ber where the Panther’s won, 4-1. 
Middlebury jumped out to a quick 
start, taking the lead 1-0 just 2:41 into 
the first period on a power play. Hannah 
Bielawski ’15 passed the puck to Jennifer 
Krakower ’14 who shot it into the back 
of the net for her fourth goal of the sea-
son. Plattsburgh was able to tie up the 
game before the period ended, with a 
shot from Jenny Kristner sneaking past 
Middlebury goaltender Annabelle Jones 
’14.
Middlebury followed a similar pat-
tern in the second frame, blazing to an 
early goal just 19 seconds in. Grace Wa-
ters ’12 earned her seventh of the sea-
son off an assist from Madison Styrbicki 
’13. It took the Cardinals until just over 
halfway into the period to answer, which 
they did with two goals in 55 seconds. 
The first came from Kylie Klassen to tie 
the game 2-2. Ashton Hogan then netted 
the puck to give Plattsburgh the lead 3-2 
going into the final frame.
Middlebury jumped into action early 
again in the third period, with Katie Sul-
livan ’15 scoring after Lauren Greer ’13 
was denied by Cardinal goaltender Syd-
ney Aveson. Neither team managed to 
pull ahead in the period until  Cardinals 
player Teal Grove crossed the puck to 
Shannon Stewart, who scored to take the 
lead 4-3 with just over two minutes left. 
Questing for a goal as the seconds 
ticked down toward the end of the game, 
Middlebury stepped up the intensity and 
pulled Jones to add a skater. The Pan-
thers were able to pull off the tie, with 
Sara Ugalde ’14 scoring her team-leading 
13th goal of the season to knot the game 
at 4-4. 
Despite a power-play advantage for 
Plattsburgh at the beginning of addition-
al time, neither team was able to find a 
game-winning goal. The final result was 
a tie, 4-4, sending Middlebury to an 18-
3-3 regular season record while Platts-
burgh wound up 17-5-3. 
This weekend, the Panthers will 
head into the NESCAC tournament. The 
team’s in-season performance secured 
them the top seed in the playoff and 
home ice advantage for the duration of 
the tournament, which begins this Satur-
day with the quarterfinals. They will face 
off against the Colby Mules at 1:00 pm at 
Kenyon Arena. The team looks to defend 
the NESCAC title it earned last year af-
ter triumphing over Amherst, this year’s 
second-seeded team in the tournament.
By Mike Oster
fourth at NESCAC meet, sets record
Last weekend, Feb. 18-19, the 
Middlebury women’s swimming and diving 
team headed to Wesleyan to compete in the 
2012 NESCAC Championships. The Pan-
thers had an extremely strong performance, 
Williams (1,826), Amherst (1,460.5), Tufts 
(1261.5) and Bates (867) rounded out the 
The relay teams were particularly 
earning NCAA B-Cut times, giving them the 
opportunity to compete at the NCAA Cham-
pionships next month. The 200-yard med-
ley relay team of Andie Tibbetts ’14, Jamie 
Hillas ’15, Maddy Berkman ’15 and Ann Car-
penter ’15 were NESCAC champions with a 
time of 1:45.57, and set both meet and pool 
records with their effort. Tibbetts’s leadoff 
backstroke leg of 26.33 seconds reset the 
school record that she had broken the day 
before in the individual event. The 400-yard 
medley relay team of Tibbetts, Hillas, Berk-
set a school record with a time of 3:50.99.
On the individual side, Tibbetts and Hil-
las led the way for the Panthers. Hillas was 
NESCAC champion and set a Middlebury 
record in the 50-yard breaststroke with a 
time of 29.79 seconds. She would then re-
peat those results in the 100-yard event with 
a time of 1:05.15, earning an NCAA B-Cut. 
200-yard backstroke events with times of 
26.44, 55.59 and 2:02.83, respectively. She 
broke the school record in all three races 
and earned the Panthers’ lone NCAA A-Cut 
in the 100-yard event. 
Also earning B-Cuts were Katherine 
Loftus ’12 in the 500-, 200- and 1650-yard 
freestyle and Alex Edel ’14 and Jen Fried-
lander ’13 in the 400-yard individual med-
ley. 
Middlebury also had success in the div-
on Friday in the one-meter event with a 
score of 389.83, followed by Hannah King 
’13 in 10th with 367.35 points. On Sun-
eighth in the 3m event with scores of 378.10 
and 376.55, respectively.
-
ing distance of third-place Tufts. It was an 
extremely strong showing from Middlebury, 
-
CAC standings after a disappointing end to 
last year’s season. 
“The girls were great,” said coach Bob 
Rueppel. “They were very focused and they 
bought into what we were doing really, re-
ally well. I’m thrilled, and they deserved it.”
The women will now have about a 
month to train and taper for the NCAA 
Championships in Indianapolis that begin 
on March 21. They will most likely bring 
eight swimmers to the event.
“We’re happy to make it to Nationals, 
but that’s not the end-all,” said Rueppel. 
“We’re going there to perform very well, and 
I think with the correct mindset we’re going 
to be great.”
“NESCACs were amazing, but Nationals 
-
nitely looking forward to all of our relays. 
We all know that we can go faster.”
The men’s team will travel to Williams 
on Friday for the NESCAC Championships, 
position on the scoreboard.
By Kevin Yochim
8
Winter ’11-’12
Carnival without snow! 
Step up your game winter. 
1+1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Alex’s Assertions 
2-1
men’s basketball
The team is back on track 
for a great post-season.
women’s hockey
Tying Plattsburgh breaks 
their winning streak. 
3
men’s hockey
The team shows promise 
even if falling short Sunday. 
4+3 
Skiing
The team was back in their 
usual third place. 
5 Track and Field Fourteen school records set 
just this indoor season!
7-1
Men’s squash
The team lost in a very 
close 5-4 match to Navy. 
6 Swimming and DivingThe women had some 
amazing races!
the middlebury
great  eight
by the Numb3rs
2
48
3
1
Number of times men’s basketball has 
beaten Williams this season. Take that 
Ephs.
Number of seconds remaining when 
women’s hockey leading scorer Sarah 
Ugalde ’14 scored the game-tying goal 
against Plattsburgh.
Number of events won by Margo Cramer ’12 
at last weekend’s track meet. The women’s 
tri-captain set a school record in the mile.
Goal margin in men’s hockey’s last three 
games. Two of those were Panther victories, 
the other was a loss to Amherst.
Number of minor league players the Pittsburgh 
Pirates traded to the Yankees for erratic pitcher 
AJ Burnett.2
Lauren Greer ’13 races forward with the puck as a Cardinal defender reaches for a 
steal. The game ended in a 4-4 tie in the team’s last regular season game. 
andrew podrygula
No game or season can be taken for 
-
-
ished the 2011-2012 season with the same 
national ranking as last year (14), it seems 
clear that each year under the Illig regime 
the team takes big strides forward. 
points as well as disappointment,” said 
men’s co-captain Addi DiSesa ’12. “Over-
all, I’d say we have made something of this 
program over the last few years. When Val 
[Quan ’12] and I arrived in 2008, the team 
was ranked 24th in the country. Today we 
are 14th. That kind of a jump is impressive 
by any standard, and I am proud to have 
played a role these last few years.”
This year, the team’s record improved 
to 16-9 from 14-11 the year before, and the 
men’s trip to Nationals to compete in the 
Hoehn Cup (B Division ) was marked by ex-
citing games all around. 
Men’s squash team Nationals were held 
the weekend before the women’s, which is 
coming up this Friday and Saturday at Har-
vard, and they immediately faced a rematch 
of their close loss to St. Lawrence from the 
weekend before. This time, the match was 
even closer, as the men’s fate came down to 
the last points of the last game. 
Middlebury had held a tenuous lead at 
certain points throughout the match, how-
ever, the score eventually became knotted at 
four games apiece, with Spencer Hurst ’13 
of the games, all closely contested, but was 
fell to his opponent by the slim margin of 
two matches.
The Panthers rebounded from this dis-
appointment well, taking Bates 6-3 in their 
second game the following day. This com-
pleted a three-match sweep of the Bobcats 
in all three of their meetings this season, and 
Middlebury ended with a 9-2 record against 
other NESCAC opponents, with the only two 
losses coming to Williams. 
Middlebury fell to Navy on Sunday, again by 
the close score of 5-4. However, the day was 
not without its uplifting notes, such as DiS-
the last match of his career. The Panthers 
battled through every game of the week-
end; their effort, skill, and determination 
are promising signs for the years to come, 
in which Middlebury will look to continue 
climbing the rankings of collegiate squash.  
“Going forward, I hope the team keeps 
squash in perspective,” said DiSesa. “We 
play a game. Wins and losses remain impor-
tant, but enjoying the day-to-day practices 
and challenges that arise on any team lay 
athlete.”
By Katie Siegner
Panthers advance to NESCAC semis
In honor of President’s day (last 
Monday, Feb. 20), Dillon and Damon 
decided to democratically debate which 
POTUS reigned supreme not in the oval 
competition.
Dillon Says: It’s hard to pick just one 
leader of the free world for this award. 
Dwight Eisenhower played linebacker 
and running back for Army, and went up 
against Jim Thorpe in his day. Jimmy 
Carter ran cross country at Navy, and it’s a 
safe bet that Taft was a beast in the sumo 
ring. But my pick goes to Leslie King, better 
known as Gerald Ford, the 38th president 
of the United States. Ford goes down 
in history for his less-than memorable 
succession of Richard Nixon after the later 
resigned in scandal in 1974, for being the 
only president who was never elected in 
a national election (he was appointed VP 
by Nixon in 1973), and for Chevy Chase’s 
frequent and hilarious impersonations of 
him on SNL. His resumé on the gridiron, 
however, is far more impressive. He was 
the captain of his high-school football 
team, and then all-city in his hometown of 
Grand Rapids, Michigan. Then, he went on 
to play for a little known program called 
the Michigan Wolverines, where he won 
national championships in 1932 and ’33 
and was an All-American in 1934. Oh, and 
he also shot a hole-in-one in 1977. While he 
was president. Top that, basketball Barry. 
Damon Says: Well we certainly know 
who isn’t winning this competition. 
Congratulations George W. Bush, just 
another item on a long list of things you 
didn’t do as well as your dad. While Herbert 
Walker captained both the soccer and 
baseball teams at Yale and brought the 
Bulldogs to multiple College World Series, 
Dubya got none of his father’s athleticism. 
Unless, that is, you count a booming voice 
that he used to head Andover’s cheerleading 
squad, but failed him so miserably in his 
quest to conquer the word nuclear. No, I’ll 
take our nation’s point guard incumbent, 
Barack Obama. Though he may not have 
tackled Jim Thorpe or won a national 
championship at Michigan, Obama did 
lead Occidental in scoring during the 
1979 season, as a freshman, no less! And 
then there’s the famous elbow incident, 
which sent our Commander in Chief of 
the hardwood to the hospital for stitches. 
So yes, Dillon, “Barry Basketball” — which 
our most athletically inclined president. 
He’s even promised to reform the BCS, 
which would probably upstage the siege of 
Osama Bin Laden as Obama’s most popular 
achievement. So yes, four more years. 
Dillon Says: Damon, here’s a guy I think 
we can both agree on — Teddy Roosevelt. A 
very sickly child, he devoted himself to living 
the strenuous life, and in the process made 
himself one of the most badass presidents 
that ever lived. He boxed at Harvard, played 
tennis on the White House lawn, went big-
game hunting in Africa, explored the Amazon 
river in South America, and of course, 
had amazing upper-body strength from 
always carrying around that big stick of his. 
Damon Says: Tremendous call, Dillon. 
While he was an advocate of speaking softly, 
our 26th President was incredibly outspoken 
about reforming the game of football. And 
understandably so — in 1905 18 people died 
from football related injuries. 18! Imagine 
where Roger Goodell would have moved the 
kick off line to if that had happened under 
his watch. Instead, Roosevelt invented the 
forward pass, revolutionizing the game 
and — it must be said — vastly increasing 
the number of concussions in the sport. But 
Teddy Roosevelt undoubtedly saved the 
game of football, at least for another century 
when, who knows, maybe Barack Obama 
will seize the title of greatest President ever 
by delaying the demise of America’s greatest 
sport for another century.
 —Dillon Hupp is a sports editor from 
Little Rock, Ark. and Damon Hatheway is 
a sports editor from London, UK.
damon & dillon
February 23, 2012| 23SPORTS
Individual performers shine at D3 meet
The teams haven’t even stepped out-
side for a competitive meet this year, and 
teams’ seasons could already be considered 
resounding successes. Just 35 days since 
the season-opening Gotham Cup in Janu-
ary, the teams thus far have compiled an 
astonishing 14 new Middlebury records (10 
in men’s and four in women’s.)  
Fresh off a strong showing in Boston, 
the New England Division III champion-
ships in Massachusetts this past weekend, 
Feb 18 and 19.  The men’s side travelled to 
competed at Smith College in Northamp-
ton.  Bryan Holtzman ’14 commented on 
how the recent run of successful results 
carried into this past weekend.
said Holtzman. “School records and top 
performances have been a theme for this 
entire season, not just at Boston, so spirits 
were high going into DIIIs.”  
standings, the teams were consistently in 
the mix for the top spot.  The men took 
eighth out of twenty-four teams at Spring-
additional Panther bests will now be added 
to the books.
On the men’s side Michael “Shoeless” 
Schmidt ’12 won the 3000m in a school re-
cord time of 8:25.32. Jack Davies ‘13 then 
set the school record in the mile in 4:16.09, 
placing fourth, while Patrick Hebble ’13 
the slow heat.  Peter Hetzler ’14 
placed third in the 400m at 50.26, 
which marks his fastest time on a 
Holtzman, Schmidt’s record-setting 
race was quite a spectacle.
the race in the pack roughly 20m be-
hind the leader,” recalled Holtzman. 
“He then split from the pack in the 
second half of the race, worked his 
way up to the leader, and walked 
of the race.”  However, when asked 
out that eighth is not where the team wants 
to be.
“The team had a bit of an off-day as a 
whole, so there was disappointment there. 
On the other hand, it was the highest the 
team has placed ever at this event,” he said. 
“We are more built for the outdoor season 
that come the NESCAC meet, we will per-
form well and place highly.”  Last year 
Bates, Bowdoin, Tufts, Amherst and Wes-
leyan in this same meet, but made the jump 
For the women, Margo Cramer ’12 ran 
wild as she took home three wins at Smith, 
including a new school-record 4:51.93 in 
the mile.  The dis-
tance medley relay 
team of Cramer, Sar-
ah O’Brien ’13, Sarah 
Guth ’15 and Emily 
Singer ’14 continued 
its success as well, 
while Juliet Ryan-
Davis ’13 was a win-
ner in the 1,000 with 
a time of 2:58.23. 
Also, Kara Walker ’13 
set a new school-re-
cord in the pentath-
lon with 2,831 points. 
Holtzman, as well of the rest of the team, is 
excited about the potential of the women’s 
distance medley relay squad.
“Looking forward, the women’s dis-
tance medley team will be trying to repeat 
as national champions at the NCAA meet 
and March with the possibility of some legs 
doubling back in individual events,” said 
Holtzman.
With the outdoor season rapidly ap-
proaching, the Panthers will look to keep 
this record-setting streak going.
By Owen Teach
“School records 
and top 
performances have 
been a theme for 
this entire season, 
so spirits were high 
going into D3s.”
bryan holtzman ’14
mEN’S TRACK AND FIELD
felt we could score pretty much every time 
could go inside to [Sharry], get [Lynch] a 
couple touches — no one 
could really guard him, 
he’s just too strong. We 
had contributions from 
everywhere and the only 
way you score is if you get 
shots so limiting those 
the focal point of this 
game.”
Joey Kizel ’14, mean-
while, rounded out the 
-
ures with 14 points, eight 
of which came from the 
free throw line. 
Seventh-seeded Williams, which shot 
from three point range. Junior guard Nate 
Robertson led his team with 19 points on 
missing all six of his three-point opportu-
nities. Michael Mayer and Rooke-Ley both 
recorded double digit scoring efforts with 
14 and 10 points respectively. 
Ultimately, however, it was Sharry’s 
improved defense on Williams forward 
Taylor Epley that made the dif-
ference. After Epley torched the 
time these teams met, the Pan-
thers, and Sharry in particular, 
limited the streaky scorer to 
just four points on 2-11 shoot-
“I really had to step up my 
defense,” Sharry said. “Last 
time Epley killed me so I really 
focused on that this week with 
the scouting report. For the 
team as a whole we know that 
Williams — no matter what 
their record — is going to be a 
great team, great test. We wanted to play 
them tough and we knew we had to play 
hard the whole game.”
The Panthers will travel to Amherst 
against Wesleyan on Saturday, Feb. 25. 
Middlebury edged the Cardinals earlier this 
year on the road 65-62. 
CONTINUED FROM 24
Skiing performs well at Williams Carnival
The weekend started off with slalom 
races for the Alpine skiers. In the men’s 
race, UVM began the weekend in impres-
sive fashion by sweeping the podium; the 
Catamounts were led by Sean Higgins who 
took the individual win. Roberts continued 
his strong season by taking sixth place to 
lead the Panthers. 
Captain Bryan Shpall ’13 was the next 
Mulhern ’14 and Bailey were right behind 
in 15th and 16th places, respectively. With 
-
thers grabbed third place in an incredibly 
close race – there were six points separat-
ing the second and fourth place teams. 
In the women’s slalom race, the Wil-
liams women capitalized on their home 
course advantage to capture the top two 
steps of the podium. Captain Christine 
Schozer ’13 continued her consistent sea-
son, placing 13th and leading the Panthers. 
Unfortunately, the rest of the team strug-
gled a bit, with Mary Sackbauer ’15 and 
Yina Moe-Lange ’15 taking 29th and 37th 
-
ished the day in seventh place. 
and UVM, while Middlebury was in fourth. 
The second day of racing began with 
a 10km classic race for the Nordic skiers. 
In the men’s race, it was Dartmouth who 
took the top team score, with three ski-
ers in the top-nine. Ben Lustgarten ’14 
from the Dartmouth 20km classic mass-
start. Tri-captain Patrick Johnson ’12 was 
right behind Lustgarten in sixth, while fel-
just outside the top-10 in 11th. Because the 
10km classic was the only race of the week-
end for the Nordic skiers, the scores were 
doubled; the Panthers earned two third-
In the women’s race, Dartmouth con-
tinued their domination of the Nordic rac-
-
tain Sophie McClelland ’12 led the Panther 
-
ily Attwood ’14 was close behind in 22nd. 
in 24th and 25th places, respectively. The 
the weekend tied with Bates for the fourth-
place team score. 
Back on the downhill slopes, the Alpine 
skiers raced a Giant Slalom (GS). The male 
Panthers demonstrated that they have one 
of the most talented and deep teams on the 
Eastern circuit by placing three skiers in 
the top-seven and capturing the top team 
Panthers also got strong performances 
from Shpall (ninth) and the only senior on 
the team, Aaron Robertson ’12 (18th). 
The Panthers are looking forward to 
the opportunity to capitalize on some home 
course advantage this coming weekend in 
the Middlebury Winter Carnival. The Nor-
dic races have been moved to the Trapp 
Family Lodge in Stowe, Vt. because of poor 
snow conditions, but the Alpine races will 
still be happening at the Snow Bowl. 
CONTINUED FROM 24 
Nolan Thompson ’13 contributed nine 
points along with stellar defense to the 
Panthers effort against Williams. 
Andrew podrygula
“The great sur-
prise is how well 
we have shot free 
throws and that 
was really key 
down the stretch.”
Jeff Brown
head Coach
The Panthers bounced back 
-
races of the season. Dartmouth 
returned to the top of the po-
fourth-place after another abbre-
-
The standout performance 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
rebounds and four 
-
-
-
-
-
the Panthers. 
we could defend them more effec-
-
to create offense on the other. 
bucket from 
-
to Thompson for the shot from 
-
down the stretch from the free 
sports February 23, 2012 | 24
Men’s basketball throws off Ephs in quarters 
weekend. 
The team started off the 
season. The Panthers came back 
The team came out 
The Panthers also had a 
By Damon Hatheway
By Martin Breu
By Alex Edel
Skiing takes third at Williams 
Carnival, wins men’s GS event
andrew podrygula
-
Andrew podrygula
WOMEN’S HOCKEY 
BATTLES TO 4-4 
TIE WITH RIVAL 
PLATTSBURGH
PAGE 22
WOMEN’S 
SWIMMING AND 
DIVING COMPETES 
AT NESCACS
PAGE 22in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
SEE PANTHERS, PAGE 23
SEE SKIING, PAGE 23
-
-
-
we were able to make some foul 
-
“For the team as 
a whole, we know 
that Williams — 
no matter what 
their record — is 
going to be a great 
team, great test.”
Ryan sharry ’12
co-captain
SEE PANTHERS, PAGE 21
