On Feb. 4, the Student Gov-
ernment Association (SGA) sent a 
statement addressing the College’s 
MLK Today event, Supreme Court 
Justice Scalia’s comments on Dec. 
9 regarding black students on col-
lege campuses and the SGA’s com-
mitment to being “supportive and 
proactive” in fighting racism on 
campus. 
The Senate voted in favor of 
sending out the all-student email 
after a group of senators, includ-
ing SGA President Ilana Gratch 
’16 drafted the statement. In ad-
dition to the email, the SGA voted 
in favor of a resolution condemn-
ing the MLK event for its “highly 
offensive and post-racial actions” 
and acknowledging the problem-
atic nature of Scalia’s comments. 
This prompted the SGA to officially 
recommend that President Patton 
“send an all-school email address-
ing the MLK Day event and Justice 
Scalia’s comments as soon as pos-
sible.”
Freshman Senator and sponsor 
of the bill, Charles Rainey ’19, ex-
pressed deep dissatisfaction with 
the administration’s response to 
the MLK Today event, which was 
perceived as a “macroagression” 
towards the black community. 
Rainey said that a statement from 
President Patton would be a start 
in addressing the “distress deeply 
felt within Middlebury’s black com-
munity” and to begin to address 
the “poor relationship” that exists 
between the SGA and students of 
color on campus.
Rainey commended Patton for 
her promotion of inclusivity and 
diversity on campus, but found her 
silence immediately after the MLK 
Today event “problematic and dis-
appointing.”
“[Patton’s] silence and that of 
the SGA on these specific issues has 
spoken volumes to black Middle-
bury students … The SGA has failed 
to recognize and communicate the 
wide range of discontent that exists 
within the African-American com-
munity stemming from not only the 
aforementioned missteps but also 
years and years of institution ne-
glect,” Rainey said.
Rainey hoped that the email 
would serve as an apology to black 
students on campus on behalf of 
the SGA and as its recognition of 
the issues that black students con-
tinue to face on campus.
According to the President of 
Distinguished Men of Color (DMC) 
Mario Alberto Picon Jr. ’17, the 
organization was approached by 
Senator Rainey and voted to sup-
port the statement released to the 
student body. 
“Distinguished Men of Color 
continues to support the statement 
sent by SGA to all students as it 
aligns with the mission of DMC to 
continually support underrepre-
sented and marginalized commu-
nities,” Alberto Picon Jr. said. The 
resolution was discussed with other 
cultural organizations on campus, 
including Alianza, which expressed 
solidarity with the statements. 
The Senate discussed the email 
statement and resolution in detail 
during the last two SGA meetings 
of J-term. 
Not all members of the SGA 
Senate agreed that this resolution 
was the best course of action. 
“I don’t necessarily think it is 
[the SGA’s] place to speak for, as 
opposed to highlight the opinions 
of, various groups on campus,” 
Senator Reshma Gogineni ’16 said. 
“I think that the SGA should work 
harder to represent traditionally 
underrepresented groups on cam-
pus, but this should come through a 
conversation and legislative change 
co-sponsored with those groups as 
opposed to releasing statements on 
The Middlebury Campus sat 
down with Laurie L. Patton to 
discuss her first few months at 
Middlebury as the College’s 17th 
president. In this profile, Patton 
discusses what has surprised her 
about Middlebury, what her first 
days were like after her appoint-
ment and what she hopes to focus 
on in the coming months. 
Middlebury Campus (MC):
What have you accomplished dur-
ing your first few months as Presi-
dent that you are proud of and what 
do you hope to accomplish or focus 
on during the coming months?
Laurie Patton (LP): So I’m not 
sure whether “accomplishment” is 
quite the right word, since I’m still 
just getting to know the commu-
nity and presidencies usually make 
their mark over the long haul, after 
a period much longer than seven 
months. And I prefer to think of 
what we have accomplished togeth-
er, since presidents don’t actually 
have much unilateral power! Those 
two caveats aside, I am proud of so 
many things we have already done 
as a community: the first year of our 
new faculty governance system at 
Middlebury College; the great work 
faculty at Monterey have done on 
their new governance system; the 
second year of our new Board of 
Trustees governance system; the 
faculty vote this fall on a new AAL 
requirement which was started 
by students; the creation of Alli-
ance for an Inclusive Middlebury; 
the Disability Advisory Group; the 
Task force on Stress; all the great 
work that has come from faculty 
and students and staff on mindful-
ness practices and developing resil-
ience. These are all about commu-
nity practices that change culture 
over time, where we communicate 
better with each other and enhance 
quality of Middlebury life. 
MC: Is there one thing that hasn’t 
lived up to your expectations or 
that has surprised you?
LP: The pleasant surprise has 
been how collaborative and con-
structive people are. I knew this 
about the Middlebury community, 
but the depth and extent of it has 
been truly a joy to encounter. On 
the down side, I also worry that we 
have too many bureaucratic layers. 
Even though we are a newly com-
plex organization, I think we need 
to ask whether we are already too 
complex sometimes. I am greatly 
looking forward to the strategic 
planning process to think about 
this issue across the Middlebury 
landscape.
MC: The national conversation 
surrounding racial issues has 
touched upon the role of institu-
tions in protecting students from 
being offended. To what extent do 
you think Colleges should protect 
their students from potentially of-
fensive situations? Is this possible? 
Beneficial? What is the distinction 
between protecting and censoring? 
At what point is freedom of speech 
in danger?
College to 
Stop Sale 
of Energy 
Drinks
By Elizabeth Sawyer
Contributing Writer
Patton’s Midyear Review:
Laurie Talks First Months, Goals
February 25, 2016 | Vol. 114 no. 15 | middleburycampus.com
SUPERDELEGATES 
COMPLICATE 
BERNIE’S 
PRESIDENTIAL BID
PAGES 4 & 5
WOMEN OF WILL 
CELEBRATES 
WOMEN IN 
SHAKESPEARE
PAGE 14
SGA DEBUTS
NEW TEXTBOOK
EXCHANGE
PAGE 12
in
sid
e
SEE PATTON, PAGE 3
By Claire Abbadi
Editor-in-Chief
The new Ridgeline Residence Complex is currently on track to open for the Fall 2016 semester.
RIDGELINE HOUSING BEGINS TO TAKE SHAPE
michael o’hara
SGA Senate Adopts New 
inclusivity Resolution
SPECIAL feature
By Emma Dunlap
Staff Writer
SEE SGA, PAGE 3
In a flyer released this week, 
Dining Services announced its 
decision to stop the sale of ener-
gy drinks on campus. The policy 
will take effect on March 7, 2016. 
Beverages such as Red Bull and 
5-Hour Energy will no longer be 
available for purchase at any of the 
College’s retail locations. These lo-
cations include Midd Express, Wil-
son Café and The Grille. Guayaki 
Brand Yerba Mate, regarded as a 
healthier alternative to the previ-
ously identified energy drinks, will 
remain available for purchase. 
The decision marked the cul-
mination of a debate that began 
on Jan. 19, when Dining Software 
Intern Myles Kamisher-Koch in-
troduced the topic in a Community 
Council meeting. In this meeting, 
Kamisher-Koch asserted that sev-
eral Dining Services staff members 
approved of his proposal. 
By presenting scientific re-
search to demonstrate the sev-
eral detrimental health effects of 
energy drinks, Kamisher-Koch 
ultimately argued that the sale 
of energy drinks violates Dining 
Services’ mission, stated on the 
College’s website, to “nourish and 
nurture today and tomorrow by 
sustaining mind, body and earth.” 
SEE RETAIL SPACES, PAGE 2
President Laurie L. Patton Speaks with alumni at the Alumni of Color Weekend on Jan. 15-17.
College Commmunications
Kamisher-Koch’s data included a study find-
ing that “up to 25 percent of current drink-
ers combine alcoholic beverages with energy 
drinks.” He also included reports that en-
ergy drinks promote poor academic tenden-
cies and foster a “culture of stress.” 
These concerns that Kamisher-Koch 
raised in his initial presentation appear to 
coincide with the opinions of several stu-
dents on campus. “I learned in my psycholo-
gy class that energy drinks are linked to high 
risk sex and drug use,” Jenna McNicholas 
’19 said. Meg Knox ’19 agreed. 
“The school has a responsibility to direct 
students to healthy choices through what 
they provide,” Knox said.
Opposition to this proposal in Commu-
nity Council debate came mainly from stu-
dents who believed the removal of energy 
drinks from campus shelves would violate 
a student’s right to choose what beverages 
they consume. Charles Rainey ’19 voiced 
his concern that this measure would lead 
to Dining Services “controlling what people 
consume,” and argued that he and others 
drink energy drinks responsibly, adding 
that the removal of the drinks from campus 
stores was too extreme a means of promot-
ing student well-being. 
However, those in support of the policy 
contended that Rainey’s concern was not a 
grave one. Fiona Mohamed ’18 stressed that 
the school would not be banning the con-
sumption of energy drinks, but would be 
merely stopping their sale in retail locations 
on campus. Participants reminded those 
concerned with the change that they could 
buy the drinks at multiple retail locations 
situated close to campus.
Community Council held a vote on Ka-
misher-Koch’s recommendation on Tued-
say, Feb. 2. The proposal was approved 11 to 
1, and Dining Services decided to adopt the 
resolution. 
Dining Services’ flyer, signed by Execu-
tive Director of Food Service Dan Detora, 
echoes the Community Council’s sentiment. 
The flyer mentions scientific literature re-
vealing a connection between energy drinks 
and unsafe behavior in young people, in-
cluding “increased alcohol consumption, 
increased likelihood to drive while intoxi-
cated, increased probability of use of other 
intoxicating substance and increased partic-
ipation in high-risk sexual activity.” The fly-
er also restates Kamisher-Koch’s argument 
that the sale of energy drinks violates Dining 
Services mission, since, as the flyer reads, 
“consuming these products may result in 
serious health related issues such as; cardio-
vascular events, seizures and liver damage.” 
Karen L. Miller will join the College in 
April 2016 as the new Vice President for Hu-
man Resources and Risk. In her new posi-
tion, Miller will act as a strategic leader for 
the Office of Human Resources and the Of-
fice of Risk and Compliance, both of which 
serve all of Middlebury’s schools and pro-
grams. 
Miller will be the first person to hold 
both the vice presidency of the Office of Hu-
man Resources and the vice presidency of 
the Office of Risk and Compliance. As Vice 
President for Human Resources, Miller will 
strategize about staff structure, hiring and 
compensation policies for Middlebury fac-
ulty, staff and student employees. In her role 
as chief risk officer, Miller will succeed Dr. 
Michael Geisler, who will leave Middlebury 
to become the new president of Manhattan-
ville College in Purchase, New York.
According to Geisler, the main function 
of the Office of Risk and Compliance is “to 
enable and support the hundreds of initia-
tives and individual activities and programs 
that Middlebury faculty and students em-
bark upon each year.” The office identifies 
and tries to contain the risks associated with 
those programs “without stifling the aca-
demic creativity and entrepreneurial spirit 
that so distinguish the Middlebury commu-
nity,” Geisler said.
Miller will join the College’s senior ad-
ministration, working closely with President 
Laurie L. Patton and other administrators.
“Managing a large and increasingly com-
plex institution effectively and efficiently 
means bringing best practices to the table, 
and Karen’s broad experience will be invalu-
able to us,” President Patton said. 
Currently, Miller is a special advisor to 
the president of Morehouse College in At-
lanta, Georgia, where she has previously 
served as vice president and general counsel, 
vice president of administrative services, se-
nior vice president of administration, chief 
of staff and chief operating officer. Before 
beginning her time at Morehouse College, 
Miller worked in several other higher educa-
tion administration positions, including ac-
ademic dean of John Marshall Law School.
Miller holds a BA from Emory Univer-
sity and a JD from Harvard University. 
She is also a candidate at the University of 
Georgia’s Institute of Higher Education, re-
searching the process of improving organi-
zational capacity and leadership capacity at 
higher education institutions. 
“At a time when many institutions talk 
about being global or entrepreneurial or 
sustainable, Middlebury actually lives up 
to those aspirations and many more. That’s 
a credit to the faculty, staff and students at 
Middlebury, and I look forward to working 
with all of them,” Miller said.
| february 25, 20162 NEWS
By Will DiGravio 
SGA Correspondent & 
Staff Writer
sga
update
President Ilana Gratch ’16 began the Jan. 
24 meeting of the Student Government As-
sociation (SGA) with the announcement of a 
new working group to examine dynamics of 
power and inclusivity on campus. The hope 
is to implement courses on these topics into 
the College’s curriculum. 
Gratch also announced that the Feb elec-
tion will take place on Feb. 25 and that, de-
spite a special election held earlier this fall, 
both seats will be up for election. 
Speaker of the Senate Reshma Gogineni 
’16 shared that she is currently working to 
update MiddCourses with faulty biogra-
phies and information on teaching styles. 
Wonnacott Senator Lisa Han ’16 re-
ported that funds have been secured to pur-
chase rental skates for Kenyon Arena. Once 
storage space for the skates is obtained, the 
skates will be ordered and made available 
for students. 
SGA Treasurer Aaron de Toledo updated 
the group that the finance committee will 
be taking new money requests until Apr. 1. 
Most organizations have already made their 
new money requests and the committee 
is currently transitioning to look at spring 
budgeting. He also shared that the yearbook 
came in $22,000 under budget and that 
money will be returned to the SGA.
Senators discussed a proposal to pur-
chase an app and website called Laun-
dryView that would allow students to view 
when their laundry is finished and when 
machines are available for use. Last year, the 
SGA passed a bill to fund half ($3,500) of 
the project, but the College is not able to pay 
the other half of the cost. President Gratch 
shared that one potential way to fund the 
project would be to increase the cost of laun-
dry by $0.25 for every wash and dry cycle. 
Senators discussed the merits of the addi-
tional cost and came to the consensus that 
doing so would not be beneficial to students.
The meeting concluded with a discussion 
of creating an SGA-run Facebook group/
page to share information and resources 
about diversity and racism. Senators were 
skeptical of the effectiveness of such a group. 
Many agreed that, if it were implemented, it 
would have to be a small part of an overall 
effort by the SGA. 
At the Jan. 31 meeting, Associate Dean 
of Students for Residential and Student Life 
Doug Adams asked the SGA for feedback on 
how rooms should be assigned in the new 
Ridgeline Housing Complex. According to 
Adams, students have expressed frustration 
with the room draw system, and asked that 
a new method be implemented for the proj-
ect. Senators agreed that since one of the 
goals of the new housing is to keep students 
on campus, seniority should play a role in 
the process. President Gratch agreed that 
seniority should be considered, but pointed 
out that Febs may be disadvantaged should 
they choose to live with an individual one 
semester below them, versus one semester 
above.
First-Year Senator Charles Rainey ’19 
introduced a bill recommending that Mid-
dlebury College President Laurie L. Patton 
send an all-school email addressing the con-
troversial comments on affirmative action 
that the now late Supreme Court Justice 
Antonin Scalia made in December. The bill 
also called for President Patton to address 
the MLK Today event held in Mead Chapel 
on Jan. 18 that, as worded in the bill, “fea-
tured numerous highly offensive and post-
racial actions (to name a few of a long list: 
a majority white oratory choir reading black 
experiences in the first-person, white stu-
dents delivering quotes in a context that po-
lice POC’s reactions to racism and songs re-
peated by the entire chapel suggesting POCs 
smile and many more).” After much debate, 
the resolution passed six to four, with two 
abstentions. 
Senator Rainey introduced another bill 
that called for the SGA to release its own 
statement to the student body addressing 
both the MLK Today event and Justice Sca-
lia’s comments. The resolution passed seven 
to five, with one abstention. 
Retail Spaces to Stop Selling Energy Drinks
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Election Season Brings Campaigns to Campus
Karen Miller Hired for Two Admin Roles
Campaign trips, debate watching parties 
and a cardboard cutout of Hillary Clinton in 
Atwater Dining Hall: all signs that the na-
tion’s political energy has struck campus. In 
preparation for November, membership and 
involvement in a variety of clubs, lectures and 
classes has increased as students find ways to 
participate in the election season.
College Republicans and Democrats serve 
as the campus nexus of political activity and 
campaign coordination. In response to the 
elections, both clubs experienced an uptick in 
interest and participation. 
“When you approach an election year on 
campus, people are much more inclined to 
come to meetings,” said Hazel Millard ’18, co-
president of College Democrats. “It’s great to 
take advantage of the fact that people are pay-
ing attention to us. The general population 
gets more interested when things are at stake, 
so it’s been great to harness that interest.” 
The two groups meet several times a 
month for discussions and volunteering 
events. Despite the competition in both par-
ties for the nomination, neither group spon-
sors a candidate. “We support all the candi-
dates. It’s a three way split between Bernie, 
Hillary and undecided which makes it inter-
esting at our meetings,” Millard said. 
The participation process differs for re-
publicans and democrats on campus. At 
College Republicans, students discuss and 
get involved with a range of candidates. For 
democrats, specific organizations plan events 
for Senator Bernie Sanders and Former Sec-
retary of State Hillary Clinton, while College 
Democrats serves as the hub for information 
and discussion on both. 
Republican campaigns tend to reach out 
to the College Republicans leadership to co-
ordinate events. Hayden Dublois ’17, co-pres-
ident of College Republicans, explained the 
typical process. 
“What we’re seeing is that a lot of republi-
can campaigns and PACs are reaching out to 
us on a frequent basis from numerous candi-
dates,” Dublois said. “We like to invite them 
to come and make a presentation for our club 
and talk about the candidate they’re support-
ing and oftentimes there are internship op-
portunities and ways to get involved.”
Republican students have been attending 
talks from campaigns, phone banking and 
campaigning on a regular basis this year. The 
best event so far, according to Dublois, was 
the trip to Burlington for a reception with 
Governor John Kasich. 
“The event where the Vermont Republi-
can Party co-sponsored the dinner with John 
Kasich was great,” Dublois said. “Not only did 
John Kasich speak, but the Vermont Lieuten-
ant Governor spoke and the Chairman of the 
Vermont Republican party. At the end Gov-
ernor Kasich shook the hand of everyone 
there.”
College Democrats meetings are generally 
reserved for students to inform themselves 
on the issues and advocate for the candidate 
they prefer. “We want it to be a resource for 
people to engage with democratic politics,” 
Millard said. “Instead of operating as one 
club, those who want to discuss the politics 
go to College Democrats, and those looking 
to get involved in the campaigns join the Stu-
dents for Hillary or Bernie group.”
As a college in Sanders’s home state, Mid-
dlebury is home to some of his most passion-
ate young supporters. Elizabeth Lee ’17 and 
Nate Rifkin ’15 founded the national organi-
zation, Students for Bernie, which now has 
chapters at over 200 universities across the 
country. 
“It started out with me having this idea for 
Middlebury for Bernie,” Lee said. “After talk-
ing about it with other students, we thought 
it would be better to start a national organi-
zation, so we contacted our friends and stu-
dents at progressive universities. Eventually 
it got on the front page of the Daily Kos and it 
grew quickly from that.” 
Commenting on the energy she sees on 
campus, Lee said Middlebury, “is the perfect 
place for Students for Bernie to start.”
Like College Republicans does for their 
members, Students for Bernie helps facilitate 
events to raise awareness and participation in 
the campaign as much as possible. 
Middlebury Students For Hillary serves 
as Clinton’s student resource.  “We started it 
first by looking for whatever we could do to 
help,” said Will Schwartz ’16, the group’s co-
president. 
The group has done much of the grunt 
By Grant Olcott
Contributing Writer
By Lucy Grindon
Contributing Writer
CONTINUED ON PAGE 3
work to get Clinton on the ballot in Vermont 
as well as several hour and a half trips to cam-
paign in New Hampshire. 
“At first we were just a small group of 
volunteers going over to New Hampshire to 
knock on some doors,” Schwartz said. “Even-
tually, Hillary got close to 3,000 signatures 
in Vermont. We as a group collected about 
700 of 800 of those. We’ve been in touch 
with higher up people as that hard work has 
been recognized. That’s been very cool. We’re 
working hard for her.”
A range of opinions and allegiances exist 
within College Democrats and Republicans, 
but no one will dispute that the republicans 
are in the minority.
“It’s a challenge in that the state is liberal, 
the College is liberal and college students in 
general are more likely to be liberal,” Dublois 
said. “Our approach is this; we try to make 
our group to be as widespread and accommo-
dating as possible. We encourage alternative 
and varying viewpoints under the republican 
label. We get people who aren’t really sure. 
We’ve never had any issues come up, but it 
definitely is a minority opinion and that’s al-
ways in the back of our minds whenever we 
do something. But we’ve had great success. 
This year our email list went from 10 to 60 
which was a good improvement. We’re gain-
ing traction, so we’ll see what happens.”
Campaigning in Vermont — where 25 per-
cent of the population is registered as volun-
teers for Sanders — is a unique experience for 
both his supporters and opponents.
“It certainly is tough, we’re playing on his 
home turf and it’s very natural that he’ll have 
a lot of support,” Schwartz said. “What we 
found is that explaining to people that their 
signature was just to put Secretary Clinton on 
the ballot was helpful. It’s just saying that we 
want as many candidates for voters as pos-
sible. It’s a bit of an uphill challenge, but we 
like it. It’s tough work. We didn’t get into it 
to be easy. She has to compete everywhere.” 
“There’s definitely an outside sense that 
this is Bernie country and there’s huge sup-
port for Bernie on this campus. The people 
who do support Hillary are very active in 
what they do,” Millard said. 
Debate parties have also had huge turn-
outs, reflecting the political energy on cam-
pus. 
“There is a certain type of political cama-
raderie to viewing debates with people who 
share a like mind,” Travis Wayne Sanderson 
’19 said.
“The attendance at debate screenings is 
just extraordinary,” Lee said. “I don’t see 
Middlebury being a particularly politically 
active campus; It’s very academic, but even 
on school nights, during prime homework 
time, there are tons of people in McCullough 
watching the debates together.”
LP: As you know this question of inclusivity 
is a major priority for me. We can and should 
discuss in constructive ways how we handle 
situations of offense. We are just now put-
ting in place the bias incident protocol, which 
means that there are procedures for when 
these incidents occur. And we need to uphold 
our community standards of conduct and 
speech that are already in place, which spe-
cifically emphasize that we should work to re-
port and change unwelcome behavior before 
the environment becomes difficult or hostile 
for those affected. I also think that the oppo-
sition between free speech and inclusivity is a 
false one. We become a more inclusive com-
munity through the exercise of free speech. 
That also means that we try to create resilient 
spaces, where all members of our community 
have the skills to deal with an offense when it 
occurs. Because offenses occur in both small 
and large scales, and we are also dealing with 
structural bias that involves the slower pro-
cess of systemic change, multiple solutions 
are needed: protocols for bias incident re-
porting; resilience training; constant review 
of bias in our systems and constant encour-
agement toward constructive engagement. 
MC: In light of recent events involving ra-
cial injustice issues across college campuses, 
what does a more inclusive Middlebury look 
like to you?
LP: I would love to see students and faculty 
and staff become less afraid of engaging con-
structively with each other on difficult top-
ics. That alone is going to take a lot of time. 
I would also love to see better interaction in 
classrooms and on athletic fields, so that we 
can talk more comfortably across differences. 
I don’t think any campus has it right yet, but 
I think we need to be more invitational and 
develop a spirit of hospitality in spaces where 
we have been less welcoming and less mind-
ful of historically underrepresented points of 
view. 
MC: A recent New York Times op-ed titled 
“Rethinking College Admissions” raised con-
cerns about the admissions processes at the 
most selective colleges. In your opinion, are 
current admissions standards flawed and, if 
so, what can Middlebury and its peer institu-
tions do to mitigate the issue?
LP: Middlebury is a proud member of the 
Coalition for Affordability and Access that 
was referred to in the report. I think turning 
the tide on the ways in which we engage ap-
plicants is essential, and we will be working 
closely with other members to see how we 
can work collectively on this issue. That in-
cludes serious consideration of many of the 
recommendations that have now been put 
forward, and focusing less on the resume and 
the “credentializing culture” and more on the 
transformative experiences of the individual 
and that individual’s capacity to transform 
the college community they enter. We also 
need to do better work with families, particu-
larly those from low-income households, who 
may not think more actively about the pos-
sibilities of a Middlebury education. The situ-
ation all colleges find themselves in is this: 
we both embrace and 
revile by the rank-
ings system and the 
system of building 
credentials. I think 
we need to focus as 
much on the life-
script as we do on the 
transcript, and that’s 
going to mean both 
outreach to differ-
ent communities as 
well as a more holis-
tic evaluation system 
of our applicants. I 
think our admissions 
office does a great job 
with that, but I have 
been impressed by 
how they are always 
looking to do better. 
MC: You carry a wealth of experiences, il-
lustrated through your extensive curriculum 
vitae and long list of honors, awards and ac-
complishments. Is there a particular feat that 
has stood out to you and marked a defining 
moment in your career?
LP: Yes. I think it was the moment I decided 
not to go into the corporate world to become 
a conflict mediator, but instead stayed in the 
academy and use my conflict mediation skills 
there. I realized then that higher education is 
one of the oldest and most fascinating forms 
of collective activity we have in civilization, 
beginning with the systems I study in ancient 
India. And that committing my life to that, 
and using conflict mediation skills in that 
context, was the most important work I could 
do as a scholar, teacher and leader. 
MC: Considering the presidential search 
process had been long and private, the an-
nouncement of your appointment came 
very suddenly. What were the moments like 
before, during and after the huge announce-
ment?
LP: The last 10 days before the announce-
ment were harrowing. I was trying to keep a 
lid on the gossip, so that both wonderful in-
stitutions of Duke and Middlebury could be 
protected. My most powerful memory was on 
the day of the announcement. My question 
was: can I come back home to New England 
having become the person I’ve become? As 
I walked up the hill with Marna Whitting-
ton, our head of the Board of Trustees, and 
Dave Donahue, my assistant, I watched ev-
eryone stream into the building to hear the 
announcement. And all of them were sur-
rounded by the unique beauty of the campus. 
That moment was deeply moving. I felt like 
I was being greeted and welcomed home by 
family I hadn’t met yet. Someone said, as I 
left the building, “The 
strength of the hills is 
hers also!” and tears 
came to my eyes. After 
the announcement we 
very quickly began the 
hard work of getting to 
know the community.
MC: What advice did 
our former president, 
Ron Liebowitz, share 
with you that has stood 
out to you? 
LP: Ron and I have 
very similar energy lev-
els and perspectives on 
how forward-looking 
higher education needs 
to be. We talked about many topics and had a 
really smooth transition, and I think his per-
spective on keeping this creative energy alive 
at Middlebury was most helpful. The conti-
nuity of vision was a great blessing.
MC: What are lessons you have learned from 
the students of the College so far?
LP: Middlebury students are extraordinary 
and I have been spending a lot of time with 
them. They want to be creative and they want 
the College to get out of the way and help 
them do that. I have learned about next steps 
on sustainability; I have learned how they 
want to push us on more inclusive practices 
and I frequently feel that if I ask students to 
help I am going to get extraordinary respons-
es. I am always cheered up when I spend time 
with students.
MC: Favorite memory or activity from your 
first J-term?
LP: One scavenger hunt team crafted a won-
derful response to the presidential challenge, 
where they found a new community or artis-
tic use for several of the scientific instruments 
in our special collections. It was fabulous! 
And then the next day I got all the sweaters 
that different teams had knit for Padma and 
Suka, my great Pyrenees dogs. Science, arts, 
community and sweaters – as they say in Yid-
dish: what’s not to like?
february 25, 2016 |  3        News
Patton Reflects On Eight Months at Midd
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Don Kjelleren 
leaves CCI
By Caroline Jaschke
Staff Writer
On Feb. 5, Don Kjelleren resigned 
as Director of Professional and Career 
Development for the Center for Careers and 
Internships (CCI). He ended his 17  years 
at the College to become the Director of the 
Williams College Career Center.
Kjelleren will be replaced by Ursula 
Olender, Associate Dean of Students and 
Director of the Career Center at Amherst 
College, who will start on March 21. She 
has further experience as the Director of 
Career Services at Colgate University and 
the Associate Director of Career Services at 
Dartmouth College. In the interim, students 
looking for advising in finance, consulting 
and business can schedule appointments 
with Susan Walker, associate director at the 
CCI.
While at Middlebury, Kjelleren specialized 
in guiding students interested in finance, 
consulting and business. Sarah Sicular ’16, a 
peer career advisor in the CCI, said, “So many 
students come in for finance and he had a 
huge personal network and always had all of 
the interests of his students at heart. I think 
a lot of students are really missing out that 
they don’t get to have Don as their advisor. 
He helped build up the Middlebury pipeline 
to careers in finance.”
During his career at the College, Kjelleren 
built up a large web of connections by 
networking with alumni, parents and 
companies visiting campus. Peggy Burns, 
Director of the CCI, reassures students that 
Ursula will be coming with that exact same 
network from her previous work, particularly 
at Colgate and Amherst. “We could not have 
asked for a more seamless transition,” she 
said. 
Besides spending time advising students, 
Kjelleren trains as a triathlete with world 
ranking. He also has enjoyed biking to work 
on warm summer days and swimming in the 
freezing cold of Lake Champlain. 
About her colleague Burns said, “It was 
fun having someone in the office with this 
incredible athletic prowess and experience 
with extreme sports. He has a good sense of 
humor and he cared very much about the 
staff and the students.”
Although Kjelleren says he will miss those 
bike rides, his colleagues and the students, he 
very much looks forward to in his new job. He 
is excited for the challenge of a tremendous 
growth opportunity. He said, “The culture 
and feel of the Williams Career Center is very 
different than Middlebury’s, in part because 
the Center is housed in College Advancement 
and so there are about 90 professional staff 
running around at high speed doing great 
things.”
While Kjelleren’s colleagues are certainly 
sad to lose him to Williams, they are excited 
about the great opportunity ahead of him. 
Furthermore, he leaves an excellent finance 
and consulting program behind him, which 
according to Burns is a strong foundation that 
the CCI expects to build upon in the future.
Burns believes this foundation will only 
benefit from the new perspective Olender 
brings. 
“Ursula is coming from a campus that 
has a strong commitment to diversity and it 
is something she is particularly passionate 
about,” Burns said. “Her feet are firmly 
planted in the idea that these four years are 
a developmental process and she really wants 
to meet students where they are. She’s very 
committed to making the career exploration 
process a little less scary for students.”
Kjelleren leaves some parting words of 
advice, “Students, shift your focus from ‘What 
do you want to do?’ to ‘Who do you want to 
be?’ Be confident, dream big and don’t settle 
for less.”
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2
Students Organize on Campus 
for Primary Candidates
their behalf. Cultural organizations exist for 
a reason and we should not try to take over 
their roles.”
According to Gratch, the Senate has been 
discussing how the SGA can “better serve 
students of color and other marginalized 
students on campus” since the fall. This has 
included SGA members participating in town 
hall meetings to discuss what “real allyship 
looks like,” and discussing various relevant 
initiatives. As well, the SGA is considering 
continuing the town hall meetings that Chief 
Diversity Officer and Professor of Spanish 
Miguel Fernández led in the fall.
“I think one overriding consensus we 
reached is that the Senate can and should do 
more to be actively reaching out to students 
whose voices aren’t necessarily the loudest, 
particularly students of color and students of 
other marginalized identities, to ensure that 
we are doing our job as representatives and 
members of the Middlebury community,” 
Gratch said.
SGA Talks 
Inclusivity, 
MLK Event
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Kjelleren spent 17 years working at the 
College.
College Commmunications
“I would love to see
students and faculty and 
staff become less afraid of 
engaging constructively 
with each other on
difficult topics. That alone 
is going to take a lot of 
time.”
Laurie Patton
President of the College
local
Bernie Sanders enjoys more popular 
support in Vermont than any other state 
in the nation. Yet even here, Sanders 
faces an uphill climb for the Democratic 
nomination. The reason: superdelegates.
As Ben Kamisar explains in the Hill, 
superdelegates are 
“state party insiders 
given the freedom to 
support any candidate 
they choose.” 
Nationally, they 
are choosing Clinton 
over Sanders in large 
margins. Current-
ly, Sanders has won 
the support of only 
19 party-loyalists, to 
Clinton’s 451. Even in 
Vermont, of the nine 
superdelegates voting on Super Tuesday 
(March 1), four have pledged to support 
Hillary Clinton and three are undecided. 
Only two have pledged to support Sand-
ers – including himself. 
Superdelegates hurt Sanders bad-
ly in New Hampshire. Although he 
trounced Clinton in the state primary, 
winning 15 delegates to her nine, Clin-
ton had already secured the votes of six 
party-loyalists, which put her at a virtual 
tie with Sanders.
On Super Tuesday, the Clinton cam-
paign hopes to use superdelegate sup-
port to pull away entirely. The super-
delegate system, which The Guardian 
has described as a ‘ticking time-bomb’ 
for the Democratic Primary,  were first 
established in 1984 by Democratic party 
leaders. They were designed in order to 
to prevent the most ideologically polar-
izing members of the party, who could 
not win in a general election, from get-
ting nominated. They 
were a response to the 
Presidential Election of 
1972, when George Mc-
Govern was trounced by 
Richard Nixon. McGov-
ern was beaten in every 
state in the nation except 
for Massachusetts, and 
won only 37 percent of 
the popular vote.
In the 2016 race, su-
perdelegates are choos-
ing Clinton over Sand-
ers for the same reason. “I told her if 
she decided to run I would support her 
and would be willing to do whatever she 
likes,” said Senator Leahy (D) of Ver-
mont. “I’ve made no secret of that ever 
since then.”
Sanders has been fighting to keep the 
momentum moving forward. In an inter-
view on Face the Nation last week, Sand-
ers explained that he hoped to woo fel-
low superdelegates in the coming week.
“If we continue to do well around the 
country and if superdelegates—whose 
main interest in life is to make sure that 
we do not have a Republican in the White 
House—if they understand that I am the 
candidate...best suited to defeat the Re-
publican nominee, I think they will start 
coming over to us,” Sanders said on the 
program.
Indeed, this is the cornerstone of 
the entire Sanders campaign: win early, 
and win big. Unlike normal delegates, 
superdelegates are unbound to the most 
popular candidates in their state, which 
could allow Sanders to take a larger piece 
of the pie even in states he does not win. 
The 2008 Obama campaign rode simi-
lar momentum to victory, and began at 
a comparable superdelegate deficit to 
Sanders.
On Reddit and other news forums, a 
grassroots effort is underway to change 
the superdelegate system entirely. One 
petition on MoveOn.org, stating “The 
race for the Democratic Party nomina-
tion should be decided by who gets the 
most votes, and not who has the most 
support from party insiders,” has already 
gathered 175,000 signatures.
courtesty Google
Clinton has captured 502 delegates to Sanders’ 70, most of whom were party superdelegates.
Democratic Superdelegates Key to Sanders Campaign
Harry Cramer
Local Editor
Despite Sanders’ 20-point margin 
of victory in Vermont’s neighboring 
state of New Hampshire, Senator Patrick 
Leahy reiterated last week that he will 
continue to support Clinton’s candidacy, 
and plans to cast his superdelegate vote 
in her favor.
Leahy and Sanders have served 
alongside each other in the Senate for 
almost a decade. Combined, the two 
men have over fifty years of experience 
in Washington. 
Leahy has represented Vermont in 
the Senate since 1975, while Sanders was 
first elected to the House of Represen-
tatives in 1991, where he remained until 
his 2006 ascendance to the Senate. Both 
progressives, Sanders and Leahy have no 
drastic ideological disagreements. Nev-
ertheless, Leahy repre-
sents the Democratic 
Party establishment 
in a way that Sanders, 
who only recently reg-
istered as a Democrat 
after decades as an In-
dependent, does not. 
Leahy is a member of 
the Clinton campaign’s 
“Vermont Leadership 
Council,” a 25-person 
committee that in-
cludes state elites such 
as former Governor 
Howard Dean and in-
cumbent Governor Pe-
ter Shumlin.
As a sitting Demo-
cratic Member of Con-
gress, Leahy is automatically conferred 
the title of superdelegate – a delegate 
to the Democratic National Convention 
who is free to support any candidate for 
the party’s nomination, unlike a typical 
delegate who is bound by the primary re-
sults of his or her home state. And while 
Sanders is widely expected to win easily 
in Vermont’s March 1 primary election, 
Leahy says that he cannot go back on his 
pledge to support Clinton.
“One of the touchstones of our fami-
ly – I learned it from my grandparents, I 
learned it from my parents and I’ve tried 
to teach my children – is you keep your 
word,” he said. “Long before Senator 
Sanders ever said he was going to run, I 
urged then-Secretary Clinton to run and 
told her I’d support her. I think anybody 
who knows me, anybody who knows my 
years as state’s attorney or my years in 
the Senate, knows that I’d never break 
my word. And certainly Senator Sanders 
would never ask me to break my word, 
nor has he.”
Middlebury College Professor of 
Political Science Bert Johnson says that 
Leahy’s consistency hardly comes as a 
surprise.
“It’s not all that 
unusual for a super-
delegate to support 
someone other than the 
most popular candidate 
in the state,” Johnson 
said in an interview. 
Indeed, as a forty-
year incumbent who 
remains popular in his 
home state, Leahy re-
cently scored a 71 per-
cent approval rating 
among his constitu-
ents. Sanders is first 
among all Senators 
with 83 percent sup-
port. 
Leahy has little to lose even by en-
dorsing the eventual loser of his state’s 
primary. Clinton remains the Democrat-
ic front-runner by virtually any metric, 
and while Sanders’ resilience has proved 
surprising, he remains the undeniable 
underdog as Super Tuesday looms on 
March 1. In other words, aside from his 
self-professed determination to keep his 
word, it also makes 
political sense for 
Leahy to align with 
the candidate who 
remains most likely 
to capture the nom-
ination by August.
Yet if Clinton 
does come out on 
top, Johnson says 
that superdelegate 
votes like Leahy’s 
will probably not be 
the deciding factor 
after all. 
“I would be 
very surprised if the 
superdelegates were 
decisive in this elec-
tion,” Johnson said. 
“In 2008, when they had the potential 
to be decisive, they fell in line with the 
leader among elected delegates, Barack 
Obama, even after Hillary Clinton had 
a substantial lead in superdelegate en-
dorsements early 
in the campaign.”
Indeed, how-
ever things shake 
out, Leahy made 
one thing clear: 
he is a Democrat 
above anything 
else. 
“If Senator 
Sanders is the 
nominee, I’ll hap-
pily campaign all 
over the coun-
try for him,” said 
Leahy. “We’ve 
worked together, 
he’s a good friend 
of mine, our wives 
are friends and I’m 
proud of a lot of the issues he’s raised.”
Senator Leahy Pledges Superdelegate Vote to Clinton
Senator Leahy pledged his support for Hillary Clinton early in her presidential bid.
Courtesy famm.org
By Nick Garber
Contributing Writer
“One of the touch-
stones of our family 
– I learned it from 
my parents, and 
I’ve tried to teach 
my children – is you 
keep your word.”
Patrick Leahy (D)
Vermont state Senator
“I would be very surprised 
if the superdelegates were 
decisive in this election. 
In 2008, when they had 
to potential to be decisive, 
they fell in line with the 
leader among elected del-
egates, Barack Obama.”
Bert Johnson
Professor of political science
“If we continue to 
do well around the 
country...I think 
[superdelegates] 
will start coming 
over to us.”
Bernie Sanders (D)
Democratic Presidential Candidate
Vermont is revolutionizing the work-
place, as the state has recently passed a bill 
requiring employers to provide paid sick 
leave for their workers.  Currently, it is esti-
mated that there are about 60,000 Vermont-
ers who do not receive 
paid sick leave, many of 
whom are women who 
hold low-wage jobs. 
The bill, H. 187, 
has been met with much 
debate, and the implica-
tions of the bill for the 
small businesses of Ver-
mont have been hotly 
contested in the Ver-
mont House and Senate.
The bill, which was 
given preliminary ap-
proval by the full Sen-
ate, would dictate that 
employers provide their 
workers with three sick 
days a year in 2017 and 
2018, and then five sick 
days by 2019. 
Jim Harrison, the Executive Director of 
the Vermont Retail and Grocers Association, 
claimed that the bill hurt businesses unable 
to afford the steep medical costs.
“[The bill] disproportionately impacts 
the smallest businesses in the state,” Harri-
son said in an interview with Vermont Public 
Radio.  
However, others see the benefits of this 
mandate as outweighing the risks it poses 
to small Vermont businesses.  One of those 
people is Rutland Senator Kevin Mullin (R), 
who ensures that the 
benefits of this bill en-
tail “reduced employee 
turnover, the cost of 
productivity losses as a 
result of payment to ill 
workers who underper-
form while on the job, 
reduced spread of conta-
gious diseases, reduced 
emergency room use 
and other health-related 
benefits.”  
This bill also ben-
efits those who consume 
Vermont food products. 
Nationwide, 90 percent 
of food workers report 
that they go to work sick, 
and about 65 percent of 
foodborne illnesses are 
the consequence of food handled by an ill 
person.  Thus, there would be a public benefit 
to having paid sick leave as well. 
Of course, this does not mean that there 
would be no cost to the businesses.  In an an-
nouncement from the Legislature’s Joint Fis-
cal Office, it is estimated that this healthcare 
mandate would cost businesses around 11 
million dollars in additional labor costs when 
implemented in its most extreme form.
The Senate version of this bill would 
have some exceptions in 
its application.  Federal 
employees, employees 
under 18, and those work-
ing less than 18 hours a 
week or 21 weeks a year 
would not qualify for this 
mandate.  
During the debate, 
some proponents favored 
an exemption to the bill 
for businesses with five 
employees or fewer. If 
this bill did not apply to 
businesses with five em-
ployees or fewer, then 60 
percent of Vermont busi-
nesses would not fit un-
der the qualifications of 
the mandate.  In turn, this 
means that approximately 22,000 workers 
in the state of Vermont would not be covered 
for their sick days and would be presumably 
contributing to the creation of an unhealthy 
environment.
Eventually, after a dramatic vote-turn-
over, no exemptions were included for the 
small businesses.
Kris Jolin, a Capitol Connections lobby-
ist representing the National Federation of 
Independent Business noted his disapproval 
with the bill in an interview with Valley News. 
“This will no doubt 
come at a high cost to 
small businesses,” Jolin 
said, “and will certainly 
have a serious effect on 
jobs and the economy in 
our state.  We implore 
members of the House 
to take into account the 
detrimental impact that 
imposing such a man-
date will have on job cre-
ation and the difficulty 
that the small business 
sector will have in ab-
sorbing the price of this 
legislation.”
The House did ulti-
mately approve the Sen-
ate changes, and H. 187 
is fully expected to be signed by Governor 
Shumlin in the near future.
Vermont will become the fifth state to 
mandate paid sick leave for employees.
Shumlin to Sign Bill Requiring Paid Sick Leave in Vermont
By Rebecca Walker
Local Editor
“[The Bill will have 
benefits like] em-
ployee turnover, the 
cost of producivity 
losses...the spread of 
contagious diseases, 
reduced emergency 
room use and other 
health-related ben-
efits.”
Rutland Senator  Kevin mullin (R)
“This will no doubt 
come at a high cost 
to small businesses 
and will certainly 
have a serious ef-
fect on jobs and 
the economy in our 
state.”
Kris Jolin
Capitol connections lobbyist
February 25, 2016 | 5local
Issues related to race, privilege and 
language have been frequently and pub-
licly discussed on our campus in the 
last few months. Town-hall forums were 
orchestrated by 
Miguel Fernandez, 
Chief Diversity 
Officer and Pro-
fessor of Spanish. 
Numerous op-eds 
have been pub-
lished. Some of 
these op-eds have 
incited powerful and pointed reactions. 
Katrina Drury’s “I’m Only Human” is one 
of them. 
Many have disagreed with Drury’s 
statements. We commend those who have 
voiced their dissent. Others have taken 
issue with The Campus’ decision to pub-
lish Drury’s op-ed. Some of the pieces we 
publish are undoubtedly controversial. 
While the editorial board takes issue 
with the content of Drury’s argument, we 
stand by our decision to publish it.
First, we would like to clarify our 
publication process. Any member of the 
Middlebury community is welcome to 
submit a “Reader Op-ed” to The Campus. 
These “Reader Op-eds” are not submit-
ted by members of the editorial board; 
pieces written by editorial board mem-
bers are traditionally labeled “Notes 
from the Desk.” Opinions of the editorial 
board as a group can also — of course — 
be found in our editorials; read the Dec. 
9 editorial, “A Call for Compassion,” for 
our board’s thoughts on race, cultural 
appropriation and language. In it we call 
on white students to proactively address 
racism: “our community must learn how 
to not be racist rather than simply how to 
not appear racist. This is not a chore; it is 
a vital and overdue opportunity.”  
“Reader Op-eds,” however, come from 
community members who are not in-
volved or affiliated with The Campus. 
These submissions must employ the same 
grammar and structure expected of news-
papers. We do not accept articles that 
take the form of lists or poetry; there are 
other platforms on campus that publish 
this style of content. Likewise, “Reader 
Op-ed” submissions may not contain li-
bel or violent threats, as indicated weekly 
in a disclaimer located in the grey sec-
tion below the masthead: “The Campus 
reserves the right to deny publication of 
all or part of a submission for any reason. 
This includes, but is not limited to: the 
making of assertions based on hearsay; 
the relation of private conversations; the 
libelous mention of unverifiable events; 
the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks.” 
If a submission follows these rules and 
is able to articulate an opinion — no mat-
ter how controversial that opinion may be 
— we will publish it. We do not wish to be 
selective in this manner; to deem one ar-
ticle worthy and another unworthy would 
give our editors power they ought not to 
have. This means that we publish con-
tent with which we agree, as well as con-
tent with which we disagree. The Cam-
pus’ choice to publish an article is by no 
means equivalent to an endorsement. We 
do not solicit opinions from Middlebury 
students and we do not invent the ideas 
that are seen within the Opinions pages. 
Some may wonder if publishing con-
troversial pieces — pieces with the poten-
tial to offend — does our community any 
good. We’d argue that refusing to publish 
controversial pieces does the Middlebury 
community a disservice. Sometimes our 
op-eds contain incendiary ideas. Pub-
lishing a controversial opinion does not 
create a controversial opinion; it simply 
makes the opinion visible. Such visibil-
ity moves the reader to acknowledge that 
opinion’s existence within our commu-
nity.  
Once an op-ed has been published, it 
can be challenged. It can be debated. It 
can be persuaded against, modified, em-
bellished, satirized, reworded or trans-
formed entirely. Readers — members of 
this community — can come together to 
address some of the most challenging 
issues of our time. We can educate one 
another. It is only by making arguments 
visible — and therefore susceptible to cri-
tique — that they can be confronted. 
We believe that a controversial opin-
ion, one held unchallenged in silence and 
secrecy, benefits no one. The opportunity 
to question one another’s opinions can 
benefit us all. We are here to learn from 
one another, to understand histories and 
cultures with which we are not familiar, 
to discover the nuances between being 
“right” and “wrong.” To defend, question 
and amend what we believe — vulnerable 
to the reckoning of our peers — we must 
first say what we believe out loud. 
Many opinions submited to The Cam-
pus are inflammatory and make members 
of our community feel unsafe. It has been 
brought to our attention that a trigger 
warning could prevent undue emotional 
stress for many students. Although an 
article may not contain a direct threat 
(as described in the aforementioned dis-
claimer), we understand that one can still 
feel threatened. However, the line be-
tween what is triggering and what is not 
is blurry and subjective; what is trigger-
ing to one student may not be triggering 
to another. The editorial board does not 
believe it should draw that distinction; 
to do so would serve in and of itself as a 
form of undue editorial power.
However, we understand that commu-
nity standards may be shifting around 
what is acceptable speech. We hear those 
voices and we care. At the same time, we 
prize freedom of expression and don’t 
want to limit it without very serious 
discussion from the student body about 
what exactly those standards are.
Thus, we provide a platform for all 
Middlebury students. We assume the risk 
that some of that content does not fit the 
criteria for a universally safe space. Cen-
soring views that threaten us does not 
eliminate the existence of those views. 
There must be safe spaces at Middlebury, 
but they are not within the Opinions pag-
es of the paper. The assumption must be 
that content within has the potential to 
make one feel uncomfortable. This paper 
cannot be any safer than the voices that 
exist on the campus it reflects. 
The Campus gives students space to 
voice their opinions. No one event or 
opinion should define this publication. 
This section is a reflection of the submis-
sions we receive. If you feel your opinion 
is underrepresented in The Campus, we 
urge you to write your own “Reader Op-
ed.” As a predominantly white editorial 
board, we acknowledge the distrust that 
minority students may hold for this pub-
lication. We are looking for ways to make 
this space more inclusive. The Campus is 
the student newspaper. You, the student 
body, are the curators of our content. We 
encourage you to write — and respond 
— with a sense of duty, compassion and 
integrity. 
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submission 
will be considered a letter to the editor. The opin-
ions expressed by contributors to the Opinions sec-
tion, as well as reviews, columns, editorial comics 
and other commentary, are views of the individual 
contributors and do not necessarily reflect the opin-
ions of the newspaper. The Campus welcomes let-
ters to the editor at 250 words or less, or opinions 
submissions at 800 words or less. Submit works 
directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, cam-
pus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site 
at  www.middleburycampus.com. To be considered 
for publications, submissions must be received by 5 
p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit 
all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
A Paper for the People
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Claire Abbadi
MANAGING EDITOR
Leah Lavigne
BUSINESS MANAGER
Wyatt French
NEWS EDITORS 
Christian Jambora, Eliza Teach, Phil Bohl-
man, Ellie Reinhardt
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Sara Hodgkins, Francesca Haass, Lauren 
Alper, Nina Colombotos 
SPORTS EDITORS 
Joe MacDonald, Alex Morris, Emily 
Bustard, Andrew Rigas, Will Case, Remo 
Plunkett
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer
FEATURES EDITORS 
Emilie Munson, Ethan Brady, Henry Bur-
nett, Renee Chang
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Elizabeth Zhou, Toby Aicher, Oakley 
Haight 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel Frank, Anahi Naranjo, Michael 
O’Hara, Anthea Viragh, Michael Boren-
stein 
DESIGN EDITOR
Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Boone McCoy-Crisp
ONLINE EDITORS
Maggie Cochrane, Pyone Aye 
COPY EDITOR
Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOST
Nathaniel Wiener
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITORS
 Nathaniel Wiener, Pyone Aye
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
official opinion of 
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
If We Vote Bernie, We Have to Own It
I came very close to passing up Ber-
nie’s big dreams for the sake of rational-
ity last week. But in the end, I sent in my 
ballot for the Vermont primary with a 
vote for Bernie, thanks to my naive faith 
in America’s most unreliable electorate 
(I’m not kidding).
Like many millennials, I initially 
jumped at the opportunity to support a 
candidate whose vision and views on is-
sues are almost exactly aligned with my 
own beliefs about what America should 
look like. I’ve also been a long-time sup-
porter of Bernie and am especially in-
spired by his enthusiasm to reform the 
way our campaigns are financed. But 
something about seeing Hillary’s name 
on my absentee ballot last week made me 
stop and think: by passing up an oppor-
tunity to support an icon of the Demo-
cratic establishment, am I jeopardizing 
the Democratic Party’s chance of win-
ning the general election?
 I realize that Bernie’s campaign is, or 
at least was, largely symbolic and that 
his chances of winning the nomination 
are slim at best. (For more on Bernie’s 
slim chance, just ask any Political Sci-
ence professor here). But I think we 
should at least consider what happens if 
Bernie becomes the nominee.
 Voting for Bernie, the democratic so-
cialist from Vermont, essentially means 
that you think the current political sys-
tem (largely controlled by wealthy in-
dividuals and corporate interests) isn’t 
working. You reject the consumerist, 
me-first way of life of our parents’ gen-
eration and envision a more sustainable, 
more caring and more economically just 
America. You rec-
ognize, given the 
degree to which the 
American political 
spectrum has shift-
ed rightward, that 
Bernie’s progres-
sive proposals — 
such as free college 
tuition and univer-
sal health care — 
really aren’t that 
radical and should 
therefore be taken 
seriously.
 Voting for Hillary, at least for me, 
would have meant that I was content 
with the pragmatic, incremental changes 
that she’s proposed, and that I was skep-
tical of Bernie’s ability to beat a Republi-
can nominee — and maybe even his abil-
ity to run the country.
 In the final moments before cast-
ing my vote, holding my pen over the 
bubbles on my ballot, it was Bernie’s 
dubious electability in a general election 
that almost gave Hillary my vote. Even 
former MIT Professor and social activist 
Noam Chompsky admitted in a recent 
interview with TruthDig that Hillary 
would likely have an easier time defeat-
ing a Republican nominee.
 A lot of my concern stems from the 
fact that Bernie has yet to be tested. If 
Bernie’s the Democratic nominee, big 
money will throw an insane amount 
of negative advertising at uninformed 
Americans — ad-
vertising that will 
likely associate 
Bernie with the 
apocalypse, a false 
description of the 
New Deal social-
ism that he actually 
stands for, and who 
knows what else. 
That’s what we 
Bernie supporters 
could be up against 
in the general elec-
tion.
Fortunately, millennials now make 
up about 36 percent of eligible voters. If 
we were to vote at our capacity, we’d be 
the country’s largest voting bloc. So, es-
sentially, the choice is ours.
 But, if like me, you do vote for Ber-
nie, you have to own it. If Bernie wins 
because of idealistic people like us, then 
we must translate our faith into action. 
That means we not only have to turnout 
in a general election, but we must also 
inspire our friends to do the same.
 
Reader op-ed
Day Robins ’17 is from 
Humboldt, CA 
“Fortunately, millenials 
now make up about 37 per-
cent of voters. If we were 
to vote at our capacity, 
we’d be the country’s larg-
est voting bloc. So, essen-
tially, the choice is ours.”
When the Micro Becomes Macro
We are writing directly in response to 
the op-ed from the last issue, “I’m Only 
Human.” The op-ed has upset a lot of 
people and has hurt a lot more. As dem-
onstrated by the polarized comment sec-
tion online, it unfortunately represents 
the views of a sizable portion of the stu-
dent body. And while censoring their 
views would not be productive, we must 
explain why they are misguided.
Cultural appropriation and microag-
gressions may appear trivial compared 
to the experiences of people like Tray-
von Martin, Michael Brown and Sandra 
Bland. At Middlebury, people of color are 
not getting shot. But racism on this cam-
pus is very real. 
Middlebury College, despite the won-
derful education it provides, can be a 
painful and isolating place for many 
black students. 
“You’re kinda an Oreo. Black on the 
outside and 
white on the in-
side!”
“I don’t re-
ally see you as a 
black person.”
These com-
ments can shape 
how students of 
color perceive 
themselves at 
Middlebury. We 
might feel weak 
or inferior when 
people use the n word; as “ghetto” when 
people appropriate the ghetto; or as un-
intelligent when people joke about the 
way we speak.
True, a white student saying the n-
word is not an international crisis like 
Syria or Boko Haram, which the author 
cited as “more important things to worry 
about.” But the accumulation of micro-
aggressions is a macroaggression. They 
shape how minorities are treated in the 
real world. Seeing black people as “ag-
gressive” can 
trigger police 
brutality, and 
seeing them as 
“stupid” could 
inhibit their 
ability to get 
hired. This prej-
udice is just the 
top layer of a 
worldview that 
sys temat ica l ly 
exploits people 
of color, and a 
litany of others, so it is crucial that we 
challenge it here at Middlebury. 
In an effort to ignore this reality, some 
advocate a form of perverted humanism 
– the idea that we can all get along with 
each other on the understanding that 
we are all human beings, not as “black, 
white, gay or straight.” Some may think, 
“We all are human, and ought not worry 
about differences like gender, sexual-
ity or race. Progress is sloppy, and we 
shouldn’t be monitoring our own speech 
or behavior. Make mistakes, think big 
and don’t take anything personally!”
This is callous. Like it or not, we do 
not live in a post-racial society. Even 
children, from a very early age, begin dis-
tinguishing between different races. We 
should acknowledge the reality we live 
in, instead of inventing another, even if 
it does make life more complicated.
And one final point: As students, we 
are not as removed from the real world 
as we would like to think. When we 
leave Middlebury we will become law-
enforcement, teachers and parents. At 
that time, the argument over ‘micro’ or 
‘macro’ issues parodies itself: Inequality 
is inequality, and prejudice is prejudice. 
And respecting the dignity of all people 
should not be a chore. 
Reader op-ed
Harry Cramer ’16.5 is a Local Editor 
from Wellesley, MA and 
Kahari Blue ’19 is from
New Haven, CT 
Talk About It, Would Ya?
THE LO-DOWN
Lauren Alper ’16 
is from Mill Valley, CA
“When we leave Middlebury we 
will become law-enforcement, 
teachers and parents. At that 
time, the argument over ‘mi-
cro’ or ‘macro’ issues parodies 
itself: Inequality is inequality, 
and prejudice is prejudice.”
The Inclusion of Our Humanity
“The National Institute of 
Health found the nearly one in 
ten people between the age of 18 
and 25 will experience a major 
depressive episode.” 
february 25, 2016 | 7opinions
Dear Katrina,
As always, the willingness to put pen 
to paper, with a signature, and publish 
it in a public forum is important and ad-
mirable. Thank you for taking the time 
to write and for offering your thoughts. 
As I understood your op-ed, you are 
deeply frustrated with what you perceive 
to be hyper-sensitivity among many 
students. You wrote, “We have devel-
oped such a thin skin, taking everything 
personally and getting offended at the 
tiniest things. We’re lucky that we live 
in a country where we have the kind of 
luxury to whine about people hurting 
our feelings.” I would actually argue 
that feelings matter and the fact that you 
shared your feelings so passionately is 
affirmation of that claim. But, what re-
ally confused me about your statement 
was that in all three public forums that 
I attended, and in conversations, I have 
never heard anyone talk about ‘hurt feel-
ings’ nor did I hear anyone asking for 
any kind of censorship. Rather, what I 
heard, repeatedly, was a call for all of 
us to imagine and be curious about how 
patterns of behavior, both personal and 
institutional, that are often taken at face 
value as neutral are, in fact, hostile and 
exclusionary. 
One way to think about this is to call 
to mind the ‘melting pot’ metaphor. Gen-
erally, the term refers to the idea that 
the unique cultural identity of the USA is 
made through the assimilation or ‘melt-
ing’ of previously distinct ethnic groups 
or cultures into one.  Sounds nice and 
inclusive.  But, an interesting question 
to ask is, “Who is in charge of stirring 
the pot?” In my experience, when most 
“White” people are asked to reflect on 
this question they realize that they had 
assumed that 
a “White” 
person was 
always in 
control of 
the stirring. 
If you are 
“White,” and 
someone of a 
different gen-
der, or eth-
nicity, race, 
sexuality was 
stirring the 
pot would 
you jump in? 
(And it is worth remembering that, his-
torically, few have had much of a choice). 
In other words, are you willing to adapt 
and change to others in a way that they 
have been required to adapt? Suddenly, 
what was presumed to be a warm, friend-
ly, non-ideological space where everyone 
assimilates becomes not so warm and 
friendly when I/“White” person has to 
relinquish control. Turns out the melt-
ing pot does not refer to the melding of 
everyone into some new, hybrid expres-
sion of unity, but an effort to demand 
that everyone adapt to “White” norms. 
Maybe, that thin skin is actually my own 
as I realize that I do not want to blend/
listen/change.
The realization that the melting pot is 
not a neutral space is akin to the tran-
sition from ‘diversity’ to ‘inclusion’ on 
college campuses. Diversity is the effort 
to ensure that historically under-repre-
sented groups are given fair and equal 
opportunities to enjoy a college educa-
tion.  Under 
the ‘diversity’ 
mindset, the 
institution is 
assumed to 
be a neutral 
place where 
everyone can 
succeed if 
they just work 
hard. The in-
stitution does 
not need to 
change be-
cause, you 
know, it is 
fine and exists in some mythically neu-
tral space of higher education. If you are 
having problems, it must be you. You 
just need better mentoring. But, after de-
cades of ‘diversity’ initiatives, more and 
more students challenged this assump-
tion as they experienced an intense and 
deep cost to ‘success.’ Turns out places 
of higher education like Middlebury 
are not neutral spaces at all — they are 
filled with all sorts of restrictive norms 
regarding ‘appropriate’ behavior, what 
a ‘normal’ student looks like, literally, 
what counts as worthy of academic in-
vestigation and what does not, and, and, 
and. Like the melting pot, these restric-
tive norms come out of one particular 
cultural tradition that is now being chal-
lenged to realize the fact that it is one 
among many cultures not some neutral 
standard.
Thus, inclusion is the next, much 
more difficult evolution. Inclusion re-
quires the institution — which means 
each and every one of us — to examine 
long-standing patterns and norms that 
those who are from the dominant group 
thought were neutral, but that actually 
create hostile environments. It is really 
important that each of us, in our mul-
tiple identities and multiple campus 
roles, recognize that the challenge of in-
clusion has nothing to do with ‘feelings’ 
in the manner in which we normally 
think. Again, in our forums and in vari-
ous writings I have not heard any stu-
dent complain about their feelings being 
hurt. What I heard, repeatedly, was a 
call to examine hostile and exclusionary 
patterns that are based on centuries of 
both intentionally exclusionary and just 
plain, thoughtless behavior. As a com-
munity, we must commit to staying curi-
ous and compassionate with one another 
as we continue to evolve. We are so new 
to this that there is already a sense of ex-
haustion. Well, get some rest everyone. 
We are just getting started.
 
Jonathan Miller-Lane
Associate Professor & Director, 
Education Studies Program
Faculty Head, Wonnacott Commons
Reader op-ed
Jonathan Miller-Lane is the Director 
of the Education Studies Program “Inclusion requires the institu-
tion — which means each and ev-
ery one of us — to examine long-
standing patterns and norms that 
those who are from the dominant 
group thought were neutral, but 
that actually create hostile envi-
ronments.”
I wrote an article last semester on men-
tal health on campus. Here is why this 
problem is still relevant.
I am a human being attending college. 
If you are 
reading this, 
chances are 
you are also 
a human be-
ing attending 
college. The 
current population of students in college 
is experiencing an incredibly high rate of 
mental health issues. The National Insti-
tute of Health found that nearly one in 
ten people between the age of 18 and 25 
will experience a major depressive epi-
sode. One in three young adults will have 
an anxiety disorder. Although women are 
twice as likely to experience a depressive 
episode and 60 percent more likely to 
have an anxiety disorder, these are issues 
that are extensively affecting the entire 
college-age population. Depression and 
anxiety are not the only mental health is-
sues at hand. Eating disorders, trauma, 
OCD and more are endemic on college 
campuses.
Some factors 
exacerbate these 
problems for our 
generation; UCLA 
found that people 
are spending an av-
erage of six hours a 
week on social me-
dia. Multiple stud-
ies — such as one 
by Johan Bollan at 
Indiana University — have found that 
time on social media is inversely corre-
lated with happiness. Technology is not 
the only problematic factor. According to 
a 2014 report by the Council of Economic 
Advisers, more students than ever are re-
lying on loans to pay for secondary educa-
tion. There are many social, economic and 
academic pressures at this age and in this 
type of community.
 There are two primary reasons for my 
interest in 
the extreme 
prevalence 
of mental 
health is-
sues in col-
lege. The 
first is that, 
after work-
ing in a 
n e u r o s c i -
ence lab 
that studies depression, I became more 
aware of the detrimental effect that men-
tal health struggles have on daily life, 
and that the biological origins of these 
struggles have yet to be fully explained. 
The second reason is that, after countless 
conversations with seemingly happy but 
secretly very unhappy people, I have come 
to the conclusion that everyone has their 
own demons. The reality is that these de-
mons go completely unacknowledged or 
ignored because they are not considered 
“societally acceptable” to discuss.
Therefore, I have decided to spend 
my semester examining all aspects of the 
college-age experience that contribute to 
the prevalence of mental health issues. I 
am doing an independent study that will 
involve looking each week at a different 
contributing factor to this concern, rang-
ing from the scientific to the subjective. I 
do so with the hope of finding some way to 
ameliorate the problem, as well as reduce 
the stigma that often comes with conver-
sations about mental health. If you have 
a story that you feel is untold — or any 
opinion on the matter — feel free to reach 
out and help me paint a more informed 
picture of these issues (mhoar@middle-
bury.edu). 
Reader op-ed
Maddie Hoar ’17.5 is 
from Wellesley, MA
I face lingering disappointment after 
re-reading Katrina Drury’s piece “I’m 
Only Human,” published on Feb. 18. On 
the other side of the fold, a column over, 
Laurie Patton offers timely, levelheaded 
comments on the much-discussed Texas 
Supreme Court case, which questions the 
role of race in college admission proce-
dures. In concluding remarks, President 
Patton calls for compassion and more 
“worthwhile” discourse on issues of race 
and identity: “Let us recommit ourselves 
to the spirit of understanding,” she says. 
I commend Drury for adding her 
thoughts to the years-long campus de-
bates on diversity, privilege and power, 
though I am skeptical, therein, of her ef-
forts to reach for a “spirit of understand-
ing.” Core to her 
piece is her belief 
that school-wide 
expectations sur-
rounding political 
correctness and 
“ m i c r o a g g r e s -
sion” are a kind 
of white censor-
ship and thus hold 
no social merit. “I 
don’t care about 
being politically 
correct,” Drury 
writes, on these 
expectations, “and 
if people don’t like 
my opinion, so be it... I hate having to 
censor every word I utter and monitor ev-
ery action I make just to avoid offending 
someone and being branded as a racist...”
Drury’s display of hatred is worrying. 
She disregards and demonizes the every-
day troubles of 
minority students, 
which, since my 
first weeks at the 
College, have been 
aired widely to me 
and in this paper. 
Her central ar-
guments — “we 
have developed 
thin skin,” “we 
have the luxury 
to whine about 
people hurting 
our feelings” and 
“why can’t we all 
just be human and 
love each other” — are homespun at best. 
In my six semesters collaborating with 
Middlebury students, I have never read 
more uncomplicated claims or insensitive 
language. And what’s unsettling here is 
Drury’s tone in casting her assertions: it 
is divisive and untactful. 
As Drury’s peer, I am irked. As a Mid-
dlebury student, I am discouraged by my 
college. As an organizer for the environ-
ment, I feel a duty to emphasize the im-
portance of empathy. In my eight years of 
mobilizing around a cause, I have learned 
that respect and understanding is critical. 
There’s tact — an art form — in making a 
point, even to contenders; subversiveness 
is not part of that dance. 
If all else, Drury, your words have 
sounded an alarm in this community; I 
give you that. They bear testimony that a 
fully-realized diversity, equity and inclu-
siveness at today’s Middlebury College 
remains a pipe dream. All things consid-
ered as a school in this milieu we are still 
in a stage of diagnosis, much less care or 
prevention. 
Use Tact Next Time
Reader op-ed
Zane Anthony ’17 
is from Annapolis, MD
“In my eight years of mo-
bilizing around a cause, I 
have learned that respect 
and understanding is criti-
cal. There’s tact — an art 
form — in making a point, 
even to contenders; subver-
siveness is not part of that 
dance.”
We Are All Humans 
Dear Katrina,
I want to thank you for letting us hear 
your story. Thank you for saying what 
you really mean to say. It is only through 
such difficult dialogue that understand-
ing may ever begin. So thank you again 
for being yourself.
I totally agree with you. Political cor-
rectness means nothing. Back home, 
I was never a good player in that rope 
tightening game — straighten your back, 
hold on to your balancing beam and keep 
yourself on the thin black line. Watch 
your mouth because Big Brother is 
watching. I hated that and I still do now. 
My home country has taught me not to 
put my faith in political correctness. It is 
a world where the meanings of words are 
lost. People can say anything. But in the 
end, what matters most is often what is 
not said, right?
 I cannot agree with you when you 
say “just to avoid offending someone.” 
It is not “just.” “It” is not just. To refer-
ence my favorite quote from Oscar Wil-
de, “The truth is rarely pure and never 
simple.” For people like me, this over-
complication is not a matter of choice. 
This complexity, this barrier, these 
shackles and mantles are what we bear 
and navigate every day of our life. They 
have been there before I was born. Life 
is indeed complicated enough. I used to 
wish I could forget about all these com-
plexities as well. I wish everyone could 
forget about them so that I didn’t have 
to white-wash myself, to tweak my ac-
cent and ignore everything that reminds 
people of what I wish they could forget. 
Only recently did I realize maybe these 
are things I don’t want to forget. These 
are things that are part of me and define 
who I am. To forget would mean to lose 
myself. Some differences are not just 
skin-deep. They run in my blood.
We are all different. But our differ-
ences will not stop us. Today, it is less 
difficult to see the shared humanness 
in us. Darwin and genetic studies have 
made that point for us quite strongly. 
The greatest challenge for our world to-
day — and for our generation in particu-
lar — is not to un-see the differences, but 
rather, to embrace each other neverthe-
less. Love is about seeing, knowing and 
accepting completely, including our dif-
ferences. How can we love people if we 
do not even start to see and understand 
the differences?
There must have been wounds deep 
enough to make these hearts so sensitive, 
that what seems like a light touch can 
trigger painful experiences. And if the 
same system and institution that inflict-
ed these pains is still running, we shall 
not forget. I agree that there are things 
more important than the act of  donning 
a sombrero, namely the implications be-
hind it: systematic discrimination, prej-
udice and indifference, just to list a few. 
These things are around us, in this coun-
try. Just because they are less visible 
does not make them less serious, urgent 
or important. Let’s talk about our differ-
ences and what 
caused them, 
and then try 
to understand 
them.
 There is 
a Confuciust 
saying, “Xiu 
Shen, Qi Jia, 
Zhi Guo, Ping 
Tian Xia.” Je-
sus also said, 
“Love thy 
neighbor.” So 
I want to talk 
about love. I 
believe love is 
about empathy. Love is an art, a craft 
and an effort. I think one of the most 
common misconceptions in our contem-
porary society is that love is supposed 
to be easy. We are taught to believe that 
if love goes through ups and downs — if 
it is tiring, upsetting or painful — you 
should just throw away that love. That 
is simply not the case, and I recommend 
Erich Fromm’s The Art of Loving for 
an excellent elaboration on this. If we 
are really trying to love and understand 
each other, we must not let the consum-
erist culture infiltrate into our concept 
of love. This journey will not be easy, 
simple or convenient. There are so many 
obstacles, including historical legacies, 
class, race, prejudice, stereotype, igno-
rance, misconception, hate, fear and 
indif ference. 
If we know 
that taking a 
class or play-
ing a sport 
requires time 
and effort, we 
should not ex-
pect that love, 
one of the 
most amaz-
ing human 
achievements, 
should always 
be  smooth-
sailing. 
The path 
to a truly inclusive campus is long and 
tough. We will make mistakes and get 
tired, for we are all only human. Yet 
whenever I feel depressed about this 
world, I too look to the encouraging 
words of Morrie: “To love.” Simple. 
Concise. A verb. And that’s what all it’s 
about.
Love, Shan
 
 
“These things are around us, 
in this country. Just because 
they are less visible does not 
make them less serious, ur-
gent or important. Let’s talk 
about our differences and what 
caused them and then try to 
understand them.”
Reader Op-ED
Shan Zeng ’19 is from Chengdu, China.
Politics today seems to be more about 
shouting insults than offering solutions. 
Fox, MSNBC, Donald Trump, all seem 
to be more interested in ratings than 
the issues faced by every day Ameri-
cans. At this point, we are all numb to 
it. For years we have looked at politics 
in terms of red and blue and have failed 
to consider the motivations of our coun-
terparts. We have refused to listen to 
any opposing ideas, and arguments now 
occur more frequently than discussions. 
As students at Middlebury College, we 
see this occurring on a daily basis. This 
has led us to a point where progress no 
longer seems possible. We believe that 
progress can be made with thoughtful 
political discourse. To us it seems that 
the solution to our current problem lies 
in better understanding the values and 
principles that guide us. In this spirit, 
we would like to introduce our values 
and principles.
We believe 
that every per-
son has the right 
to work towards 
achieving his or 
her dreams.
We believe 
that every 
American is a 
unique indi-
vidual and not 
simply a mem-
ber of a group. 
We believe that 
each individual 
knows how best to achieve his or her 
own happiness. We are conservatives.
With Donald Trump and Ted Cruz 
both throwing around the word conser-
vative so much, it is often forgotten what 
the word really means. When defining 
conservatism, it is important to remem-
ber what is being conserved. Fundamen-
tal to conservatism is the preservation of 
our founding principles, the right to life, 
liberty, property 
and the federal 
structure of our 
nation. These 
principles guide 
our understand-
ing of policy, the 
role of govern-
ment and how 
we solve the 
many issues fac-
ing our nation 
today. It is clear 
from this that 
Donald Trump 
and Ted Cruz 
are more concerned with promoting 
populism and the values of the religious 
right than in conserving these principles.
Conservatives care about the first 
generation college student who could not 
find a job. Conservatives care about the 
little girl who grew up in a poor neigh-
borhood who was forced to go to a failing 
school when there was a successful one 
a district over. Conservatives care about 
the skilled immigrant who wants to start 
an auto shop, but does not have the mon-
ey nor the English skills to comply with 
the licensing requirements. Conserva-
tives care about the single mother who 
has to work multiple part-time jobs be-
cause she cannot find full time employ-
ment. Conservatives care about the aver-
age American.
We need to change the way that we 
go about our political discourse, and we 
want this article to start the discussion. 
We hope that we can focus our conversa-
tion on policy solutions rather than po-
litical attacks, and we hope that we can 
go beyond the talking points and delve 
deeper into the substance of the issues. 
Only through thoughtful debate and dis-
cussion can we truly achieve a more per-
fect union.
Conservatism Today
Reader op-ed
Phil Hoxie ’17.5 is from 
Orinda, CA and 
Alexander Khan ’17
is from Phoenix, AZ
“We believe that every 
American is a unique individ-
ual and not simply a member 
of a group. We believe that 
each individual knows how 
best to achieve his or her own 
happiness. We are Conserva-
tives.”
  8 | february 25, 2016 opinions
To the generally privileged, poverty is 
incomprehensible. People of privilege, 
with pale skin and/or free vacations and/
or “intellectual conversation” — which is 
almost always defined by conformity to 
the standard of the privileged class — can-
not understand how central poverty, or so-
cial disad-
v a n t a g e , 
can be to 
a person’s 
life. Dis-
advantage 
shapes ev-
ery opportunity, thought and desire. While 
privileged students can afford SAT prep 
books, poorer ones may not even know 
what those three letters stand for. While 
privileged students can debate what col-
lege to go to, poorer ones are oftentimes 
unsure about going to college — or simply 
unable to do so.
I am acquainted with certain types of 
disadvantages. My middle school was a tiny 
spot in the middle of the Mojave wasteland, 
a place where — two years after my family 
moved out — a war between Bloods and 
Crips erupted. Thinking about “college,” a 
term so distant and irrelevant that it bore 
absolutely no meaning, was unheard of. 
All conversations were combative, a show 
of masculinity or cruelty, often interlaced 
with homophobic and racist slurs. Most of 
my friends were trapped, unable to imag-
ine a reality outside of this de facto op-
pression that perpetuated itself with each 
successive generation. My friends’ parents 
couldn’t speak English — or at least the 
version of English that is deemed “cor-
rect” — and their livelihoods depended on 
the whims of the government’s “immigra-
tion policy.” 
Others were 
the products 
of the United 
States’ his-
tory of black 
op p re ss ion , 
of redlining 
and segrega-
tion never 
c o r r e c t e d . 
In the words 
of Ta-Nehisi 
Coates, they 
were “respon-
sible for the 
worst actions 
of other black bodies, which, somehow, 
will always be assigned to [them].” Their 
livelihoods also depended on the whims of 
government and the ruling class — name-
ly, the government’s constant debate on 
whether to be “tough on crime,” oppress-
ing the oppressed, or not. 
I escaped merely because my family had 
the privilege of mobility, and of conform-
ing to the ruling class’s standards. We were 
white, natively spoke English and could 
devote our time and resources to moving 
instead of surviving. We moved to Las Ve-
gas, where I attended a public high school 
in a neighborhood known as one of the 
most danger-
ous spots in 
the county (a 
privilege com-
pared to the 
many who re-
main trapped 
in the Mo-
jave). There 
are more than 
three thou-
sand students 
at that high 
school. Every 
class crams 
fifty students, 
and there are 
never enough seats. I happened to be ac-
cepted on luck — literally, via a lottery — 
to a selected community within that public 
high school with more courses and in-
creased availability. Although almost all of 
those students came from disadvantaged 
families, pretty much all of them wanted 
to succeed academically. The privilege 
of that community allowed my escape. I 
learned that people were nice, what SATs 
were, that “college” actually existed. I am 
at Middlebury today because of the oppor-
tunities made available to me through that 
program. 
These experiences inform my reaction 
to Rachel Frank’s “Conversation in Con-
fines,” which was published last week. 
It’s frankly ridiculous that people of such 
disadvantage are oftentimes compared 
equally to students who face no obstacles 
but themselves, who have studied for the 
SATs since middle school, who come from 
backgrounds where college was “real.” I 
suffered disadvantage, but not nearly as 
much as many others face. Affirmative 
action is a means of making up for all of 
those obstacles; it is a basic step to actual 
equality of opportunity. To drop affirma-
tive action is to confirm the immoral no-
tion that the privileged have more of a 
right to attend colleges — to attend pro-
grams like my high school’s, which was the 
only reason I escaped — than those who 
face obstacles incomprehensible to the 
privileged.
Affirmative action is a moral require-
ment for more reasons than just the facili-
tation of “institutional diversity.” 
My Case for Affirmative Action
Poverty Prose
Travis Sanderson ’19 
is from Las Vegas, NV “To drop affirmative action is 
to confirm the immoral notion 
that the privileged have more of 
a right to attend colleges — to 
attend programs like my high 
school’s, which was the only 
reason I escaped — than those 
who face obstacles incompre-
hensible to the privileged.”
FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | 9opinions
GREEN PEPPERS
Official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
ft
(802) 388-3164
10 features 11featuresFebruary 25, 2016    | February 25, 2016
The Caffeine Fix: Dining Hall Switches to A New Brew
During Winter Term, the dining halls welcomed a new brew at the 
beverage station: coffee by local roaster Vermont Coffee Company. 
Based in Middlebury Vermont, coffee from the Vermont Coffee Com-
pany is fair-trade and certified organic. The move to serve it in the din-
ing halls has allowed the College to meet its promise to serve 30 percent 
Real Food in the dining halls by 2016. 
The switch from New England Coffee, served in dining halls previ-
ously, to Vermont Coffee Company, is receiving hearty approval from 
the student body. 
In an online survey conducted by The Campus, 81 percent of the 105 
students surveyed said they noticed a change in the dining hall coffee. 
Seventy percent of students said they “like” or “love” the new coffee, 
whereas only four percent of students reported liking the New England 
Coffee and 64 percent said they “disliked” or “detested” it.  None of the 
students surveyed said they “loved” the old coffee. 
The majority of students said that they like the new coffee because 
they think it has a better taste than a cup of the New England Coffee. 
The Decision to Switch 
Executive Director of Food Service Operations Dan Detora was the 
driving force behind the move to Vermont Coffee Company. Detora ex-
plained to The Campus that refreshing the College’s coffee inventory 
has been on his radar since at least fall 2014 after Dining Services re-
ceived multiple complaints. 
“I don’t think it was anything specific, just the fact that we received 
a lot of [comments like], ‘The coffee is terrible,’” Detora said. “It just 
wasn’t a high-quality coffee.”
Detora considered a switch to Vermont Coffee Company’s locally-
roasted, fair-trade organic coffee after the business moved to its new 
headquarters on Exchange Street. Last summer, VCC helped the Col-
lege to secure specially sourced brews for the Language Schools’ 100 
Year Celebration.
“We were trying to do desserts and coffees from different countries, 
and they helped us with that,” Detora explained.
Since then, Detora said the College has a “great relationship” with 
the Vermont Coffee Company. When Dining Services, in partnership 
with the SGA, decided to upgrade coffee in the dining halls, they chose 
Vermont Coffee Company to increase the College’s use of Real Food. 
Real Food is food that meets certain criteria such as ‘local- and commu-
nity-based,’ ‘fair,’ ‘ecologically sound’ and ‘humane.’
“When President Leibowitz committed to 30 percent Real Food, 
we were at roughly 23-27 percent when he signed that agreement last 
year,” Detora said. “[Vermont Coffee Company] came in, and we did 
some tasting, but the big thing was that they met our Real Food criteria. 
That was about $125,000 [of the dining budget] switched over to Real 
Food, which got us over that 30 percent to meet our goal. So we got a 
better product and better Real Food, and it was basically awash in terms 
of funding.”
The increased expense, however, encouraged Dining Services to 
economize. SGA President Ilana Gratch ’16 was collaborating with De-
tora to establish 10 O’clock Ross when Dining Services considered the 
coffee change. They decided to open Ross Dining Hall later on week-
ends, from 7:30 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. This minimized food waste and re-
duced labor costs, and helped shrink the expense of high-quality coffee.
Eat Real Weighs In
Eat Real, the student group which encouraged the College to sign 
the Real Food agreement in 2014, published an op-ed entitled “Wake 
Up and Smell the (Fair-Trade, Organic) Coffee!” in The Campus in Jan-
uary, applauding the switch to the Vermont Coffee Company. 
“We are excited by Dining Service’s commitment to supporting real 
food and the values real food represents,” said Eat Real Co-Presidents 
Sarah Koenigsberg ’17 and Elaine Forbush ’17 in their op-ed. 
Eat Real has been collaborating with the College for the past three 
years by helping them identify foods served in the dining hall that could 
be switched to Real Foods without too much extra cost. In the past, Eat 
Real assisted Dining Services in their switch to local beef for hamburg-
ers and local, organic tofu. 
While Eat Real celebrates the improvements that the dining halls 
have embraced thus far, the group is far from satisfied. Eat Real re-
search interns are currently examining other food options that could be 
switched to Real Foods like buying whole chickens as opposed to chick-
en breasts. Moreover, the interns are also working on collecting data to 
help encourage the College to bump up their Real Food agreement to 50 
percent Real Food. 
Eat Real urges the College and students to become cognizant of the 
changes they can provoke with their food choices. 
“We encourage the Middlebury community to recognize the pur-
chasing power we have as a residential college that feeds thousands 
of people multiple meals a day,” Koenigsberg and Forbush wrote. “It’s 
easy to forget the flaws inherent in our modern food system when we 
only see the food that magically appears in our buffets every day.”
Coffee Sales Around Campus
According tosurvey, 39 percent of students report that they buy less 
coffee now than they did when New England Coffee was served in the 
dining halls. 
How is this change affecting coffee sales at vendors around campus?
Detora said it’s too early to know. Vermont Coffee Company was 
available at Crossroads and Wilson Cafés before the upgrade inside the 
dining halls. 
Birgitta Cheng ’17, one of four student managers of Crossroads Café, 
reports that coffee sales at Crossroads have remained consistent despite 
the new coffee in the dining halls. 
“We cater to students on specialty drinks more [than drip coffee],” 
said Cheng. “Our drip coffee sales usually come from faculty and staff 
who come to get a drink between work shifts so they are not going to the 
dining hall anyways.” 
Cheng estimates that Crossroads sells approximately 200 cups of 
coffee per day.  
Still, even if sales at some College vendors do decline slightly, buy-
ing more coffee from the same vendor will lower costs for the College. 
Previously, College vendors bought coffee from 14 different coffee com-
panies; Crossroads alone served three different companies’ coffee.
Now Vermont Coffee Company is the only coffee served anywhere 
at the College. 
“Because we went to Vermont [Coffee Company], we increased our 
purchasing power with them,” Detora said. “They decreased the price of 
the product pretty considerably so we feel that any sales loss would be 
picked up by the price savings we have overall.”
 of survey respondents 
answered yes, they did 
notice a change in the 
coffee in the dining 
halls
81% 
70.41%
 of survey respondents 
answered that they 
“like” or “love” the new 
coffee in the dining 
halls, in comparison 
with
4.04%
 who answered that 
they “liked” the 
previous dining hall 
coffee 
When asked why they liked the 
new dining hall coffee, 
67.7%
of respondents said that the new coffee 
tasted better
23.66%
of respondents said they liked the new 
coffee because it is fair trade or local
31.52%
of respondents said they drink more 
coffee now, after the dining hall coffee 
switch
39.18%
of respondents said they now buy less 
coffee from other vendors 
Text by Emilie Munson and Henry Burnett
Design by Julia Hatheway 
SGA Debuts Textbook Exchange Website to Lower Prices
In response to a Feb. 15 email in 
which the SGA announced a new online 
textbook exchange, The Campus de-
cided to investigate how less expensive 
textbooks came to top the student gov-
ernment agenda. Last fall Neha Sharma 
’18.5 and Maya Woser ’18, co-directors 
for the SGA Educational Affairs Com-
mittee, conducted an all-student poll 
that found a high demand for cheaper 
textbooks.
“Last year 
when we came 
together as a 
committee, we 
brainstormed 
ideas that we 
had ourselves 
of what could 
be improved in 
the community and when what we had 
been hearing from other people,” Woser 
said. “The cost of textbooks was a major 
one that a lot of us in the committee had 
personally faced. The problem was so 
universal that we immediately knew that 
was something we wanted to focus on. 
We kind of just went from there.”
In the email, the student EAC intro-
duced Texts.com as “an online campus-
wide student textbook exchange website 
where students can post details about 
the textbooks they want to see.” The site 
allows users to search for specific text-
books and compare prices with other 
sellers, including Amazon and Abe-
Books. Texts.com charges no fees for 
students to join or schools to use, and it 
functions like a marketplace where col-
lege students can buy and sell used text-
books.
The Texts.com website references 
a study stating textbook prices have in-
creased much faster than other consum-
er goods. According to a 2012 study by 
the American Enterprise Institute, the 
average price of a col-
lege textbook has gone 
up 812 percent since 
1978, and has doubled 
in the past decade 
alone.
Much of that in-
crease, the website 
says, is ironically 
linked to used textbook exchanges such 
as Amazon and Chegg. Publishers earn 
revenue only from the initial sale of new 
books, and as new book sales have de-
clined as used books become more avail-
able, publishers have increased prices 
and released new editions with minimal 
changes from year to year.
To combat the cost of new editions, 
the SGA Educational Affairs Committee 
met with Dean of the Faculty and VP for 
Academic Affairs Andrea Lloyd, Dean of 
the Library Michael Roy, and the chairs 
of several academic departments. They 
have encouraged departments across 
campus to agree to use one edition of 
a textbook for five years at a time. That 
way, students would be able to resell 
their books to other students rather than 
purchasing new books from the campus 
bookstore each year. The student EAC is 
also encouraging the library to buy more 
copies of textbooks for students to use 
while on reserve.
“One of the 
main reasons the 
library doesn’t 
buy textbooks 
right now is be-
cause the text-
book editions 
keep changing so 
often,” Sharma 
said. “Especially 
language textbooks, were you don’t real-
ly need the latest edition because it’s the 
same thing you’re teaching every year.”
“They would be able to invest in a 
larger number of copies so more stu-
dents would be able to access it,” Woser 
added. “Also, if they agree on a certain 
edition for a number of years, then stu-
dents’ resale values are also easier. Oth-
erwise you might by a book, then nobody 
needs it next year because everyone 
needs the latest edition so you can’t re-
ally sell it back.”
As SGA EAC co-directors, Sharma 
and Woser chose Texts.com after look-
ing at what steps peer schools have taken 
to reduce student textbook costs.
Sharma said that Texts.com is cur-
rently being used at Bates, Bowdoin and 
Yale. She and Woser contacted their stu-
dent governments to gauge their satis-
faction with the site, which was positive. 
They then contacted a company repre-
sentative for Texts.com, who provided 
information about 
which schools were 
using it and what 
their feedback had 
been.
So far, about 
200 books are on 
sale at the College 
website, middle-
b u r y . t e x t s . c o m . 
Sharma and Woser 
hope to launch a campaign near the end 
of the semester to let students know they 
can resell their books online.
In the meantime, the student EAC is 
considering several other funding plans 
to make textbooks cheaper at Middle-
bury. Sharma said these possibilities are 
all “very preliminary,” but they will all be 
independent of financial aid.
For more information, please visit 
middlebury.texts.com. The SGA can be 
reached at sga@middlebury.edu.
By Henry Burnett
Features Editor
“The problem was so uni-
versal that we immediately 
knew it was something we 
wanted to focus on.”
Maya Woser ’18
People paticipating in this year’s “Sleep-Out” will camp at Marbleworks, near the foot of the Otter Creek Falls in Middlebury. 
The Power of Touch
Remember to communicate through 
touch. The nurture and comfort that can 
be felt through a simple pat on the back 
or a hug can serve as powerful ways of 
healing. These small actions are in many 
ways profound, creating and spreading 
compassion among you and your peers.
By Wellness Leaders
Contributing Columnists
Wellness Tip 
of the Week
According to an American Enterprise Institute study, the average price of a college 
textbook has gone up by 812 percent since 1978, and doubled in the past decade.
american enterprise institute
12features | February 25, 2016
Students Organize for Hillary in Bernie Territory
By Ethan Brady
Features Editor
Months before Hillary Clinton de-
clared her presidential candidacy on-
line in April, leaders in the Democrat-
ic Party saw her as the destined choice 
to be the party’s standard bearer in 
the 2016 election.
But no political pundit foresaw the 
rise of Vermont Senator Bernie Sand-
ers in recent months, mostly shrug-
ging when he declared his candidacy in 
May on the shores of Lake Champlain. 
In the New Hampshire primaries, Mr. 
Sanders swept the first-in-the-nation 
vote by a 22-point margin. Ms. Clin-
ton managed a comfortable five-point 
victory in the Nevada caucuses.
And as the race tightens up in 
South Carolina and Super Tuesday 
states, where nearly 900 of the 4,192 
available delegates will be allocated, 
the question becomes whether Sen. 
Sanders’ message of political revolu-
tion can eventually — after a long slog 
to the Democratic National Conven-
tion which most pundits are predict-
ing — secure him a first place finish. 
In this race, though, second place 
does not cut it.
For members of Middlebury Stu-
dents for Hillary, the former first lady 
will always be number one. The group 
is not officially registered as a student 
organization, but they still hold events 
like phone banking and canvassing in 
Vermont and New Hampshire. They 
were present at the Democratic De-
bate watch party earlier in the fall 
and at the Iowa caucus watch party on 
Feb. 1. 
Between these events, the Feb 
activities fair and tabling in Atwater 
with a Hillary Clinton cutout, Middle-
bury Students For Hillary has extend-
ed their membership and presence.  
“We continue to see our sup-
porter list grow every time we reach 
out to students on campus,” said Will 
Schwartz ’16, the group’s organizing 
lead.
President of the Middlebury Col-
lege Democrats Hazel Millard ’18 no-
Middlebury.texts.com is one of three SGA intiatives, including an alumni fund  and 
department agreements, to reduce the amount that students spend on textbooks.  
wikimedia commons
“One of the main reasons 
the library doesn’t buy text-
books right now is because 
the textbook editions keep 
changing so often.”
neha sharma ’18.5
wptz news
Mitch Perry ’16 was interviewed earlier this month by WPTZ, a Channel 5 news 
station in New Hampshire, about his volunteering for Hillary Clinton’s campaign. 
Continued on Page 13.
Harper Lee’s beloved classic To 
Kill a Mockingbird was published in 
1960 and won her the Pulitzer Prize 
in 1961. The zeitgeist novel depicted 
in bare terms racism in America and 
reaffirmed the values of equality and 
unity. The book has sold more than 
40 million copies globally and has be-
come a staple of high school curricu-
lums. But despite the book’s acclaim 
and instant success, Lee repeatedly 
vowed never to publish a novel again. 
For the next 56 years, she lived a pri-
vate life in small-town Alabama and an 
anonymous one in New York City, her 
career a single gem.
Not long before she went dark to 
the public — just four years after the 
publication of Mockingbird and two 
years after the film version — Lee re-
cast her literary objectives in a 1964 in-
terview with Roy Newquist, the editor 
of a book titled Counterpoint. Perhaps 
because of the rarity of such encoun-
ters with Lee, the Newquist interview 
has become one of the few sources of 
material that illuminate her mystery. 
In it, Ms. Lee clearly stated her literary 
ambition: “to describe a disappearing 
way of small town, middle class South-
ern life. In other words, all I want is to 
be the Jane Austen of south Alabama.”
Less often quoted than this state-
ment is her explanation of it. She 
wanted to “leave some record of the 
kind of life that existed in a very small 
world. She hoped to do this “in several 
novels, to chronicle something that 
seems to be very quickly going down 
the drain.”
Lee said she was always fascinated 
with the “very definite, rich social pat-
tern” that makes up the tiny towns of 
the South. “I would simply like to put 
down all I know about this because I 
believe that there is something univer-
sal in this little world, something de-
cent to be said for it, and something to 
lament in its passing.”
Beyond Harper Lee’s crowning 
achievement of Mockingbird and her 
lone interview with Newquist, the 
front-page obituary of Lee in Satur-
day’s New York Times recalled the 
literary world’s biggest story of 2015: 
the publishing of her second novel, 
Go Set a Watchman. The book, in all 
its controversy, is crucial to consider-
ing Lee’s legacy, which had been fix-
ated for more than half a century on 
one work. Watchman was met with a 
considerable amount of backlash, with 
some accusing Ms. Lee’s publisher of 
taking advantage of her in her old age.
They raised eyebrows at the tim-
ing of the manuscript’s discovery and 
the announcement that it would be 
published, which was only weeks after 
the death of her sister, Alice Lee, who 
had long been Harper’s confidante and 
whom many considered to have been 
her protector. Skeptics use reports of 
Lee’s deteriorating state at the time 
the manuscript was discovered as evi-
dence that she could have easily been 
coerced into agreeing to something she 
had not wanted for 56 years. “It would 
be very difficult to prove this one way 
or another,” Bertolini said.
In a New York Times column, Joe 
Nocera called the book a “fraud” and 
“one of the epic money grabs in the 
modern history of American publish-
ing.” Jonathan Sturgeon wrote in Fla-
vorwire that Watchman is not Mock-
ingbird’s sequel or prequel, but rather 
its prototype. Lee herself described 
the book as her first book’s “parent.” 
Sturgeon points to wholesale passages 
in Watchman that were later reworked 
for Mockingbird.
Pieces of literature have been pub-
lished against some authors’ wishes, 
noted John Bertolini, Ellis Professor 
of English and Liberal Arts. He noted 
Vergil and Franz Kafka as examples. 
“Of course the same thing happened 
with Kafka: he ordered that all his 
works be destroyed, but they weren’t. 
Fortunately for all of us, Vergil’s or-
ders orders on his manuscript of the 
Aeneid weren’t followed either.”
With all the debate over the ori-
gins of Watchman, the biggest bomb-
shell turned out 
to be an explosive 
plot twist that no 
one saw coming. 
Atticus Finch, the 
crusading lawyer 
of To Kill a Mock-
ingbird, whose 
principled fight 
against racism and 
inequality inspired 
generations of 
readers, is depict-
ed in Watchman as 
an aging racist who 
has attended a Ku 
Klux Klan meet-
ing, holds nega-
tive views about 
African-Americans 
and denounces 
desegregation efforts. “Do you want 
Negroes by the carload in our schools 
and churches and theaters? Do you 
want them in our world?” Atticus asks 
his daughter, Jean Louise — the adult 
Scout.
Bertolini said he was astonished by 
the reaction to the book. “It involved 
one of the most colossal misreadings 
of a book that I’ve seen. It was said 
that it turns out Atticus is a racist af-
ter all, and that’s not, I believe, the 
point Harper Lee was making in that 
book. She was demonstrating that At-
ticus was continuing to educate Scout, 
and that he thought it was a flaw in her 
that she idealized him so much. He did 
that precisely to provoke her to think 
about his having a flaw, about his not 
being a perfect man.”
The very fact that the manuscript 
exists, he said, means a lot. “The book 
makes an impor-
tant statement 
that should be 
read — about not 
blindly idealizing 
somebody, not ex-
pecting perfection 
from all human be-
ings under all cir-
cumstances. Atti-
cus may have done 
that deliberately to 
help to Scout grow 
up, to become a 
mature, under-
standing, forgiving 
human being. This 
is, after all, what 
he spent his whole 
life doing.”
    Claire Borre 
’18, an English ma-
jor, said that Watchman complicates 
the emphatic depiction of Atticus as a 
hero and exposes his flaws to modern 
readers. “I read Go Set a Watchman 
as a completion of Scout’s coming-
of-age that was started in To Kill a 
Mockingbird,” she said. “Having read 
Mockingbird as a young girl and then 
reading Watchman this past summer, 
I connected to both in very different 
ways. Scout’s first attempts at under-
standing the world, like my own, were 
heavily influenced by those around 
her, whereas Jean Louise, and myself 
as a college student, must learn to look 
inward for her own value.”
Borre continued: “The more adult 
perception world presented is not as 
strictly good or evil as in Mocking-
bird, and Lee reveals a more nuanced 
worldview that makes people reevalu-
ate their perception of the hero Atti-
cus. It is a shattering of the hero image 
of Atticus.”
Bertolini pointed to the strength of 
her first novel as a lasting part of her 
legacy. “To Kill a Mockingbird, both 
the book and the film, had an influ-
ence in the Civil Rights Movement that 
was analogous to the impact of Harriet 
Beecher Stowe’s Uncle Tom’s Cabin in 
persuading people to be against slav-
ery. I first encountered it when I was 
in high school, first the book and then 
the film, which had a big influence on 
me. I will never forget that.”
The general consensus among 
book critics is that Go Set a Watch-
man is not as well written as the mas-
terpiece of Mockingbird is. “Isn’t that 
true of all the secondary books by great 
authors?” said Bertolini. “They’re usu-
ally much better than the best of the 
ones being published today, because 
true artistic talent and genius is a rare 
thing.”
For all the excitement, confusion, 
surprise, drama and controversy, the 
world nevertheless has another Harp-
er Lee work.
Death of Harper Lee at 89 Spurs Talk of Legacy
“I would like to leave some 
record of the kind of life that 
existed in a very small world. 
I would simply like to put 
down all I know about this 
because I believe that there 
is something universal  in 
this little world, something 
decent to be said for it, and 
something to lament in its 
passing.”
Harper Lee
Getty Images
Harper Lee was was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2007 for her 
contribution to literature.
By Ethan Brady
Features Editor
13featuresFebruary 25, 2016   
ticed that student support for individ-
ual candidates has solidified over the 
course of the academic year. 
“Based on our weekly College 
Democrats meetings, it seemed to me 
that many students entered the school 
year with a vague sense of who they 
would support in the primaries,” Mil-
lard said. “Over the course of the se-
mester, opinions grew stronger and 
debate within the group got more 
heated. There are students on campus 
organizing for both candidates in the 
Democratic Primary.”
Middlebury Students for Hillary 
also works on other projects, includ-
ing gathering enough signatures from 
Vermonters to get Secretary Clinton 
on the ballot for the primary.
“The main goal of our efforts is to 
interact with as many voters as pos-
sible to talk about the candidates, to 
find out what issues matter most to 
voters and to discuss where Secretary 
Clinton stands on those issues,” said 
Mitch Perry ’16, campaign liaison for 
Middlebury Students for Hillary. 
He said getting enough signa-
tures to get Secretary Clinton on the 
ballot in Vermont was “tougher than 
it sounds.” Students from the group 
walked along Church Street and the 
Farmer’s Market in Burlington on 
multiple weekends to ask people to 
sign the ballot access petition. Many 
people resisted stopping to talk in the 
cold weather, said Perry, but the peo-
ple who did stop were “very interested 
in starting a dialogue and contributing 
to the political process.”
Over February break, a group of 
students, including Schwartz, Perry 
and Charlotte Boghossian ’16,  trav-
eled to New Hampshire for four days 
to volunteer with “get out the vote” ef-
forts. They made phone calls to N.H. 
voters, went door knocking and en-
gaged in other campaign activities. 
They also had the opportunity to 
hear from political figures like Senator 
Al Franken (D-MN) about why he and 
so many others are supporting Secre-
tary Clinton. 
“Despite Bernie’s victory in the 
N.H. primary, it was a great opportu-
nity to be in the center of the excite-
ment and to learn more about grass-
roots organizing and campaigning,” 
Perry said. 
“For me, Secretary Clinton is the 
most qualified and most experienced 
candidate,” he said. “I trust that she 
will use her experience as Secretary of 
State and as a U.S. Senator to take on 
the tough foreign and domestic policy 
issues that the country faces. I joined 
the Middlebury for Hillary group to do 
my part in ensuring the most qualified 
and experienced candidate is elected 
as the country’s next leader.”
Middlebury Students for Hillary 
will continue to hold weekly phone 
banks on Thursday nights as the elec-
tion progresses. 
Middlebury Students for Hillary 
will be at the Super Tuesday viewing 
party in Crossroads Café, an event 
sponsored by the College Democrats, 
on March 1. To get involved with 
the group, contact Will Schwartz at 
wschwartz@middlebury.edu.
Continued from Page 12.
Middlebury Students for Hillary Canvas Around New England
CARTOONS
Emily COx
KAITLYND COLLINS
VAASU TANEJA
WIN HOMER
BOONE MCCOY-CRISP
“A friendly desert community where 
the sun is hot, the moon is beautiful and 
mysterious lights pass overhead while we 
all pretend to sleep. Welcome to Night 
Vale.” 
These are the words that launched 
the now internationally popular podcast 
Welcome to Night Vale back in 2012. They 
also remain perhaps the most concise way 
to communicate the 
style and premise of 
the podcast, which 
takes the form of a 
radio show for the fictional town of Night 
Vale. The podcast is absurd, sometimes 
unsettling and often beautiful.
Just a few months ago, the creators 
of the podcast released a novel that hit the 
Amazon bestseller list instantly. Although 
set in the same town as the podcast and 
featuring many of the same characters, the 
novel is an original, self-contained story, 
and so it is not necessary to be familiar 
with the podcast in order to understand 
the novel. Readers follow the narration 
of Diane Crayton, a single mother trying 
to learn how to connect with her shape-
shifting son Josh, and Jackie Fiero, a 
pawn shop owner who is given a piece of 
paper she subsequently cannot get rid of 
that reads simply, “KING CITY.” Brought 
together by their search for a mysterious 
man in a tan jacket, Diane and Jackie find 
themselves allies as they try to hold onto 
their lives in a world that is making even 
less sense than usual.
Night Vale, both the podcast and the 
novel, has a peculiar style that may not 
bode well for everyone. Reminiscent of 
magical realism, it inverts and confuses 
reality without acknowledging what is 
happening is strange. For instance, there 
is no explanation 
for why Josh can 
shape-shift; he sim-
ply can, and no one 
questions the fact that Diane’s son may be 
a horsefly one day and a sentient patch of 
haze the next. There are long forays into 
description, painting the picture of the 
town and its inhabitantants in an extraor-
dinariily beautiful manner. The town itself, 
in all its weirdness, is just as important as 
any of the main characters.
For all of the bizarre changes in real-
ity that make up Welcome to Night Vale, 
its greatest strength lies in its ability to 
take the strange and use it to comment 
on real, relatable situations. In particular, 
the relationship between Diane and Josh 
is remarkably conveyed, with the strain 
of single parenthood and the struggles of 
communication between the mother and 
the teenage boy evident in every line. Of 
course, in the real world, teenage boys are 
not literal shape-shifters, but there is fick-
leness and uncertainty, a slipperiness of 
identity in puberty that we have all expe-
rienced. Diane’s every action is more than 
understandable as a mother who no longer 
knows how to relate to her son, a problem 
perhaps augmented by the fact that he 
does not always have a human form.
One reason behind the podcast’s pop-
ularity is its positive 
representation of var-
ious minority groups, 
especially the LGBTQ 
community. This is 
present in the novel 
as well. Both Diane, 
a working single 
mother, and Jackie, 
a young and indepen-
dent business owner, 
stand out as people 
who do not often get to be protagonists. 
Fink and Cranor’s exceptional thoughtful-
ness when it comes to these portrayals is 
a positive mark for the novel for several 
reasons. Besides obvious benefits for peo-
ple who belong to those minorities, work-
ing outside stereotypical characters allows 
for fresh and more surprising stories. The 
story in the novel is unpredictable not only 
because the rules of reality are different, 
but also because this is not a story that 
has been told a hundred times before. The 
characters are strongly individual, refus-
ing to blend in with other books or movies. 
Their personalities are distinct and devel-
oped, and every decision they make is logi-
cal from what we know about them.
It is difficult to get an accurate impres-
sion of Welcome to Night Vale without 
actually reading it yourself. Descriptions 
get lost in trying to convey the strangeness 
without truly com-
municating the allure 
of the enchanting lan-
guage and unexpect-
edly touching story. 
Even once you start 
reading, you might be 
too confused trying 
to understand what is 
happening to decide 
whether you actually 
like the book or not 
– and between the fantastical element and 
its peculiar style, there are certainly people 
who will not like the book. For others, it 
will be a favorite for years to come. Wel-
come to Night Vale will take you on a jour-
ney into a desert town, surprise you, move 
you and leave you dazzled by the mysteri-
ous lights overhead.
Find this book in the Davis Family Li-
brary through go/bookingit.
arts & sciences
don’t
miss
this
Leviathan
A dispute over land in a remote Russian township 
casts cataclysmic ripples through a family and a com-
munity. This film by Andrey Zvyagintsev is a thinly 
veiled political parable drenched in bitter irony that 
takes aim at the controversial regime of Vladimir Pu-
tin. In Russian with English subtitles. Free.
2/27, 3 & 8 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
Selected Scenes from Will
In Jon Glascoe’s new play, Shakespeare stands chained 
in the Tower of London, questioned by Robert Cecil and 
eventually the Queen herself, to determine his role in the 
treason. In the course of these examinations, Will’s whole 
life is revealed, from his humble beginnings in Stratford, 
to the glory of Hamlet. Free.
2/28, 5 P.M., MCA DANCE THEATER
The Opulence of Integrity
Christal Brown’s dance work is inspired by Mu-
hammad Ali’s life as a social activist, public mar-
tyr and human being. The performance explores 
the inner struggle for identity for men of color in 
the United States, with an intimate look at the 
trappings that continually prohibit freedom.
2/26-2/27, 7 P.M., TOWN HALL THEATER
In the Wright Memorial Theater last 
Saturday night, Feb. 20, a burgeoning audi-
ence waited impatiently for the beginning of 
“Force and Heat: The Early Plays,” the first 
part of Tina Packer’s show Women of Will. 
Alongside co-star Nigel Gore, Packer deliv-
ered an exhilarating analysis of the develop-
ment of female characters throughout Shake-
speare’s early plays.
Packer, a renowned actor and play-
wright, is the founder and director of the 
Massachusetts-based Shakespeare & Com-
pany. Well versed in Shakespeare’s works, 
she has directed and taught all of his plays 
at over 30 colleges in the U.S. Having begun 
her Women of Will project in the mid-1990s, 
Packer took a break from the artistic director-
ship of Shakespeare & Company to focus on 
the Women of Will show and a book of the 
same name, which was published in 2015. 
Joining her in this performance of “Force and 
Heat: The Early Plays” was Nigel Gore, a vet-
eran Shakespeare & Company actor whose 
credits include the title roles in Richard III 
and Macbeth. Both “Force and Heat” and 
their Sunday performance of “Chaos and Re-
demption: The Later Plays” were sponsored 
by the College’s Performing Arts Series, the 
Theatre Program and the Town Hall Theater. 
Women of Will was brought to Middlebury as 
part of the Shakespeare celebrations centered 
around the month-long Middlebury College 
Museum of Art exhibition of “First Folio! The 
Book that Gave Us Shakespeare.”
The show consists of a series of short 
scenes sampled from early Shakespeare plays 
like Twelfth Night and Antony and Cleopa-
tra, interspersed with short analyses of the 
scenes presented directly to the audience 
by Packer and Gore. Saturday’s show began 
with a passionate scene from Shakespeare’s 
The Taming of the Shrew. This play, contro-
versial for its misogynistic elements, proved 
a powerful introduction. The first scene cul-
minated with Packer struggling onstage with 
Gore’s character, who sought to strangle her 
into submission with his belt. With prac-
ticed ease, Packer stepped out of the role and 
walked to the front of the stage as the house 
lights slowly turned on. Packer began intro-
ducing the performance and the material she 
would be analyzing, laying out the develop-
ment of the female roles throughout Shake-
speare’s plays. These short analytical pauses, 
placed between every scene, formed a key 
element of the show and allowed Packer to 
explain why she chose to include each scene.
The casual manner of Packer and Gore’s 
interactions contributed greatly to the at-
mosphere of the analytical portions of the 
performance. Speaking directly to the audi-
ence, Packer sounded completely at ease, 
explaining the most critical aspects of each 
scene like an English teacher picking apart a 
passage. Gore occasionally chimed in as well, 
commenting on aspects that Packer may 
have overlooked. This off-the-cuff discussion 
between these two veteran actors and old 
friends was immensely enjoyable.
The lighting in the show was superb, al-
ternating seamlessly from the dark, violent 
battlefield scenes to bright palace environ-
ments in plays like Henry VI. Working with a 
couple of costumes and a very simple set con-
sisting of a merely a chair and a few chests, 
the actors and their movements were the 
focal point of the show. The lighting design 
took this into account, expertly highlighting 
the actors and their positions on the stage.
Some scenes included audio clips that 
I found to be more hit-and-miss in their ef-
fectiveness. For instance, although the sound 
of seagull cries added a realistic ambiance 
to a beach setting, the scene from Antony 
and Cleopatra seemed to rely excessively 
on short sound bites of Packer’s voice read-
ing lines from the play. The recording that 
played through speakers as the actors sat in 
stony silence sounded clipped and robotic. 
Although an interesting use of media, I felt it 
would have been more impactful if the actors 
had simply spoken the lines.
The highlight of the show was defi-
nitely Packer’s performance, which featured 
a strong, fluid delivery of lines and passion-
ate monologues. Her familiarity with Shake-
speare was apparent through her mastery of 
tone and pace. This powerful, emotional per-
formance across a variety of roles was remi-
niscent for me of Dame Judi Dench’s Lady 
Macbeth from the 1978 version of Macbeth 
with Ian McKellen. After seeing Women of 
Will, I would certainly be eager to see a full 
Shakespeare production with Packer as its 
lead.  
Women of Will Showcases Shakespeare
By Will Simpson
Staff Writer
Matthew Murphy
booking it
Tina Packer performed a series of scenes from Shakespeare’s plays alongside Nigel Core as part of the First Folio celebrations.
By Gabrielle Owens
Senior Columnist
Welcome to Night Vale
Reminiscent of magical 
realism, it inverts and 
confuses reality with-
out acknowledging that 
what is happening is 
strange.
Good theatre, as is often said, is like 
a “slice of life.” A play captures compel-
ling and often uncomfortable elements 
of the human existence — and as more 
and more traditionally (and still) mar-
ginalized voices burst into the national 
conversation and more formerly taboo 
subjects become open to discussion, the-
atre provides a powerful avenue for these 
voices to share their stories. 
Unfortunately, contemporary the-
ater is often a luxury item for its patrons, 
as opposed to an easily accessible artis-
tic medium. According to a report by The 
Broadway League, the average age of 
Broadway theatregoers from June 2013 
through to June 2014 was 44. Moreover, 
Caucasians purchased almost eighty per-
cent of all tickets — or more specifically, 
affluent Caucasians. An average Broad-
way audience has a reported annual 
household income of $201,500. Of the-
atregoers over the age of 25, 78 percent 
have completed college and 39 percent 
have earned a graduate degree. 
The demographics of theatregoers 
are a result of the continuous increase of 
ticket prices, as well as the low incomes 
experienced by the younger generation. 
In addition, there is 
pressure on produc-
ers to match the spe-
cial effects that have 
become dominant 
in film in the past 
couple of decades, 
leading o greater ex-
penditures on state-
of-the-art equipment 
to satisfy custom-
ers. Finally, regional 
theaters find that 
producing the latest 
Broadway hit or a fa-
mous American work 
is more profitable 
than taking a chance on a new, discourse-
heavy play, something that would perhaps 
attract a new and more diverse audience. 
Hence, shows nowadays exist at the ex-
clusion of the majority of the population.
Perhaps the most problematic aspect 
of contemporary theatre, however, is that 
plays are not adequately or accurately 
representing current U.S. demographics, 
both racially and economically speaking. 
Keith Hamilton Cobb’s new play, Ameri-
can Moor, tells the tale 
of a large, middle-aged 
black man auditioning 
for the role of Othello, as 
a young and white artis-
tic character tries to im-
pose his sense of race on 
the character. The story 
is, as Cobb tells it, a rep-
resentation of the black 
experience in the the-
ater business. Relevant 
statistics back up Cobb’s 
story. As of the 2012-13 
season, actors of color 
make up only 25 percent 
of the staff in popular 
off-Broadway theatre companies in NYC. 
And, with respect to roles without racial 
specificities, no theatre company studied 
has an inclusive (non-traditional) casting 
rate of over 20 percent. Regarding roles 
pursued and performed by actors of color, 
only 10 percent of roles received by actors 
of color are not racially specific.
This has important implications, as 
the theatre certainly provides a stimulus 
for public discourse concerning social and 
political issues. Plays demonstrate the 
opinions and lifestyles that members of 
the audience may not necessarily be privy 
to, and provide a lens through which one 
can learn about human psychology and 
culture. They can also influence the au-
diences’ values and behavior, prompting 
them to analyze their environment and 
their interactions with it. 
The cost of seeing a play can limit the 
impact it can have on dialogue surround-
ing key matters, as well as deprive people 
of the opportunity to experience some-
thing outside their realm of existence. 
The impact on the younger generation is 
one of particular concern, as a study by 
Theatre Bay Area found that younger re-
spondents generally report higher levels 
of discussion following the conclusion of 
the play, as well as greater personal re-
flection. As a result, those who could ben-
efit the most from contemporary theatre 
productions are those who are least likely 
to be able to attend such an event.
“To be born branded by history, 
burdened by responsibility and inspired 
toward greatness requires a committed 
heart and an opulence of integrity.”
                   —Christal Brown
 
As part Middlebury’s Black History 
Month celebration, our very own Assis-
tant Professor of Dance Christal Brown 
will be producing her original dance-
theatre work, The Opulence of Integri-
ty, Feb. 26 and 27 at 7 p.m. in the Town 
Hall Theater. The performance prom-
ises to act as a thought-provoking cata-
lyst for dialogue in our current campus 
climate.  
The piece uses the career of Mu-
hammad Ali, and his life as a social ac-
tivist, public martyr and human being, 
to explore the struggle for identity faced 
by many men of color in the United 
States, with a special focus on the social, 
economic and spiritual trappings that 
continually prohibit freedom.
According to Brown, the perfor-
mance incorporates elements of box-
ing, hip hop, martials arts and modern 
dance to “deploy an eclectic movement 
vernacular” that illustrates “the turmoil 
of a life infused by divinity, yet misinter-
preted by humanity.”
Brown has designed the piece as 
four movements that each reflect a dif-
ferent period in Ali’s life. The first sec-
tion is meant to depict, as she put it, “the 
cultural shift between that of Malcolm X 
to Muhammad Ali, how Ali came under 
Malcolm’s tutelage and became this oth-
er kind of cultural icon in his own right.”
The second is “more along the lines 
of legendary Ali, at the time where Ali 
was treated more like a superhero than 
that of a real person.” Movement three, 
“No Vietnamese Ever Called Me N*gger,” 
invokes Ali’s refusal to participate in the 
Vietnam War. The final section refer-
ences “the transcendent nature of who 
Ali has become in the lives of people as 
a cultural icon, as a historical figure, as a 
boxer, as a man and as the legend that he 
lives as today.”
Throughout the performance, move-
ment and text connect with both tradi-
tional and nontraditional dance audi-
ences. In addition to the live artists, a 
projection plays in 
the background, cre-
ating another level 
of engagement. And 
of course, the show’s 
inspiration is a living 
legend who will draw 
viewers into seeing 
the parallels of war, 
resistance and per-
severance through a 
historical lens.
Christal Brown 
is a choreographer, 
educator, performer, 
writer and activ-
ist. She received her 
BFA in dance and 
minor in business 
from the University 
of North Carolina at 
Greensboro. In ad-
dition to teaching at the College, Brown 
is the founder and executive director of 
INSPIRIT, a performance ensemble and 
educational conglomerate dedicated to 
bringing female choreographers together 
to collaborate and show new work. The 
Opulence of Integrity is Brown’s first 
foray into working with an all-male en-
semble.
She dedicates the work “to her fa-
ther, brother, and uncle — who fought 
but did not win — and to her own son, 
whose battle has not yet 
begun.”
“I think one thing 
that I really want people 
to take away after seeing 
the piece is for them to 
find their own opulence 
in life, to find out what 
they can do to the full-
est, to think about how 
integral that is to who 
they are and never let go 
of that,” Brown stated. 
“I think that’s one thing 
we’ve gleaned from the 
legacy of Ali, that he held 
onto what his truth was, 
no matter what.”
Two public perfor-
mances of The Opulence 
of Integrity will be pre-
sented on Feb. 26 and 27 
at 7 p.m. in the Town Hall Theater.  Tick-
ets are $15 for students. Visit go/boxof-
fice or stop by McCullough or the MCA to 
book yours now.   
By Danny Dignan and 
Nick Apodiacos 
Contributing Columnists
Performing Arts Sp    TLight
 
Robert Mayer
Christal Brown, Assistant Professor of Dance, is producing a piece on the transformation of Muhammad Ali into a cultural icon.
Robert Mayer
The show is divided into four parts, each of which represents a period of Ali’s life.
Perhaps the most prob-
lematic aspect of con-
temporary theatre, 
however, is that plays 
are not adequately or 
accurately represent-
ing current U.S. demo-
graphics, both racially 
and economically speak-
ing.
“I think one thing that 
I really want people to 
take away after seeing 
the piece is for them to 
find their own opulence 
in life, to find out what 
they can do to the full-
est, to think about how 
integral that is to who 
they are and never let 
go of that.”
Christal Brown
Assistant Professor of Dance
By Connor Forrest
Senior Columnist
Playwrights on their plays 
16 arts & SCIENCES | February 25, 2016
“There are a lot of strong DII track 
teams in New England,” he pointed out, 
“and for us to be 3rd and 6th is terrific. 
It was nice to see some of our women 
break school records and set facility re-
cords. We had 26 men qualify, which is 
the most ever, so in share numbers, they 
proved to be a much formidable force 
than in recent years.”
In Cambridge, the men’s squad fin-
ished tied for sixth, which they managed 
to accomplish without a single first-place 
finish. 
James Mulliken ’18 continued rewrit-
ing the school record books on the men’s 
side. Mulliken continued his strong sea-
son by besting the 600-meter dash re-
cord, clocking a time of 1:22.36, good for 
fifth overall. Kevin Serrao ’18 finished 
fourth in the 1,000-meter race, Sebas-
tian Matt ’16 crossed the line eighth in 
the 5,000-meter run, and Alex Nichols 
’17 and Jimmy Martinez ’19 finished 
fourth and fifth in the 400-meter dash, 
respectively. 
For the team events, the distance 
medley relay squad of Tyler Farrell ’18, 
Sam Cartwright ’16, Lucas Carpinello ’16 
and Jonathan Perlman ’19 finished sec-
ond, while the 4x400 relay team of Bran-
don Cushman ’16, Mulliken, Martinez 
and Nichols finished third. Finally, John 
Natalone ’19 placed third in the pole 
vault, while Deklan Robinson ’16 wound 
up fifth in the high jump.
After the weekend, Beatty harped on 
his team’s intangibles. 
“They’re a great bunch of people, not 
just good athletes.” Beatty said. “ I love 
to see the relationships develop and 
grow strong.”
Next weekend, both teams will head 
to the Open New England Champion-
ships at Boston University to compete 
against a field comprising both DI and 
DIII athletes.
The women’s basketball team made their 
final road trip of the season on Saturday, 
Feb. 20. The Panthers travelled to Medford, 
Mass. to take on top seeded Tufts in the NE-
SCAC Quarterfinal playoff round. As the top 
seed in the NESCAC tournament, the Jum-
bos entered with a dominant 21-2 record, 
highlighted by an undefeated 10-0 NESCAC 
campaign. The score was 31-19 coming out 
of the halftime break, and a dominant 26-6 
third quarter by Tufts ultimately did the 
Panthers in.
The Panthers were paced by Sarah 
Kaufman ’18 with 10 points and Eileen 
Daley ’18 with eight points and 11 rebounds, 
both of whom finished their sophomore 
campaigns strongly.
With this loss, the Panthers fell to 12-13 
on the season, including a 3-7 in-conference 
mark. This was the first year since 2007-
2008 that Middlebury made consecutive 
appearances in the NESCAC playoff tourna-
ment. 
The future looks bright for the Panthers. 
The team’s lone junior, Elizabeth Knox ’17, 
is the most seasoned player currently on the 
roster, but she was lost for the season to an 
injury. That left the team to rely on under-
classmen for the duration of the year. 
First-year Catherine Harrison ’19 had 
an outstanding opening year as she aver-
aged a double-double with 11.3 points and 
11 rebounds per game, garnering two NES-
CAC player of the week accolades and also 
surely in the running for All-NESCAC hon-
ors. Kaufman led the Panthers with 14.7 
points-per-game, while adding 3.5 rebounds 
and 2.3 assists per game. Daley started all 
25 games for the Panthers, averaging 34 
minutes-per-game. Colleen Caveney ’19 also 
came on strongly at the end of the season 
and averaged 7.6 points and 3.9 rebounds 
per game. 
Middlebury will have the same core 
group of players for the next two to three 
years, allowing them lots of time to work as 
a unit and develop. Some of their highlights 
on the year included a 76-59 win over Wes-
leyan and a close five-point win on the road 
against Bates that clinched the team’s spot 
in the conference tournament. Looking to 
the future, Middlebury will have a long but 
hopeful off-season as they work to qualify 
for NESCACs for the third year in a row.
“Since we are such a young team we are 
all really excited for next year because no 
one is graduating,” Harrison said. “We are 
returning with everyone extremely invested 
and everyone already knowing their position 
and role on the team.”
Women’s Basketball Ends Season with Tough Loss
Men’s Swimming and Diving Finishes Seventh at NESCACs
The Middlebury men’s Swimming and 
Diving team competed in the 2016 NESCAC 
Championship meet last weekend, Feb. 19-
21, at Williams’ Samuelson-Muir pool, finish-
ing seventh as a team for the third consecu-
tive year. The hosts racked up 1789.5 points 
to claim their fifteenth title to date against 
the ten other NESCAC teams, followed by 
Tufts (1410.5), Connecticut College (1407), 
Amherst (1315) and Bates (956) to round out 
the top five.
“Coming into [the] weekend, we knew we 
would be most competitive with Bowdoin 
and Bates [based on] the last few years,” co-
Captain Andrew Fleisher ’16 explained.
“Because every team trains differently at 
various points in the season ... we didn’t real-
ly know what to expect from either of them,” 
he continued.
The Panthers finished much closer to 
Bowdoin (834.5) and the sixth-place position 
than they did last year, and the team recorded 
three individual podium titles in the process.
Paul Lagasse ’16, Fleisher’s co-Captain, 
emphasized that “almost every member of 
the ... team swam to their fullest potential 
[during the meet], Middlebury swam beyond 
every expectation this weekend, and just say-
ing that we came in seventh place doesn’t 
capture that in the slightest.”
The 200 free relay team of Bryan Cheuk 
’16, Lagasse, Jack McLaughlin ’18 and 
Stephan Koenigsberger ’16 came in fifth with 
a time of 1:24.35, only 0.63 seconds behind 
Tufts in the first final on Friday, Feb. 19.
Other highlights of the day included Koe-
nigsberger’s seventh-place time of 26.12 in 
the 50 breast — a mere milliseconds behind 
his sixth and fifth-place competitors — and 
Mike McGean ’17’s consistent performance in 
both the prelims and the finals of the 500 free 
that earned him sixth in the event (4:39.18 in 
the final and 4:37.56 in the prelim).
McLaughlin nearly made the top ten in 
the 50 free; his 21.50 time in the prelims 
and 21.51 in the final clinched the 11th place 
spot and the quartet of Brendan Leech ’19, 
Koenigsberger, Alex Smith ’18 and Lagasse 
’16 placed eighth in the 400 medley relay 
(3:29.23).
Will Greene ’19 took fifth on the one-meter 
diving platform with a score of 411.10 to close 
out the day, helping to place Middlebury in 
sixth place by the end of day one.
McGean’s previous times this season in 
the 1,000 free placed him just 1.39 seconds 
behind Tufts swimmer Brandon Jinn for the 
event title on Saturday, Feb. 20. When the 
evening’s competition rolled around, Mc-
Gean bested his own school record by 0.51 
seconds to win the event by a margin of 4.39 
seconds (9:32.36).
Building on his teammate’s success, Koe-
nigsberger made the podium with his third 
place finish in the 100 breast (56.08). Koe-
nigsberger’s times in both the prelims and 
the finals of the 100 breast qualified as NCAA 
‘B’ Cut times.
Middlebury’s swims in the 200 medley 
relay (Smith, Koenigsberger, Cheuk and La-
gasse, 1:34.77) and 800 free relay (Smith, 
McGean, Leech and Connor McCormick ’18, 
7:09.49) proved good for eighth and ninth 
place, respectively. 
Though the Panthers trailed just six points 
behind Bowdoin at the start of day three, they 
weren’t able to re-claim the sixth position. 
Middlebury’s seventh place time of 3:07.23 in 
the last event of the meet — the 400 free relay 
— by Lagasse, McLaughlin, Smith and Koe-
nigsberger cemented the Panthers’ standing 
in the meet.
On that same night, McGean recorded the 
NCAA ‘B’ cut time of 16:02.45 in his 1,650 
free victory — his second gold-medal swim in 
the meet. He touched the wall 3.72 seconds 
before the second-place finisher from Con-
necticut College in this third-straight top-
four finish of his NESCAC career.
Koenigsberger also swam to fifth place in 
the 200 breast, stopping the clock in 2:06.24, 
and on the deep end of the pool, Green placed 
fifth in the 3-meter diving competition with a 
score of 416.20 in the finals.
“This weekend and this season was a huge 
success,” Fleisher reflected. “We scored about 
160 points more than last year as a team, 
which shows great improvement. I ... think 
we showed our depth a lot more this sea-
son with over 20 of 24 guys scoring. Getting 
points from nearly everyone demonstrates 
the strong foundation of the program and 
that we are moving in the right direction.”
Lagasse echoed that “while we may have 
come in 7th last year as well, we were so much 
more successful as an entire program this 
year, and I couldn’t be happier with that.”
If McGean’s and Koenigsberger’s NCAA 
‘B’ cut times qualify them for nationals, the 
two swimmers will have a few weeks to train 
before travelling to Greensboro, North Caro-
lina on March 16-20 for the NCAA Division 
III Championships.
By Emily Bustard
Sports Editor
By Colby Morris
Contributing Writer
Wins by Nordic skier Annie Pokorny 
’16 and Alpine skier Colin Hayes ’17 in the 
second day of racing led the Middlebury 
ski teams to a combined fourth place fin-
ish in the Williams Carnival on February 
19-20. The University of Vermont won 
the competition with 992 points, fol-
lowed by Dartmouth (919), UNH (720) 
and the Panthers with 638 points. Alpine 
races were contested at Jiminy Peak in 
Hancock, Mass., while the Nordic races 
were held at the Ski Jump Venue at Lake 
Placid, NY.
The Panthers got off to a great start in 
the first day of racing, when alpine racer 
Rob Cone ’17 took home a second place 
finish in the giant slalom, only one-tenth 
of a second behind the winning time. 
Sophomore Riley Plant ’18 also helped 
pace the Panthers, finishing 13th, while 
Hayes turned in his ninth top-20 result 
for an 18th place finish. First-year racer 
Caroline Bartlett ’19 continued to lead 
the Panther women as she has done for 
most of the season, earning an 11th place 
finish. Elle Gilbert ’16 was the only other 
member of the women’s team to finish, 
placing 21st.
Despite the absence of Kelsey Phin-
ney ’16, one of the team’s top performers 
who will miss the next two carnivals to 
represent the United States at the U-23 
World Championships in Romania, the 
women’s Nordic team refused to slow 
down. Pokorny started off her two-podi-
um weekend effort with a third place in 
Friday’s 10K freestyle race. Alia Johnson 
’16 turned in her best effort of the sea-
son, finishing the race in 14th place, and 
Kaitlin Fink ’16 rounded out the scorers 
for the Panthers, placing 17th overall. 
On the men’s side, Lewis Nottonson ’19 
earned his best finish of the year, pac-
ing the squad in 13th-place. Jacob Volz 
’18 tied his season-best 27th-place finish 
and Evan Weinman ’18 rounded out the 
scorers in 33rd place.
Saturday’s events were highlighted by 
Hayes’s first career carnival win in the 
slalom. Sitting in fourth place after the 
first run, he turned in a blazing second 
run to take the overall victory.
“It was awesome to have such a big 
day personally and to see all my hard 
work paying off,” Hayes said of his win. 
“But, it was even better with Rob’s sec-
ond place in the GS and Annie’s win in 
the 5K. It was just an unbelievable week-
end for the team as a whole.”
Ghassan Gedeon Achi ’16 earned a 
top-10 finish in seventh place, while 
Christopher McKenna ’17 was the third 
Panther to finish in 25th place. Pac-
ing the alpine women was Bartlett, who 
placed 12th overall. Gilbert followed in 
23rd place and Katy Greene ’17 was 35th.
On the Nordic side, Pokorny’s win in 
Saturday’s 5K classic race was her first 
victory of the season, where she beat out 
the second place finisher by a massive 
nine-second margin. Johnson turned 
in another personal best, finishing in 
18th place, while Cate Brams ’18 fin-
ished close behind in 22nd. For the Nor-
dic men, Nottonson paced the Panthers 
with an 18th place finish, while Volz and 
Weinman finished in 26th and 29th, re-
spectively.
Heading into the final carnival of 
the season, both the Alpine and Nordic 
teams are looking to capitalize on their 
home hill advantage.
“We have a number of seniors wrap-
ping up their Carnival careers and I 
know they want to go out with a memo-
rable weekend,” Nordic Coach Andrew 
Johnson said. “On the men’s side I’d like 
to see us have a full, healthy team rac-
ing. If we can get all six guys back to rac-
ing this weekend then we stand a good 
chance of having our best men’s showing 
in a few years, and if all of the women 
can have a strong, consistent weekend, 
then we have the potential to be one of 
the top teams.”
The Panthers return to action this 
coming weekend, playing host to the 
EISA Championships, with Alpine events 
taking place at the Middlebury College 
Snow Bowl and Nordic races being held 
at Rikert Nordic Center.
Skiing Builds Momentum for Winter Carnival
By Nicole Roos
Senior Writer
February 25, 2016| 17SPORTS
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20
Track Records Fall at New England Championship Meets
7
11
23
Number of ties for the men’s hockey team this 
season, a program record.
Number of times the women’s hockey team 
has secured the top-seed in the NESCAC 
Tournament
Points scored by men’s basketball 
player Matt St. Amour ’17 in the team’s 
NESCAC quarterfinal win 
Goals scored by women’s water polo 
captain Hannah Grotzinger ’16 in the 
team’s opening weekend
Freestyle events (1,650 and 1,000) won 
by swimmer Mike McGean ’17 at last 
weekend’s NESCAC Championship meet 
by the Numb3rs
12
2
The fourth-seeded Middlebury Pan-
thers defended their home court with an 
86-74 victory over the visiting Wesleyan 
Cardinals in the NESCAC Quarterfinals 
on Saturday, Feb. 20. The Panthers were 
supported by one of the most energized 
crowds in recent memory as Matt St. 
Amour ’17 and Adisa Majors ’18 carried 
the offensive load with a combined 41 
points.
Middlebury kept the momentum of 
play in their favor throughout the con-
test. Facing the Cardinals, who had the 
third-best field goal percentage defense 
in all of Division-III 
coming into the game, 
Middlebury tallied an 
incredible 45 points 
in the first half. St. 
Amour was particu-
larly effective in the 
game’s opening min-
utes. The Vermont 
native opened the 
scoring with a three-
pointer assisted by 
Connor Huff ’16, and 
outscored the entire Wesleyan team for 
the first quarter of the game. St. Amour 
took seven minutes to record his first 11 
points, while the Cardinals required over 
nine minutes to do the same. 
Led by backup junior guard Harry Raf-
ferty, who would finish with a team-high 
19 points on the afternoon, Wesleyan be-
gan to close the gap late in the first half, 
but each run by the Cardinals was rebut-
ted by a big shot from one of the Panthers. 
Wesleyan shrunk the lead to seven with 
8:11 to play in the first half, but the crowd 
soon erupted after a Liam Naughton 
’17 three-pointer cut the deficit back to 
double digits. Moments later it was Huff, 
who usually does his offensive work from 
15 feet in, drilling a three-pointer to give 
the Panthers a 12 point lead. The first half 
ended with Middlebury up by a score of 
45-32.
The pace slowed to start the second 
half. The score stood at 51-41 with 16:09 
left to play and Wesleyan seemed to be 
chipping away at the Panther lead when 
Zach Baines ’19 ignited the Panther fans 
with a dunk off of a pass from Jake Brown 
’17. 
“The crowd was amazing,” Brown said. 
“As an athlete you dream of playing in an 
environment like that.”
Later in the second half, Wesleyan was 
more successful in closing the scoring gap. 
Over a stretch of three and a half minutes, 
players from the Wesleyan bench added 
12 points, shrinking the lead to as little as 
five with 5:08 to play. 
From that point on, the 
Middlebury defense 
made everything tough 
for Wesleyan. Offen-
sively, Majors was the 
key for Middlebury 
with 12 points of his 
own in the game’s final 
7:44. 
The game looked to 
be over after Majors’ 
layup with 2:38 re-
maining gave the Panthers a 74-65 lead. 
Shortly after, Wesleyan point guard BJ 
Davis, a NESCAC First Team candidate, 
converted on a three-point opportunity. 
Moments later, senior guard Jack Mack-
ey drilled a 35-foot three-pointer to put 
Middlebury ahead by a score of 77-71. 
History repeated itself on the next pos-
session when Davis netted a similarly 
long-distance three-point shot, making 
it 79-74. With the Cardinals in need of a 
bucket on their next possession, Majors 
stepped up once again, getting a hand 
on two consecutive Wesleyan attempts, 
eventually corralling the rebound and 
making two free throws to set the score at 
81-74 with under a minute left. Down the 
stretch it was only a matter of making free 
throws and contesting some wild shot at-
tempts from the Cardinals. Middlebury 
earned the victory as time expired, best-
ing Wesleyan by a final score of 86-74. 
“The biggest thing is that we trusted 
each other, we knew if we left our man to 
help someone else would rotate and force 
tough looks,” Brown said.
St. Amour led all scorers with 23 
points in addition to six boards and three 
assists. Majors tallied 18 points on 7-10 
shooting and had eight rebounds. Baines 
might have provided the most excitement 
all day with four blocks to go along with 
seven points and four boards. Brown was 
effective throughout the game with his 
slick ball handling and court vision, fin-
ishing the day with 11 points, seven as-
sists and four steals on the defensive end. 
The Panthers are set to travel to Hart-
ford, Conn., the site of the NESCAC semi-
finals and finals. They are set to face top-
seeded Trinity, and with a win will ad-
vance to the finals against either second-
ranked Amherst or third-ranked Tufts. 
“I think we need to have better tough-
ness [this Saturday against Trinity] than 
we showed last time,” Brown said. “Our 
help defense needs to be there like it was 
last Saturday. If we bring both of those 
things, I think we’ll be in great shape.”
Two wins would earn the program a 
third NESCAC title and the opportunity 
to return to the NCAA Tournament for 
the first time since the 2012-13 season. 
The Middlebury men’s hockey team did 
not lose this weekend at Kenyon Arena, 
tying Hamilton 1-1 and defeating Amherst 
3-1 on Feb. 20-21. Despite the tie result, the 
team finished one point below Hamilton 
and fifth in the NESCAC standings, one 
spot away from hosting a NESCAC playoff 
game. The Panthers will travel to Clinton, 
N.Y. to play fourth-seeded Hamilton in the 
NESCAC quarterfinals on Saturday, Feb. 
27.
Entering the game against fourth-
ranked Hamilton on Saturday, Feb. 
20, Middlebury needed to defeat the 
Continentals to have a chance to secure 
the fourth seed and a home playoff game. 
Hamilton opened the scoring fewer 
than five minutes into the first period 
when Conor Lamberti shot from the left 
point and Brandon Willett deflected the 
puck past Middlebury netminder Liam 
Moorfield-Yee ’16.
Two minutes later, Ron Fishman ’16 
tied the game on a wrist shot from the 
right side. Travis Stephens ’18 passed to 
Fishman who wristed the puck through 
traffic and into the back of the net to tie the 
game at one.
Neither team scored in the second 
period, but Hamilton generated more 
shots by a margin of 14-4 and had one shot 
denied by the post when Rory Gagnon hit 
iron three quarters of the way through the 
period.
Moorfield-Yee made several game-
saving stops in the third period as both 
teams fought for the much-needed win and 
things began to get chippy — the teams 
combined for 12 penalties in the contest.
“Right now, every game is a playoff 
game and we are fighting for a home playoff 
position,” Captain Evan Neugold ’16 said.
Over four minutes had elapsed in the 
final period as action picked up. Lamberti 
set Kenny Matheson free on a long pass 
down the middle of the ice. Matheson 
found himself alone with only Moorfield-
Yee to beat, but Moorfield-Yee denied 
Matheson’s shot and the rebound attempt. 
The Panthers counter-attacked and Zach 
Haggerty ’16 ripped a shot from the open 
left side, but it went just wide. In the last 
minute of regulation, Hamilton had a two-
on-one opportunity, but Scott Vasquez 
could not convert and the two teams 
headed to overtime.
Midway through the overtime period, 
Mark McLellan ’18 beat a Continental 
defender to a puck in the neutral zone 
and skated in all alone. He went right 
and shot, but Hamilton netminder Evan 
Buitenhuis made a glove save to continue 
the game. In the dying seconds, Moorfield-
Yee gloved Robbie Murden’s, the NESCAC 
overall scoring leader, shot from the left to 
force one more face-off with one second 
remaining. The Hamilton player taking 
the faceoff sent the puck in the direction 
of Moorfield-Yee, who made a kick save, 
his 38th of the day, to end the game in a 
1-1 tie. The tie was Middlebury’s seventh of 
the season, a team record, and their second 
with Hamilton, who they tied 3-3 in the 
season’s first matchup.
The tie with Hamilton meant Middlebury 
could not move into fourth in the NESCAC, 
but the game against Amherst the next day 
still had meaning for the Panthers. With a 
win, they would move past the Lord Jeffs 
into fifth in the conference, and it was 
senior day for the team.
“[This weekend] is even more special 
considering it’s senior night for nine of us,” 
Neugold said.
This time, the Panthers scored first 
when Max Greenwald ’16 passed the puck 
cross-ice to Haggerty, who redirected it 
for a goal, his team-leading eighth of the 
season. They added to the lead early in 
the second period with two goals in one 
minute. At the 3:41 mark, Fishman scored 
his second goal in as many games from a 
difficult angle off assists from Paul Falvey 
’16 and Stephens. Exactly one minute later, 
Spencer Cage ’19 set up Jake Charles ’16 for 
his sixth goal of the season.
Down by a score of 3-0, Amherst went 
on the power play twice in the second 
period and converted on their second man-
advantage with a shot from the point.
“Three out of the last four games we 
have given up two leads, so our focus is on 
becoming a team that can close when we 
have the lead,” Neugold said before this 
weekend.
Middlebury accomplished that on 
Saturday and secured a 3-1 win to finish 
fifth in the NESCAC, two places higher 
than last year.
“Playing a full 60 minutes is something 
that we’ve been emphasizing all year long, 
and it was great to see it happen on Sunday 
against Amherst,” said Fishman, one of five 
seniors to contribute to the scoring effort.
Moorfield-Yee saved 21 shots in the 
contest and earned his second win of the 
season.
“Having three seniors score all three 
goals and having Liam in net for the 
win is pretty special given that it was an 
emotional day,” Fishman said.
Middlebury and Hamilton will meet 
for a third time on Saturday, Feb. 27 in 
Hamilton and the winner will move into 
the NESCAC semifinals the following 
weekend.
“To beat Hamilton on Saturday,” 
Fishman said, “it’s going to take a full 
60-minute effort from everyone.”
|  february 25, 2016 18 sports
Men’s Basketball Bests NESCAC Champs
Men’s Hockey Fights to No. 5 NESCAC Seed
Junior guard Matt St. Amour ’17 went off for 23 points against Wesleyan last 
Saturday Feb. 20 in the NESCAC Quarterfinal. St. Amour went 8-18 (44 per-
cent) from the field, including 4-10 (40 percent) from three-point range. He also 
grabbed six rebounds and added three assists in the Panthers 86-74 victory.
ByAndrew Rigas
Sports Editor 
By Joe MacDonald
Senior Writer
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKING
TEAM
Alex’s Assertions
2
Track & Field
I’m taking over G8 this 
week to say that it was a 
great day to be a Panther.
Men’s Basketball
Look’s like these boys 
have their mojo back. An 
impressive win that could 
propel them forward.
3
Women’s Hockey 
Whatever these girls are 
having, I’ll have it too. 
4 
men’s hockey
Not the home playoff game 
that they wanted but they 
should be fine at Hamilton.
5
7
women’s basketball
It was a learning year for 
the Lady Panthers. They’ll 
come back stronger.
6
skiing 
I hope that there’s snow 
next weekend for Winter 
Carnival...
Men’s Swimming
These boys equaled their 
NESCAC finish from last 
year.
Water Polo
Cus I like Emily. 
“The crowd was amaz-
ing. As an athlete you 
dream of playing in an 
environment like that.”
Jake Brown ’17
The Middlebury women’s club Water 
Polo team successfully opened their sea-
son at the Natatorium last weekend, Feb. 
20-21, where they hosted the first tourna-
ment of the season for the Collegiate Water 
Polo Association (CWPA)’s Women’s New 
England Club Division. The Panthers, who 
ranked 11th out of the 16 teams compet-
ing for the 2015 National Collegiate Club 
Championship, emerged from the weekend 
in a tie for first place with their 3-1 record.
Middlebury went 2-0 with consecutive 
wins over Boston College and Dartmouth 
on day one of the tournament, followed 
by their convincing 11-point victory over 
Northeastern and hard-fought loss to Bos-
ton University on Sunday, Feb. 21.
After just four days of official team 
practices, the Panthers opened the season 
with a one-point victory over Boston Col-
lege in a nail-biter on Saturday, Feb. 20. 
Middlebury got on the board in a hurry 
against the Eagles, as first-year Kate Cla-
man ’19 scored the first two goals of her 
career at Middlebury in the first two min-
utes. Claman went on to sink three of the 
Panthers’ six goals in the first half, en route 
to a team-high of four goals.
Hannah Grotzinger ’16, one of the four 
senior team captains, explained why Cla-
man’s performance was integral to the 
Panthers’ success.
“I play the set position — in front of the 
center of the goal on offense — and Boston 
College decided to double or triple-team 
me, so the shots on goal had to come from 
players at other positions,” Grotzinger said.
Following Claman’s initial 2-0 lead, 
Grotzinger traded goals with Boston Col-
lege (BC), who brought the score to 5-3 by 
the end of the first quarter.
Co-Captain Alex Spencer-Wong ’16 then 
broke the Eagles momentum with a coun-
terattack goal to open the second quarter, 
and Grotzinger tied the game at five goals 
apiece three minutes later. BC proceeded 
with a goal of their own before Claman shot 
from the outside to knot up the game at six 
apiece.
It looked like the teams would head into 
the halftime break tied at 6, but Boston 
College managed to score its seventh goal 
in the waning seconds, taking a 7-6 lead 
into halftime.
Emily Bustard ’17.5 led the charge for 
the Panthers after her stint as goalie in 
the second quarter, and added two goals 
in quick succession to put Middlebury on 
top 8-7.
Boston College would score with 13 
seconds remaining in the third, leaving 
the fans on the edge of their seats with the 
game tied at eight as they awaited the final 
quarter.
The Panthers looked to continue put-
ting pressure on the Eagles.
“Our goalie [Anna Lueck ’18.5] hasn’t 
been able to play recently, so some of our 
starters were playing in goal for the entire-
ty of the tournament,” Grotzinger said.
“Because of [Lueck’s absence], our 
strategy against Boston College (and all 
teams) was to put a lot of pressure on their 
offense and guard them tightly to make 
passing difficult [and minimize their shots 
on goal].”
The game was in the balance until the 
very end, as Boston College went up 10-9 
with 2:29 remaining on the power-play. 
One minute later, Claman found the back 
of the net for the Middlebury equalizer. 
Then, just as the game seemed destined 
for overtime, a five-meter penalty shot was 
awarded to the Panthers with 10 seconds 
left; Grotzinger’s five meter shot found the 
back of the net, allowing the Panthers to 
pull off an 11-10 victory.
The Panthers took on the Big Green 
of Dartmouth that same evening, coming 
through with a 9-6 victory.
“We were really excited before the 
game,” Grotzinger said. “Dartmouth has 
been our biggest rival for many, many 
years so we had a very strong desire to win 
before the game even started. This mental-
ity definitely helped us during the game.”
It only took Grotzinger 20 seconds to 
get the Panthers on the board.
“In all the games we won this weekend, 
we scored the first goal of the game,” Grotz-
inger said. “The first team to score a goal in 
a game gets a very positive surge of adrena-
line, and a lot of the sport is based on men-
tal strength, not only physical strength.”
The Dartmouth game was all but over at 
the half, which began with a score of 6-1. “I 
think the most decisive point in the Dart-
mouth game came at the end of the second 
quarter after four different players on the 
Middlebury team had scored goals and we 
had prevented Dartmouth from scoring.”
“We had great momentum coming out 
of the second quarter, and one of our goals 
for the season is to be able to keep that go-
ing, even against a high-pressure defense 
like the one we faced from Dartmouth in 
the second half,” said Bustard, who scored 
her second goal of the game in the second 
half.
The Panthers held on in the second half 
for a 9-6 win. In addition to two-goal con-
tributions from Bustard and Grotzinger, 
Co-Captain Christina Denbow ’16 scored 3, 
while co-Captainn Sam Horn ’16 put away 
one goal.
The Panthers hit the pool early on Sun-
day, Feb. 21 at 9 a.m. to commence a 13-2 
rout of Northeastern. Middlebury jumped 
out to a 7-0 lead, going into the half up 8-1 
over the Huskies.
“[The] Northeastern game was great be-
cause our newer players got to see a lot of 
game-time [where they could] practice the 
skills we’d been working on in practice,” 
said Grotzinger, who found the back of the 
net five times against the Huskies.
Other goals against Northeastern came 
from Bustard (4), Spencer-Wong (2), Julie 
Ehrlich ’17.5 (1) and Amanda Geller ’16 (1), 
while Denbow won three of the four sprints 
to start each quarter.
“Our team is naturally fast, so we were 
able to score on many counter-attacks 
against Northeastern — despite the fact 
that we’d only been training for four days 
before the tournament, compared to the 
other teams who had been practicing since 
mid-January,” Grotzinger said.
A few hours later, the Panthers took to 
the pool for the last time of the weekend 
against conference newcomer Boston Uni-
versity. The Panthers fell 7-4 but played 
the Terriers closely.
The Terriers jumped out to a 1-0 lead 
when they scored just under five minutes 
into the game. Grotzinger quickly an-
swered with a backhand goal assisted by 
Horn.
Denbow began the Panthers’ second-
quarter scoring as she netted an assist from 
Bustard off of the counter-attack. But every 
time the Panthers scored the Terriers had 
an answer, and then another when they 
scored just a minute later. Nevertheless, 
Bustard rounded out the quarter by sailing 
in a lob shot from the set position.
The third quarter began with another 
Grotzinger backhand goal, but again Bos-
ton responded with a quick goal to break a 
4-4 tie. The Terriers followed with another 
three goals in the final half of play.
Despite ending the weekend with a loss, 
the Panthers had a successful first weekend 
and are in good position in the conference 
standings.
“I’m proud of the way we played this 
weekend, especially with it being so early 
in the season,” Bustard said. “I can’t wait to 
see what we can do in our next home tour-
nament in April,” Grotzinger said.
february 25, 2016| 19SPORTS
Water Polo Successful on Opening Weekend
By Will Case
Sports Editor
Emily Bustard ’17.5 rises out of the water to make a pass. She was the second 
highest scorer on the Middlebury Water Polo team over the weekend.
YES 
The home slope advantage will be 
huge, and the weather looks prime! 
MANCHESTER UNITED
Sing me the Manchester United 
theme song! 
NO
I think the top-seeded Bantams will 
be tough to beat.
VIRGINIA
I’ve heard UVA has some stellar 
home crowd energy. 
editors’ picks
YES
I really know nothing about ski 
races, but hopefully they’ll do well.
ARSENAL
Seems like a good bet.
VIRGINIA
I mean, they’re obviously ranked 
higher.
NO
We’ve had a great season, but it’ll 
be hard to beat Trinity on their 
home court.
Emily Bustard (58-63, .479)
Alex Morris (89-82, .529)
Andrew Rigas (33-23, .589)
Skiing: Will Midd finish better than 
its third-place finish last year in the 
Middlebury Winter Carnival races 
on Feb. 26-27?
CBB pick’em: Who wins, no. 7 
North Carolina @ no. 3 Virginia 
on Saturday, Feb. 27.
Premier League pick’em: Who 
wins, Manchester United (11-8-7) 
v. Arsenal (15-6-5) on Sunday, 
Feb. 28.
Men’s B-ball: Will the Panthers 
knock off top-seeded Trinity 
in the NESCAC semifinals on 
Saturday, Feb. 27 in Hartford?
NO
Dartmouth and UVM are just too 
dang good.
ARSENAL
They’re the only team thats been 
consistent this season. Plus me and 
Wegner hi-fived once.
NO
They just came off a loss from 
Trinity, but who knows. The odds 
may be in their favor.
VIRGINIA
My parents are Wahoos.
NO
They’ve finished fourth in every race 
this year, and the three teams ahead 
of them will be here this weekend.
ARSENAL
They whomped Man U 3-0 last time 
and will do it again this weekend.
YES
Midd looked awfully tough on 
Saturday, no bias here at all.
NORTH CAROLINA
I still firmly believe the Tar Heels 
are the best team in the nation.
YES
They have the energy to get it done.
TIE
Man United is going through a rough 
stretch, but Arsenal will struggle to 
come of the emotional high of its 
UCL match with Barca.
YES
Upset city! The Panthers continue 
building momentum toward a 
NESCAC crown.
NORTH CAROLINA
While it is tough winning on the 
road, the Heels will hold on in a 
close finish.
REMO PLUNKETT (48-41, .539)
         Will Case (7-5, .583)
Bringing the competitive fire 
they have brought to every meet 
this season, both the men’s and 
women’s indoor track and field 
teams made a splash on the big 
stage of the Division III New 
England Championship meets. 
Middlebury hosted the women’s 
championships at Virtue Field 
House, while the men’s team 
travelled to Cambridge, Mass 
where the men’s championships 
were taking place at M.I.T. 
The women’s squad raced to 
an impressive third place finish 
out of 37 teams and toppled sev-
eral school and facility records 
in the process. 
Captain Jackie Kearney ’16, 
who ran the first leg of the win-
ning 4x400 meter relay for the 
Panthers, was quick to credit 
the team’s chemistry after Sat-
urday’s strong finish. 
“We’re an extremely close 
team this year,” Kearney noted. 
“That chemistry really showed 
on Saturday with the continu-
ous support we gave each other 
in every event.”  
The women’s team finished 
with an impressive total of 82 
points, 30 points above the 
fourth-place finisher, Southern 
Maine and just 11 points behind 
NESCAC foe Williams. The Pan-
thers scored in every running 
event but four. 
Highlights for the Panthers 
included two individual New 
England champions. Alex Mor-
ris ’16 won the 400-meter dash 
by half a second. Adrian Walsh 
’16 joined Morris in the win-
ner’s circle for individual events 
with her performance in the 
5,000-meter race.
Relay victories came for the 
Panthers in the 4x400, run by 
Kearney, Paige Fernandez ’17, 
Lucy Lang ’19 and Morris. The 
team of Claire Gomba ’19, Isa-
bella Alfaro ’18, Robin Vincent 
’18 and Lauren Bougioukas ’16 
won the 4x800. The Panthers 
also won the distance medley 
relay ran by Alexis Jabukowski 
’19, Kate McCluskey ’18, Ni-
cole Schachman ’16 and Abigail 
Nadler ’19. Additionally, Nadler 
etched her name in school re-
cords with her second-place 
finish in the 3,000-meter race, 
clocking a time of 10:08.38. 
Maddie Pronovost ’17 also set a 
school record in the pentathlon, 
registering 2,974 points, good 
for sixth overall.
As Kearney pointed out, this 
year’s squad isn’t just full of 
one-trick ponies. 
“We’re a really deep team,” 
she said, “which showed in how 
capable we were of placing with 
a relatively small team compet-
ing yesterday. Most people who 
scored points did so in more 
than one event.” 
A top-eight finish both earns 
the team points and garners the 
athlete All-New England DIII 
honors.
Head Coach Martin Beatty 
’84 couldn’t help but be proud 
of both teams’ efforts. 
The women’s hockey team 
finished the regular season with 
two shutout wins against Williams 
last weekend, skating to a 2-0 away 
win on Friday, Feb. 19, and a 7-0 
victory on Saturday, Feb. 20 in 
Chip Kenyon ’85 Arena. With the 
victories, the Panthers secured the 
top seed for the NESCAC women’s 
hockey tournament for the sixth-
straight and 11th time overall.
 On Friday, the Panthers beat 
Williams (12-10-1, 8-7-0) 2-0 in 
Williamstown, Mass. Middlebury 
took an early lead 6:29 into 
the game on the power play via 
the sophomore squad: Jessica 
Young ’18 scored her ninth goal 
of the season and was assisted by 
Elizabeth Wulf ’18 and Maddie 
Winslow ’18.
 In the second period, the 
Panthers extended their lead to 2-0 
at the 15:42 mark. Rachael St. Clair 
’19 passed the puck to Katherine 
Jackson ’19, who skated in one-on-
one against Eph goalie Julia Mini, 
faked to the right, then lifted a 
wrister to the short side above the 
shoulder of Mini for her fifth goal of 
the season.
 The Ephs fought hard in the 
third period to make up lost ground. 
They held a 10-4 advantage in shots 
on goal that period, and pulled their 
goalie with a minute left in favor 
of an extra attacker. The Williams 
squad outpaced Middlebury in 
overall shots on goal (24-20) and 
had five power plays, but converted 
none of them into goals.
Middlebury goalie Julia 
Neuburger ’18 picked up her fourth 
shutout of the season with 24 saves 
between the pipes.
 The two teams faced off again 
on Saturday, Feb. 20, in Kenyon 
Arena in a “Pink the Rink” game in 
support of finding a cure for breast 
cancer. The fans, decked out in 
pink, also celebrated the graduating 
seniors for Senior Night: Captain 
Julia Wardwell ’16, Alternate 
Captain Katie Mandigo ’16, Marisa 
Dreher ’16, Micaela Thibault ’16 
and Anna Van Kula ’16.
 The Panthers scored four 
goals in the first period, and the 
first three came within a span of 
less than two minutes. At the 7:48 
mark, Julia Wardwell ’16 drove the 
puck into the back of the net from 
the left point for her first collegiate 
goal. Thirty seconds later, Rachael 
St. Clair ’19 doubled the lead with 
a wrap-around goal. Twenty-one 
seconds later, Haley LaFontaine ’18 
sent the puck from inside the blue 
line through the legs of Williams 
goalie Mini. Eight minutes after, on 
the power play, LaFontaine passed 
the puck to Kelly Sherman ’17, who 
directed a shot on goal from along 
the goal line that Mini touched 
but could not block. The Panthers 
dominated the first period with a 
4-0 lead and a 13-3 edge in shots 
on goal, including not allowing a 
single shot in the first 10 minutes of 
the period.
 Middlebury made it a 5-0 game 
3:56 into the middle period, scoring 
again on the power play when 
Wardwell cut into the slot and kept 
the puck low into the back of the net 
for her second goal of the season on 
assist by Winslow. Williams had 
two shots on a power play later in 
the period, but Middlebury goalie 
Neuberger made a pair of stick 
saves to keep the Ephs scoreless.
 Winslow picked up her team-
leading 13th goal of the season 
at the 13:50 mark to bring the 
score to 6-0. With 1:24 left in the 
third period, Shanna Hickman ’19 
tipped in an insurance goal — not 
that it was needed for the victory. 
Middlebury held a 29-17 edge in 
shots on goal for the game. The 
Panthers went 3-5 on the power 
play, while Williams was scoreless 
in its man-advantage.
“I think we have played well in 
the past few weeks,” Head Coach 
Bill Mandigo said. “The players 
are working hard and many are 
making significant contributions. 
I am excited about this team and 
their prospects as we head into the 
playoffs.”
 The Panthers will be looking 
for their eighth conference title 
when quarterfinal action starts on 
Saturday, Feb. 27. If the Panthers 
win on Saturday, they will host 
both semifinals and the final on 
March 5 and 6 as the highest seed 
remaining. This year’s NESCAC 
champion will earn an automatic 
bid to the NCAA Tournament.
Middlebury (17-4-3, 13-0-3 
NESCAC) has won 12 of its last 
13 games since Jan. 15. The team 
looks to win their first NESCAC 
title since 2012, which would be 
the eight in program history. Last 
year, Middlebury advanced to 
the championship game before 
falling to Trinity in overtime, 
3-2.   The Panthers, ranked 
seventh nationally, will face 
No. 8 seed Colby (3-12-1) in the 
quarterfinal round. A Middlebury 
victory against Colby would bring 
the Panthers’ unbeaten streak to 
30 games and give them home ice 
for the semifinals and finals. The 
Panthers hope to avenge last year’s 
fumble in the finals at the hands of 
third-seed Trinity. 
sports 20
Track & Field Record 
Program Best finishes
MEN’S HOCKEY 
SETTLES FOR 
ROAD NESCAC 
QUATERFINAL 
PAGE 18
APLINE AND NORDIC 
SKIING FINISHES 
FOURTH AT UNH 
CARNIVAL
PAGE 17in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Women’s Hockey Unstoppable; 
Easily Puts Seven Past Williams 
Elaine Forbush
By Rob Erickson
Senior Writer
By Ethan Brady
Features Editor
CONTINUED ON PAGE 17
The Middlebury men’s basketball team knocked 
off defending conference champion Wesleyan last 
Saturday, Feb. 20 in the NESCAC quarterfinals before 
a raucous home crowd at Pepin Gymnasium. With 
the 86-74 victory, the Panthers hit the road to try and 
upset top-seeded Trinity this Saturday, Feb. 27 in the 
NESCAC semifinal round.
See page 18 for full coverage. 
Panthers Playing On
