FEBRUARY 27, 2014 | Vol. 112 no. 16 | middleburycampus.com
UVM DISCOVERS 
NEW SYRUP 
TECHNIQUE
PAGE 5
STUDENT 
COMPETES ON 
JEOPARDY COLLEGE 
CHAMPIONSHIPS
PAGE 12
WHAT’S IN STORE 
FOR SPRING DOLCI 
DINNERS 
PAGE 15
in
sid
e
Teams Discuss 
Homophobia
By Anna Chamby
By Philip Bohlman
A panther on skis gave the Snow Bowl a test run at the 91st annual Middlebury College Winter Car-
nival, held on Feb. 21 and 22. The three day weekend included an ice show, semiformal dance, ice 
sculpture competition and free concert.  For more on the results of the ski races, see Sports, page 18.
michael o’hara
SLOPESIDE PANTHER PRIDE Juilliard President 
to Speak on Piano
By Leah Lavigne
On Tuesday, Feb. 25, roughly 
100 student athletes from 30 
teams met in the McCullough So-
cial Space to discuss homophobia 
and athletics as a follow-up to 
Wade Davis’ visit in January. 
The discussion, organized 
and facilitated by James Clif-
ford ’15 and Katie Linder ’15 and 
co-hosted by Queers and Allies 
(Q&A), was designed around sev-
eral questions; primarily, whether 
homophobia exists within athlet-
ics at the College and if so, how it 
manifests itself. Discussions were 
further guided to explore the im-
plications of homophobia and 
homophobic language, as well as 
possible ways to address these is-
sues in the athletic realm. 
“We want to talk about ways 
to make teams a more welcom-
ing place, if they don’t already feel 
welcoming to LGBT students,” 
said Linder, a member of Q&A 
and the women’s rugby team.
The idea for a discussion 
among student athletes on ho-
mophobia originated within Q&A, 
stemming from the sentiment that 
homophobia is particularly pres-
ent in athletics. The proposition 
was then directed to Clifford, Di-
rector of the SGA Athletics Com-
mittee and a member of the men’s 
alpine ski team, who subsequently 
paired up with Linder to organize 
the event solely for members of 
Varsity and Club Level I teams.
“I’ve experienced some ho-
mophobia on teams but also have 
experienced how great athletics at 
Middlebury are,” said Linder. 
Invitation to the discussion 
was purposely limited to Varsity 
and Club Level I athletes (the lat-
ter group consisting of members 
of men’s and women’s rugby, 
crew, and water polo teams) in or-
der to create and maintain a safe 
space for meaningful dialogue. 
“We didn’t want an ‘us and 
them’ scenario,” Clifford ex-
plained, voicing his and Linder’s 
worry that bringing in members 
of Q&A, individuals of the LGBT 
community, or any other student 
interested in the topic could lead 
to an accusatory environment. 
“We wanted to create a space 
where there’s a really similar cul-
tural identity, where people feel 
safe, but where people can discuss 
topic within that safer setting and 
not feel like they’re being judged 
for being an athlete.”
Clifford and Linder also sug-
gested that initiating a campus-
wide dialogue on homophobia was 
most logistically feasible through 
sports teams. In addition to the 
collective nature of sports teams 
and athletes as student groups, 
athletics have the infrastructure 
in the form of coaches and cap-
tains to encourage attendance. 
“I don’t think we are doing this 
because we think that athletics 
has the most rampant homopho-
bia,” Clifford noted. “It’s fair to 
say that there is homophobia in 
athletics though I’m not ready to 
say that there’s more homophobia 
in athletics than in the campus as 
a whole. But I think it is at least a 
worthwhile place to start.”
Director of Athletics, Erin 
Quinn, concurred with this idea in 
an email, highlighting the impor-
tance of discussions like the one 
held on Tuesday.
“There are ways that this and 
any number of issues may have 
-
letes or teams, but more gener-
ally it is great to see the students 
engaged enough to want to set up 
the discussions on their own,” said 
Quinn. “If this sets an example or 
A native Vermonter, Calvin 
McEathron ’16 grew up on a small 
farm 10 minutes from Montpelier, 
the state capital. In an interview, 
McEathron said he has been pas-
sionate about politics since his 
freshman year of high school, when 
controversial legislation on the 
operation of Vermont Yankee, the 
state’s only nuclear reactor, was 
debated heavily in the state legis-
lature.
This fall, McEathron will be 
making his dream a reality as he 
appears on the ballot as a candidate 
for one of two representatives of the 
town of Middlebury in the Vermont 
House of Representatives.
McEathron said his platform 
has grown from his own experience 
as a young adult in his home state.
“The overarching theme of the 
campaign is trying to get young 
people to come back to Vermont,” 
he said.
He sees the lack of students in 
Vermont public schools and the 
relocation of college-educated Ver-
mont youth to other states as foun-
dational problems. 
“Looking ahead we need to work 
to build and maintain a viable stu-
dent population that would assure 
the continued success of our repu-
table public education system,” said 
McEathron. “A continued decrease 
in elementary and high schools stu-
dents will inevitably lead to a lack of 
resources, diversity of classes and 
opportunities for our students.” 
According to McEathron, im-
proved cellphone coverage and ac-
cess to faster broadband internet 
are important measures that will 
attract a younger workforce to Ver-
mont and keep them in the state. 
He said that he recognizes the ap-
peal to many residents and visitors 
of “disconnecting,” but he believes 
that improved infrastructure will be 
vital to encouraging people to work 
in Vermont and make it a home 
rather than a vacation or retire-
ment destination. 
As part of an independent 
study last semester, McEathron 
researched effective campaigning 
techniques for state politicians, 
and concluded that personal en-
gagement was more important to a 
campaign than a strong social me-
dia presence or excessive advertis-
ing. Over the summer he aims to 
knock on as many doors as possible 
in order to establish personal con-
nections with his constituents and 
gain an understanding of their per-
spectives on issues affecting Ver-
monters. 
The town of Middlebury is in the 
Addison-1 district and sends two 
elected representatives to the Ver-
mont House of Representatives. Of 
the two incumbent representatives, 
Betty Nuovo and Paul Ralston, only 
Ms. Nuovo will seek re-election. 
She has held a seat in Addison-1 for 
17 of the last 23 years and owns a 
lengthy record of public service in 
The dedication of a new Steinway 
concert grand piano brings Presi-
dent of the Julliard School, Dr. Jo-
seph Polisi, to the Kevin P. Mahaney 
’84 Center for the Arts on Saturday, 
Mar. 1 for a public lecture on “The 
Arts, Education and the Human 
Experience.” Awarded an honor-
ary Doctor of Arts degree from the 
College in 2010, Polisi has served as 
the sixth president of the prestigious 
conservatory of dance, music and 
drama for 29 years, establishing a 
revised curriculum with an empha-
sis on the humanities and the liberal 
arts.
Polisi’s history with the College 
started decades ago. He worked at a 
summer festival at the University of 
Vermont in Burlington, frequently 
making trips to Middlebury to shop, 
dine and tour the College. His wife, 
a French teacher, was well aware of 
the prestigious language programs 
at the College and his daughter 
eventually attended a Language 
School program at the Vermont 
campus over the summer. Upon re-
ceiving his honorary doctorate, Poli-
si became better acquainted with 
President Liebowitz, his wife and the 
Middlebury community.
“I’m very honored to be asked 
back to inaugurate this new instru-
ment,” Polisi said.
Polisi looks forward to discuss-
ing the lasting positive impact the 
new piano will have on the College 
in years to come, as well as explor-
ing the relationship between con-
servatory and liberal arts study. 
Julliard’s 600 undergraduate and 
300 graduate students thrive in the 
world renowned Lincoln Center for 
the Performing Arts in New York 
City, but Polisi sees many possible 
connections between his school and 
Middlebury’s rural community of 
around 2,500 undergraduates.
SEE DAVIS, PAGE 2 SEE MCEATHRON, PAGE 3
SEE STEINWAY, PAGE 15
rachel frank
| FEBRUARY 27,20142 NEWS
Davis Talk 
Sparks Team 
Discussions
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
ISO Announces First Symposium
By Christian Jambora
The International Students’ Organiza-
tion (ISO) will be hosting Middlebury’s 
first ever Food and Globalization Week. 
Running Mar. 4-11, the event — dubbed 
“F&G Week” for short — will tie together 
global issues with the academic study of 
food.
ISO Vice President Mika Tan ’15 has 
been working on this project with the or-
ganization’s symposium committee since 
November of last year.
“We wanted to do a huge symposium 
as our first flagship spring event,” Tan 
said. In the fall, the organization holds 
the annual ISO Cultural Show.
However, since its early planning 
stages, the project has been scaled down 
from the large academic symposium it 
originally intended to be. 
“We realized our main goal is to show-
case the diversity of our student body on 
campus,” Tan said. “So we decided that 
[F&G Week] doesn’t have to stay aca-
demic. We can have fun things, too.”
Tan struggled to find a specific word 
to categorize F&G Week. “It’s not a 
symposium, and it’s not a conference.” 
Eventually, Tan settled on the following: 
a collection of separate but interrelated 
activities that celebrate food and culture.
Helen Wu ’16.5 is a board member 
on the planning committee for F&G and 
considered other themes such as art and 
music before ultimately settling on food.
“I think food has the power to gather 
people together,” said Wu. “Eating food 
is an occasion to share experiences. It’s 
an occasion to share history, culture, and 
geography.”
The activities planned for F&G Week 
will fall into one of two categories—cul-
ture or academics. The cultural category 
will include food tast-
ings, cooking lessons, 
and film screenings. A 
themed Atwater din-
ner is also being pre-
pared. The academic 
category of activities 
will include lectures 
and panel discussions 
on topics related to 
food and culture.
Dr. Teresa Mares, 
assistant professor of 
anthropology at the 
University of Vermont, will be the week’s 
featured speaker. Her work has focused 
on changes in Latino and Latina diets 
following migration. Panel speakers for 
F&G Week will include Middlebury’s 
own Lois B. Watson Professor of French 
Paula Schwartz, Gordon Schuster Pro-
fessor of Anthropology Ellen Oxfeld, and 
Visiting Professor of Geography Kacy 
McKinney.
Many activities for the week will be 
held by other student organizations. 
Clubs currently planning to hold events 
include Hillel, Alianza, the Japanese 
Club and the Southern Society.
“I think a great part of planning this 
event has been the collaboration with ev-
eryone,” said Tan.
The Japanese Club will be holding a 
cooking workshop where students can 
learn to make dumplings.
“Our main goal is to help others 
discover Japanese 
culture,” said Dew 
Nawarat ’14, the 
club’s president.
The Southern Soci-
ety will hold a Mardi 
Gras event showcas-
ing Louisiana Cajun 
food. On the menu are 
beignets, gumbo, jam-
balaya and king cake.
“As most students 
at Middlebury have 
never been to Mardi 
Gras or Louisiana, we hope to bring a 
little bit of the South to New England,” 
Southern Society President Zack Strauss 
’15 wrote in an email.
At the end of F&G Week, ISO hopes 
that all Middlebury students will gain a 
deeper appreciation for the diversity of 
their student body.
“The process is meant to be as fun as 
it is intellectually stimulating, and we re-
ally hope that students will begin to view 
the connections between themselves and 
the many cultures that populate their 
community,” said ISO President Joanne 
Wu ’15.
When the trustees were here last 
weekend, I shared a compelling article 
with them— “Ways Today’s Students Are 
Radically Changing Our Colleges” from 
AGB Trusteeship magazine. The article 
reviews the findings of a six-year na-
tional study involving 33 campuses and 
thousands of students and concludes 
that students today are “different from 
their predecessors in ways that have pro-
found implications for colleges.” Three 
similar studies were conducted between 
1969 and 1993. 
I would like to share some of the find-
ings with you because you might find 
them interesting. To me, they raise a 
fundamental question: what is Middle-
bury’s role in educating today’s 21st-
century students, and how flexible do we 
need to be to meet their needs? 
The article states that the primary 
differences between students today and 
their predecessors are:
“Today’s undergraduates are the 
first generation of digital na-
tives.”
“Undergraduates are older, fewer 
live on campus and more attend 
part time.”
“Students are products of the 
worst economy since the Great 
Depression.”
“They are more immature, depen-
dent, coddled and entitled.”
“They are the most diverse gen-
eration in higher education his-
tory.”
For this column, I would like to talk 
about two in particular. 
Digital natives: Operating in a 
24/7 universe, in which almost every-
thing is instantly accessible, is an un-
precedented societal change. The article 
notes a “mismatch” between the stu-
dents and institutions of higher ed that 
conduct business in real time and in 
real locations and use more linear, pas-
sive learning tools, such as lectures and 
books. Digital natives, however, “prefer 
active and concrete learning involving 
applications, games and collaborations.” 
They tend to gather information as need-
ed and “don’t understand that plagarism 
is wrong” because, for them, sharing in 
all forms is routine, highlighting another 
possible incongruity as we struggle to 
enforce our academic-honesty policies. 
How should colleges deal with the fact 
that their students exist in an entirely 
different realm of experience than the 
faculty and administrators? 
Additionally, digital natives are more 
comfortable texting than talking. Many 
people have observed that students to-
day are not as skilled in interpersonal 
communication and that they don’t 
have the necessary tools to cope with 
conflict. Again, does Middlebury have 
a role to play here? It’s intriguing, for 
example, to think about interventions 
that would raise awareness and encour-
age face-to-face interaction: instituting 
campus-wide digital-free days or weeks, 
requiring conversations like JusTalks, 
establishing device-free zones.  
Immature, dependent, coddled 
and entitled: The article describes stu-
dents who rely on their parents more 
heavily than previous generations did; 
they are not as independent or self-reli-
ant. Two-fifths reported that they phone, 
e-mail or text their parents daily and 
one-fifth reported being in contact three 
times a day or more. The article also not-
ed that students report feeling isolated, 
lonely, having “overwhelming anxiety” 
and being “psychologically exhausted.” 
They “require significantly more psycho-
logical and emotional support.” 
My colleagues and I are concerned 
about the psychological stresses stu-
dents face, often well before they get 
to college, and the resiliency that many 
students don’t possess. I would like to 
understand this better from your per-
spective and experience. Your observa-
tions, reactions and suggestions about 
any of the topics raised in the article may 
help us find ways to respond to students’ 
emerging needs.  Most importantly, are 
there aspects of these findings that call 
for students to push themselves to claim 
a different experience in college? Do you 
want something different from Middle-
bury or something different from your-
self and your peers?  
Copies of the article are in my office 
for anyone wishing to read it. It is not 
available online, so come by and see me 
in person (smile).
today’s students are changing colleges
one  
View
Dean’s
creates a model for other students to do the 
same, that would be a great outcome.”
“We’re not trying to change anyone’s 
minds or preach to anyone,” added Linder. 
“We’re just trying to get people to start 
thinking.”
This goal, the student organizers stated, 
stemmed out of advice from Wade Davis 
himself during a dinner with the former 
NFL Cornerback and LGBTQ advocate.
“One of the things he said that I thought 
was really important was that whenever 
you’re discussing something that people 
have really different opinions on … [it’s] 
more effective to at least have really honest 
and raw conversation,” Clifford recalled. 
“That can at least set off some sort of new 
way of looking at things, which can be re-
ally important towards growth.”
Two self-selecting athletes from each 
team were asked to attend the discussion, 
though several teams, including women’s 
lacrosse, had more than two participants. 
“I chose to go because I thought it was 
important that more representatives from 
the team were there, especially because 
[homophobia is] not something that we 
really talk about that often,” said Maddie 
Kinker ’16 of the women’s lacrosse team. 
we can start creating this conversation and 
once we have, what we can learn from that 
to change and make the community more 
friendly to every kind of individual out 
there.”
Clifford and Linder expressed their 
hope that those individuals who chose 
to attend the discussion would act as 
leaders by sharing their experiences and 
insights from the event with their team-
mates and so, indirectly “bring [the topic 
of homophobia] to ‘the front of other 
teammates’ minds.”
In addition, they conveyed their lon-
ger-term goal to carry discussions on ho-
mophobia and related issues beyond this 
single event. In particular, the facilita-
tors hope that attention to homophobia 
will eventually be incorporated into pre-
season athletic meetings, during which 
athletes currently discuss sexual assault 
and hazing on teams. Clifford and Linder 
mentioned support from Quinn on the 
idea. 
Moreover, Linder emphasized the im-
portance of having multiple events that 
address the topic in different ways in 
order to continue the dialogue that was 
kick-started by Davis’ visit.  
The discussion is in temporal con-
junction with The Office of Communica-
tion’s efforts to produce Middlebury’s 
own You Can Play video, reflecting sup-
port of the project for which Davis acts as 
Executive Director. 
“[Davis’] visit generated interest and 
conversations about the video and added 
texture and context to the anticipated re-
lease … which would have been different 
without his involvement,” Quinn wrote. 
Quinn also cited the importance of the 
discussion in light of Jason Collins’ re-
cent contract with the Brooklyn Nets and 
Michael Sam’s coming out before the NFL 
draft. 
“Athletics is behind the curve in these 
issues nationally, so while they come to 
the forefront of the national conscious-
ness, it is appropriate and necessary for 
them to be in the forefront at Middle-
bury,” Quinn added. “There is certainly a 
need to discuss these issues solely in the 
context of their existence at Middlebury 
College, but the national context can and 
should inform the discussions as well.”
“It’s a social issue that has come a long 
way and has a long way to go,” Clifford 
said. “Like anything, things don’t change 
overnight … [but] just getting Middlebury 
students to stop from their work and their 
sports and their social life and to look at 
this, that’s an accomplishment itself.”
“... our main goal is to 
showcase the diversity 
of our student body on 
campus.... So we decided 
that [the symposium] 
doesn’t have to stay 
academic”
mika tan ’15
ISO vice president
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
Join the conversation. Comment on 
middleburycampus.com or 
 at middbeat.org
On Feb. 19, the Gamut Room presented a 
new music initiative, Wednesday Open Mic 
Performance (WOMP). Spearheaded by Eyal 
Levy ’14.5 and Mitchell Parrish ’14, WOMP is 
a weekly series that allows student musicians 
to perform in the hope of developing a more 
vibrant music scene on campus.
Gamut Room for the inaugural WOMP, 
which featured two prescheduled headliners 
in addition to eight open mic performances 
at the beginning of the event, totaling two 
hours of live music by students.
-
tions,” said Parrish. “I was overwhelmed with 
the energy in the crowd and everyone seemed 
legitimately pumped to be there.” 
WOMP was designed as a vehicle for stu-
dent bands and performers to showcase their 
talents, as well as give other students the op-
portunity to listen and support their peers.
“There is a growing music scene on 
campus, but it’s fragmented,” said Parrish. 
“There are tons of musicians and several 
active bands on this campus, but not many 
people know them. Even worse, most of the 
musicians don’t even know each other.”
WOMP grew out of a musician meet-up 
proposed at a Middlebury Music United 
(MMU) meeting. The concept was formal-
ized into a weekly event, and the idea of 
adding open mic performers in addition to 
the invited musicians was introduced as a 
way of making music more accessible. 
Following the eight open mic perfor-
mances, Weyland Joyner ’14.5 and Sam 
Finkelman ’14 took the stage together, fol-
lowed by Leif Castren ’14, who concluded 
the night.
“I wanted to perform because I’ll take 
any chance I can get to play live music — 
it’s my favorite thing to do,” Finckelman 
said. “When Mitchell [Parrish] asked Wey-
land and I to throw a few songs together, I 
jumped on the opportunity.” 
“I also think it’s incredible when musi-
cians on campus get together. There’s a lot 
of talent here at Middlebury, and I wanted 
to meet more musicians and show younger 
students that performing here shouldn’t be 
a big deal,” he added.
Finkelman and Joyner played folk, blue-
grass and blues music including songs by 
John Prince and Warren Zevon. The duo 
also debuted a song written by Finkelman.
Castren followed with songs by The Devil 
Makes Three, The Tallest Man on Earth and 
Ray LaMontagne.
“Playing music for people is fun as 
well as a good challenge,” he said. “Since I 
hadn’t performed in a long time, it was a re-
ally novel experience to be able to get up on 
stage and sing. For me, it was a test of how 
comfortable I am with performing.”
Castren said that he hadn’t played in 
front of a large audience for two years, and 
noted that WOMP allowed him, and will al-
low others, to improve stage presence.
-
cally invited by Levy and Parrish to perform.
“A lot of the venues on campus that orga-
nize music are very stigmatized,” said Awa 
Goodwin ’14 at the inaugural WOMP. “This 
is a really cool way to get a lot of people to 
come forth and share their music in a way 
that’s open to a diverse group of people. It’s 
too bad that music doesn’t reach a lot of 
an event worth attending.”
Parrish hopes that future WOMP events 
manage to garner equal attention.
“My goals is to make WOMP an insti-
tution on this campus,” said Parrish. “The 
Gamut Room is one of the coolest student 
spaces on campus, and when you combine it 
with good food and live music, there’s noth-
ing better.”
WOMP is held in the Gamut Room every 
Wednesday night at 9 p.m. Headliners are 
scheduled through April 23, and interested 
parties are encouraged to contact Levy and 
Parrish via email.
february 27, 2014 |  3        News
WOMP Gives Students the mic
By Caroline Agsten
paul gerard
community 
council
Sober Friends and 
Hard Alcohol
By David Yang
On Monday, Feb. 17, Community Coun-
cil continued the ongoing discussion of hard 
alcohol policies with the Commons Deans. 
Dean of Brainerd Commons and Visiting As-
sistant Professor of Comparative Literature 
Natasha Chang, Dean of Wonnacott Com-
mons Matt Longman and Dean of Cook 
Commons Ian Sutherland were present at 
the meeting. 
Hard alcohol has been a main topic for 
Community Council since last spring when 
President Ron Liebowitz asked the Council to 
examine the role of hard alcohol on campus 
as a condition of his approval of the Mill Hard 
Alcohol Exception. During its meetings in the 
fall semester about the issue, the Council met 
with Dean of Students Katy Smith-Abbott 
and Coach Bob Ritter, co-chairs of the 2011-
2012 Task Force on Alcohol and Social Life, 
Gus Jordan, executive director of Health and 
Counseling Services, and Barbara McCall, 
director of health and wellness education. A 
number of members on the Council felt that 
it was necessary to continue the conversation 
surrounding hard alcohol with the Commons 
Deans. 
The deans have a more personal under-
standing of this issue as they work directly 
with the students who struggle with sub-
stance abuse. The College emphasizes educa-
tion over punishment for students who abuse 
alcohol, unlike many peer institutions. All 
students who have to meet with their deans 
to discuss their alcohol usage are required to 
go through the Brief Alcohol Screening and 
Intervention for College Students (BASICS) 
program that focuses on educating the stu-
dent to make better informed decisions about 
alcohol consumption.
“We work most closely around health 
and safety, ” explained Longman. “It’s very 
important to me that students feel that our 
approaches are reasonable. There are some 
on campus whose perception is […] that the 
administrators and the deans are not doing 
enough about [alcohol issues] and are not 
coming down hard enough. From my stand-
point as someone who sits with students fol-
lowing up after these really tough weekends 
[…], it is easier to see it that way [in a dis-
tance] but when you’re really with [these stu-
dents] you realize that this is a human ques-
tion […] about who we are as a community 
and how we treat each other.”
The Sober Friend System, which is one of 
many safety nets that the college implements, 
was discussed at the meeting. The Council 
also debated the idea of having the Parton 
Center for Health and Wellness open on Fri-
day and Saturday nights.
“The same people are asked to be Sober 
Friends over and over again because they are 
usually people who are nondrinking, and it’s 
problematic to continue with the same peo-
ple taking these caretaking positions,” said 
Chang about the Sober Friend System. “A 
will leave the person, which is concerning. I 
don’t think there’s an easy solution to either 
of the two programs and I’m don’t feel that 
those are great enough problems to do away 
with the Sober Friend system I really feel that 
the system is part and parcel of the Good Sa-
maritan policy.”
Ann Hanson, Posse Mentor, former Dean 
of Students and proxy for Dean of Ross Com-
mons Janine Clookey, pointed out that safety 
nets, while making the campus generally 
safer, also encourage students to make irre-
sponsible decisions: 
“One of really big challenges in grappling 
with this issue is [to consider whether] you 
are hampering or enabling students to drink 
more by having [those] safety nets. In the real 
world, you can go to the hospital if you drink 
too much […] We at Middlebury have always 
struggled with what our philosophy is and I 
think we try really hard to keep people safe 
at a huge expense… [By having those safety 
nets] we are making it easier for students to 
drink and be irresponsible.”
This week, the Council continued the con-
-
tition from the residents of Munford house to 
become an Interest House.
mceathron to 
Push for Youth 
APpeal in VT.
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Middlebury.
McEathron and Donna Donahue — his 
Ralston’s spot. Donahue is the former presi-
dent of the Better Middlebury Partnership.
“There is already some competition which 
is great, and knowing how competitive the 
Vermont political process can be, I wouldn’t 
expect anything else,” McEathron said.
Governor of Vermont and Executive in Resi-
dence Jim Douglas ’72, recognized around 
campus for teaching the J-term class “Ver-
mont Government and Politics,” was elected 
to the Vermont House of Representatives the 
same year he graduated from college.
“The legislature is stronger when Ver-
monters of different backgrounds and ages 
serve,” Douglas wrote in an email. “It’s young 
people who have the most at stake, after all, 
as they’ll be around longer to  experience the 
In 1973 the Vermont House had the largest 
number of members age 25 and under in the 
nation: I think my older colleagues saw the 
value of all that youthful energy!”
McEathron’s run will not be easy. He faces 
experienced candidates in Nuovo and Dona-
spring and fall in running his campaign while 
pursuing his studies.
At the moment however, he is focused on 
his message.
“There are a lot of issues from taxes to 
healthcare that are really affecting Vermont-
ers right now,” he said. “I think with a young-
er voice and a different perspective we could 
Dupont Brothers
THURSDAY 8:00-10:00pm
Blending the contemplative winters 
of the northeast with the solitary 
beauty of southwestern desert, 
Sam and Zack DuPont are now 
co-conspirators in a shared pas-
sion that runs deep in their family. 
complimented by elegant prose and 
a vocal blend that could only be 
matched by blood relation, produc-
ing a unique Vermont-made Folk-
Americana sound.
Big Mean Sound 
Machine
FRIDAY 8:00-11:00pm
Fusing elements of Afrobeat, 60s 
Garage Rock, 70s Funk, and Jamai-
can Dub rhythms, Big Mean Sound 
Machine cranks out the dirtiest, 
fattest, grooviest beats to keep you 
moving all night long.
Gumbo YaYa
SATURDAY 8:00-11:00pm
Celebrating Mardi Gras with funky 
New Orleans megaband and all the 
Karaoke Blackout
FRIDAY 7:00-9:00pm
Students, faculty, and staff are 
invited to come sing songs by Black 
artists in celebration of Black His-
tory Month! There will be food and 
good company!
Bite of Brainerd
SATURDAY 1:00-4:00pm
Come to McCullough Social Space 
sounds from Middlebury’s gourmet 
restaurants with Brainerd Com-
mons staff and faculty. Free food 
from local establishments includ-
ing Vergennes Laundry, American 
Flatbread, Noonie’s, Otter Creek 
Bakery, Greg’s Meat Market, Red 
Apron Cupcakery, Almost Home 
Market, Vermont Coffee Company, 
and Middlebury Natural Food’s 
Co-Op. Several student bands will 
accompany the event, including Get 
in my Prius, 4:30 Jazz Combo, and 
Iron Eyes Cody. Local beers will be 
served in Crossroads Cafe for those 
over 21 with two forms of ID. 
local
Lisa Bernardin shares her passion for neuroscience with Vermont students.
Six years ago, Lisa Bernardin read 
a newspaper article that would alter the 
course of her life.  It was during a state of 
“oscillation,” as she said, that Bernardin 
came across an article about the winner 
of the International Brain Bee.
The Brain Bee is an international 
neuroscience competition for high school 
students.  Starting with a statewide com-
petition, winners of the Brain Bee move 
on to a nationwide competition.  The 
winner of the nationwide Brain Bee then 
competes against representatives of 18 
different countries for the title of Inter-
national World Brain Bee Champion.  
Immediately after reading the article, 
Bernardin looked to see where the near-
est Brain Bee was, only to discover that 
Vermont had no Brain Bee.  She soon be-
came Vermont’s first Brain Bee coordina-
tor, and has been for the past five years.
 “My job as coordinator is to get the 
participants,” Bernardin said. “So I have 
to get excitement about learning about 
the brain and how it functions.”
Fortunately, there is nobody more 
excited about this subject than Bernardin 
herself. 
“Everybody’s got to know about neu-
roscience,” Bernardin said. “It’s the way 
we function.  I mean in some ways it is 
vital.  It’s how we live, but… we live with-
out really knowing that we need that in-
formation.”
One might assume that Bernardin 
had a background in neuroscience before 
becoming involved in the Brain Bee, but 
she had never been educated in neuro-
science.  Rather, her interest in the field 
came from both a love of teaching and 
also a tragic car accident 29 years ago.
“A woman hit us head on and so I was 
in a coma for seven weeks,” Bernardin 
said. “The coma was the big thing because 
it’s hidden. You can look normal but yet 
you … have all these [memory and the or-
ganizational] issues... that causes stress.”
She’s now part of the Middlebury 
brain injury support group due to her 
Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI).  She has 
a persistent frontal lobe injury, which 
means she continues to have trouble with 
organization, planning, decision-making 
and other “executive” cognitive functions.
Although her injury made her job as 
a speech pathologist too difficult to man-
age, her passion for the Brain Bee has 
transformed her injury into an opportu-
nity.  
“It’s not a job but I make it like a job 
in that I always have stuff to do,” Bernar-
din said.  “I’m always looking to get more 
schools and more high school students 
[involved].”
She’s eager to get college students in-
volved in Brain Bee as well — Middlebury 
seniors have been helping to run Brain 
Bee clubs at Middlebury High School 
since the start of the program. 
“I’d love to get more involved with 
the College,” Bernardin said.
For now, her job as coordinator will 
involve helping the winner of the Ver-
mont competition to prepare for the na-
tionwide Brain Bee. She said that she is 
exccited “to see 
the high school 
students want-
ing to learn 
about some-
thing that some-
day they might 
help cure” such as Alzheimers and schizo-
phrenia.  
Bernardin herself recognizes that her 
brain injury puts her at higher risk for 
Alzheimer’s disease. This risk, however, 
is not the reason behind her passion for 
neuroscience.
“Sometimes I’ll say that [I’m at high-
er risk] but sometimes I don’t,” she said. 
“I think it’s just more important that neu-
roscience is out there for people to grasp 
and to learn about.  If they help discover 
something for Alzheimers, that’s fabu-
lous.”
Her goal for next year’s Brain Bee is 
to  increase the number of students par-
ticipating back up to around 30 from the 
18 students that 
competed this 
year.  This will 
involve recruiting 
more Vermont 
high schools. 
Bernardin also 
plans to meet with the State Department 
of Education, which she has done once 
before, and explain her goals of stronger 
student recruitment and more emphasis 
on neuroscience in the classroom.
“High school students, I think, are 
a really important age,” Bernardin said. 
“Because they don’t have brains that are 
fully developed.”
By Allesandria Schumacher
One in 8,700
Where the personalitites of Middlebury proper are celebrated
Meet 
Lisa Bernardin
Brain bee coordinator
Courtesy of vermont brain bee
courtesy of vermont brain bee
Bernardin organizes Vt.’s Brain Bee.
By Conor Grant
Massive Fire Destroys Sugarbush Condos
COurtesy of VTDIGGER
Win Smith, president of Sugarbush, 
helped accomodate displaced guests.
Firefighters from numerous departments collaborated to extinguish the blaze.
Courtesy of my champlain valley
-
side condominium complex near Sugar-
bush Resort in Warren, Vt. on Feb. 17.
-
vestigation by local authorities, but reports 
thirty in the morning. 
According to the Vermont State Police, 
the Warren Fire Department arrived on the 
scene at 1:55 a.m. after receiving a phone 
call describing the growing blaze. Bark-
ing dogs sounded the initial alarm, waking 
their owners and alerting them to the blaz-
Working in tandem, responders and 
residents were able to successfully evacuate 
all of the buildings’ inhabitants.  
The blaze was already too large to 
contain without assistance when the War-
ren Fire Department arrived. Warren Fire 
Chief Peter DeFreest described the blaze as 
the largest he had ever seen. 
-
Stowe, and Waterbury arrived to assist 
-
sons. 
ineffective due to a lack of water, according 
to Chief DeFreest.
Residents of the condominiums report 
immediately go off. It is unclear whether 
maintained, or otherwise compromised.
Regardless of the source of the alarms’ 
disfunctionality, their failure to promptly 
quickly through the large complex, com-
Furthermore, the building did not have 
an internal sprinkler system in place, mak-
respond to for responders. The layout of 
the building impeded access to the back-
to a single avenue of engagement with the 
morning, The last of the building’s occu-
pants were evacuated just after 3 a.m., and 
in many years. In total, 36 condominiums 
able to fully extinguish the inferno.
the region. Preliminary estimates place the 
infrastructural toll at more than $2 million.
Sugarbush does not exclusively own or 
manage the Mountainside condominium 
complex, even though it is situated in what 
the resort calls ‘Sugarbush village.’ Sugar-
bush Resort rents out six or seven of the 
units in the complex, and the rest of them 
are privately owned.
Sugarbush hosted all of the evacuees 
of the Mountainside condominium  com-
plex, including their heroic canines, in the 
Timber restaurant located at the base of 
the Sugarbush ski area. Sugarbush owner 
Win Smith personally arrived at the Tim-
ber restaurant at 4:30 a.m. to assist in relief 
efforts.
Sugarbush Resort is assisting all of the 
else to stay, according to Sugarbush’s vice 
president of marketing and communica-
tions Candice White. In addition to hous-
ing Sugarbush guests and season pass hold-
ers, the Mountainside condominiums also 
housed a number of Sugarbush employees, 
further complicating the situation for Sug-
arbush.
Local authorities continue to investi-
and Green Mountain Access have jointly 
established a website, available at www.
-
Courtesy of uvm
Tim Perkins and Abby van den Berg of 
the University of Vermont’s Proctor Maple 
Research Center have discovered a new 
technique for extracting sap from maple 
trees that would produce 10 times more sap 
per acre than the current method. Unlike 
the current technique, which utilizes wild 
maples, theirs uses young, cultivated sap-
lings.
The industry has undergone a number 
buckets. Today, most farmers harvest sap 
from maples using a network of tubing that 
winds through the natural forests from tree 
to tree. Vacuums are placed at the end of 
Perkins and van den Berg’s break-
through occured while they were studying 
the movement of sap through the maples, 
intending to augment their yield. By chop-
ping off the tops of saplings and placing a 
vacuum directly over the stem, water is 
sucked from the soil straight through the 
plant. 
The younger trees are able to regener-
ate their branches before the next harvest-
ing season. This method allows growers to 
plant the maples in a “plantation,” rather 
than relying on wild trees.
Reactions to the proposed technique 
have been mixed. The plantation method 
will increase predictability during the har-
vesting process and allow farmers to ex-
pand their businesses without investing in 
increasingly expensive woodland. The tech-
nique also mitigates the effects of natural 
disasters, decreasing the recovery period by 
decades. 
However, many farmers fear of losing 
touch with the tradition that the industry is 
steeped in. 
“[The new process] is the antithesis of 
what people expect from the maple syrup 
industry,” David Marvin, owner of But-
ternut Mountain Farm in Morrisville, Ver-
mont, said.  
Marvin is proud of his undomesticated 
maple production. 
“Informed consumers like a wild craft-
ed product,” he said, emphasizing the sus-
tainability of natural resources involved in 
the current process. “I’m not faulting the 
researchers. They’re just doing what re-
searchers do, but it needs to be put in a hu-
man context.”
Saplings are resistant to pests, particu-
larly the Asian longhorned beetle, which 
threatens a number of hardwood trees in 
North America. Most crucially, saplings 
freeze and thaw with smaller temperature 
component of sap development, making 
them a bastion against climate change for 
the industry
The new method vastly opens up the 
maple industry, as anyone with several 
acres of arable land could now start produc-
ing sap. Laura Sorkin, co-owner of Thunder 
Basin Maple Works, wrote in a recent ar-
ticle, “Any region with the right climate for 
growing maples would be able to start up 
maple ‘farms.’”
Other farmers worry that the industry 
will shift away from areas with natural ma-
ple treasuries, such as Vermont, to regions 
that lack forests but are abundant in labor.
The maple industry is a weighty com-
ponent of Vermont’s economy. In 2013, 
Vermont churned out 1.32 million gallons 
of syrup, accounting for 40 percent of the 
nation’s annual production, and commer-
cial manufacturers operate in every county 
in the state.
Perkins has made it clear that the 
n e w technology is not yet on the market 
a n d , at this point, would not be economi-
cally advantageous. 
“There are so many small trees and 
sap collection devices needed, “ Perkins 
said in a recent interview with CBC news, 
“that the price right now is roughly about 
the same for the plantation method as the 
traditional method.” Though it might take 
several decades, he insists the method will 
get cheaper with time. 
Still, Perkins does not predict farm-
ers will completely abandon the traditional 
process. 
“This new technique isn’t meant to 
replace the traditional maple production 
methods,” he said. “It’s made as an addi-
tional tool that maple producers can use in 
certain circumstances if needs dictate.”
Vermont Scientists Pioneer 
New Maple Syrup Technique 21
5k Ski Race
Head over to Ripton this Sunday for the 
annual 5k cross-country ski race! For 10 
dollars, attendees can compete in clas-
sical, skate, and adaptive categories, 
all while enjoying delicious BBQ. Not a 
skiier? Show up a few hours early (at 9 
-
lipop” race. For more information call 
(802)-443-2744
MAR. 2, 10 AM – 12:30 PM
Local 
lowdown
Local 5
“Still Life and Sculpture”
 Exhibit Opens
Spent too much time in the museum at the 
CFA? Try heading over to Brandon Artists 
and Sculpture” opens this Friday, and is 
open through April 29th. For more infor-
mation call (802)-247-4956, or visit the 
gallery’s website at 
www.brandonartistsguild.org.
FEB. 27, 5 – 7 PM
“War Horse” at Town Hall Theater
Are you an equestrian craving high 
Horse” this Thursday at Town Hall the-
ater, a puppet adaptation of the Michael 
Morpurgo story about a young boy and 
10 dollars for students, and are available 
at www.townhalltheater.org or over the 
phone at (802)-382-9222.
FEB. 27,  2 – 4 PM
Maple Syrup tapping workshop
 
you, look no further. This Saturday, Chris 
Bearor will lead a tapping workshop in 
Attendees will practice using tubes 
and buckets on maple trees around the 
library. For more information, call (802)-
877-2211.
MAR. 1, 11 AM –1 PM 
By Sarah Koenigsberg
Mardi Gras Casino Night
Church in Bristol will host Mardis Gras 
Casino night this Saturday. For twenty 
dollars, including 150 dollars in ‘chips,’ 
contestants can win a variety of cool 
prizes. Appetizers and refreshments will 
be served. For more information call 
(802)-453-5599.
MAR. 1, 7 – 9 PM
Carnivale in Vergennes
-
and lots of masked guests. Tickets are 50 
-
gennes Partnership. For more informa-
tion on the festive event, visit www.
vergennesoperahouse.org or call (802)-
877-6737.
MAR. 2, 7 – 10 PM
 | February 27, 2013
Courtesy of Vnews
“Any region with 
the right climate 
for growing ma-
ples would be able 
to start up maple 
farms.”
Laura Sorkin
Co-Owner of Thunder 
Basin Maplewroks
Courtesy of uvmCourtesy of uvm
A sweet discovery
Scientists Abby Van Den Berg 
and Tim Perkins (top right) pio-
neered the a new technique for 
harvesting sap from maple trees. 
Tim Perkins (above) adjusts a 
mechanism on his apparatus. 
Traditional techniques (right) 
rely on mature maple trees for 
sap.
NEWS, LOCAL, OPINIONS, FEATURES, SPORTS, ARTS & SCIENCES
IT’S ALL THERE. LOG ON.
www.middleburycampus.com
THE CAMPUS + THE INTERNET   
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifi-
able events; the use of vulgar language or per-
sonal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article 
that contains any of the aforementioned will be 
removed before publication. Contributors will 
be allowed to reference prior articles published 
in the Opinions section or announcements for 
the public record. If a reference is made to prior 
articles, the submission will be considered a let-
ter to the editor.  The Campus will not accept or 
print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed 
by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as 
reviews, columns, editorial comics and other com-
mentary, are views of the individual contributors 
and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submis-
sions at 800 words or less. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at 
www.middleburycampus.com. To be considered 
for publications, submissions must be received by 
5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic 
year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and busi-
ness offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, 
Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is 
produced on Apple Macintosh computers using 
Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press 
Republican in New York. The advertising deadline 
for all display and classified advertising is 5 p.m. 
Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Mid-
dlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business 
phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribu-
tion concerns to the Business Director. First class 
postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
Harvard, Yale, Middlebury?
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kyle Finck
MANAGING EDITOR
Alex Edel 
BUSINESS MANAGER
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Emily Singer, Nate Sans, Ellie Reinhardt, 
Eliza Teach, Claire Abbadi 
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol,  
Edward O’Brien, Isaac Baker
SPORTS EDITORS 
 Alex Morris, Joe MacDonald, Fritz Parker
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Conor Grant
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Isabelle Stillman, Emilie 
Munson
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Ben Anderson, Leah Lavigne 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anthea Viragh, Paul Gerard, Rachel Frank, 
Michael O’Hara
DESIGN EDITOR
Olivia Allen
ONLINE EDITORS
Greg Woolston, Maggie Cochrane,  
Ellie Alldredge
COPY EDITORS
Dan Bateyko, Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Ian Stewart, Greta Neubauer
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
decided by the 
editorial board.
What pops into someone’s head 
when you tell them you go to Middlebury 
College? Languages? 350.org? The price 
tag? Or have they never 
even heard of it?
This past week Bill 
Burger, vice president 
of communications, 
pondered these questions 
when soliciting feedback 
from students, faculty and 
the board of trustees on the 
direction of the college’s 
brand. Though there was copious talk 
about a new logo, a website overhaul and 
renaming, the current lack of diversity is 
still the biggest issue the College faces as 
it reevaluates its brand.
Whether socioeconomic, ethnic, 
geographic, diversity is an essential 
aspect of the liberal arts experience and is 
Despite the college’s best efforts, our 
applicant pool is still primarily white 
students from the Northeast whose 
families went to college and can afford 
full tuition. The desire to shift this 
paradigm is perhaps more than anything 
what should be driving the rebranding 
process. The ability to attract applicants 
from a variety of backgrounds 
is what marks a prestigious 
institution. Middlebury needs 
a brand that will make it a 
household name across a 
range of backgrounds.
In a video circulated 
in Dean Shirley Collado’s 
recent all-school email on our 
branding process, consultant 
Mark Neustadt presented 
yearlong study of the College. 
His research showed that 
emphasizing Middlebury as a 
globally-oriented liberal arts 
school tipped the balance in 
the College’s favor among 
non-white students from 
across the country, while 
emphasizing that something 
like sustainability often had no 
effect and even was a deterrent 
for some in the study. 
This doesn’t mean 
that we’re abandoning our 
environmental focus, but it 
does show that framing the college with 
a larger global perspective could put us in 
the right direction. With that in mind, it 
is little surprise that we are talking about 
connecting the dots within our growing 
Middlebury empire by incorporating 
our name into the schools abroad and 
emphasizing our Monterey graduate 
opportunities in international studies. We 
need an outward, global orientation to 
bring in applicants outside of the college’s 
typical pool.
The question is, how will this shift 
in branding change life at Middlebury? 
There can be no question that diversity 
will enhance academic and social life 
on campus, but what do we lose by 
expanding our offerings around the globe 
and emphasizing graduate programs to 
attract that diversity? 
Thus far, elite institutions like 
Harvard or Yale have become household 
names both nationally and to some 
degree internationally by expanding 
their graduate programs and research 
opportunities, while also diversifying 
their academic specialties and increasing 
their global focus. They have garnered 
prestige, but at the cost of their 
undergraduate experience, which 
was inevitably sidelined as more 
advanced opportunities came 
about. 
This level of prestige is what 
Middlebury wants for its brand, 
but we need to do it without 
shooting ourselves in the foot 
teacher-student relationships, 
tight knit community and 
undergraduate opportunities. We 
do need to address diversity on 
this campus, but we should not 
go about it by diverting our focus 
to schools abroad and graduate 
programs.  
We call on the college to 
continue this important dialogue 
throughout the spring and think 
critically about how we can 
attract diversity without changing 
our current investment in 
undergraduate life. It is time for 
a change, but it needs to be done 
thoughtfully and deliberately. 
You don’t control where you came 
from or how you were born. You don’t 
have control whether you were born with 
privilege any 
more than 
you can 
c o n t r o l 
whether you 
were born 
without it. 
The one 
thing you do 
have absolute control over is your actions. 
I don’t want anyone to think that I am 
blaming straight people for being straight 
in this article. I want to blame a select 
group of straight individuals for their 
instance of homophobia that happened 
at the Q&A sponsored “Olympic Gaymes” 
party last Friday night and explain to these 
individuals what their probably thoughtless 
actions mean in my mind as a gay person (I 
cannot speak for anyone else). 
Not much else was going on last Friday 
night other than the Olympic Gaymes, so a 
lot of straight people ended up attending, 
which is good in principle. That being said, 
there were some straight people there who 
should not have been. Yes, the party last 
Friday was open to everyone, but it was also 
a safe space for queer Midd kids. And in any 
safe space, it is absolutely inappropriate to 
make anyone feel uncomfortable for being 
gay.
I don’t think I’m the only member of 
the queer community that feels like these 
parties are the only place where I can go up 
him without the fear of humiliation (fear 
of rejection, maybe, but not humiliation). 
Last Friday, however, a group of guys 
became aggressive when other men tried to 
make an advance. When one man started 
to dance with one of them they would tell 
him to “Fuck off!” They acted visibly upset 
and disgusted... at a gay party!
To those guys: I’m sorry if you’re not 
entirely comfortable with another man 
hitting on you. I know how sensitive a 
subject your sexuality can be, believe me. 
So I can see how an immediate emotional 
response might be to get defensive. But 
you have absolutely no right to get angry at 
gay men for expressing interest in you at a 
gay party. If you’re really that homophobic, 
don’t come. If you didn’t know it was a gay 
from the window), sorry, that’s still no 
excuse. Not only is it never okay to make 
a gay man feel bad for expressing interest 
in you, but it is especially not okay in our 
safe space. Telling a guy to “fuck off” sends 
the message that he has somehow wronged 
you or acted inappropriately by being 
attracted to you. He hasn’t. That suggestion 
is ridiculous. If someone likes you, it is a 
compliment. Just appreciate it and move 
on. 
Advice: being hit on by someone with a 
sexual orientation incompatible with yours 
is not an impossible situation to deal with, 
or even a hard one (perhaps an awkward 
one, but that’s life). I’ve certainly never 
seen a gay man angrily rebuff a woman 
who tries to hit on him at a “straight” 
party. I remember one man at the Homo 
Estas Q&A party who, when I came up to 
him, smiled and shook his head politely. 
Immediately, I knew that he meant he was 
straight. That was an appropriate response 
and I applaud him for it. Take notes: that’s 
how you do it. We both walked away feeling 
threatened. No harm, no foul. Just an 
inherent hazard in a room full of people 
with different sexual orientations.
To add to the inappropriate behavior 
last Friday, some men felt it necessary 
to aggressively try to make out with the 
women there. First of all, you shouldn’t be 
doing that anywhere; a man trying to do 
anything “aggressively” with a woman is 
never okay. If a woman doesn’t want to kiss 
you, you need to accept that. Once more for 
emphasis: it is never ever okay to repeatedly 
try to force yourself on a woman. But, if it 
can possibly ever be less okay, it would be at 
a party where a large portion of the women 
are probably not straight. Men, when you 
and fewer women want to make out with 
this out, this is probably because they want 
to kiss other women! By repeatedly making 
advances, you are engaging in both sexual 
harassment and intolerance at the same 
time.
I’m all for straight people coming to 
gay parties, even straight couples coming 
to gay parties. In fact, I invite most of my 
straight friends whenever there’s a gay 
party. But this probably isn’t the place to be 
looking for a straight hook up (on principle 
aren’t as good. Sorry and welcome to our 
world). 
The behavior at this party was shocking 
and disappointing for me. I’d like to think 
that this problem was nothing more than 
a bunch of thoughtless, drunk guys being 
stupid. But I also have to admit to myself 
that it probably wasn’t. I can convince 
myself that these men do not think of 
themselves as homophobes and even that 
they probably don’t actively dislike gay 
men. But if I believe this, I also have to 
accept that they do not think much at all 
about their effect on minorities.
I would hope is not too much to ask 
to reject homophobia at gay parties, and I 
would hope that most straight people who 
saw this behavior would step in. Therefore, 
I urge the reader to be conscientious of 
his or her impact on others. I hope that 
people will read this and take something 
away from it, because the straight guys 
in this situation may not remember what 
happened in the morning, but the gay guys 
will.
Tolerance: More than a number of beers
Notes from 
the desk
Edward O’Brien ’17 is 
an Opinions Editor from 
Lincoln, Mass.
Nolan Ellsworth
| february 27, 2014 7opinions
In Defense of EUR
reader oped
Harry Zieve-Cohen ’15 
is from Brooklyn, N.Y.
I did not plan to write for the Cam-
pus this semester. I am studying abroad 
and had hoped to spare the Middlebury 
community my whining and myself the 
dangerously 
that being 
published in 
the Campus 
might cause. 
And, frankly, I was looking to get away. 
Alas, many things are easier said than 
done. Ideally, someone better read than 
I would construct the argument I pres-
ent below. Due to the apparent absence 
of such a voice in this debate, I feel com-
pelled to add my own.
During the last semester, the SGA 
began to consider the issue of distribu-
tion requirements. As a dutiful cabinet 
member whose position had little con-
nection to academic matters, I decided 
it was best to keep my opinions private. 
Now, however, I can be more candid. 
While it is important that we discuss and 
debate the value and nature of our educa-
tion, I believe that efforts to remove the 
Europe (EUR) requirement are misguid-
ed. Studying Europe — its history, cul-
ture, literature, languages — is essential 
to a liberal education. Contrary to what 
proponents of reform argue, European 
thought is, particularly with regards to 
our education, more important than that 
of other parts of the world.
I suspect that last sentence is contro-
versial. It shouldn’t be. This is not a mat-
ter of pro-Western jingoism. Liberal edu-
cation is a European invention. It is the 
product of centuries of thought which, 
aside from a crucial period in the middle 
ages in which Islamic scholars translated, 
interpreted, and resuscitated the likes of 
Aristotle and Plato, is uniquely Western. 
This is not to say that only Europeans 
can be liberally educated. The value of 
a Western education is that it is univer-
sal. Rational inquiry is not the domain 
of Europeans alone. The rational study 
of human nature transcends class, race 
and sex, even as it gives insight into all 
of those subjects. Sciences and humani-
ties as we conceive of them today are 
the products of a European tradition. It 
is no coincidence that Nietzsche, Marx, 
and Freud — perhaps the greatest crit-
ics of Western thought — studied Aristo-
tle and Plato, Hobbes and Locke, Homer 
and Virgil. More recent critics such as 
Richard Rorty and Foucault did likewise. 
If one seeks to criticize the West, one 
As Requirement Reformers correctly 
argue, education has moral implications. 
What we study affects how we think. 
Most education systems teach their stu-
dents what to think. They seek to impose 
a belief system on their students. Liberal 
(Western) education takes a different ap-
proach. Its goal is more ambitious and 
more just. At the end of a successful liber-
al education, one is not expected to hold 
any particular belief, but rather to be able 
to think for oneself. The study of Europe 
is not merely the study of a certain eth-
nicity or language, but rather a necessary 
part of an attempt to free one’s mind.
Critics of Western education often 
point out all the bad things for which Eu-
ropeans are responsible. Yet they attri-
condition, but rather to the much derid-
ed “dead white males.” Thus, one rarely 
hears complaints about the Ottomans 
and no one seems to mind that Jordani-
ans occupied the West Bank and Egypt 
controlled the Gaza Strip. Not to mention 
China’s ongoing oppression of its Uyghur 
Muslim population or the atrocities the 
Indian government has committed in 
Gujarat. Alongside the Western tradi-
tion’s very real errors is a debate about 
the Good. In other words, it is hardly co-
incidental that we spend so much time 
criticizing British imperialism while no 
one in Qatar seriously complains about 
the slave-like conditions Egyptian and 
Palestinian workers face in Dubai’s shiny 
new hotels. Our self-criticism distin-
guishes us far more than our sinful past 
and present.
The ridiculousness of an argument 
over whether to require the study of 
Europe is that it is itself a Western dis-
course. If we do not study the history and 
development of that conversation, how 
will we ever understand the purpose of a 
Middlebury education?
A sea of blonde and brunette po-
nytails filled the social space for a 
discussion on body image disorders 
and ideals for women led by Court-
ney Martin, author of “Perfect Girl.” 
She argued that a dire consequence 
of college women pursuing the image 
of “the perfect girl” is the self-hate of 
the “starving daughter”: formed from 
frustration with having dark circles 
under one’s eyes to eating disorders 
and compulsive fitness habits. Martin 
called on women to take action by us-
ing campus resources and surround-
ing oneself with positive-minded 
people. 
While Martin seemed to skirt 
describing any characteristics of her 
“perfect girl” — she seemed to imply 
that any type of woman can strive 
to this ideal — to me she named the 
most important 
feature of all by 
not mentioning it 
at all: whiteness. 
By not meaning-
fully engaging 
with the way that 
race shapes her analysis, she fed my 
skepticism of mainstream feminism. 
The standard of beauty in Ameri-
ca is the skinny, white, blonde wom-
an. It is a heteronormative ideal that 
women should strive to embody and 
men should strive to conquer. Mar-
tin’s “starving daughter” is this wom-
an. 
She is all around us, although in 
reality is very few of us. Take a quick 
flip through fashion magazines or 
a stroll through beauty parlors at a 
department store. If you search the 
word “beauty” in Google images, chis-
eled chins and rouged cheeks grace 
the page. This lack of diversity in 
women’s body shapes and skin colors 
reinforces what I perceive as a type of 
beauty that women are conditioned to 
strive for in America.
Growing up in a community as a 
black male and in a household where 
my mother and other black women 
earnestly invested in perms, hair re-
laxers and weaves, I interpreted these 
actions as attempts to skip the nega-
tive labels cre-
ated and asso-
ciated with the 
innate quality 
of knotty hair. 
While some 
women might argue that they are do-
ing it for self-satisfaction, I feel that 
there is a strong media influence to 
assimilate into the white standard of 
beauty. 
Of course black men are not im-
mune from white standards of beauty, 
even if sexism keeps us from acknowl-
edging it. We claim we keep our hair 
close-cut because it looks good, when 
in reality, racism likely taught us it 
looked good because there was not 
enough length 
to form a nap. 
I change my 
appearance to 
combat and flee 
the negative 
portrayals of 
black men in the media. If I dressed 
and spoke in a certain way, I assume 
a lot of the people I currently interact 
with at Middlebury would feel unsafe 
and be hesitant to approach me. 
During my brief time here at Mid-
dlebury, I have found that feminism 
embraces white women’s privilege, 
championing a cause driven by a cer-
tain group of women for the benefit of 
a particular group of women. While I 
want to fundamentally champion the 
rights of all women, the contempo-
rary mainstream feminism movement 
in America seems only to embrace the 
white woman’s narrative, as the only 
narrative victim oppressed by the he-
gemonic, patriarchal forces that be. I 
cannot support a feminism that is led 
exclusively by the women who crowd-
ed into McCullough; a feminism that, 
while aiming for total equality, does 
not acknowledge itself as a political 
sphere entwined with racism. 
It’s a White Woman’s World 
After All
reader oped 
Charles Griggs ’16 is 
from Chicago, Ill.
In the fall of senior year at my high 
school, the question people were con-
stantly asking 
each other was 
not ‘where are 
you applying 
ED?’ but rather 
‘to which Ivy 
are you apply-
ing ED?’ Given 
this attitude of 
my classmates, 
I hope that none of you will judge me on 
the following dilemma I faced.
I visited Middlebury on March 31st, 
2010 (I remember the day because it 
in love with a place). The beauty of the 
campus, with its trees starting to bloom 
and the backdrop of snow-peaked moun-
tains, struck me immediately as a sign 
of a tranquil environment, exactly what 
I was seeking in a college. As I went on 
the tour and my tour guide elaborated on 
the academics, extracurricular and social 
opportunities, I became more and more 
convinced that I absolutely had to spend 
four years in this place.
Come the next fall, however, I was try-
ing to convince myself that I loved Dart-
mouth (the Ivy I thought was most simi-
lar to Midd) because of the Ivy-obsessed 
culture of my high school. Dartmouth is 
obviously a great school, but it had none 
of the attributes I wanted in a college. In 
fact, I hated it; the classes I sat in on, the 
appearance of the campus, the promi-
nence of the frats, basically everything. 
Essentially, the only thing Dartmouth had 
that Middlebury didn’t was the prestige of 
being an Ivy League school, which, not to 
Today, I thank my lucky stars that I came 
to my senses and sent in my application to 
Middlebury rather than Dartmouth in Oc-
tober of 2010 (though I do feel bad about 
making my best friend write me a peer 
recommendation. But hey, sunk costs, 
amirite fellow econ majors?). 
With the recent brand re-evaluation 
(which is covered extensively in this is-
sue), I have several concerns about the 
future of the Middlebury undergradu-
ate experience. First and foremost, (and 
entitled, attitudes I don’t intend and for 
which I apologize) with diversifying our 
image to emphasize the Monterey Insti-
tute of International Studies (MIIS), the 
C.V.-Starr Middlebury Schools Abroad, 
and the Bread Loaf School of English 
more, I worry about the diverting of funds 
from the undergraduate institution into 
these graduate and abroad programs. 
I want to ensure, as people say, that we 
‘maintain the campus’ current lifestyle’. 
I want to ensure that we still have the 
funds, for example, to bring the Dalai 
Lama to campus, to host speakers such as 
Wade Davis (a follow-up to whose discus-
sion is taking place this week and should 
MCAB is able to host as many activities as 
it currently does. I will seriously drop out 
of this school if funding for the biweekly 
trivia night at Crossroads is cut (shoutout 
One purpose of this rebranding, it 
seems, is to increase our presence on the 
national and international stage of col-
leges. As I previously mentioned, the only 
thing Dartmouth had going for it, in my 
mind, was its preeminence. So shouldn’t 
I be happy that Middlebury is looking to 
increase its prestige, since that was the 
only reason I didn’t want to apply early 
here was its lack of prestige, at least rela-
tive to Dartmouth? My short answer, at 
least now, is no, because I have come to 
realize that prestige often comes at the 
expense of the undergraduate experience. 
For example, many universities’ research 
labs overlook undergraduate students 
when seeking out research assistants, and 
such that our graduate institutions begin 
to share center stage with our Vermont 
undergraduate campus, then we will fall 
into the same trap.
In short, although we are repackag-
ing our brand to play up our other cam-
puses, both domestic and international, I 
truly hope that the focus of the entity (or 
whatever you may call it) of Middlebury 
remains squarely on the eponymous cam-
pus and the undergraduate students. It 
would be a real shame if years from now, 
when my kids inevitably matriculate to 
my Alma Mater, they’ll be attending ‘Mid-
dlebury University’.
Notes from 
the desk
Sarah Sicular ’16 is a 
Copy Editor from New 
York, N.Y.
Middlebury-U?
Nolan Ellsworth
“During my brief time here 
at Middlebury, I have found 
that feminism embraces 
white women’s privilege.”
opinions8 February 27, 2014 | 
Google’s effectively unparalleled ca-
pacity for high-level innovation may prove 
to be the source of many of the technologi-
cal innova-
tions that will 
a d v a n c e -
ment in the 
21st century. 
Inherent in the spectacular potential of 
companies like Google to reshape society, 
however, is the profound societal danger 
associated with such innovation. Navigat-
ing the evolving relationship between hu-
manity and technology will be among the 
greatest challenges of our generation. 
Google’s advertising and analytics 
software, its unmatched access to personal 
data, its free software offerings, its mobile 
products, and many more of its services are 
all on the cutting edge. But these offerings 
pale in comparison to Google’s long-term 
vision.   Google has played a key role in re-
geographic space and software. For exam-
ple, Google’s constantly expanding street 
view service is now ubiquitous in just about 
every major commerce hub across the 
world, including key regions in the global 
of 25 self-driving cars had driven around 
600,000 miles without a major accident 
(far better than an average driver). Google 
glasses are straight out of a futuristic spy 
movie, except that Google puts such tech-
nology in the hands of consumers. 
Other initiatives could have enormous 
political impacts as well. Google’s “uProxy” 
initiative, still in “restricted beta” mode, is 
a peer-to-peer service that allows one to 
establish an encrypted Internet connection 
with somebody they trust, allowing a user 
to evade essentially any government sur-
aims to give its mobile devices a human-
scale understanding of space and motion 
in the real world, enabling the phone to 
process not only its location, but every 
physical detail about that location, calling 
(2008), which uses sonar to map all of Go-
tham in real-time.
-
vestments beyond just software: their ap-
propriately titled Google X, a secretive 
research initiative, has been conducting 
research on sophisticated robotics and ma-
chine learning. In the last year, Google has 
acquired some of the most advanced and 
promising robotics companies in the world, 
in advanced machine learning called “Deep 
Learning”, and Boston Dynamics, makers 
of a slew of biomimicry-inspired robots 
such as Cheetah, a robot that can run up 
to 28.3 miles per hour as well as numerous 
and intellectual property. Google envisions 
manufacturing applications of these robot-
ics capacities, potentially even challenging 
components of a wildly ambitious — and 
perhaps still amorphous — vision of next-
generation technologies that exist at the in-
big data and consumer usability. Google 
is not only attempting to create disruptive 
technologies, it is pushing towards the prec-
ipice of a paradigm-shifting technological 
revolution. Fittingly perhaps its most ambi-
the director of engineering at Google and 
founder of the Singularity Institute, intends 
to help the company develop its search en-
gine to behave like a “cybernetic friend,” 
that “will know the answer to your question 
before you have asked it, [because] It will 
have read every email you’ve ever written, 
every document, every idle thought you’ve 
ever tapped into a search-engine box. It 
will know you better…, perhaps, than even 
yourself.”
management on Google Search, shares 
-
derstands you, and it can have a conver-
admits such ambitions are implausible in 
the short-term, Google is not merely spec-
ulating. Its bombastic idealism is central 
to its corporate philosophy and strategy. 
long-term investments that are essentially 
unmatched in both scale and audacity. 
Google’s market dominance, rather than 
constraining innovation (as most monopo-
lies do), seems to amplify both the rate and 
scale of innovation; for better or worse, we 
are witnessing the astonishingly improb-
and big-picture thinking that may turn 
out to be a core driver of 21st century in-
novation.   Google often feels more like a 
movement than a corporation, publicly 
representing itself as a company in which 
employees are “true believers,” passionate-
ly investing their intellect and creativity in 
creating something they believe transcends 
themselves — a future yet-to-be construct-
bold values: “We set ourselves goals we 
know we can’t reach yet, because we know 
that by stretching to meet them we can get 
further than we expected...We try to antici-
pate needs not yet articulated by our global 
audience, and meet them with products 
moral implications of Google’s growth — 
and the growth of other high-tech compa-
nies — are profound. Our reaction to the 
explosive rate of technological advance is 
of the utmost importance for the future 
impact on society is impossible, it is naive 
to dismiss the possibility that Google, or 
other private actors, could fundamentally 
alter the balance of power between private 
corporations and public institutions, the 
barrier between physical space and “the 
of human society.
Our generation has the responsibility 
to act conscientiously in this critical junc-
ture in the evolution of the relationship be-
tween humanity and technology, because 
how we respond in the coming decades 
of human society. It would behoove the 
Middlebury community and other centers 
of critical investigation, to engage in collec-
tive dialogue about how best to harness the 
potential of looming technological innova-
tions while avoiding their pitfalls. Our abil-
ity to navigate these ethical dilemmas may 
be our generation’s legacy — or our greatest 
calamity. 
Who Run the World? Google.
warm glow
Hudson Cavanagh ’14 is 
from New York, N.Y.
If I were to try to describe it, I would 
root my answer in dichotomies: overwhelm-
ing yet exhilarating, unknown yet expected, 
intimidating 
yet motivat-
ing, and most 
i m p o r t a n t l y 
fearful yet re-
warding. No, I 
am not talking 
about skydiv-
ing or meeting 
Will Ferrell, but rather the trials and tribu-
lations, the rewards and frustrations of be-
ing a new kid. 
something I can relate to, but is my current 
way of life. As a 
freshman feb in 
-
ter at Middle-
bury, my life is 
rooted in awk-
ward eye con-
tact, the hey-
hi-how-are-you 
m i l l i s e c o n d 
conversation, 
the endless 
scan of the din-
ing hall, and the 
looming ques-
tion of how my 
voice will blend 
college com-
-
fore, my friend 
(yay to making 
new friends!), 
we are truly in this together. 
If I were to be meeting you for the 
smile and make sure I made welcoming 
eye contact. I’d probably talk about grow-
divorced family and having three siblings. I 
would not forget to mention my love of do-
ing anything outdoors and my passion for 
photography, even if I do not do it as much 
anymore. Anything with peanut butter, 500 
Days of Summer, and Brett Dennen would 
be my responses to all the basic food/mov-
ie/music questions, with my voice cracking 
as little as possible. I’d try to make a joke. 
-
nitely would not talk about my fears of be-
ing alone or not knowing what I want to do 
you a hug goodbye because I am a sensitive 
person and would walk away wondering 
But I am getting ahead of myself.
I am here to uncover what happens 
once the preplanned meet-and-greets and 
orientations come to an end and all you are 
left with is your room key, class schedule, 
and a deep knot in your throat that is en-
cased with fear. How do we as human be-
with our environment? How do we create 
relationships and friendships out of thin air 
without letting preconceived notions cloud 
our judgment? Do we ever transition out of 
new kid status into seasoned professional? 
If we all come from different backgrounds, 
“Midd kids with 
our Nalgene 
low?” Why, if 
everyone at 
some point has 
experienced it, 
is being new so 
hard? 
I want 
you to be the 
primary wit-
nesses to the 
unsung heroes 
of this campus: 
those who are 
willing to put 
themselves out 
there and truly 
be themselves 
in an environ-
ment where 
cliques and 
reputations are 
and back track and even momentarily lose 
faith are the role models I want to focus on, 
in college, the road is going to be bumpy. 
anyone who has been that someone with no 
one to sit with, or no one to rely on, and yet 
does not get discouraged. In the end we all 
the time when we did not know whatwhow-
herewhenwhy, but that is not what I want 
to focus on. Continue reading if you can 
handle the awkwardness, the insecurities 
-
ing your identity. 
Believing that “not all those who wan-
on the Block who is eager, excited and ner-
vous to meet you. 
come quite a long way since Aristotle’s Poli-
tics, arguably the classic work in the study 
of politics, which asked and answered ques-
tions about our nature as political animals. 
Whereas Aristotle’s methods in that book 
were primarily observational and logical, 
academics working in the study of poli-
tics today have rigorously developed and 
tested analytical and empirical methods 
-
plain and evaluate [political] phenomena.” 
However, beyond a descriptive account of 
why political phenomena play out the way 
they do, one might wonder what exactly an 
empirically-minded political science has to 
contribute to ventures of a more pragmatic 
type, especially when we’re presented with 
normative problems. 
If the political problems that help give 
rise to environmental crises are primarily 
problems of action — that is, questions that 
require a particular answer that prescribes 
action in a given situation — then it seems 
like answering questions about how groups 
respond (or might respond) to a given po-
litical action should be useful, at the very 
be what political science can be said to do. 
articles and book chapters offer metrics 
(think changes in GDP, voter approval rat-
ings, and the like) that give us supposedly 
objective means of looking at how various 
political events are caused. If all we wanted 
the study of politics to do was tell us what 
percentage of states a candidate needed to 
win in order to win the presidency, or tell 
us how Congressional spending rates have 
changed over time, then descriptive and 
analytical methods might be able to tell us 
the whole story. 
Unfortunately, describing the way our 
government works isn’t the only project po-
litical studies have facing them; we might 
remember that the primary concern of Ar-
istotle’s Politics was to identify the best type 
might behave. As critical as the positive 
study of how humans interacted with one 
another was, his ultimate task was norma-
tive; the primary object of inquiry was to 
provide us with an idea of how the state and 
that concerned the ancient study of politics 
centered around notions of the good — a far 
cry from the subject matter of today’s politi-
cal science. 
Maybe an obsession with power poli-
-
tion to the environmental problems we face 
on the local, national and global level. Is the 
study of the good too far removed from what 
we call political science? Commentators 
scientists use for 
a number of rea-
sons. 
In a 2012 
New York 
Times article 
Jacqueline Stevens, Professor of Political 
Science at Northwestern University, writes 
(rather harshly) that “Research aimed at 
political prediction is doomed to fail. At 
least if the idea is to predict more accurately 
than a dart-throwing chimp” and that her 
discipline has picked up the nasty habit of 
“mistaking probability studies and statisti-
is somewhat less critical of the discipline’s 
methods, but more so of it’s motives – “… 
with a few honorable exceptions— [Po-
litical Science] presents a view of society 
that either misses, or dismisses, or at best 
is rigged.” While not wholly dismissive of 
-
cipline for perpetuating an impossibly one-
sided dialogue centered around the desires 
of those in power. 
-
tor to The Economist, Ripton, Vermont’s 
of attempts to model the outcomes of presi-
dential elections, points out that the kind of 
retroactive tweakings frequently made to 
predictive political theories don’t typically 
-
ployed in crafting forecasting models. If po-
litical scientists continue to ask for research 
dollars to develop models and other predic-
-
one of a number of tools that we’ll need to 
advance goals related to climate change, 
conservation and other environmental 
problems. Another large substantial of the 
equation concerns ironing out what pre-
cisely we think the best way of living on this 
planet is; what I’m suggesting is that while 
models might help us in making decisions 
by providing us with an idea of how politi-
cal moves may be responded to, they can’t 
tell us much about how the masses should 
respond, and what they should demand of 
government. Environmental problems ask 
us for right action that considers more than 
just power interests — they ask that political 
power be exercised justly. 
green Piece
Julian Macrone ’14 is 
from Clifton, N.J.
methods of environmentalism
New kid on 
the block
Annie Grayer ’17 is from 
Westchester, N.Y.
charlotte fairless 
| february 27, 2014 9opinions
An Inconvenient Truth About Carbon Neutrality
On February 12th, Max Kagan ’14 
wrote an op-ed in The Campus entitled 
“Just Call AAL Other” in response to a 
recent student-
led campaign 
that seeks to 
modify the cur-
rent Cultures 
and Civiliza-
tions require-
ment. The current system requires 
students to take one class with a large 
focus on each of the following geo-
graphic areas: NOR (Northern America 
– US or Canada), EUR (Europe), AAL 
(Africa, Asia, and Latin America), and 
CMP (Comparative). Many on campus 
have pointed out that grouping Africa, 
Asia and Latin America together does 
not make much 
sense. 
In response, 
this new cam-
paign proposes 
that students be 
required to take 
one NOR course, 
due to the loca-
tion of our institution, one CMP course, 
and two courses that focus on one of any 
of the following regions AFR (Africa), 
ASI (Asia), EUR (Europe), LAC (Latin 
American and Caribbean), MDE (Mid-
dle East). As some of the students be-
hind this proposal, we want to address 
Kagan’s argument and expand on the 
reasons why we believe a change in our 
current system is absolutely necessary 
and appropriate. 
Kagan acknowledges that Middle-
bury’s current system is fundamentally 
Eurocentric, but asserts that such a bi-
ased system is “wholly appropriate” be-
cause this institution was founded in a 
European tradition and on European 
values. According to him, “Middlebury’s 
structure as an institute of higher learn-
ing dates back to the European Middle 
Ages; its values harken from the Eu-
ropean Enlightenment;” therefore, it 
would be wrong for any Middlebury stu-
dent to be allowed to graduate without 
studying Europe.
Here, Kagan incorrectly assumes 
that making the EUR credit an option 
rather than a requirement will result 
in a lack of study of Europe. He ignores 
that, even when studying other regions 
of the world, we are learning about Eu-
rope. For example, in a class about Af-
rican Politics, we learn about European 
colonization. Even in classes that are 
not region focused, such as literature, 
science, theater and economics, stu-
dents are constantly exposed to Western 
thought and Eu-
ropean tradition. 
Thus, making the 
EUR credit an op-
tion rather than a 
requirement does 
not mean that stu-
dents will never 
be exposed to Eu-
ropean thought. It does mean that stu-
dents who wish to study other regions of 
the world will have greater educational 
opportunities, while students who wish 
to pursue the study of Europe can still 
do so.  
There is no doubt that the founding 
of the college, a school whose original 
mission was “to train young men from 
Vermont and neighboring states for 
the ministry and other learned profes-
sions,” was based on European values. 
But should that mission from 1800 dic-
tate our institutional values today? We 
think not.
While Kagan’s argument might 
seem appealing to some, it is limited in 
that it disregards the new global context 
we live in. Today’s era of globalization 
calls for a very different kind of educa-
tion than the one the College offered 
200 years ago. The world has changed, 
and so has Middlebury and its mission. 
Today, part of our institution’s mission 
is to “strive to engage students’ capac-
ity for rigorous analysis and indepen-
dent thought within a wide range of 
disciplines and endeavors, and to culti-
vate the intellectual, creative, physical, 
ethical, and social qualities essential for 
leadership in a rapidly changing global 
community.” Even though Kagan is cor-
rect to point out that we were founded in 
European tradition, Middlebury’s cur-
rent mission statement does not include 
“Europe’s intellectual tradition.”  
Fortunately, Middlebury College 
has realized that the world we live in 
today calls for a new education for stu-
dents who come from all over the world 
and who will go off to be leaders in both 
Western and non-Western regions, 
not just an education for the “young 
men from Vermont” who will serve in 
the ministry. As we mentioned earlier, 
however, our curriculum still remains 
Eurocentric. We still have a lot of work 
to do to truly achieve that new mission, 
but changing the Cultures and Civiliza-
tions requirement is a key first step in 
the right direction towards a curriculum 
better suited for educating this new gen-
eration of global citizens. 
Throughout its history, Middlebury 
has been at the forefront of innovation 
and progress in higher education. After 
thoroughly researching the distribution 
and cultures requirements among other 
institutions of higher education, last 
year’s SGA found that most institutions 
lack systems that allow students to be 
exposed to a variety of cultures and civi-
lizations. By changing the cultures and 
civilizations requirements, Middlebury 
can once again blaze a trail in higher 
education. 
We know change can be difficult, 
but it is necessary for progress. Middle-
bury itself acknowledges that it is “a 
liberal arts college of the first rank” as 
a direct result “of a process of growth 
and change that began in 1800.”  We 
must not stop that process of continu-
ous self-reflection and improvement for 
fear of the work that this change will 
require; we must not stall our progress 
by clinging on to outdated and exclusive 
requirements. 
To improve our educational op-
portunities and really be a 21st century 
first class liberal arts college that edu-
cates global citizens, we must revisit our 
cultures and civilizations requirement. 
While we understand that our proposal 
does not present a perfect alternative, 
we strongly believe that it proposes a 
system that is far better than the one we 
currently have. Moreover, our proposal 
is a work in progress. We have started 
this conversation among students, fac-
ulty and administrators, in the hope 
that as a community we can create and 
implement the best alternative possible. 
We are not the first generation of Mid-
dlebury students to be raising this issue, 
but we hope that we will be the last. We 
must not wait any longer. 
Adriana Ortiz-Burnham ’17
Daniela Barajas ’14.5
David Ollin Pesqueira ’17
Douglass Gledhill ’14
Jihad Hajjouji ’14 
Hanna Hemenger ’13.5
Kate McCreary ’15
Greta Neubauer ’14.5
Jiya Pandya ’17
Molly Stuart ’15
Visit GO/AAL for more information. 
Bring AAL into a Globalized World
reader oped
Midd Included on 
behalf of the undersigned 
students
Last week, the Campus updated 
us on Middlebury’s plan to become 
carbon neutral by 2016.  The degree 
of precision 
found in 
this initia-
tive is in-
credible. To 
cite but one 
example, Middlebury collects data 
on where each and every woodchip 
burned in our biomass plant is har-
vested and milled.
This seems like a rational ap-
proach to limiting our carbon impact, 
but it is precisely the opposite ap-
proach we take with our students. The 
detailed accounting standards laid 
out in the 2008 Climate Action Im-
plementation Plan have plenty to say 
about woodchips, but do not include 
any similar consideration of the im-
pact of the student body.
Of course, students are not wood-
chips. For one, students exert a far 
larger impact on the climate. Wood-
chips can be transported thousands at 
a time in the back of a truck. By con-
trast, most students fly to campus or 
take a personal car. The woodchips 
make a one-way trip; Middlebury 
students come and go several times 
throughout the year. And while Mid-
dlebury scrupulously limits its wood-
chip consumption to a 75-mile radius 
of the college, we proudly trumpet 
the fact that Middlebury students hail 
from all 50 states and over 70 coun-
tries.
Middlebury’s definition of “car-
bon neutrality” requires us to assume 
that students miraculously appear in 
rural Vermont every September before 
mysteriously vanishing once again ev-
ery May. We are eager to track and 
quantify our carbon footprint — at 
least as long as it does not require us 
to make the painful choices that true 
carbon neutrality would entail.
The only real reason for excluding 
students from the carbon calculus is 
that it would be too hard — hard not 
just because the climatological impact 
of student air travel would prove nigh 
on impossible to mitigate, but also 
because true carbon neutrality would 
require us to compromise on other 
values we hold dear. In an age where 
long-distance travel is only possible 
through burning fossil fuels, how can 
we credibly claim to be both “carbon 
neutral” and “global”?
Maybe some would make the case 
that Middlebury is only responsible 
for travel it directly funds, and thus 
we are justified in excluding student 
travel from our calculations. But this 
is a slight-of-hand argument that 
masks the inconvenient truth that 
Middlebury College is just as respon-
sible for student travel to and from 
campus as it is for burning thousands 
of gallons of no. 6 heating oil. It is not 
as though the College is passively wit-
ness to an onslaught of students who 
happen to arrive each fall. Rather, we 
actively cultivate a diverse, geographi-
cally disparate student body through 
dedicated recruitment efforts and fi-
nancial subsidies in the form of aid, 
knowing full well that this leads to an 
increase in carbon emissions.
If we truly care about fighting 
climate change, there are hugely sig-
nificant actions the college could take 
immediately. I do not mean the exist-
ing feel-good measures: turning off 
the lights in unoccupied rooms, hav-
ing students ride the bus to the Snow 
Bowl or switching food suppliers in 
the dining hall. I mean drastic cuts 
that would vastly reduce the carbon 
emissions associated with students 
travelling to and from campus. These 
include closing the C.V. Starr-Middle-
bury Schools Abroad, revoking all fi-
nancial aid to international students, 
suspending our participation in the 
Davis Scholars program and ending 
the Chicago Posse as well as the new 
Los Angeles expansion. Middlebury 
could even limit admission to those 
who reside in the Northeast by re-
quiring that students use mass tran-
sit to and from the college — both 
Boston and New York are accessible 
by bus and train, and there are more 
than enough qualified students from 
these two cities to fill future freshman 
classes.
But these options are not even on 
the table — and with good reason. The 
answer is simple: we accept — nay, 
encourage — the cultivation of a glob-
al student body despite the climato-
logical costs because it is worth it. In 
addition to our relatively recent 
commitment to carbon neu-
trality, we also have 
a longstanding 
inst i tut ional 
c o m m i t m e n t 
to diversity. 
Too many 
people take a 
fundamental-
ist approach 
to saving the 
environment 
while ignoring 
the fact that 
all actions 
have costs and 
benefits, and, 
s o m e t i m e s , 
the benefits 
of burning 
carbon may 
indeed out-
weigh the 
costs. I hap-
pen to think that a pound of carbon 
spent furthering the educational mis-
sion of Middlebury College is a pound 
we are justified in spending. Judging 
from the fact that most students will-
fully emit thousands of pounds of car-
bon each year in their journeys to and 
from campus, it appears that nearly 
all my peers already agree with me.
This is not to say we should not 
strive for greater efficiency. But 
“carbon neutrality” is only possible 
through arbitrary accounting and he-
roic assumptions. Being a responsible 
steward of the environment is an im-
portant ambition for Middlebury Col-
lege, but it should never be our only 
goal.
Reader oped
Max Kagan ’14 is from 
Freeport, Maine.
“Today’s era of globalization 
calls for a very different kind 
of education than the one the 
College offered 200 years 
ago.”
tamir williams
The Middlebury Campus| february 27, 201410 11features
Golf Course Road
route 30- South Main
south street
ROUTE 125 - COllege St.
youngman field
cemetery
organic garden
porter field rd
kohn field
dragone track
the mods
hepburn rd
hillcrest rd
MAIN QUAD
mummy in the west cemetery
Middlebury’s West Cemetery, 
which abuts the College, is not just 
the final resting place for former 
Vermonters: Egyptian Mummy 
Amum-Her-Khepesh-Ef is also bur-
ied there. The two-year old son of 
Sen Woset, third king of Egypt, was 
acquired in the late 1870s by Mid-
dlebury resident Henry Sheldon, 
collector and proprieter of the Shel-
don Museum. Apparently, when the 
mummy arrived, it was in such poor 
condition that Sheldon decided to 
store it in his attic instead of dis-
playing it in the museum. In 1945, 
a curator at the museum George 
Mead found the mummy and decid-
ed to give it a Christian burial. The 
mummy was cremated and buried 
in the cemetery under a tombstone 
with an image of a cross, an ankh 
and a bird. 
golf course tree house
Middlebury’s repertoire of so-
cial spaces used to include a Tree 
House on the Golf Course. The 
two-story Tree House was built by 
David Stone ’74 and some members 
of the Sig Ep fraternity, the “ski fra-
ternity,” on funds provided by Dean 
Erika Wonnacott. Kate Troast ’76 
says, “I remember the full moon 
parties with twenty plus people up 
in the Tree House looking at the 
moon and listening to Bob Dylan. 
It was so cool!” Unfortunately, the 
Tree House burned down in an ac-
cidental fire in 1977. 
Emma Willard House
This National Historic Land-
mark is the site of the first girls’ 
school that offered female students 
an education equal to – and argu-
ably better than – that of young 
men. A trailblazer in women’s edu-
cation, Emma Willard opened a 
school in her Middlebury home 
in 1812. Willard later moved her 
family and her school to Troy, New 
York, and the College purchased the 
building in 1959 and used it as the 
Admissions Office. 
tiwlight hall 
Built in 1867, Twilight Hall, then 
called the Academy Building, first 
housed students of the Grammar 
School of the town of Middlebury. 
On Easter Sunday in 1904, a fire 
destroyed the entire inside of the 
building, but it was soon recon-
structed to math its original in-
ternal architecture. For the next 
eighty years, the building served as 
the College Street Graded School 
for children of the town. The Col-
lege purchased and renovated the 
building in 1984 and gave it its cur-
rent name, in honor of Alexander 
Lucius Twilight (class of 1823), the 
first African-American US citizen to 
graduate from college.
painter hall
The oldest college building in the 
state, Painter Hall was constructed 
in 1814 for $8,000. The Colleges’ 
original library, the first bathrooms 
on campus, and a two-story gym-
nasium occupied the building in its 
first years. Newly constructed, the 
building’s chimney malfunctioned 
in the fall of 1817 and beloved Pro-
fessor of Greek and Latin Solomon 
M. Allen climbed to the roof to fix 
the problem. But during the climb-
ing, the scaffolding below Allen 
gave way, and he fell to his death.
mccullough gymnasium
Ex-governor of Vt. John G. Mc-
Cullough funded the majority of 
what is now McCullough Student 
Center in 1912. For 37 years, the 
building functioned as a gymnasi-
um for men only. In 1949, the gym-
nasium was opened to women. The 
Arthur M. Brown Swimming Pool 
(whose tiles are still visible outside 
of Midd Express) was constructed at 
the rear of the building. But in 1988, 
the College consolidated its athletic 
facilities in their present location, 
and McCullough became the center 
for the dance program for two years 
before undergoing a full remodel 
into the current Student Center. It 
was not until 2000 that the pool was 
converted into the Grille, and Mc-
Cullough became the building we 
know today.
main quadrangle 
The main quad of campus (i.e. 
the space between Old Chapel and 
Mead Chapel) used to be home 
to athletics, before Battell Beach 
became the main destination for 
sports teams. While paths now in-
tersect the area to connect Munroe 
to Voter and McCulough, it used 
to be a large patch of uninterupt-
ed grass, perfect for practice and 
games, conveniently located next to 
the gym. 
= parking lots
= athletic fields
= campus buildings
= roads
1
1
4
5
7
2
Golf Course 
3
7
4
6
56
2
3
Storied walls & hallowed halls
By Emilie Munson & Isabel Stillman Graphic By Olivia Allen
12 features | february 27, 2014
By Emilie Munson
As a kid, Erika Sloan ’16 always 
wanted to be on Jeopardy!. Nearly ev-
ery night after dinner, her family would 
watch the trivia show together with 
Sloan pretending to be a contestant and 
playing along with the show. Today, the 
classics major from Simsbury, CT no 
longer needs to pretend. 
This February, Sloan fulfilled her 
childhood dreams when she watched 
herself appear on national television, 
competing on Jeopardy!’s annual Col-
lege Championships for a grand prize 
of $100,000. After submitting an on-
line test last March, Sloan was invited 
to come to the Jeopardy! studios in New 
York City to complete another online 
test, participate in a mock show and do 
an interview. In November, she found 
out that she was selected as one of fif-
teen bright college students to be on the 
show, making her the College’s second 
ever Jeopardy! contestant — after Keith 
Williams ’07.
“It was a little bit of disbelief,” re-
calls Sloan of how she felt to be chosen 
for the show. “At first I got [a] voicemail 
that said ‘Hi, this is Glen from Jeopardy! 
give me a call back,’ and I was like they 
wouldn’t be calling me to tell me I didn’t 
get on the show… So I was hopeful but 
I didn’t want to expect too much. And 
then I called and he went through some 
legal stuff and then he was like, ‘Well, 
congratulations! You’re on the show.’”
Unlike many of her Jeopardy! com-
petitors, Sloan never was on a quiz team 
or trivia bowl and has never even been 
to Trivia Night at the College. Her trivia 
prowess comes from a general love of 
learning.
 “When I learn something that I 
find interesting, I absorb it and I guess 
I have the ability to remember it or at 
least have it on the tip of my tongue to 
be able to pull it out.” 
To prepare for the taping of the 
show last month, though, Sloan did not 
simply lean on her prior knowledge. 
Sloan reviewed topics that frequently 
come up in trivia, for example Shake-
speare plays and world trivia, and read 
about the strategies of former players. 
Additionally, Sloan spoke to Wil-
liams, the college’s only other Jeopardy! 
participant, who runs a game theory and 
Jeopardy! wagering blog and helped 
Sloan learn the intricacies of betting to 
win. Like back in her childhood, some-
times she would practice by watching 
the show and pretending to buzz in.
Between the taping of the show in 
January and airing in February, Sloan 
was challenged with the task of keep-
ing the results of the show a secret. 
Overall she says her friends were very 
impressed with how well she hid the re-
sults from them, even though occasion-
ally she slipped up and mentioned a de-
tail about a question that she shouldn’t 
have revealed. 
Sloan’s two episodes, the College 
Championship’s Quarter and Semi-
Finals, aired on Feb. 14 and 19 respec-
tively. In the Quarterfinals, Sloan com-
peted against a contestant from Ball 
State University and Ohio State Univer-
sity in categories such as U.S. cities, the 
stage and college football. Sloan trailed 
in the first round, ending the round in 
third place over 3,000 points behind the 
leader. She credits her slow start not to 
nerves but to trouble with the buzzer. 
“The reason I was having so much 
trouble at the beginning was I just could 
not beat the other two on the buzzer at 
all. So every time I knew a question I 
was getting so frustrated because I just 
wouldn’t be able to get in.”
Despite these issues in the first 
round, Sloan proved her trivia talent in 
the next round by cruising up to a close 
second place. 
In final Jeopardy!, in which con-
testants may wager a portion of their 
points, gaining more points if they get 
the question right but losing points if 
they get it wrong, Sloan surprised view-
ers by stealing first place with a correct 
answer and a confident wager of 3,000 
points. 
In the Semi-finals — which aired on 
Feb. 19 — Sloan was challenged by con-
testants from University of California 
Berkeley and Harvard University. She 
remained a stiff contender throughout 
the entire game, holding onto second 
place throughout the first and second 
rounds. 
“There was a lot less pressure go-
ing into the second [episode, the Semi-
finals,]” Sloan said. “I had already won 
a game and hadn’t made a total fool of 
myself. I had represented my family and 
friends and Middlebury well, so…going 
into the second one, it was like I have 
already proved myself.” 
Unfortunately, Sloan’s strong per-
formance was not enough to secure her 
a victory and advance to the Finals. In 
final Jeopardy!, Sloan, thanks to her 
Shakespeare studying, confidently gen-
erated the correct answer of “What is 
Falstaff?” to the question. “He has the 
most speeches of any character with 
471 in three plays, of which 2 are histo-
ries and one is a comedy.” Her wager of 
9,700 points was not enough, however, 
to surpass the leader, Kevin, of Univer-
sity of California Berkley. 
Though Sloan may have lost in her 
episode, in other ways she gained a lot. 
During both episodes, Sloan experi-
enced an outpouring of support from 
fans and peers via social media and in 
person. Sloan watched both episodes 
air in Crossroads Café with many of her 
enthusiastic student supporters who 
cheered for her correct answers and 
congratulated her efforts. 
Furthermore, Sloan benefitted from 
the camaraderie of the other Jeopardy! 
College Championship contestant. Dur-
ing the taping of the show, contestants 
would sit in the audience and cheer for 
their former competitors. 
Also, during the two weeks in which 
the series’ episodes aired, Sloan kept in 
close contact with the other contestants 
by corresponding on Facebook, Twitter 
and Google chat. 
“Even though [all the contestants] 
were so different, we were bonded by 
this experience and it was just so nice to 
have people who understood to talk it all 
over with,” says Sloan. “Definitely more 
friendship came out of [Jeopardy!] than 
competition.”
Additionally, Sloan received the 
“added bonus” of 10,000 dollars for 
her advancement to the Semi-finals on 
Jeopardy!, money which she plans on 
using to pay for medical school and to 
buy herself a single scull to row in. 
For Sloan, after wanting to be on 
Jeopardy! for so long, the hardest part 
of the end of her Jeopardy! run is not 
being able to participate in Jeopardy! 
again (the show has a rule that contes-
tants may only participate once). 
“Now that it is over, it’s like ‘I don’t 
get to be on Jeopardy! anymore.’ There 
is nothing to strive for,” she explains.  
Sloan and her fellow contestants 
hope that in the future the show make 
an exception and allow a reunion tour-
nament of their College Championships 
group. For now, Sloan may just have to 
satisfy herself with cleaning house at 
Trivia Night. 
MiddKid Who Competed on 
Jeopardy! Who is Erika Sloan?
The themes of week 2 were immobility, 
Chinese food and a foreign concept of exercise 
known colloquially as “squatting.” If those 
descriptions didn’t make it clear, we’ll spell 
it out for you: this week was a struggle. Due 
to severe muscle fatigue, neither of us could 
physically get out of bed. To give you a men-
tal picture, comforting encouragements via 
Facetime were needed in order to help each 
other muster the strength to slither out of bed 
as to why we were so crippled, remember we 
weight room with senior swimmer, Goran 
Simic ’14, as our trainer.
With clammy hands and quick breathing 
(never underestimate the strenuous walk from 
center at 8 p.m. sharp on Tuesday. You might 
wonder why 8 p.m. was our prime time: natu-
rally, we didn’t want to intimidate the football 
and lax bros with our bulging muscles during 
typical peak hours, so we chose to share the 
room with the men’s golf team instead. As we 
entered the athletic center, we received a text 
from Goran. “If you’re already there, warm up 
– we’re doing squats today.” Three mirror pep 
talks later, we ventured into the unknown.
After an all-business greeting from Go-
ran, we deemed two-toe touches adequate 
stretching and began a movement known as 
“air squats.” Goran only needed to see one 
to realize how little we knew about proper 
clicked: all we had to do was pretend like we 
were dropping it low at an Atwater party.
But our trainer was less than impressed 
made the mistake of asking to consolidate her 
reps of squats in order to increase time for 
girl talk. We’re sorry, but determining which 
Biggest Loser coach Goran most closely rep-
resented was a time-sensitive and important 
discussion. (For the record, we concluded he 
was most like Bob Harper – not because they 
are both very attractive but because we hadn’t 
witnessed a particularly sympathetic side to 
our coach.) Disappointed in our use of time, 
Goran promptly demanded Maddie add more 
weights to her squatting bar. Our inability to 
stop gossiping about all of the athletes around 
us came to a climax as Goran resorted to set-
ting a timer between our reps so we would 
stop relaxing on the various padded weight 
benches that doubled as lounge chairs.
75 pounds on the squat bar later, we were 
NARP hell, was the following text: “Nice job! 
I hope you exceeded your personal expec-
tations in terms of how much you can lift!” 
Heartwarming. Maybe he’s a Jillian after all.
Although we left the training session feel-
ing positive, the second week of training took 
year dinner at Atwater ran out of macaroni 
and cheese, our all-time favorite food. For the 
record, we have never missed a macaroni and 
cheese day all year. We have language tables, 
but there’s macaroni at Proctor? No prob-
lem! We’ll ask for a to-go box and bring our 
precious delicacy along. We are that serious 
about our macaroni. As you can imagine, our 
morale after this disastrous event was low, 
of training. To all of our fans out there, mom 
and dad, we are so sorry we failed you. Rather 
than hitting the gym, we promptly left At-
water, ordered Magic Wok to be delivered to 
Battell, and watched Grey’s Anatomy. As we 
slurped our chicken lo-mein with teary eyes, 
we discussed our failure in between episodes.
We both agreed that we felt like we let 
ourselves down by skipping a day of training. 
After a few moments of commiseration, Izzy 
brought up the wise words of Courtney Mar-
tin, the author who had spoken the night be-
fore in McCollough Social Space. She told us, 
“Move in ways that make you feel happy...Our 
body is giving us impulse about what it needs 
and wants.” The rest of her talk was devoted 
-
es on well being rather than simply doing it 
all. Reward yourself with a much-needed nap 
or, in our case, Chinese food and binge watch-
ing trash TV. With another 10 weeks of train-
ing ahead of us, we would be naïve to expect 
no bumps on the road along the way.
By Izzy Fleming and Maddie Webb
The Secret 
Life of Narps
Sloan ’16 watches herself compete on a recent
rachel frank
 Erika Sloan ’16, representing Middlebury, poses with Alex Trebek on the Jeopardy! set.
courtesy
13featuresfebruary 27, 2014   
The Glacier Underneath: The Plague of Perfectionism
From small talk in Proctor, to late-night 
brownie binges and even later nights in the 
library, the constant chatter that echoes 
through campus concerning the “perfect 
girl” not only exists, but has taken a toll on 
the College campus. With an acceptance rate 
of 17.3 percent, it is no question that our en-
deavors to get here had the power to jeopar-
dize our mental health. Sadly, our strenuous 
efforts to arrive at Middlebury all too often 
permeated our experiences here: whether 
it be a sister, close friend or even ourselves, 
we have all witnessed the manifestations of 
perfectionism, and most of us have stood by 
as someone we loved engaged in acts of self-
hatred. 
“We have to be funny. We have to be 
well read. We have to be in shape. We have 
to care about the planet…we’re expected 
to be social while also maintaining perfect 
grades,” said Elli Itin ’16, co-president of 
Feminist Action club and coordinator of 
Wednesday’s “Perfect Girls” talk by Court-
ney Martin. “We’re told we have to be ev-
erything. I’m exhausted of hearing about 
friends of mine who have been hospitalized 
for eating disorders, of overhearing conver-
sations in the dining halls of girls saying, ‘I 
can’t eat any bread tonight because I didn’t 
work out for an hour.’ I’m tired of having 
people comment on everyone’s weight, both 
guys and girls; I’m tired of watching people 
pile on bracelets from cutting […] I think 
we’re all exhausted from dealing with this.” 
On Wednesday, Feb. 19, students, most-
ly female, gathered in McCullough Social 
Space and prepared to confront the stimulat-
ing issue of society’s pressure to be “perfect” 
when famed feminist Martin took the stage. 
book, “Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters: 
The Frightening New Normalcy of Hating 
our Bodies,” as a reaction to the culture of 
self-hatred she experienced during her time 
at Barnard College. Itin introduced Martin 
to the crowd of over 200 students and com-
books, editor of Feministing.com, founder of 
The Secret Society for Creative Philanthropy 
and appearances in The New York Times, 
The Washington Post, Newsweek and on 
Good Morning America, The TODAY Show 
– invited the audience to “catalyze a conver-
sation about the voices in our heads telling 
us that we aren’t good enough.” 
“Well that was a bad-ass intro,” Mar-
tin laughed, inviting levity on stage for a 
conversational, comfortable atmosphere. 
Approaching a sensitive topic with grace, 
Martin announced, “I love learning from 
you how this [perfectionist trend] is show-
to learn as much as I am to speak.” She be-
gan the conversation with a question, asking 
those of us to stand that knew someone who 
had suffered from a “full blown” eating dis-
as nearly the whole audience stood. 
“Beyond the full blown eating disorder, 
what I am most interested in talking about 
with you today, is not the top line diagnos-
able eating disorders … what I am most in-
terested in is the glacier underneath. The 
iceberg on top is what we see as these full 
blown diagnosed eating disorders, but un-
derneath there is this huge massive epi-
demic of women and men, importantly, who 
are self hating,” Courtney explained. Over 
half of women between the ages of 18 and 25 
would prefer to be run over by a truck than 
be fat and another two thirds would prefer to 
be more stupid, she highlighted.
“How can we stop settling for self-hate 
Martin asked.
In approaching a response, Courtney 
issues: “[They’re] not really about beauty, 
but at this deep, deep level they’re about 
this existential sense: what makes me worth 
deepest questions we can ask about who 
we are.” The effort to “be everything to all 
people,” (in Martin’s words), and further, 
to make it look effortless, all too frequently 
results in self-harm.
But does this problem affect the wider 
-
ture, a student edited one of the posters for 
“Perfect Girls,” commenting that the group 
that the poster addressed was one “of white 
women.” 
“It’s statistically true — that the richer 
you are, the more privilege you come from, 
the whiter you are, the more likely you are 
to have an eating disorder,” she explained. 
However, this idea has led to misdiagnoses 
of women of color. A recent study showed 
that black women are as likely to binge and 
purge, and are more likely to fast and abuse 
laxatives or diuretics. 
“A lot of times we think that the only 
beauty ideal in our culture is the white, thin, 
beauty ideal. Well there are actually many 
beauty ideals in our culture,” Martin said.
So how does this issue play a role on 
“effortless.”  As one student explained, “I 
think that it’s much more masked here.  I 
think that there’s a lot of obsessive behavior, 
but I think the problem at Middlebury is that 
we convince ourselves of effortless perfec-
tion…not only do we convince ourselves that 
we need to be perfect and that our peers are 
perfect, but that it all comes very effortlessly 
— hugely detrimental to the psyche because 
a) no one’s perfect, and b) it certainly isn’t 
without trying.” 
  One freshman-feb said that before she 
came to Middlebury, she was told not to 
“you lose weight here.” Whether or not this is 
true for you, when 35 percent of Middlebury 
students are varsity athletes, it is hard to 
overlook the college’s reputation that places 
-
nior cross-country runner explained, “Being 
cool [at Middlebury] to run a marathon, to 
be the football star, be a lacrosse boy...and it 
changes what it means to have a good body; 
-
portant to be healthy and self-aware, we’ve 
lost a sense of true success by setting too 
high of standards for ourselves and others.
“I’d say the dominant scene at Middle-
bury is probably the athletic scene. But 
there’s other sides of Middlebury campus, 
and I would say those sides are no less 
overachieving, just in different ways,” Lily 
Andrews ’14 commented. As a Gender Stud-
ies major, Andrews explained that for her, 
achieving is making social justice initiatives 
and proving her leadership. Hannah Gel-
dermann ’16, an Environmental-Chemistry 
major and pre-med, illustrated a similar 
-
a pre-professional atmosphere.  Jiya Pandya 
’17, explained, “You can somehow never do 
enough at Middlebury.” 
We have set impossibly high standards 
for ourselves in all regards, and in turn have 
suffered the consequences.  The last ques-
tion to pose is now that we’re aware, how do 
move towards a shifting mindset.
“We can change conversations about 
weight to well being. We can speak up 
against fat discrimination. We can think 
about ‘With who do we feel the happiest and 
most beautiful, and how can we hang out 
 She further explained that we need to 
trust ourselves if we need professional help, 
we can get involved with feminism on cam-
pus, and endorse health rather than “per-
fection.”  Itin explained, “We have to reach 
back into our little kid selves, and ask if our 
eight-year old selves saw us now, would they 
but the way we treat ourselves.” Feminism author Courtney Martin talks body image issues among college girls.
By Wendy Walcoff 
and Izzy Flemming
ying teoh
Education studies professor Jona-
than Miller-Lane gave a public lecture 
last Wed., Feb. 19, that began with medi-
eval church music — with improvisation 
on the saxophone — and ended with him 
standing in a white Aikido hakama, a tra-
ditional piece of samurai clothing worn 
in various forms of martial arts. 
In his lecture, titled “Shaping a Life 
of the Mind for Practice: An Inclusive Vi-
sion for a ‘Global’ Liberal Arts College,” 
he sought to synthesize purely intellectu-
al pursuits with experiential learning and 
merge body, brain and spirit together in 
the work that students and faculty do. It 
came at a time when the faculty is debat-
ing whether certain internship experi-
ences should be counted toward academ-
ic credits, in the context of an even larger 
debate about the subordinated nature of 
experiential learning in the liberal arts 
education. Instead of picking any one 
side of the argument, Miller-Lane argued 
that learning is mind-based, not brain-
based, in order to find a creative solution 
to the liberal — or illiberal — education 
dichotomy. 
While we should prioritize our in-
tellectual mission on this campus, he 
argued, we need to understand that be-
coming a better thinker is not all just 
brainwork. 
“To talk about the mind is to speak of 
the marvelous and unique expression of 
body, brain, and spirit that is the human 
being,” he said, and when we understand 
our mind as “embodied, lived experi-
ence” then we will start “attending to the 
bodies on one’s campus, and the experi-
ence of those bodies… That brings with 
it a profound commitment to inclusion,” 
he said. This means that we all need to 
constantly remind ourselves that “there 
is no prototypical Middkid, there is no 
‘normal,’” he said. “There is just us, each 
and every one of us, here, working on 
making sense of our lives and trying to 
make this place work as a community of 
safety, challenge, discomfort and, hope-
fully, beauty.” 
And how might this be possible on a 
campus where students, faculty and staff 
alike all seem to be rushing to do every-
This is where “contemplative prac-
tices” come in, which refer to medita-
tion and mindfulness exercises. Several 
professors on campus have pioneered 
this pedagogy, including environmental 
studies professor Rebecca Gould. She 
feels that contemplative practices don’t 
“interfere with the rigor of the class, but 
enhance it.”
“We are accustomed to rushing 
through material, rushing through our 
days, multi-tasking and feeling stressed,” 
she said. “I highly value productivity, 
but I worry about when the drive to “do 
things” begins to interfere with deep 
learning and with meeting one another 
as whole people. So it’s always a chal-
lenge to move away from our default way 
of doing things, but once you get past the 
challenge, the benefits are rich and on-
going. My students have reported on the 
challenges and benefits in a fairly consis-
tent way over the years.
Kelsey Follansbee ’16.5 is currently 
taking a class with environmental stud-
ies professor Marc Lapin, who also uses 
contemplative practices in class. One ex-
ercise prompt: “consider a party we had 
essentially marginalized in our conver-
sation about sustainability,” Follansbee 
said. “Taking several minutes to reflect 
enabled me to open up and find new 
meaning in our discussion and its impli-
cations.”
All to say, contemplative practices 
are not only beneficial to the well-being 
of the learners, but they can actually be 
used to find “innovative ways to engage 
with the content of a course,” as Profes-
sor Gould sug-
gested. Specifi-
cally, they “help 
us know, experi-
ence and under-
stand at an inner 
personal level the 
real connections 
and inter-rela-
tionships that we 
live every day,” 
Professor Lapin 
said. 
Such prac-
tices that lead 
to inclusion 
have received more praises than sneers. 
Alongside students and faculty’s overall 
support for bringing such practices to 
the classrooms based on class feedbacks, 
there is a group that gathers every se-
mester to share ideas, according to Lap-
in. They also invite outside practitioners, 
as well as staff and students, to share 
their experiences and practices. Even so, 
Gould thinks that these practices can be 
adopted more widely.
“I am hoping to create some occa-
sions where we can share what we do 
with other interested, but less experi-
enced, faculty,” he said.
The choice of the medieval church 
music at the beginning of Miller-Lane’s 
lecture was not random, of course. 
“The combination of a saxophone 
improvising over medieval polyphony 
was meant to reflect two fundamental 
ideas of Western music: improvisation 
and composition,” Miller-Lane said. “I 
was suggesting that at its best a Middle-
bury education might 
offer the same oppor-
tunity for us as stu-
dents, staff and facul-
ty – we encounter the 
traditions of learning 
(compositions) while, 
hopefully, cultivating 
and supporting stu-
dents’ ability to add 
their own improvisa-
tion.” 
With this new 
insight into what 
the learning process 
constitutes, it seems 
like faculty and students are only going 
to demand more opportunities to regain 
the intentionality to their work in the 
classroom. Experiential learning and 
contemplative practices need not be seen 
as threats to the traditional intellectual 
rigor, but complements to that experi-
ence that is vital because it reinvigorates 
the body, mind and spirit.
Miller-Lane on Contemplating a Mind-Based Education
By Adrian Leong
“Consider a party we had 
essentially marginalized 
in our conversation about 
sustainability. Taking 
enabled me to open up and 
discussion.”
kelsey follansbee ’16.5
student
14 features
‘Twese for Peace’ wins $10,000 
Davis Project for Peace grant
Every year the Middlebury College 
Center for Social Entrepreneurship grants 
$10,000 to one student to develop a grass-
roots project for peace. The initiative, Davis 
Projects for Peace, was started in 2007 by 
Kathryn Davis, a renowned philanthropist 
who chose to celebrate her 100th birthday 
by donating $1 million “to help young peo-
ple launch some immediate initiatives that 
will bring new thinking to the prospects of 
peace in the world,” according the Project’s 
website. The Davis Projects for Peace are 
available to the 91 schools that have part-
nered with the Davis UWC Scholars pro-
gram and Middlebury is the Projects’ head-
quarters.
The College has had a variety of projects 
submitted and undertaken since 2007; this 
year, 13 students applied for the grant for 
the summer of 2014. Proposals were sub-
mitted by late January, and were discussed 
by a seven person committee consisting of 
executives from the Centre for Social En-
trepreneurship (CSE), the Community En-
College and professionals that have a his-
tory of working with the Davis family.
Elizabeth Robinson ’84, director of the 
Projects on Creativity and Innovation in the 
liberal arts (PCI), was one member of this 
panel.
“Davis Projects for Peace gives students 
the opportunity to try their hand at social 
entrepreneurship and to practice what 
you’re learning in the classroom,” she said. 
The proposals, Robinson explained, are 
judged on a set of four criteria: creativity, 
impact, sustainability and humility. Each 
each criterion by each of the members of the 
committee, and then total scores are com-
pared. The highest rated proposal  is select-
ed as College’s entry into the Davis Projects 
for Peace for that given year.
But having your proposal selected is 
not the end of the road.
“The reason we identify and select to 
projects early is because we want to work 
with the projects and develop them over 
spring,” Robinson said. Once selected, the 
proposed project and the student in charge 
of it are put through a process of mentor-
ship and discussion, in order to make the 
project better.
This year’s recipient is Armel Nibasum-
ba ’16, with his project ‘Twese For Peace 
National Camp’, set in his home country, 
Burundi. The project aims to convene stu-
Burundi between the ages of 17 and 23 for 
two weeks, and help them nurture their 
-
trepreneurial skills.
As he explained his project over a cup 
of hot Burundian tea, Nibasumba’s passion 
for his country, its history and his need to 
make a positive change was more than evi-
dent.
“There is much more than war in Bu-
country is going to be in 15 years, we need to 
act now. This is my way of playing a role in 
the future of my country, of creating a bet-
ter Burundi for my children than the one I 
grew up in, “ he said. 
In the grander global scheme, Niba-
sumba added, Burundi is either forgotten 
“I wanted to show that we are not a 
pity-case, we have young people that have 
ideas and we can change things.”
Nibasumba applied last year for the 
Davis Project for Peace grant, and did not 
receive it, but chose to begin his project 
anyway, albeit to a smaller extent in his city, 
Bujumbura, the capital of Burundi. He ap-
plied again for the grant this year and was 
selected.
“I saw that my project had a big impact 
last year,” Nibasumba said. “And I saw that 
the bigger picture was worth pursuing.” He 
hopes to expand his project and build on 
what he learned from last year, now that he 
has more funding due to the Davis grant. 
“The students I had last year motivated me; 
now I know I’m not the only one, and I want 
to keep striving to make a change.”
Nibasumba’s advice to students that 
did not receive the grant is simple. 
“Don’t give up. This grant isn’t the only 
way to make things happen. Keep network-
ing, contact organizations. There are so 
many opportunities on this campus that 
will help you make things happen,” he said, 
citing MiddStart, an online College crowd-
funding campaign, as an example.
Robinson also vigorously emphasized 
that the Davis grant is only one of the 
many opportunities available through this 
campus. She stated that organizations like 
PCI and CSE have grants to “support stu-
dent ideation” and encouraged students to 
“jump in and try.”
 “A lot of the recipients of the Davis 
peace grant had applied once and not been 
accepted before they received it,” Robinson 
said. “It just takes a little time. You have to 
fail a little in order to learn, and these are 
projects that can be honed over time.”
Robinson cited multiple examples of 
passionate, inspiring students that have 
initiated Davis Projects for Peace, fondly 
calling them “superstars.” Shabana Basij-
Rasikh ’11 did a Davis Project during her 
time at the College and went on to form her 
organization SOLA, School of Leadership, 
Afghanistan. Robinson also spoke about 
Rachel Sider ’14, who conducted her project 
in Jordan in 2013 called Empowering Voic-
es Through Artistic Expression, and Jihad 
Hajjouji ’14 who did a project entitled The 
National Entrepreneurial Camp in Morocco 
in 2012.
Robinson further stressed that working 
with the CSE and CE on campus or apply-
ing for grants such as the Davis Projects for 
Peace is not restricted to students who are 
considering social entrepreneurship in the 
future.
“Not everybody wants to be a social en-
-
portunities as a means for students to just 
be better at who they are and who they want 
to be,” she concluded.
Middlebury Musicians United Makes A Music Scene
The music scene here at the College is 
leaving its underground home for the center 
stage, as Middlebury Musicians United (also 
known as MMU) provides a new venue for 
campus performers.
MMU’s main goal is to bring student 
music to the Middlebury community. They 
currently manage a rehersal space in the fa-
cilities building and a recordining studio in 
the Stephen A. Freeman International Cen-
ter.
In MMU’s latest initiative to promote 
campus musicians, they launched an event 
called Wednesday Night Open-Mic Night 
(WOMP) — taking place every week at the 
Gamut Room.  Students sit on couches 
throughout the cozy space, eating  warm 
crepes, making small talks as they wait in 
anticipation for performers to step onto the 
stage like Nellie Pierce ’16.5 — who wowed 
the crowd last Wednesday in WOMP’s inau-
gural night.
wasn’t a music scene,” Mitchell Parrish ‘14, 
the head of MMU, said. “Three years ago, 
there were only a few student bands on cam-
pus.”
As a sophomore, Parrish formed Thank 
God For Mississippi, an Appalachian jam 
band, which has become a prominent group 
on campus the last few years. Over the past 
several semesters, the student run, un-
derground music scene at the College has 
grown tremendously, with the formation of 
bands like Stoop Kid, Boat Taxi, Iron Eyes 
Cody, Will Cuneo’s Band and Alpenglow.
MMU is at the center of much of this 
recent activity, as a network for connecting 
student musicians.
“MMU is the Facebook for music,” Par-
rish said. “It puts bands together.” 
MMU’s primary initiative is to unite 
students who play instruments and en-
courage them to make music. The group is 
responsible for coordinating the two band 
rooms on campus, as well as many student 
performances.
The practice room under the smoke-
stack of the Biomass plant contains a drum 
and lockers for students to store their equip-
ment. The room is almost always occupied 
on weekday nights. With a simple go-link 
click, (“go/practice”), students can schedule 
to play music whenever the room is free.
The second space, a recording studio 
under the Freeman International Center, 
has a more substantial amount of equip-
ment, with a great drum-set, more micro-
a computer for mastering music. This space 
(accessed through “go/record”) has been 
used to record and produce many student 
bands, such as Iron Eyes Cody and Thank 
God For Mississippi.
Though these two facilities, supervised 
and managed by MMU, are crucial spaces to 
bring student musicians together, more can 
be done to encourage and increase partici-
pation by all students in the musical activity 
that often goes under-recognized on cam-
pus. Students like Parrish see opportunities 
such as WOMP, which will be happening 
every Wednesday night this semester, as the 
next step – a way of bringing musicians and 
listeners together in an informal setting.
“People love the idea of getting together 
to watch live music,” Rob Shaw ’16 of Iron 
Eyes Cody said. “People are very quick to 
engage with that. People want to be in that 
communal setting where they can drop their 
boundaries and share in a musical experi-
ence.”
       Clearly, the student music scene has 
grown in the last couple years on campus. 
With the growth of student bands and op-
portunities for listening that WOMP pro-
vides, in the next semester the College will 
hopefully begin to see more musicians like 
Pierce, who had never performed for an au-
dience until last Wednesday.
      Refer to page 3 on News to read more 
about WOMP.
By Noah Stone
| february 27, 2014
By Jiya Pandya
Learn how to meet the demands of global business with the Bryant Graduate School 
of Business. Bryant offers full-time master’s degree programs specifically designed for 
recent graduates who want to prepare for success in the competitive job market. 
Application Deadlines: 
PRIORITY:  April 15       REGULAR:  July 15 
To learn more, visit www.bryant.edu/BeInDemand 
BE IN DEMAND.
You’ve come this far. 
Now, take your next big step.
MBA ONE-YEAR PROGRAM
Full-time day program for all majors
  Gain credentials and experience that 
distinguish you in the job market
  Benefit from real-world practicum  
and consulting opportunities
  Fast track your career, with no  
professional work experience required
  Specializations in: 
 Global Supply Chain Global  
 Finance International Business
MASTER OF SCIENCE IN 
PROFESSIONAL ACCOUNTING (MPAc)
Full-time day program for accounting majors
  Meet the 150-hour requirement for  
CPA licensure
  Complete your program in two terms:  
summer/fall, summer/summer,  
fall/spring or spring/summer
  Pursue a tax concentration with  
summer/fall or summer/summer 
schedule
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Elemental
Director/Producer Emmanuel Vaughan-Lee will 
-
2/27 4:30 P.M. AXINN 232   
Rust and Bone
-
3/1 3 AND 8 P.M. DANA AUDITORIUM
RoseLee Goldberg
-
tute in New York will give an illustrated lecture 
on her text Performance Art: From Futurism 
to the Present and discuss her role as curator 
Performance 
Now. 
2/27 4:30 P.M. CONCERT HALL, CFA   
-
washed off and fashioned as the Dance 
-
-
House lights remained lit and ushers 
pointed people to seats as the audience 
-
-
-
-
and the confusion that the show was not 
supposed to start for another few min-
-
of a performance raised the question for 
and how do we mask ourselves to con-
interpreted as an escape from the con-
-
the lines tightened again and the danc-
strings were severed and dancers fell to 
This puppet segment created a last-
ing image of all the dancers standing in 
a line facing the audience after righting 
themselves from various slack move-
-
somehow making the movement incred-
dancers presented a fascinating contrast 
-
and picked imagined insects off of each 
-
-
-
paper out of several red dresses that the 
-
-
-
-
and fashioned herself a dress out of it with 
-
ecuted spins in the air reminiscent of 
close of the song she wrapped her paper 
-
of cloth and exploring a movement that 
-
group of artist-creator-performer-danc-
-
gether their personal masks as the work 
-
and colors and a particular movement 
-
how their chosen masks allowed them to 
delve into experiencing a part of them-
-
-
-
-
-
we should take the time to explore our-
Examining ‘The Masks’ Through Dance
By Mandy Kimm
courtesy
courtesy
Continued from front page.
“I’ll be talking about the value of the 
study of the arts in the context of a liberal 
arts education, but also how the arts are an 
important part of the fabric of our society,” 
Polisi said.
In 2005, Polisi wrote The Artist Citi-
zen, discussing the responsibility of the 
artist to present their art to communities 
around the world and to make people un-
derstand the importance of the arts in any 
environment.
“I’m very passionate about the idea 
that within the context of a liberal arts 
environment like the wonderful program 
at Middlebury that students, faculty and 
administrators understand how the in-
tegration of the study of the arts and the 
appreciation of the arts on campus can re-
ally enhance the entire environment, not 
just the artistic environment,” Polisi said. 
“People who can participate in a serious 
digestion or understanding of the arts re-
ally are more empathetic, more involved 
in their own society and more able to have 
communities.”
An accomplished scholar of music, 
public policy and the arts with two books 
to his credit, Polisi is also a successful bas-
soonist with a solo recording of 20th cen-
tury bassoon. In addition to holding three 
graduate degrees in music from Yale Uni-
versity, Polisi also has a Bachelor’s degree 
in political science from the University of 
Connecticut and a Masters of Arts degree in 
international relations from Tufts Univer-
sity. Frequently speaking on issues of arts 
and education, Polisi has founded many 
programs that focus on mentorship and the 
importance of an interdisciplinary educa-
tion. In 2006, he helped to found the Carn-
egie Hall/Julliard Academy, a program de-
signed to prepare post-graduate musicians 
to be leaders in the arts and education. 
“I’m always speaking to our Julliard 
students about their sense of mission and 
their need to really be effective advocates of 
the arts once they get off stage,” Polisi said. 
“The performance is one thing and that’s 
extremely important, but then they have to 
be active as missionaries, so to speak, for 
the arts.”
President Polisi’s free lecture will take 
place on Mar. 1 at 4:30 p.m. in the Concert 
Hall of the Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 Center for 
the Arts.  An evening concert will take place 
at 8 p.m. on the same day.
The concert will be a festive celebra-
tion of the new instrument featuring per-
formances and discussions from several 
members of the College community. Audi-
selection of the pi-
ano at the historic 
Steinway factory in 
Queens, New York. 
The Steinway 
model D concert 
grand piano arrived 
at the Concert Hall 
of the Kevin P. Ma-
haney ’84 Center 
for the Arts on Nov. 
26, a gift of the Ray, 
Meredith and Nathaniel Rothrock ’12.5 
family in honor of President Liebowitz and 
his wife, Jessica. The 9-foot, 990 pound 
piano will reside in the Concert Hall for use 
by faculty, students and performers par-
ticipating in the College’s Performing Arts 
Series. 
Chair of the Music Department Greg 
Vitercik is excited about the new musical 
opportunities created by the piano.
“It opens up a sound world that is sim-
ply not available on the instruments any of 
us encounter in daily life,” Vitercik said in 
an email. “And that new sound world offers 
a range of expressive and coloristic effects 
that cannot be produced on lesser instru-
ments, as well as possibilities — and chal-
lenges — of control that only exist at the 
In January and February, President 
Liebowitz sent out a campus-wide email 
inviting students, faculty and staff to regis-
ter for ten minute slots to play the Steinway 
week of the spring term. 
Steinway enjoys the reputation of be-
ing the concert piano of choice around the 
world, with each instrument containing 
over 12,000 parts and taking over a year to 
manufacture by hand. A selection commit-
tee of concert soloists Richard Goode and 
Diana Fanning ’71 and Gwendolyn Toth ’77 
traveled to the legendary New York factory 
-
didates that might suit the acoustics of the 
Concert Hall. 
Nathaniel Rothrock was an active par-
ticipant in theater, musicals and the Col-
lege Choir in his time as a student.
“Middlebury actually approached us 
about acquiring a new piano,” Rothrock 
said. “The old concert piano in the hall was 
close to 15 years old, maybe more, and the 
school had decided that it was time to get 
a new one.  We discussed it and decided 
to help fund the 
gift. As we thought 
about it, we real-
ized something im-
portant.  President 
Liebowitz and his 
wife, Jessica, who 
is a concert level 
pianist, have been 
and continue to be 
huge supporters of 
the performing arts 
at Middlebury.  So 
with the proviso that the piano be named 
in their honor, we decided to make the gift.”
The concert will showcase the piano’s 
versatility by presenting a unique mix of 
genres. Cameron Toh ’17, Shannia Fu ’17, 
and David Heschel Liebowitz, all students 
of Fanning, will perform works by Bar-
ber, Debussy and Satie, while Gwendolyn 
Toth will present early keyboard pieces by 
Jazz Programs Dick Forman will pair with 
Felix Klos ’14 to play jazz selections. Bass/
baritone Rothrock will close the program 
with songs by Schubert, Lerner and Loewe 
and Sondheim, accompanied by Associate 
Professor of Music Jeffrey Buettner. 
Vitercik thinks that both performers 
the high quality craftsmanship of the Stein-
way.
“We have a long record of bringing 
our stage, and to have an instrument of 
this quality will allow them to perform at 
the highest level of their artistic potential,” 
he said. “Audiences, too, will experience an 
unparalleled richness, subtlety, and expres-
sive range in those performances.”
The concert will be followed by a re-
ception in the Mahaney Center lobby. The 
event is free but requires the reservation of 
The community has an excellent op-
portunity to hear Dr. Polisi’s lecture and 
watch the combination of arts and educa-
tion in action at the concert celebration of 
the new Steinway piano. The dedication 
marks what is sure to be just the start of 
many years of enjoyment for the College.
Steinway Brings New Sound to Campus
Middlebury’s only student-run res-
taurant, Dolci, turns 16 this year. Since its 
conception in 1998, Dolci has served as an 
on-campus haven for foodies of all stripes, 
offering students the unique opportunity 
to enjoy high-end cuisine or create and 
serve original menus. Dolci is housed in 
Atwater dining hall, where 80 students 
sit down to a free, multi-course meal most 
Friday evenings of the year. Midd kids 
doubling as head chefs, cooks and wait-
ers arrange the meal for their peers over 
the course of the preceding week, working 
beside — and sometimes with — Atwater 
dining staff. 
Anyone is welcome to cook for Dolci, 
regardless of background or experience, a 
detail that encourages students to explore 
culinary interests at all levels. Ben Bogin 
’15, Co-President of Dolci, believes the op-
portunity to work in an industrial kitchen 
like Atwater is one of the greatest perks of 
Dolci. 
“I hope that people who have never 
cooked before can come feel comfortable 
working in the kitchen, because working 
in our dining hall kitchen is so amazing,” 
Bogin said. “It’s a completely different 
world.”  
Bry Kleber ’14, who will be the head 
chef of the last Dolci dinner of the spring 
semester, agrees that Dolci is a unique ex-
perience for students.
 “It’s a really great feeling to be able to 
cook for somebody,” Kleber said. “There’s 
something very intimate about that, and 
you can get that intimacy and that connec-
tion with Dolci, which I think is great.”
Attending Dolci as a dinner is just as 
rich working behind the scenes. Bogin’s 
sister and Co-President Emily Bogin ’16 
explained that Dolci offers a dining ex-
perience not usually available to college 
students.
 “I think it’s important to have an op-
if you don’t have the budget for it,” said 
Emily. “It’s cool to be able to eat in such a 
formal setting.” 
Dolci’s attendance rates have always 
been high, thanks to its reputation for 
creative and scrumptious food. Past Dolci 
dinner themes have ranged from Modern-
ist to Southern Comfort to Art History to 
Everything Bacon. Anna Flinchbaugh ’14’s 
Harry Potter Dolci dinner this past fall 
was so popular that 130 students signed 
Spring promises seven similarly origi-
nal meals, including a dinner devoted 
to vegetables of the Allium family like 
onions, garlic, leeks, and chives; South 
American surf and turf featuring scallops 
drizzled in cilantro lime pesto; a dinner 
inspired by New York restaurants; and an 
all-chocolate dinner. The endless variety 
-
dent cooks on campus. 
“If you know a person really well and 
you’re eating their food it’s kind of fun to 
see what they put together and how their 
because it ends up being really personal,” 
said Ben.
her theme, she and her co-chef Sara Arno 
’14.5 have dreamed of leading a Dolci din-
ner since they were freshmen. 
“We have gone to many Dolci’s and 
I’ve always been super impressed by how 
the students are able to execute every-
thing,” Kleber said. 
The daughter of a chef, Kleber enjoys 
cooking as a source of calm and connec-
tion. 
“For me, cooking is something that 
I do as a way to relax and calm down…I 
think it’s very therapeutic,” she said. “And 
the social aspect of food and cooking is 
make connections and friendships.”
Ben and Emily share a similar view 
of cooking. They grew up making pan-
cake breakfasts together and eventually 
worked in a restaurants and bakeries in 
high school.
“Dolci is kind of what brought me to 
Middlebury,” Ben said. “I heard about it at 
the information session, and I was sold.”
 Indeed, the infrastructure Dolci of-
fers — a clean, professional cooking space 
and a variety of equipment and ingredi-
ents — is very unique to the College and a 
perfect opportunity for students who want 
to explore food beyond their limited dorm 
kitchens. 
Dolci continues to expand and evolve 
thanks to increased funding in recent 
years. Over their run as co-presidents, 
Ben and Emily hope to increase the num-
ber of dinners offered and perfect the din-
ing experience in Atwater. 
“When you’re sitting with seven other 
people and you only know one of them 
and it’s family style, you feel kind of awk-
ward. I’d like to see if there’s a way in the 
future to make the dining experience bet-
ter,” Emily said.
First and foremost, however, the sib-
lings are committed to promoting com-
munity and creativity around food, both 
on campus and beyond. 
To learn more about Dolci or sign up 
for a spring dinner, check out go/dolci. On 
most Wednesdays at 9 p.m., you can enter 
your name into a lottery for a pair of tick-
ets to dinner served on Friday at 6 p.m.
Dolci Celebrates Culinary Creations
By Olivia French
“It opens up a sound world 
that is simply not available 
on the instruments any of 
us encounter in daily life.”
-greg vitercik
chair of the Music department
STEINWAY 
STATS: 
9 feet long 
(adult elephant 
shoulder height)
990 pounds
weight of the largest giant 
squid ever recorded
february 27, 2013 | 16 arts SCIENCES
If my childhood friend group is any indi-
cation, there are a few distinct and mutually 
exclusive ways to play with Legos. There is 
the rule-follower, who builds the thing on the 
front of the box per instructions. Next, there 
is the engineer who ignores the instructions 
in favor of his own plan, carefully construct-
ing something really cool that will make ev-
category, to which I belong, whose members 
collect piles of random pieces and throw 
them together, creating wholly nonsensical 
conglomerations of blocks that never last 
more than a good 15 minutes. The Lego Mov-
-
egory. Pieces seem thrown about everywhere 
and the result is ridiculous, often chaotic, but 
extremely fun and funny throughout. 
In a world composed exclusively of 
Legos, one man – that would be one “Mr. 
Lord Business” to you – has become presi-
dent and now controls TV, music, “all the 
history books” and as the movie opens, has 
just gained possession of the “Kragle” a kind 
of super-weapon that could end the world. 
Indeed, the creativity inherent in Legos has 
fallen under an authoritarian regime – Mr. 
Business effectually wants the whole world 
to be “rule-followers.” Our protagonist/ev-
eryman Emmett lives as a mild-mannered 
construction worker and has initially fallen 
prey to the endless rules and instructions im-
posed on by Mr. Business. All Emmett wants 
is to be an ordinary guy and part of a friend 
group, but it becomes apparent that he is try-
ing much too hard to be normal and conse-
quently has trouble making friends. The Lego 
Movie quickly becomes about the divide be-
tween being ordinary or unique; what makes 
The Lego Movie’s approach different is that 
actually try to be normal, and the amount of 
work it takes to follow perceived societal in-
structions that limit one’s personality. 
Emmett was of course never going to be 
ordinary – the movie’s opening scene gives us 
the story of a prophecy calling for a “Master 
Builder” to liberate the Lego world from Mr. 
Business. It turns out that Emmett’s mind is 
choice for the job. This is all you should know 
of the movie before going in – the last 1/3 
of the movie turns the entire concept on its 
head, making this something greater than a 
series of well-conceived gags. 
There is an uncanny level of self-aware-
ness in The Lego Movie that makes it more 
and more charming as it continues. It under-
stands the way people use Legos and marvel-
ously captures the way I remember my expe-
riences playing with Legos. At the same time, 
it is able to poke fun at itself, roasting a few 
common kid-movie clichés and to some ex-
tent the whole concept of the Lego Universe. 
The fact that Legos can be made of anything 
and anyone makes this akin to Shrek, with ap-
pearances by the lego-likenesses of Abraham 
Lincoln, Blackbeard, Shakespeare, the 2002 
NBA Champion Los Angeles Lakers, and on. 
Tonally the movie is also somewhere between 
the satire in Shrek and something sillier like 
SpongeBob. It has a faster pace and a greater 
number of action sequences than both, al-
ways remaining amiable and coherent.  
The Lego Movie does contain a few easy, 
tired jokes here and there but I can’t criticize 
this stuff too much without feeling like a par-
ticularly pessimistic Grandmother. This is 
the third impressive comedy from Phil Lord 
and Chris Miller after 21 Jump Street and 
Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs; they’re 
young and very talented, and it’ll be exciting 
to see where they’ll go from here (aside from 
the inevitable 2nd and 3rd Lego Movies). And 
the voice-acting cast alone is impressive, with 
names like Morgan Freeman and Will Ferrell. 
I’m not sure if these names necessarily en-
hance the movie, but it’s always a good time 
hearing Morgan Freeman cast as an aloof 
wizard.  
This is a movie about Legos and it made 
me happy. If a movie about Legos sounds 
good to you, The Lego Movie will almost as-
suredly make you happy also. If such a movie 
sounds targeted outside of your demograph-
ic, I think you’ll be surprised with how much 
there is to like in The Lego Movie.  It couldn’t 
possibly be executed with more wit or charm 
and it sets a standard for the rest of the year’s 
comedies, animated and family friendly or 
otherwise. If nothing else, this is some kind of 
phenomenal marketing tool for Lego. 
“[An octopus’] color chang-
ing capabilities are just 
incredible ... When you 
feed them, sometimes their 
blue spots will pulse very 
quickly.”
-Amity calvin ’16
By Oakley Haight
the 
reel critic
science sp   tlight: octopus biology
By Toby Aicher
I had noticed a couple of times a locked 
door in Bihall with pictures of octopuses 
and a sign “octopi wallstreet”, so when my 
friend Jacob Dixon ’16.5 mentioned he was 
going to feed the baby octopuses my curios-
ity was naturally raised and I offered to tag 
along.  When I stepped inside the cephala-
pod room with its loudly humming pumps 
biology, I felt removed from Middlebury. 
Packed inside the room, originally a small 
janitor’s supply closet, were two 300-gall-
lon tanks containing the octopuses (octo-
podes is also an acceptable plural, but not 
in sight. Its tentacles stretched nearly a foot 
and a half, and on its side was its charac-
teristic bright blue dot, one of the two false 
eyes that give the octopuses their name. 
Jacob went about feeding small shrimp to 
Tupperware containers on the top of the 
two tanks. 
The College has intermittently kept 
octopuses for neurological and psychologi-
cal research since 2008, when two students 
along with Biology Professor Tom Root 
opened the lab to study invertebrate intel-
ligence. Researchers have found that oc-
topuses have remarkably complex minds 
and have evolved emotions, individual per-
sonalities and intelligence. Students at the 
College have sought to build off these dis-
coveries and delve into the workings of the 
octopus brain and the nature of the mind. 
In past experiments, students have tested 
the memories of octopuses by placing them 
in mazes. Jamie Hillas ’15 will begin a proj-
ect this spring also investigating the learn-
ing capabilities of octopuses. But before 
Hillas is able to do research, the octopus 
babies will have to survive and mature.
Alexandra Spencer-Wong ’16 and Am-
ity Calvin ’16 head a crew of volunteers in-
cluding Jacob Dixon ’16.5, Lisa Wooldridge 
’16, Michelle Irei ’15, Tiff Ting ’14, Max An-
derson ’14, and Alix Bickson ’14 in charge of 
the daunting task of looking after and feed-
ing the baby octopuses. Last year another 
team of caretakers ran into unfortunate 
problems while taking care of a different 
group of baby octopuses.
“They had them during the spring and 
they survived for 6 weeks,” Calvin said, “but 
they went off on a break and when they 
came back they found out there was a high 
spike in nitrate levels, and they all died.” 
Dixon, a published aquarium enthusi-
ast, also explained how maintaining good 
water quality and monitoring the levels of 
dangerous chemical byproducts is the most 
essential part of keeping an aquarium. 
“Octopuses and invertebrates in gen-
eral are very sensitive to nitrate,” he said, 
“and I think that was the reason for their 
deaths. For example in my aquarium at 
home I tried to keep 
the nitrate levels be-
parts per million 
(ppm). In here they 
spiked about forty.” 
He described a 
number of ways he 
kept nitrate levels in 
check in his previ-
ous aquariums and 
how they are cur-
rently trying to do 
so with the octopus 
tanks. 
“You can in-
troduce live rock with resident nitrifying 
bacteria that convert nitrate into a more 
disposable form, or you can introduce mac-
roalgae and they consume nitrates as they 
grow,” Dixon said. “One of the best ways is 
to cycle clean pure water through and re-
move the water with nitrates.” 
The octopus eggs were laid in Decem-
ber, and they hatched during February 
break. Spencer-Wong recalled the excite-
ment of that day.
“We were about to leave — it was just 
a routine feeding,” he said, “then I looked 
down and I said ‘Amity, what’s that there’. 
All of a sudden there were babies every-
where. They would hatch in waves of 15. 
We had literally made the Tupperware con-
tainer the day before. I put up this really 
desperate Facebook status calling anyone 
on campus to come to the room and help, 
thankfully a couple of friends showed up. 
There was a frenzy to try and catch them 
and put them in the right place and make 
sure they didn’t slip through the cracks of 
the aquarium. That was a challenge.”
Since then they have been busy feeding 
and looking after the octopuses. 
“We’ve been feeding them twice a day 
and we do one head count a day,” Calvin 
much we need to feed them to keep them 
from eating each other.” 
from escaping. 
“They are the greatest escape artists 
that you have ever seen,” Wooldridge said. 
“I’ve opened the tank to catch one and I’ve 
seen one trying to climb out of the tank and 
I have to push them back down.” Report-
edly 6-foot long octopuses can squeeze 
through a hole the 
size of an orange. 
“We didn’t 
anticipate this 
continuing in the 
spring,” Spencer-
Wong said. “We 
thought we would 
come by and may-
be feed them once 
a week. But now 
we’re pretty much 
in charge of feeding 
the babies which is 
intense but it’s been 
a fun experience 
and we’ve learned a lot.”
After watching the creatures for a few 
minutes jet around and wrap their snarling 
tentacles around prey I could easily see how 
spending time with them was enticing. 
“One of the best things about working 
with them is that you can see a personal-
ity,” Spencer-Wong said. “You can see for 
instance ‘oh, Reggies is grumpy today’ or 
when I wear a very intensely patterned 
sweater the octopus would put up these an-
gry horns and run away so I stopped wear-
ing that sweater around them.” 
“Their color changing capabilities are 
just incredible,” Calvin added. “They can 
blend in so perfectly, and they change col-
or a lot of the time. When you feed them, 
sometimes their blue spots will pulse very 
quickly. When they are relaxed they turn 
this calm, pale, white shade. “
The group hopes that at least 10 of the 
baby octopuses will survive into the spring. 
Currently they have 7 student volunteers. 
“You can never have too many volun-
teers,” Calvin said. “If you know anyone 
whose interested send them over. We’re 
gonna work with the octopuses until there 
are no more left.”
for the rec  rd
BY CHAD CLEMENS
It’s been two decades since Beck 
penned the anthemic, self-mocking 
two-lined chorus that (who knew?) 
would be swallowed heartily by ‘90s frat 
bros and despondent weirdos alike. Led 
by “Loser,” his album Mellow Gold im-
mediately garnered praise with eclectic 
fusions of anti-folk twang, old-school 
hip hop, noisy blues riffs and a little bit 
of everything else, coupled with darkly-
wrought ironic humor wrapped up neat-
ly in a smooth-ish yet vapid white boy 
flow. Just about every record has fol-
lowed suit, with maybe a pinch of elec-
tro or an acoustic cut here and there, to 
the approval of both staunch critics and 
casual consumers. 
In 2002, however, he digressed 
from his oeuvre in putting out the sim-
ple, honest, brooding and much less 
clever post-break up album Sea Change, 
which still managed to pluck at the fee-
ble heartstrings of listeners everywhere 
despite compromising on both experi-
mental production and wicked clever 
(but non-academic!) lyricism. When 
word surfaced that Beck’s 12th and new-
est album, Morning Phase, would be a 
continuation/sequel/companion piece/
pick-your-buzz-phrase to Sea Change, 
the title along with nary a word about 
an emotional regression suggested a 
beautiful, well-crafted, melancholy (like 
Mourning, the sly dog) yet hopeful ‘self-
discovery’ of sorts. And yes, it turned 
out quite beautiful indeed. Beautiful 
but also, after not too long, kinda bor-
ing. 
I won’t go so far as to say all great 
art comes from a deep well of pain, but 
it certainly helps creativity to suffer. 
Beck was in a tumultuous place those 12 
years ago, and it was made pretty obvi-
ous: “These days I barely get by/I don’t 
even try” he echoed on “The Golden 
Age,” a song made so depressing that 
such a straightforward delivery was 
met with empathy rather than accusa-
tions of kitschiness. On Morning Phase, 
Beck gently caresses listeners’ ears with 
somewhat similar sentiments, though 
from a rather disconnected perspective. 
He establishes moody contexts and au-
ras just the same with his lush orches-
tration, but there is a noticeable lack of 
first-person narratives in comparison 
to the album’s predecessor; he instead 
opts for externalized pop-generaliza-
tions (“Somewhere unforgiven/Time 
will wait for you”) and vaguely preachy 
tidbits of advice (“You better save your-
self/From something you can’t see/Fol-
low it where it goes/Follow it back to 
me”). In other words, he is writing from 
somebody’s heart but not really his 
own, well-meaning as it may be. In do-
ing so, he turns the empathy on its head 
and dangerously approaches cliché. 
Barring the lyrics, as many listen-
ers are wont to do anyway, Morning 
Phase is musically stunning. Each track 
swells and contracts delicately within 
a hollowed sonic landscape, all part of 
a singular piece that merely comes to 
rest every few minutes as opposed to a 
collection of individual tracks cut out 
and laid down aside one another. “Un-
forgiven” takes off in a spiraling swoon 
atop a gently scaled-back tempo and 
“Blue Moon” soars through a dynamic 
range reminiscent of Sea Change-
standout “Lonesome Tears.” The record 
is stripped of ominous bass undertones 
and instances of occasionally overpow-
ering drums used to bring home jarring 
moments of emotional troughs, which 
together do in fact point to the lighter 
nature earlier anticipated. 
A mild optimism certainly pervades 
the musical elements of the record, but 
they remain in conflict with the lyrical 
themes to an off-putting degree. Beck 
fails to convince me of his genuineness 
when his lovely tunes undermine his 
words; and as such, I’m not inclined to 
spin this LP in place of its precursor. 
Let me stress that by no means is 
this record bad. In fact, if this is your 
first time listening to Beck, I’m sure you 
will thoroughly adore it. If you liked Sea 
Change, I’m even more certain of it. The 
problem is, quite simply, it is too simi-
lar in some respects and worse in oth-
ers. Put another way: if you like to fre-
quent name-brand café chains, you’re 
probably going to hear it whether you 
wanted to or not.
Morning Phase
Beck
february 27, 2014 | 17arts SCIENCES
Following a weekend of excellent 
individual play at the D3 Singles 
Championship, the focus for the athletes 
in the Middlebury women’s squash 
program was once again on team play at 
Team Nationals from Friday, Feb. 21 to 
Sunday, Feb. 23. 
Following a regular season in which 
the Panthers went 8-7 against some of 
the best competition in the country, the 
women found themselves this weekend 
at Princeton University ranked 14th 
nationally. This ranking translated to the 
Panthers’ earning the 6th seed in the B 
Division at Team Nationals, competing 
for the Kurtz Cup. 
On Friday evening, the women’s 
squash team drew 11th ranked George 
of play. 
The Colonials were no strangers to 
Middlebury, with the two sides having 
squared off at the Yale Round Robin a 
month ago. With George Washington 
Panthers were eager to balance the series. 
Unfortunately, the Colonials showed 
their might and proved too much for 
Middlebury to handle. Play opened 
poorly for the Panthers, with the usually 
dominant trio at the top of Middlebury’s 
lineup, Abby Jenkins ’14, Charlotte Dewey 
’15 and Annie Wymard ’15 falling to their 
counterparts from George Washington. 
Despite solid wins from the consistent 
Zoe Carey ’16 and Saskia Pownall-Gray 
to the Panthers,  who fell 6-3 to George 
Washington. 
Despite the early setback, the Panthers 
still had a full weekend of play ahead 
of them. While the possibility for a 
championship was gone, the women’s 
squash team had the opportunity to 
compete and improve its national ranking. 
In the consolation bracket, Middlebury 
once again faced a familiar foe in 
Williams College. Having dropped their 
previous matchup against the Ephs 5-4, 
Middlebury was aware of the challenges 
in its ability to compete with Williams. 
Jenkins, after falling behind early, got 
2nd through 5th ranked players shut 
down Middlebury, who did not record 
a win until Carey and Amanda Chen ’14 
both picked up their second wins of the 
weekend at the tail end of the match. 
After falling 6-3 to Williams, the women 
were left with only one matchup left to 
in the Kurtz Cup. 
The Panthers then faced conference foe 
Hamilton, a matchup that presented the 
opportunity to exact some revenge on a 
team that scored an unexpected win over 
the season. 
Middlebury took great measures to 
ensure the match against Hamilton would 
not be as dramatic this time around. 
With all around dominant performances, 
against Hamilton, leaving absolutely no 
doubt as to who the winner would be. 
At the end of the tournament, Carey 
and Chen remained undefeated through 
this tough weekend of play. 
In addition to the weekend’s play, a pair 
of women’s squash players were named 
to All-NESCAC teams over the weekend. 
Both Jenkins and Dewey represent 
team. This is Jenkins’ third time on the 
With the win over Hamilton, the team 
with an even record of 9-9, with their 
primary highlight coming in the form 
championships. Middlebury ends the 
season with the 15th ranking overall in 
the country. 
| february 27, 201418 sports
Panther Skiers Notch Third-Place Finish
Women’s Squash Wraps up Season with Win
The EISA Championship annual ski races 
took place this weekend as part of the 91st 
Middlebury College winter carnival. Despite 
some tough conditions, races commenced on 
time and the usual suspects steamed out to 
Friday night, Dartmouth wasn’t far behind 
in second and host Middlebury rounded out 
the top trio. At the end of day two, the top 
three stayed the same and UVM held on for 
Middlebury made its mark with 664 points. 
At the Rikert Nordic Center, Ben 
Lustgarten ’14 had a dominant day one as he 
part about his victory is that the second place 
The other two scorers for the men’s nordic 
team on day one were Dylan McGarthwaite 
’15 and Patrick McElravey ’17, who came in at 
25th and 31st respectively. 
Lustgarten’s masterful performance is 
even more meaningful given that he recently 
overcame an injury.
“I had some rest following the U23 World 
Championships in Italy due to my concussion 
just over three weeks ago,” Lustgarten said. 
“I was unable to train for one and a half 
weeks but was happy to be able to race in 
the Williams Carnival. I was not in my best 
physical condition for these past two races 
due to lack of training and recovering from 
my concussion.” 
Heather Mooney ’15 continued to lead 
the women’s Nordic team with an 11th place 
seconds behind Mooney as she came in at 
17th place. Stella Holt ’15 also grabbed a top-
scorers for the nordic women’s team.  
Mooney has set a personal goal of 
improving on her EISA performance. 
“My biggest goal for this season is to be 
top-8 at NCAAs,” Mooney said. “It’s kind of 
an all-encompassing goal.”
The Alpine events were held at the 
Middlebury College Snow Bowl and on day 
one conditions were ideal for the women’s 
event. The women were only able to get one 
run in, but Kara Shaw ’15 weathered the 
conditions better than most as she earned 
’15 and Yina Moe-Lange ’15 came in within 
The men’s alpine teams were able to get 
both runs in, and Middlebury certainly did 
not disappoint. Nick Bailey ’14 and Hig 
Roberts ’14 gave everything they had as they 
skied on Winter Carnival weekend for the last 
place, while Roberts claimed eighth place. 
Christopher McKenna ’17 was equally as 
in 12th position. 
The men’s nordic team was strong in the 
injury. Adam Luban ’17 had a season-best 
’14 was 21st, while McGarthwaite was 27th. 
In the 15K freestyle race, the Middlebury 
women’s nordic scorers were 14th-place 
Attwood in 19th. 
For the third consecutive Giant Slalom 
on a high note. Liam Mulhern ’14 was second 
for the Middlebury men, crossing line in 17th 
place, while Ghassan Gedeon Achi ’16 came 
in at 21st place.
After a successful weekend, Roberts looked 
ahead to future challenges.
“I hope to ski well at NCAAs at the end 
of the year and repeat some of the great 
performances we have had at this race,” 
Roberts said.
Elle Gilbert ’16 led the alpine women’s 
team in the Giant Slalom event, earning 
a time good for fourth place. The race 
marked Gilbert’s best run this season. Isabel 
carnival event of the season and was able to 
grab 23rd place. Lisa Schroer ’17 came in just 
after Kannegieser in 26th place. 
The Middlebury Winter Carnival was 
the last chance for the ski teams to perform 
before they head to NCAAs, which are being 
held March 5-8 at the University of Utah. 
4
3
Number of Middlebury squash players 
who made their ways onto an All-
NESCAC roster, announced last 
Thursday
Goals scored by Louis Belisle ’14 
in the NESCAC
Middlebury records broken by Stephan 
Koenigsberger ’16 over the weekend
Years that Missy Foote has been 
coaching women’s lacrosse at 
Middlebury, who enters the 2014 
season ranked third in the nation
17
33
by the Numb3rs
Average point differential in men’s 
basketball’s NESCAC games this season 7.3
the middlebury
great  eight
8
Lax
Kinda scary that both teams’ 
seasons start up this weekend, 
isn’t it?
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Fritz’s Fancies
2
skiing
It was nasty up at the bowl 
this weekend, but the Panthers 
were unfazed.
Men’s Hockey
home playoff game.
3 men’s BasketballGave us a bit of a scare in the 
second half against Hamilton.
4 
Men’s Swimming
Mackay and co. were 
dominant in the sprints events.
5
Track and Field 
Shout out to Alex Morris ’16, 
the fastest sports editor, from 
the second-fastest editor.
7
Women’s Hockey
Didn’t play this week, but we 
don’t judge.
6 Women’s squashEnded the season on a high 
note by beating Hamilton.
Men’s Swimming Seventh at NESCACs
The Middlebury men’s swimming and 
diving team placed seventh at NESCAC 
Championships last weekend, held at 
Bowdoin’s LeRoy Greason Pool. Williams 
won the title with 1,849 points, followed 
38 behind sixth-place Bates. 
It was a slight fall in the 
standings for the men, who 
finished in fifth place overall 
last year. 
“Even though we didn’t 
place as high as a team overall 
this year,” Ian Mackay ’14 said, 
“I think that our hard work 
and training could be seen in 
the accomplishments of many 
individual swimmers on the 
team.”
The meet was extremely 
challenging for swimmers, who 
participated in preliminary 
sessions in the mornings and 
finals at night over the course of three 
days. Middlebury finished day one in 
seventh and held onto that place all the 
way to the end. 
On the first day, the Panthers got off 
to a fast start with a fourth-place finish 
seconds, putting the Panthers in the 
lead. Mackay was followed by Stephan 
Koenigsberger ’16, Captain Mike Oster 
’14 and Bryan Cheuk ’16, finishing with 
a time of 1:24.53.
Mackay dominated the action on 
Friday, earning the NESCAC title in 
two events and breaking a record along 
the way. During preliminaries he set a 
NESCAC record in 
with a time of 21.89 
seconds. That night 
he finished first in 
the final with a time 
Mackay went on 
freestyle with a time 
seconds is the 13th-
fastest in the nation 
this year in Division 
III. He is the also the 
school and NESCAC 
record holder in the 
event, having set the 
record last year. 
Koenigsberger lowered his own 
Middlebury record with a time of 25.59 
preliminaries. He was then disqualified 
in the final for a false start. 
“It was the best of times, it was the 
worst of times as for some of us the 
meet started out a little bit rough,” 
Koenigsberger said. “However we were 
all able to rally and everyone swam their 
hearts out which was just epic to be a 
part of. Going forward we are only going 
to get faster and closer as a team.”
On Saturday, Mackay earned a 
butterfly with a time of 29.24 seconds. 
Two events later Koenigsberger set 
another school record, placing third in 
57.66 seconds. 
Koenigsberger continued his hot 
streak on Sunday, this time finishing 
Distance swimmer Michael McGean 
’17 excelled in his first collegiate 
championship meet, finishing seventh 
In the one-meter diving event, Dylan 
points, followed by teammate Skylar 
switched spots in the 3-meter event, 
with Dallmeyer-Drennen placing sixth 
Those who qualified for the NCAA 
Division III Championships will have 
about three weeks to train before the 
March 19-22 event in Indianapolis, Ind. 
By Kevin Yochim
By Stephen Etna
“I think that our 
hard work and 
training could be 
seen in the ac-
complishments of 
many individual 
swimmers on the 
team.”
Ian Mackay  ’14 
Free/fly
The indoor track team competed 
in its first championship meet of the 
season this past Saturday, Feb. 22, when 
it travelled south to Massachusetts to 
attend the Division III New England 
Championships. The day brought a split 
in location for the Panther squad, as the 
men headed to MIT and the women to 
Springfield, where each group emerged 
from the day with a number of All-
New England honors, including one 
champion. 
On the women’s side, the team 
brought home six all-region honors, 
which are awarded to those athletes that 
finish in the top eight places in his or her 
event. Hannah Blackburn ’17 received 
accolades in her first season, taking 
seventh place in the triple jump with a 
mark of 34’ 10.25”. Erzsie Nagy ’17 also 
continued her successful first year of 
college competition with her sixth-place 
finish in the 800 meters, crossing the 
line in a time of 2:21.30. Alison Maxwell 
’15 ran the mile in 5:08.44, good for a 
fifth-place finish, and Laura Strom ’14.5 
high-jumped 5’3” inches, landing her a 
fourth-place finish in the high jump. The 
distance medley relay team, consisting of 
Catie Skinner ’17, Abigail Pohl ’17, Addis 
Fouche-Channer ’17, and KatieRominger 
’14, managed to gain honors as well, 
taking eighth place with a time 12:50.87. 
Perhaps the most exciting 
performance of the day came when 
Alex Morris ’16 won the 400 meters, 
earning herself the title of New England 
champion in the event by crossing the 
line in a time of 58.49, defeating the field 
by over half a second. 
“I was over the moon winning the 
400, especially since it was pretty 
unexpected,” Morris said. “The field 
was a lot more competitive than it was 
last year and I knew that it was going to 
be incredibly difficult. The other girls 
pushed me all throughout the race and 
I didn’t really believe I could win it until 
I overtook the final girl in the last 50 
meters. It wasn’t my fastest time, but 
sometimes you just have to race the 
race.” 
Overall, the women finished in eighth 
place in the field of 28 teams, scoring a 
total of 25 points on the day. 
“I think the women’s team really did 
itself proud,” Morris said. “It wasn’t a 
very fast track so some times were not 
what we were hoping they’d be, but we 
held our own against teams that have 
a lot more manpower. Not having an 
indoor track has been frustrating at 
times, but I think next year we’re going 
to come back even stronger at this meet.”
On the men’s side, the Panthers 
brought home five All-New England 
honors, with three individuals and two 
relay teams managing top-eight finishes. 
Alex Nichols ’17 continued his solid first-
year season with a seventh-place finish 
in the 400 meters, crossing the line in 
a time of 51.05. Brandon Cushman ’16 
furthered the team’s middle distance 
success with a 1:24.32 performance in 
the 600 meters, running himself into 
seventh place. Wilder Schaaf ’14.5 also 
solidified his all-region honors with his 
sixth-place finish in the mile, posting an 
impressive time of 4:16.85. The men’s 
distance medley relay team, consisting 
of Mark Perry ’16, Alex Ugorji ’17, 
Sam Klockenkemper ’17 and Sebastian 
Matt ’16 just made the cut by finishing 
in eighth in a time of 10:42.21. With 
their fifth place finish of 3:27.35, Fritz 
Parker ‘15, Peter Hetzler ‘14, Cushman 
and Nichols also secured honors for the 
4x400 meter relay team. 
“[DIII New Englands] is always a 
strange sort of meet for us,” Captain 
Bryan Holtzman ’14 said. “There is no 
NESCAC meet for the winter season, so 
this meet serves somewhat as a stand-in 
for that.  We want to score well as a team, 
but we certainly don’t do everything 
possible to maximize our score.  In the 
past, we place much higher at NESCACs 
than we do at D3s.” 
Holtzman lauded his teammates for 
their individual performances. 
“The highlight of the day for me 
was seeing Brandon Cushman PR by 
over a second in the 600 meter to take 
seventh place,” Holtzman said. “He 
ran aggressively, raced well tactically, 
and was rewarded with his first All-NE 
honor.” The men’s squad finished with a 
total of 12.5 points, taking 15th place in 
a field of 26 teams. 
“We didn’t score as many points as we 
would have liked and our performances 
were not as strong as we would have 
hoped,” Head Coach Martin Beatty said, 
“but everyone competed hard and was 
excited for the meet. Considering that 
our training has been hindered without 
an indoor track this year, the attitude of 
the team is amazing. They are all mature 
and driven athletes that will deal with all 
obstacles in a positive way.” 
The Panthers look to return to 
action on Friday, Feb. 28 and continue 
postseason competition when those who 
make the qualifying list will participate 
in Open New Englands at Boston 
University, competing against athletes 
from all divisions.  
February 27, 2014| 19SPORTS
called a timeout and shared some fervent 
words with the team.
Toward the end of the second period, 
emotions were running 
high and both teams began 
playing with some real 
bite. Michael Longo ’14, 
the physical leader of the 
Panthers, caused mayhem 
in the offensive corners 
and created his own 
chances in the dangerous 
area right on top of the 
goalies crease. 
After every whistle 
gloves were thrust up into 
facemasks and players 
looked for any chance to 
inflict harm during the 
run of play. Jake Charles 
’16 bowled over an off-
balance Hamilton center shortly after an 
offensive zone faceoff and headed to the 
box for interference. 
In the third period, Belisle looked to 
the sky in celebration after fluttering 
in a change-up shot from the blue line 
that fell above a screened goalie. With 
about eight minutes left 
in the game, Belisle would 
score again, assisted by 
Ben Wiggins ’14, to put 
Middlebury in front.
Hamilton went on the 
power play and threatened 
to tie the game once more, 
but Moorfield-Yee made 
a bogglingly quick snatch 
with the left hand and the 
arena sighed in collective 
relief.  
After Hamilton 
committed two penalties 
off their own, Barr came 
charging through its zone, 
clapping a low shot of the 
goalie’s pads and clinically 
finishing on his own rebound. Longo 
would put a satisfying cap on senior 
night and the finally fruitful season by 
sliding the fifth goal into Hamilton’s 
empty net. 
“This weekend we played like we were 
fighting for something. It is nice to see 
us finally coming together,” Dobrowski 
said. “We hope that it will translate into 
more good games in the playoffs.”
The upcoming matchup against 
Bowdoin this Saturday promises to be a 
real barnburner. Both of the Panthers’ 
games against Bowdoin this season have 
gone into overtime, with thirteen goals 
being scored between the two teams. 
Bowdoin is 4-4 since beating Middlebury 
on Friday, Jan. 24, and the Panthers are 
now riding a three-game win streak into 
the matchup.  
This year’s team has played 
significantly better at home than on 
the road, so Middlebury fans should 
not underestimate the impact of a well-
versed cheer to move the Panthers into 
the NESCAC semifinal.
Belisle Honored as NESCAC Player of the Week
Mixed Results for Track at D-III New Englands
panther sc0reboard
men’s basketball vs. Hamilton 
skiing at Winter Carnival 
men’s hockey vs. Hamilton
women’s track at New Englands
men’s swim and dive at NESCACs
The Panthers are heading to LeFrak 
Gymnasium with a clear mission; 
win and you’re in.
Middlebury earns a home playoff 
game with this victory.
Another successful Carnival - minus 
the apocalyptic lightning streak and 
ensuing panic.
Alex Morris ’16 might be the fastest 
woman to ever stay up until 2 AM 
doing layout.
but there were some extremely 
impressive individual performances.
81-77 W
664 3rd
5-2 W
25 8th
739 7th
By Fiona Maloney-McCrystle
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20
NO
I think the men will be good this 
year, but much like basketball, it 
will take time.
ONE
He’s had one in two games against 
Bowdoin. He’ll step up in this one.
Joe macdonald (27-34, .443)
Will it be a clean sweep for the 
Middlebury lacrosse teams in their 
season openers vs. Tufts?
How many goals will leading 
scorer Louis Belisle ’14 tally in 
the Panthers’ home playoff game 
against Bowdoin?
Boston Red Sox (-8.5) vs. Boston 
College Eagles in Fort Myers, Fla. regular season undefeated with 
a win over the Missouri State 
Bears on Saturday, March 1?
YES
snow is still falling. I picked the 
wrong school.
ONE
It’s gon’ be tight.
RED SOX
Everyone’s too nice to each other in 
editors’ picks now. Bring back the 
banter.
YES
I really like saying Wichita (I 
promise more thought was put 
into choosing this answer than 
that...).
YES
Doesn’t mean they’ll get anywhere 
in the tourney though.
RED SOX
It’s time for baseball, baby!
YES
Yeah, and they’ll lose the 
of March Madness.
editors’ picks
NO
Did you know that they do 
preseason rankings for D-III 
lacrosse? Huh.
ZERO
The Panthers will have to spread 
the puck around in this one.
RED SOX
What sport is this for? Curling?
Alex Morris (32-28, .533)
Fritz Parker (32-37, .464)
“This weekend 
we played like 
Robbie Dobrowski ‘15 
Forward
Rachel frank
Matt Silcoff ’16 and Mike Najjar ’17 battle 
a Continental for this bouncing puck in 
the Panthers’ 5-2 win on Sunday, Feb. 23.
Middlebury (17-8, 6-4) kept 
its season alive with an 81-75 
defeat of the Hamilton College 
Continentals (14-11, 5-5) in 
Pepin Gymnasium on Saturday, 
Feb. 22. The game marked 
the eighth straight season in 
which Middlebury had hosted a 
NESCAC playoff game by earning 
one of the top four seeds by virtue 
of its regular season performance. 
Hamilton, meanwhile, competed 
in the NESCAC tournament for 
just the second time. 
Middlebury will play number 
eight Williams College in the 
Amherst College, the top seed. 
Middlebury played Williams 
at home on Friday, Jan. 31 in 
what was possibly the most 
gut-wrenching defeat of the 
season. Leading the Ephs, who 
were ranked 11th in the nation 
at the time, by 16 at halftime, 
Middlebury struggled defensively 
in the second half en route to a 
64-61 loss.
In a similar fashion, the 
half lead on Saturday against 
Hamilton. The contest was 
forward Bradley Gifford put the 
Continentals up one with 15:01 
Hunter Merryman ’15 knocked 
down a three-pointer, one of his 
three treys in a team-leading 
17-point effort, Middlebury took 
the lead and never relinquished 
its advantage. The Panthers 
outscored Hamilton 32-20 in 
take a 13-point advantage into 
halftime up 46-33. Middlebury 
did especially well on the boards, 
leading the Continentals 20-12 in 
that department.
With the memory of many 
early second half letdowns 
looming, Middlebury opened the 
latter 20 minutes with a 15-6 run, 
capped off by an awe-inspiring 
alley-oop from Joey Kizel ’14 to 
Dylan Sinnickson ’15 who threw 
the ball through the iron with two 
hands to the excitement of the 
Pepin crowd.
The wind seemed to escape 
the Panthers’ sails after the 
The Continentals retaliated 
with 12 straight points to make 
it 61-51 in favor of Middlebury. 
The margin hovered around 
10 until the last two minutes. 
Middlebury went 6-11 from the 
free throw line, almost handing 
the game over to Hamilton. With 
the Panthers clinging to a four-
point lead, Merryman hauled 
down the rebound on a missed 
three-pointer from sophomore 
Continental guard Matt Hart, 
who scored 30 points in these 
teams’ last meeting, with ten 
seconds on the clock. Merryman 
passed the ball to Kizel, who was 
fouled and clinched the victory by 
making both free throws.
As a team, the Panthers were 
shooting 53.8 percent from the 
the arc, but only 69.6 percent 
from the line. Merryman added 
four rebounds to his outstanding 
offensive performance. Kizel 
tallied 14 points, six rebounds, six 
assists and two steals to go along 
with the aforementioned game-
clinching free throws. Sinnickson 
The rest of the starting 
lineup, James Jensen ’14 and 
Jack Roberts ’14, combined for 
18 points, nine rebounds, four 
assists, two block and a steal. Jake 
Nidenberg ’16 and Dean Brierley 
’15 each played tremendously off 
points respectively. Jake Brown 
’17 had a major impact despite 
not lighting up the stat sheet, 
minutes and did the majority 
of the work locking down Hart, 
who went 4-11 for 11 points, the 
NESCAC’s leading scorer during 
the regular season.
“Going into this game Coach 
told me I’d be seeing a lot of 
minutes on [Hart],” Brown said. 
“He is a tremendous player 
that can do almost everything. 
Guarding him was tough, and 
I think he ranks among the top 
guards in the league.”
The Panthers need to beat 
Williams and follow that up with 
a win in the NESCAC tournament 
championship over the winner 
of the game between Amherst, 
ranked seventh in the nation, 
three overtime game in NESCAC 
tournament history on Saturday, 
Feb. 22, in order to make 
their seventh straight NCAA 
tournament.
“This Saturday’s game against 
Williams is going to be awesome,” 
Brown said. “A lot of emotion and 
energy will be in the gym and 
we need to play 40 minutes of 
basketball.”
Middlebury (11-10-3) won 
big this weekend over Amherst 
and Hamilton to earn home 
ice advantage for the NESCAC 
quarterfinals, which will 
take place versus Bowdoin in 
Kenyon Arena this Saturday, 
March 1. Robbie Dobrowski ’15 
fired in the late game winner 
to dispose of Amherst, and the 
seniors contributed five goals 
against Hamilton in their final 
regular season game. In the 
last ten years, only one other 
Middlebury player has scored 
as many goals in a season 
as Louis Belisle ’14 has this 
season. The captain has tallied 
17 scores this year and garnered 
NESCAC Player of the Week 
honors for his achievements 
over the weekend.
The contest on the night of 
Saturday, Feb. 22 entertained 
the eight hundred fans in 
attendance as much as any of 
the weekend Carnival events. 
Belisle scored first on a second-
period power play, gliding into 
his familiar position on the left 
point and punching a wrist shot 
into the twine behind Amherst 
goalie Dave Cunningham. 
Middlebury worked its way to a 
2-0 lead when Ronald Fishman 
’16 buried an outside shot on 
another power play. 
There were several juicy 
rebound chances that seriously 
tested Cunningham, but he 
battled to keep his team in 
reach. Sure enough, the Lord 
Jeffs would find a turnover in 
the Middlebury zone and move 
within one goal just past the 
game’s halfway point. 
One minute into the third 
period, Liam Moorfield-Yee ’16 
kicked out an initial save, but 
a fortunate Amherst forward 
evened the score at two. 
It felt like a matter of 
time before Middlebury, who 
recorded nearly double the 
shots on goal as Amherst, 
would jump ahead again. When 
it did, Dobrowski did so in 
rousing fashion. John Barr ’14 
charged hard out of the zone 
on the breakout and linked up 
with Belisle in the neutral zone. 
As he crossed the offensive blue 
line, Belisle slid the puck over 
to Dobrowski.  The Amherst 
defender poked and stiffened to 
block the shot, but Dobrowski 
curled the puck tight to his back 
leg and squeezed off a rising 
shot that split the defender’s 
legs and whizzed past the 
goalie’s ear before he could 
react. Dobrowski was overdue 
for his first goal of the season, 
but he could not have chosen a 
better time to score it. 
“Honestly I just tried to put 
it on net,” Dobrowski said, “but 
it was a great feeling to get the 
lead. There’s nothing better 
than beating Amherst.”
Middlebury still needed 
to win against Hamilton on 
Sunday, Feb. 23 to gain a home 
playoff game, and the senior 
class stepped up to make sure 
of it. Surprisingly, despite going 
ahead on a nifty backhand goal 
from Thomas Freyre ’14, the 
already eliminated Hamilton 
Continentals battled back for 
two consecutive goals that 
put Middlebury uncomforably 
behind. Head Coach Bill Beaney 
20
By Joe MacDonald
MEN’S SWIMMING 
AND DIVING 
SEVENTH AT 
NESCACS
PAGE 18
WOMEN’S SQUASH 
CAPS SEASON 
WITH WIN AGAINST 
HAMILTON 
PAGE 18
Men’s Hockey Earns 
Home Ice in Playoffs
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Men’s Basketball Avoids Second 
Half Upset with Continental Victory 
By John Wyman
SEE BELISLE, PAGE 19
No pain, no gain
MICHAEL O’HARA
sports
