The Middlebury Campus met with 
Ilana Gratch ’16 to discuss the 
first half of her term as president 
of the Student Government As-
sociation (SGA). In this profile, 
Gratch speaks on initatives she 
has worked on and goals for the 
remainder of her presidency.
Middlebury Campus (MC): 
We interviewed President of 
the College Laurie Patton in last 
week’s issue discussing the first 
few months of her presidency. 
What has your involvement with 
Patton looked like over the course 
of your own presidency?
Ilana Gratch (IG): I meet with 
President Patton every other week, 
and my Chief of Staff and I meet 
with her and the rest of the senior 
leadership group once a month. 
The purpose of those meetings 
is twofold: first, they are for us to 
keep them informed with things 
that not only the SGA is talking 
about but [also] relevant issues 
we hear around campus; the other 
half of it is for them to take advan-
tage of the student perspectives 
on issues they’re discussing. In 
the past, there was no SGA senior 
leadership group involvement on 
any regular basis. Working with 
President Patton [has] undoubt-
edly been one of the highlights of 
this whole experience because she 
has been so incredibly open to sug-
gestions, feedback and working to-
gether on all sorts of things.
MC: Who are people on campus 
you look to as mentors? 
IG: I would say my adviser, [Assis-
tant Professor of Psychology] Rob 
Moeller. I speak with him all the 
time about the SGA, and he’s al-
ways very supportive and instruc-
tive. I certainly do look up to Presi-
dent Patton, and she’s been great 
in terms of not only working with 
me in an SGA capacity [but also] 
checking in [with me] as a leader. 
It’s been really cool to learn from 
her.
MC: You launched 10 o’clock Ross 
in the fall semester. Has it been 
successful, and what improve-
ments do you want to make to it? 
IG: I would say it’s been incred-
ibly successful. I’m there almost 
every night, volunteering my time 
with the paid monitors. For a while 
I was taking a count every night, 
and there has never been fewer 
than 100 students in attendance 
— usually it’s between 100 and 
200. I’d call that a success. There’s 
still definitely work to be done. In 
an ideal world, there would be a 
greater variety of food options. Not 
everybody is a cereal fan or wants 
ice cream in the winter, but we’re 
working on that, and I think this 
year is really meant to establish 
the program and ensure it goes 
well now [and] into the future. 
I’ve been working with dining ser-
vices to transition it from being a 
program that’s overseen by SGA 
— which it currently is — to being 
part of dining’s program. That, for 
me, would be a huge accomplish-
ment.
MC: How does the SGA plan to 
make the College more inclusive, 
especially in light of recent events 
that have occurred on campus? 
IG: [That’s] a tough question be-
cause I don’t know how possible 
it is for any one group, person or 
school to move the community for-
ward to the extent it needs to be 
moved. The SGA is doing a lot this 
year to think about diversity and 
inclusion in ways it has not previ-
ously thought about those issues. 
We spent one meeting in the fall 
watching the video by Tim Garcia, 
“Accounts of the Invisible.” We 
spent the rest of the meeting talk-
ing about what role SGA could play 
in this conversation on campus. I 
don’t think there’s an easy answer, 
and we’ve spent a lot of time talk-
ing about it — I think we’re still 
trying to search for the best way 
forward. In J-term, I [initiated 
and] was part of a working group 
that was looking at the compara-
tive [distribution] requirement 
to see if it could be repurposed in 
some sort of way to better address 
issues of power difference and dy-
Middlebury Entrepreneurs is 
a Winter Term course that offers 
students the opportunity to create 
their own business or non-profit 
organization. Applications require 
a product proposal, and students 
often continue to develop and mar-
ket their projects long after Janu-
ary. This year, the final products 
originated from a range of interests 
and innovations.  
Will Stevens ’16 and Ian Bearden 
’16 hit the ground running with 
Champlain Fresh Brew, their origi-
nally bottled organic cold brew cof-
fee. In the kitchen of the Old Stone 
Mill, Bearden and Stevens use 
Vermont Coffee Co. beans to brew 
what they market as a “sweeter, 
more caffeinated and less-acidic” 
brew. They have also resurrected 
the growler system, (a bottle ex-
change process once reserved for 
beer) to personally bring their cof-
fee to students, resident, and local 
businesses such as the Grapevine 
Grille in Middlebury. Looking 
ahead, Bearden and Stevens may 
soon offer samples around campus 
to gauge interest. They encourage 
students to “drink in the scenery” 
at champlainfreshbrew.com and 
to explore their Instagram page, @
Champlain_Fresh_Brew.
Charles Archambeau ’16, Jon 
Broome ’16 and Mark Perry ’16 
developed a line of post-workout 
snacks known as Clutch Food. 
“We believe there is a gap in 
the quick-service food market for 
a food service that targets people 
with specific fitness and health 
goals,” Archambeau said. “Diet is 
as important as the workout itself 
when trying to get or stay in shape, 
but people tend to seriously over-
look what they put in their bodies 
after a workout.” 
In response, the group aims to 
make Clutch Food a healthy, tasty 
and affordable alternative to simi-
lar products on the market, and is 
pioneering the line with the Clutch 
Powerball, an organic energy bar. 
More snack items, such as smooth-
ies, will be designed to provide dif-
ferent nutritional benefits tailored 
to specific workout goals. For ex-
ample, a high protein but low calo-
rie snack will be available for those 
who wish to build muscle without 
gaining excess weight. Snack items 
will be sold in the coming months 
to students, and Archambeau, 
Broome and Perry said they hope 
to make a deal with varsity teams 
to sign up for season-long subscrip-
tions.     
Josh Espy ’17 designed his ex-
pressive hat — named Flock — so 
that millenials could “react in real 
time to our social environment.” 
This “meme on a stick” can be man-
ually propped up at will to display 
a joke, picture, logo or any other 
desired message. In a lighthearted 
nod to biomimicry, Espy likens 
both the shape and function of the 
Flock to a peacock’s plume, from 
which he also derived the name. 
The caps are currently used in so-
cial settings, but Espy is working to 
spread the appeal to sports fans and 
political campaigns. Students can 
order pre-made designs or custom-
ize their own flock at go/flockon.   
Web-based technologies were 
also popular this year. Maddison 
Brusman ’18.5 created a communi-
ty newsfeed app called Click that al-
Students Start New 
Businesses at Midd
By Atticus Proctor
Contributing Writer
Gratch Speaks 
On Year So Far
March 3, 2016 | Vol. 114 no. 16 | middleburycampus.com
LAURIE PATTON TO 
HOST WORKSHOP 
ON FEMALE 
LEADERSHIP
PAGE 8
VAGINA 
MONOLOGUES 
GO BEYOND 
CONVENTION
PAGE 13
ROUNDABOUT 
FLOODS IN
MILK
PAGE 4in
sid
e
“SprinG” 
Carnival:
SnowMaking
A necessity
By Tess Weitzner
Staff Writer
SEE STUDENT, PAGE 2
The College hosted its 
annual Winter Carnival at the 
Snow Bowl this past weekend, 
requiring the production of a 
great deal of man-made snow 
due to unseasonably warm 
temperatures and a lack of 
snowfall this year.
The current ski season has 
been particularly hard for the 
Snow Bowl due to the warmer 
weather. Snow Bowl Manager 
Peter Mackey explained, “The 
hours of snowmaking are 100+ 
above average just to provide 
adequate cover for our five 
snowmaking trails and enough 
for carnival and other races.”
Snowmaking requires cold, 
dry air and a large water source. 
The Snow Bowl sources its 
water from two separate ponds 
that hold a total of about three 
million gallons of water. For a 
smaller ski area, like the Snow 
Bowl, around five to six hundred 
gallons of water are pumped 
up the hill each minute when 
snowmaking is in full capacity. 
According to Mackey, the 
Snow Bowl uses about fifteen 
million gallons of water for 
snowmaking every year. A 
spring on the north side of 
Route 125 on the Middlebury 
Gap feeds the Snow Bowl’s two 
ponds. The running water is kept 
below 32 degrees Fahrenheit, 
yet prevented from freezing 
through the use of bubblers. 
The water then passes through 
two pumps at the Snow Bowl, 
which then move the water to 
Josh Espy ’17 started Flock Apparel during Midd Entrepeneurs. 
Tess Weitzner
SEE GRATCH, PAGE 2
The Middlebury community gathered at the Snow Bowl to celebrate Winter Carnival this past weekend.
WINTER CARNIVAL 2016
College Communications
SEE SNOWMAKING, PAGE 2
By Christian Jambora 
and Philip Bohlman
News Editors
SPECIAL feature
hydrants lining the trails.
Through the process of nucleation, 
snow “flakes” are formed when water 
droplets are propelled into the air and 
allowed to nucleate. Two large diesel 
compressors, located at the base of 
the Snow Bowl, suck in outside air and 
remove existing moisture via a dryer. 
After passing through the dryer, the air 
is brought up the hill to hydrants that are 
then connected to hoses and snow guns 
used to combine the air and water. 
From checking guns and pumps 
to paying someone to drive the snow 
groomers, snow production requires an 
immense amount of manpower and cost. 
This year, Mackey invested in a 
product called SNOWMAX, which adds 
pieces of dust to the water. This provides 
water droplets with something to 
crystalize with after being sprayed from 
the guns. It costs the Snow Bowl around 
1,000 dollars to treat a million gallons of 
water using SNOWMAX. 
Snowmaking is the biggest expense 
for the Bowl.  While Mackey didn’t have 
any hard numbers, the cost of fuel and 
labor alone sets snowmaking apart from 
any other Snow Bowl cost. However, in 
order to make any business sense the 
Middlebury Snow Bowl has to make 
snow. Assistant Snow Bowl Manager 
John Nuceder said, “Making snow is a 
necessary evil for the Bowl.”  
Changing technology has aided in 
the process of becoming more energy 
efficient. Additionally, the Snow Bowl is 
one of the few carbon neutral ski areas in 
the world, a part of Middlebury College’s 
effort to be carbon neutral by 2016. 
Even with the carnival over for the 
year, the staff is not yet finished. The 
Snow Bowl is hosting the the Vermont 
high school state skiing championships 
this week. Mackey and his staff will be 
working diligently to maintain optimal 
snow conditions and to keep the races 
running smoothly.
namics of difference and identify in an aca-
demic setting. [It was] different than JusT-
alks because it’s not about your own identity 
but about history and institutional racism 
and things that you can learn about in class. 
More broadly, I’ve been meeting with indi-
vidual cultural organizations. We have one 
meeting coming up between all of SGA and 
as many of the cultural orgs that can [at-
tend]. I hope that will be a good thing and I 
think it’s important for SGA to take the time 
to listen to what we can do to better serve 
cultural organizations on campus and other 
students that are feeling marginalized.
MC: What role do you see the College hav-
ing in educating students about racism and 
living in a diverse community? 
IG: I absolutely think the College has a role 
in educating students about issues of rac-
ism and difference. That’s why I formed the 
working group because I think one of the 
biggest takeaways for me, after one of the 
town hall meetings, was exactly this issue of 
education. We’re at college, and yet, people 
don’t know where to turn for education 
about an issue that everyone is talking about 
all the time. I think colleges are uniquely po-
sitioned right now to be leaders in this con-
versation. I don’t think having a class where 
you learn about the history of race in the 
United States is a conversation ender, at all, 
and I don’t think it has any opposition to free 
speech — I think it’s a part of our history that 
a lot of people [are unaware of]. We could 
benefit as a community if we just learned a 
little more.
MC: What is the SGA’s position on the ban-
ning of energy drinks in retail spaces on 
campus? 
IG: The SGA has no formal opinion and 
[had] no role in that [ban]. It was a Com-
munity Council decision. Personally, I think 
it’s a bit silly — I think what’s silly about it 
is linking [energy drinks] to problematic be-
haviors like high risk sexual decision mak-
ing. 
MC: What other goals do you have for the 
remainder of your presidency, and what 
projects should your successor pursue or 
initiate?
IG: One major goal that I have is internal 
SGA reform. The senators don’t know this 
yet, but I want to collapse both the Senate 
and the Cabinet into one cohesive SGA. I 
think we have an inefficient system right 
now — if the senators don’t know what’s 
going on with the cabinet, and the cabinet 
doesn’t know what’s going on with the sen-
ate, how can we expect the general student 
body to know anything? I thought I could 
play the role of keeping everyone informed at 
all times, but it’s just not a manageable thing 
to do. [As such], one of the big goals I have 
is proposing to the Senate a restructuring of 
SGA such that cabinet members — such as 
the Director of Environmental Affairs, of In-
stitutional Diversity, of Health and Wellness 
— would all be elected by students instead of 
appointed by the SGA President. They would 
sit in a room every Sunday night with a first-
year president, a sophomore president, a 
junior president and senior president  — and 
that would [comprise] the SGA.
MC: It’s a Saturday night, and you’re at the 
Grille. What is your go-to order?   
IG: Mozzarella sticks. I’m a vegetarian so 
the options are kind of limited — but bread 
and cheese are my favorite foods. 
| March 3, 20162 NEWS
By Nick Garber 
Community Council
Correspondent & Staff Writer
Community
council
On Tuesday, Feb. 16, Community Council 
welcomed Cheryl Mullins, Acting Associate 
Vice President for Human Resources. As 
the Council prepares in the coming weeks to 
tackle the issue of staff wages, Mullins gave 
a presentation explaining the College’s pay 
scale and why the College believes it pays a 
living wage to all of its employees.
The College’s current compensation 
system,  Mullins explained, dates back 
to 2005, and was the product of an 
extensive process that featured input from 
an international consulting company, 
community surveys and focus groups. 
“The main objectives of our system were to 
come up with a program that would be really 
nimble,” she said. “Middlebury changes a 
lot, jobs are combined together, new things 
are added on and we need to be able to react 
really quickly.”
Additionally, the system needed to 
support employees’ abilities to advance 
within their field, and offer competitive 
market salaries to attract new hires while also 
rewarding good performance for individuals 
who were already employed at Middlebury. 
Finally, Mullins said, “We wanted something 
that was clear and understandable; we didn’t 
want employees to feel that compensation 
decisions were made in a black box.”
The final product was a system that divides 
College staff into four bands by their level 
of responsibility: Administrator, Manager, 
Specialist or Operations. Each band then 
contains several levels, with the lowest of all 
being level one of Operations.
The “worst-case scenario” in terms of 
compensation, Mullins said, is a group 
of nine Operations employees who make 
less than 9 dollars an hour. However, she 
emphasized that the group was “for the most 
part, very young” and had “little previous 
work experience.” Therefore, she said, such 
employees would likely be expected to move 
into a higher-paying job in the near future.
Dan Adamek ’18, expressed some 
uneasiness with Mullins’ rationale. “Just 
because someone doesn’t have experience, 
or just because they’re out of high school, 
does that mean they’re not entitled to a wage 
that adequately compensates them and 
allows them to live in a way that they’re not 
struggling day-to-day?” he asked. 
Mullins responded that according to the 
College’s calculations, “We feel very confident 
that we are providing a living wage to our 
employees.” Furthermore, she explained, 
the College provides a generous benefits 
package that greatly increases the true value 
of employee compensation.
On Tuesday, Feb. 23, the Council began 
by voting to indefinitely table a motion calling 
for President of the College Laurie L. Patton 
to send a campus-wide email addressing 
the controversial MLK Today event and 
comments made by former Supreme Court 
Justice Antonin Scalia. Given Patton’s recent 
article in The Campus which mentioned both 
topics, this motion would have been largely 
symbolic, but by a vote of eight to six, the 
Council voted to end discussion and move to 
a new subject.
Next, the Council discussed the proposal 
brought forward by Michael Geisler, VP for 
Risk and Compliance, to install security 
cameras at the entrances of dorms and/or 
in the entrance areas of dining halls. Geisler 
argued that the dorm cameras would help 
guard against unwanted visitors, while the 
dining hall cameras would help reduce thefts.
Before the Council voted on the proposals, 
Student Co-Chair Tiff Chang ’17.5 read 
statements from three student organizations 
who oppose the installation of cameras: 
Queers and Allies, Women of Color and 
Distinguished Men of Color. Citing the risk 
of disproportionate targeting of minorities, 
all three groups stated that they feared 
the installation of cameras would damage 
Middlebury’s inclusivity efforts.
Ultimately, the Council voted against 
installing dorm cameras by a vote of four to 
seven with three abstentions, and against 
dining hall cameras by a vote of four to nine, 
with one abstention.
student
EntrepreneursCONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
SGA Senate Passes ELections Reform Bill
Gratch Talks Year So Far as President
On Feb. 21, the Student Government 
Association [SGA] passed a bylaws 
amendment to reform the organization’s 
election procedures. The bill, written by SGA 
Director of Membership Zak Fisher ’16, and 
sponsored by SGA President Ilana Gratch ’16, 
eliminated the use of single-transferable-vote 
(STV) and instant-runoff  (IRV) voting, and 
replaced them with a winner-take-all system. 
In past elections, the SGA has used IRV 
and STV systems for which voters rank their 
preferred candidates for any given position. 
The procedures are designed to attain 
proportional representation in the election 
process. 
With an STV system, if the voter’s 
preferred candidate has no chance of being 
elected, the vote is transferred to their second 
choice, and the process continues until the 
winner(s) are determined. It also ensures that 
if a candidate receives a higher percentage of 
the vote than necessary to win, the excess 
vote is redistributed. STV is complemented 
by an IRV system, which dictates that when 
a candidate fails to receive a determined 
percentage of the vote, the candidate with the 
lowest vote total is eliminated and their votes 
are redistributed. This process continues 
until a winner emerges.  
It is the belief of the SGA Elections Council 
that these systems, as worded in the bill, 
resulted in “misinformation and confusion” 
amongst the electorate.
“I think, generally, students didn’t 
understand the old election procedures,” 
Fisher said. “There were false understandings 
of ‘strategic advantages’ that could have 
adversely affected the election returns and 
polluted the legitimacy of those returns.”
According to Fisher, the need for reform 
became apparent when, at the beginning 
of this academic year, not one senator felt 
they could adequately explain the system. 
“When the people who are elected, the people 
who, theoretically, are most motivated to 
understand it, don’t understand it, we have a 
problem,” he said.
The past electoral system also presented 
logistical issues. It took far longer to tally the 
results, making it more prone to mistakes. 
Fisher explained that during the old process, 
as more rounds of voting were needed, the 
likelihood that an election would result in a 
tie increased. 
It is the hope of the SGA that the new 
process, a winner-take-all system, will make 
elections far more efficient and easier to 
grasp. In the new structure, candidates in 
single-member constituencies will win solely 
for achieving the highest number of votes. In 
multi-member constituencies, such as class 
senator elections, the two candidates who get 
the most votes will win.
The bill was approved by the Senate just 
four days before the election of the new 
2019.5 senators, giving the new system a 
chance to prove its effectiveness. Febs had 
the opportunity to select two senators from a 
field of three candidates, in which Rae Aaron 
’19.5 and Sebastian Grandas ’19.5 emerged 
victorious. 
Fisher said that it took him five minutes 
to tally the votes and, within half an hour, the 
results had been relayed to Gratch and the 
student body. 
“For as long as I’ve been at [the College] 
and involved in SGA in some capacity, I’ve 
witnessed the great deal of confusion that 
surrounds SGA elections. To be sure, the 
instant run-off/single transferable vote 
system is a sound one, but given that so few 
students actually understand its intricacies, 
it doesn’t necessarily make sense to use the 
system at [the College],” Gratch said. “I’m 
excited that we now have a voting system 
that is more accessible to the general student 
body.” 
These procedural changes may not be the 
only reforms that the Senate makes this year. 
At present, they are examining legislation to 
shift the timeline of the general elections and 
drafting solutions to deal with elections that 
may end in a tie. 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
By Will DiGravio
Contributing Writer
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
lows students to create and subscribe to local 
topics known as “pods.” These pages can in-
clude pick-up sports games, snow conditions, 
parties and political groups. “Really anything 
you can think of,” Brusman said. Click has 
been approved for distribution on the app 
store by Apple and will soon be available for 
free download. Students can learn more at 
www.getclick.click.
Keeping with the trend of community 
networking, Matt Linkous ’17 developed a 
dating website named Flock (unaffiliated 
with Espy’s product). Students can gener-
ate a list of crushes, and if there is a match, 
both parties are notified Thursday at noon, 
or “Flock-O’Clock.” Down the road, Linkous, 
with the help of Gordon Nickerson ’17, plans 
to implement more features on the website 
that will allow students to find mutual inter-
est in events such as colloquiums and sports 
games. “There are a lot of people who are tan-
gential in our lives and I’m hoping this will 
allow for more cross-over,” Linkous said.
Snowmaking at the Bowl
Ilana Gratch ‘16 is the Student Gov-
ernment Association (SGA) President.
MIDDLEBURY SGA
local
On Thursday, Feb. 26, the Vermont 
Senate voted 17-12 to approve a bill legal-
izing the recreational use of marijuana in 
Vermont. The bill, S.241, brings Vermont 
one step closer to be-
coming the fifth U.S. 
state to legalize marijua-
na. It will now proceed 
to the State House of 
Representatives, where 
the Judiciary Committee 
will begin to iron out de-
tails in the next several 
weeks.
According to the 
bill, lawmakers “…recognize legitimate 
federal concerns about cannabis reform,” 
and seek to pass legislation establishing a 
pathway to legal access to cannabis in Ver-
mont. 
The bill lists numerous problems re-
lated to prohibition, including “distribu-
tion of cannabis to persons under 21 years 
of age,” revenue of sales going to “criminal 
enterprises” that are associated with in-
creased lawlessness and violence, “drugged 
driving and the exacerbation of any other 
adverse public health consequences” and 
the possession or cultivation of cannabis 
on public or federal property. 
If approved in its current form, S.241 
would create a system for marijuana taxa-
tion and regulation, allowing Vermonters 
who are 21 and older to 
possess up to an ounce 
at a time. The bill would 
take effect beginning on 
Jan. 2, 2018. 
Tax revenue would 
help fund law-enforce-
ment and drug treat-
ment programs, and 
permits would be issued 
for up to thirty mari-
juana stores throughout 
the state. Additionally, 
an amendment passed 
on Thursday, Feb. 25  al-
lows for the expansion 
of cultivator licenses, 
which will enable more 
individual citizens to 
grow their own mari-
juana.
In the past several years, marijuana 
legalization has emerged as a key issue in 
state politics. In his final State of the State 
address in January, Governor Peter Shum-
lin called for legalization, and has endorsed 
the current legislation.
“The War on Drugs has failed when it 
comes to marijuana prohibition,” Shumlin 
said in the speech. “Under the status quo, 
marijuana use is widespread, Vermonters 
have little difficulty procuring it for per-
sonal use, and the shadows of prohibition 
make it nearly impossible to address key 
issues like prevention, keeping marijuana 
out of the hands of minors and dealing 
with those driving under the influence who 
are already on Vermont’s roads.”
“With over 80,000 Vermonters ad-
mitting to using marijuana on a monthly 
basis, it could not be more clear that the 
current system is bro-
ken,” Shumlin contin-
ued. “I am proud that 
the Senate took [the] 
lessons learned from 
states that have gone be-
fore us, asked the right 
questions, and passed 
an incredibly thought-
ful, common-sense plan 
that will bring out of the 
shadows an activity that 
one in seven Vermonters engage in on a 
regular basis.”
If the bill were eventually passed, Ver-
mont would become the first state to legal-
ize marijuana through legislative action. 
The previous four states – Alaska, Colo-
rado, Oregon and Washington – have done 
so via ballot initiative. 
Mark Williams, a Professor of Political 
Science at the college currently teaching 
‘The political economy of drug trafficking’ 
Political Science course, expressed that the 
bill would not solve all of Vermont’s prob-
lems.
 “Legalizing marijuana won’t solve the 
broader problems of drug abuse or addic-
tion,” Williams wrote in an email, “and 
it’s unlikely to de-
crease the number of 
Vermonters who use 
this particular drug. 
However, it would 
address some nega-
tive externalities our 
current drug policies 
generate: overcrowded 
jails/prisons; a rap 
sheet and jail time for 
nonviolent marijuana 
offenders; a thriving 
black market...”
Unlike some of 
the previously listed 
states, Vermont is 
unique in the level of 
popular support for 
marijuana legaliza-
tion. The Vermont electorate overwhelm-
ingly supports legalization of marijuana; 
a recent poll from Vermont Public Radio 
(VPR) showed 55 percent supported legal-
ization, versus only 32 percent opposed. 
13 percent of those polled said they were 
unsure.
Of course, support for legalization 
amongst government officials is far from 
universal. Lieutenant Governor Phil Scott, 
a Republican frontrunner for Governor in 
the coming election, says the bill raises too 
many unanswered questions.
“In my opinion, this bill is as much 
about the money as it is about ending a 
failed prohibition, and this major policy 
shift should not be about money and com-
mercialization,” he said in a statement. 
Citing unresolved issues such as 
highway safety and 
the potential need for 
“multimillion dollar ex-
pansions of our current 
smoking cessation pro-
grams,” Scott advised 
that Vermont wait a 
few years to “review the 
positive and negative ef-
fects” of legalization in 
states that have already 
completed the process.
Skeptics of the bill 
have also cited federal 
law, arguing that be-
cause marijuana re-
mains a schedule I sub-
stance on the Controlled 
Substances Act of 1970, 
legalization at the state 
level nullifies federal law.
When asked about whether a Repub-
lican president might reverse the decision, 
State Senator John Rogers (D) seemed un-
perturbed. He cited the Cole memo, a letter 
written by former Attorney General James 
Cole, which assures that federal agents will 
not conduct raids in 
states that allow “…
possession of small 
amounts of marijuana 
and provide for the 
regulation of mari-
juana production, pro-
cessing, and sale.”
“I think there’s 
always concern, but 
clearly what they have 
been doing for the 
last 40 years hasn’t 
worked,” Rodgers said 
in an interview. “I think it’s time for the 
states to take the lead because the federal 
government isn’t going to act.”
Others have expressed doubts that the 
bill will be able to pass the House of Rep-
resentatives, where support is tepid de-
spite a strong Democratic majority. House 
Speaker Shap Smith (D) said the bill will 
need to move through several committees, 
and that pushing it through the House “will 
take work.”
“The bill has not come over with a ton 
of momentum,” Smith said, referring to the 
Senate’s relatively narrow vote margin. “I 
think that if you had seen a bill that came 
over with 20 votes or more, that would 
have been a different signal.”
Smith has remained pragmatic about 
legalization, and insisted that if there is not 
adequate support for the bill, he would not 
be opposed to delaying marijuana legaliza-
tion.
“If it is clear that we don’t have the 
support and we can’t get it right this year,” 
Smith said, “then we’re not going to push 
something forward that’s not ready for 
prime time.”
Governor Shum-
lin, however, insisted 
that there is no good 
reason for further de-
laying the legalization 
process.
“My prediction 
is, what happened in 
the Senate may well 
happen in the House: 
logic, good informa-
tion will encourage 
House members to do 
what they were elected 
to do, which is to make 
their best judgments 
to protect the safety, 
health and welfare of 
the people who elected 
them.”
The bill has also caught the attention 
of legislators and law-enforcement officials 
outside Vermont. One such voice was Po-
lice Chief George Bell of Cambridge, New 
York. In an interview with WRGB News, he 
explained that he would continue to treat 
the possession of 
marijuana as a crimi-
nal offense, unless 
it was prescribed in 
New York.
In fact, both 
Massachusetts and 
Maine will likely con-
duct a ballot on rec-
reational marijuana 
legalization this No-
vember as well.
“I don’t think 
anybody in law en-
forcement at this point knows how they are 
going to deal with it if it does go in Vermont 
like this,” Bell explained in the interview.
Massachusetts Attorney General Mau-
ra Healey (D) also opposes recreational 
marijuana. After the legalization of mari-
juana in Colorado, Healey artued that an 
increased rate of auto accidents and fatali-
ties is sufficient evidence to not legalize the 
drug.
“What’s most profound to me is what 
this means for young people,” Healey told 
the South Shore paper. She went on to ref-
erence the propensity for younger users to 
abuse the drug in unsafe environments.
Similar legalization efforts have oc-
cured in Rhode Island, Connecticut and 
New Hampshire. 
In the Granite state, one bill is pend-
ing before a committee of the New Hamp-
shire House. However, similar bills have 
been killed by the New Hampshire Senate.
VT Senate Passes Bill Legalizing Recreational Marijuana
By Nick Garber
Guest Contributor
“The War on Drugs 
has failed when it 
comes to marijuana 
prohibition.”
Governor Peter Shumlin
“The bill has not 
come over with a 
ton of momentum. I 
think that if you had 
seen a bill that came 
over with 20 votes 
or more, that would 
have been a differ-
ent signal.”
Shap Smith (D)
VT Speaker of the House
“I don’t think anybody 
in law enforcement at 
this point knows how 
they’re going to deal 
with it ...”
George Bell
Police Chief of Cambridge, NY
“In my opinion, this 
bill is as much about 
the money as it is 
about ending a failed 
prohibition, and this 
major policy shift 
should not be about 
money and commer-
cialization.”
Phil Scott (R)
Lieutenant Governor
Courtesy NY Times
courtesty Mic.com
The bill would allow Vermonters to possess up to an ounce of marijuana for personal use.
Vermont could become the fifth state in the nation to legalize recreational marijuana use.
Local 4  | march 3, 2016
On March 1, voters across the nation 
participated in the largest single-day del-
egate bloc of the 2016 presidential prima-
ries, known as Super Tuesday. Although 
Bernie Sanders won his home state of 
Vermont in a landslide over challenger 
Hillary Clinton, he struggled to win del-
egates nationally. Sanders lost badly in 
Tennessee, Alabama 
and Texas but had 
stronger strong 
showings in more 
liberal states like 
Colorado and Min-
nesota. 
On the Repub-
lican ticket, Donald 
Trump dominanted 
primaries across the 
board, losing only 
Texas and Oklaho-
ma to Ted Cruz and 
Minnesota to Marco 
Rubio. In Vermont, 
Trump split dele-
gates with John Ka-
sich, and won most 
delegates in Massachusetts.
The 2016 Super Tuesday electorate 
was the most diverse ever, and could be 
an accurate barometer for similar demo-
graphics nationally. Clinton picked up 
the vast majority of black and latino votes 
in the SEC states, as the region is known 
because of  the NCAA conference. Nation-
ally, this demographic trend could spell 
trouble for the Sanders campaign, who 
was only able to capture victories in a few 
northern states Tuesday.
In fact, Sanders’ losses on Tuesday 
came on the heels of a big Clinton vic-
tory in South Carolina, where she won 
nearly three-quarters of the popular vote. 
In South Carolina, Clinton was also pro-
pelled to victory by the black vote, which 
she won by a 5-to-1 ratio according to exit 
polls.
Still, Bernie Sanders has vowed to 
fight on. In his victory speech in Vermont, 
Sanders explained that the objective of 
the campaign was not just to elect him 
into office, but to start a ‘political revolu-
tion.’
“This campaign is 
not about just electing 
the president,” Sand-
ers said, “it is about 
transforming Ameri-
ca. It is about making 
our great nation the 
country that we know 
it has to be.”
Sanders mostly 
kept his speech light, 
referring to the at-
tendees as ‘friends’ 
that he was glad to 
see, singing folk mu-
sic onstage with oth-
er event guests, and 
voicing his appre-
ciation for the strong 
show of support in his home state. How-
ever, he also took the opportunity to ex-
plain that America needed to do some se-
rious self-reflection, an opaque reference 
to the bigoted rhetoric coming from GOP 
frontrunner Donald Trump.
“[My campaign] is about dealing with 
some unpleasant truths in this country,” 
said Sanders at the rally, “and having the 
guts to confront those issues.”
Sanders spent the day on Tuesday 
in Burlington, where he cast a ballot for 
himself. Sanders’ relationship with the 
Vermont capital stretches back over three 
decades. From 1981 to 1989 he served as 
Burlington’s mayor, and he kicked off his 
campaign on the Burlington waterfront in 
May of last year.
Another candidate that has spent a 
lot of time in Vermont is John Kasich. 
He came in second in New Hampshire to 
Donald Trump, albeit by 20 percentage 
points. Right next door, Vermont may be 
have been his best chance of winning a 
state so far.
“I love Vermont,” Kasich said at a rally 
in Colchester last month. “I get the sense 
of rugged independence, but not removed 
from being connected to your neighbor.”
Despite his campaigning here, a Ka-
sich victory barely puts the governor on 
the political radar. Although politicians 
like Kasich might not like it, after Super 
Tuesday the country must begin to grap-
ple with the prospect of a Trump candi-
dacy and what that means for the nation.
Hillary Clinton was particularly inci-
sive in her criticism of Trump following 
his string of victories Tuesday. In a vic-
tory speech in Florida, Clinton said that 
the Republican campaign was dividing 
the country instead of bringing Americans 
together.
“Instead of building walls, we’re going 
to break down barriers and build ladders 
of opportunity and empowerment so that 
every American can live up to his or her 
potential because then and only then can 
America live up to its full potential too,” 
Clinton said during the speech in Florida. 
“The rhetoric we’re hearing on the other 
side has never been lower. Trying to di-
vide american between us and them is 
courtesy Google
Sanders won by a large margin in Vermont, but lost badly in southern states this Tuesday.
Bernie Wins Vermont; Struggles in Southern States
By Harry Cramer
Local Editor
At first, it appeared to be an “udder” 
disaster.
Last Friday, Feb. 26, an Agri-Mark 
owned tanker separated from the truck 
and overturned at the roundabout in 
downtown Middlebury, spilling roughly 
40,000 pounds or 4,600 gallons of milk 
into the street. No one was injured, though 
most of the milk ran into Otter Creek.
Alex Browne ’18, a volunteer for the 
Middlebury Fire Department, responded 
to the scene. “There 
wasn’t much we could do 
besides try to dilute the 
milk [before it flowed 
into Otter Creek],” he 
said, noting the metal 
opening where the leak 
was located had been 
too warped by the initial 
impact to be wrenched 
shut.  
According to the 
Vermont Department 
of Natural Resources, a 
large input of any organic matter (wheth-
er milk or more commonly, manure) in-
creases the risk of eutrophication and 
oxygen depletion in aquatic ecosystems. 
Microbes in the water require oxygen to 
decompose milk. A rapid spike in this type 
of microbial activity can deplete dissolved 
O2 levels and suffocate aquatic life.  The 
oils in milk can also directly clog fish gills. 
Due to the sheer volume of the spill, the 
milk was initially deemed a “toxic waste” 
by the Vermont Department of Natural 
Resources.
Following an initial investigation, 
the VT Department of Natural Resources 
confirmed that the spill did not cause sig-
nificant environmental damage to Otter 
Creek. Though microbial activity is slowed 
by cold winter weather, recent mild tem-
peratures caused by El Nino could pose 
a threat as scientists continue to monitor 
the creek in coming weeks. 
There is an ongoing investigation on 
what caused the crash and who was re-
sponsible. A witness interviewed by the 
Addison Independent said a car had sud-
denly cut in front of the tanker inside the 
roundabout.  
While milk spills 
are not common, 
roundabouts are well-
known as treacherous 
territory for tankers. 
Most truck drivers are 
advised to avoid them 
when planning their 
routes, according to 
Todaystrucking.com. A 
simple Google search of 
“tankers” and “round-
abouts” yields 154,000 
hits; most of them are 
accident reports. 
The average cost of a hundred-
weight, or 100 lbs. of milk, currently sits 
around $16-17, according to Agri-Mark, 
a dairy cooperative based in Massachu-
setts with a processing plant on Exchange 
Street that also owns Cabot Creamery 
and McCadam cheese. Given that price 
estimate, the tanker’s roundabout mis-
hap meant roughly $6,600 of milk flowed 
down Otter Creek last Friday. The entire 
clean-up, from milk dilution to towing the 
wreckage, took about six hours and caused 
heavy traffic up and down Main Street. 
Accident in Roundabout Floods Middlebury with Milk
The entire spill, which was deemed toxic waste, took over six long hours to clean up.
Jilly Dos Santos 
By Nick Garber
Staff Writer
“There wasn’t much 
we could do besides 
try to dilute the milk 
[before it flowed 
into Otter Creek].”
Alex Browne  ’18
Volunteer Firefighter
“This campaign is not 
about just electing the 
president, it is about 
transforming America. 
It is about making our 
great nation the coun-
try that we knoww it 
has the capacity to be.”
Bernie Sanders (D)
Presidential Candidate
On Feb. 15, a group of cultural organiza-
tions sent an email to the student body in 
protest of The Campus. They called upon this 
publication to make a number of changes in 
order to remedy the 
institutionalized si-
lencing of margin-
alized communities 
at this school. We 
addressed many of 
the issues raised in 
our editorial, “A Pa-
per for the People,” 
released on that same morning. We stand 
by our conviction that, as Middlebury’s sole 
student newspaper, we must continue to be 
a space for all opinions — including opin-
ions that have the potential to offend and 
opinions that we do not agree with. But the 
lingering hurt and distrust between this 
publication and a number of students on 
our campus renders this conversation in-
complete. Last week’s events have caused us 
to pause and reflect on our role as an outlet 
for student opinion. We will focus on creat-
ing ways in which The Campus can become 
a more inclusive space  – an initiative we are 
proud to take on with the input of the student 
body at the forefront of our minds. This pro-
cess will take time, but we are determined to 
see it through. 
 Following the all-student email, The 
Campus reached out to all of the groups who 
co-signed. We asked to meet with these or-
ganizations to discuss ways we can make this 
paper more inclusive. We are looking for-
ward to meeting as a group and working with 
these cultural organizations towards action-
able solutions to the concerns that have been 
raised. We want to use this editorial to ad-
dress those concerns head-on for the benefit 
of those who will not be at the meetings be-
tween The Campus and the cultural organi-
zations, as well as to continue this conversa-
tion in the direction of progress and change. 
First, the letter calls on The Campus to, 
“place explicit and clearly visible disclaim-
ers on op-eds and guest contributions stat-
ing that the publication does not share the 
views of the guest contributor, online and 
in print.” We want to reiterate that there is 
already such a disclaimer in the masthead 
of the paper that explicitly states that reader 
contributions do not reflect the opinions of 
the board. To clarify, an “op-ed,” short for 
“opposite the editorial page,” is traditionally 
a piece written by an author unaffiliated with 
a publication’s editorial staff. Nonetheless, to 
avoid future confusion, we have decided to 
add a disclaimer to the top of the Opinions 
page, clarifying that reader op-eds do not re-
flect the opinion of the board. This disclaim-
er will also be added to the online version of 
the paper. Likewise, a content warning for 
the op-eds within this section has been add-
ed to the area under the masthead, caution-
ing that some content could cause emotional 
distress.
The letter also asked The Campus to “cre-
ate a foundation for collaboration with cul-
tural organizations to create an inclusive 
journalistic forum, which instead of sensa-
tionalizing black and brown pain, produces 
accurate, thoughtful and anti-racist work.” 
We disagree that The Campus sensational-
izes the pain of our peers. But we do agree 
that our board suffers acutely from a lack of 
racially diverse voices. This deficiency calls 
our credibility as a publication that reflects 
the entire student body into question. The 
Campus is worse off without significant di-
versity in the room. When writing “A Call for 
Compassion,” an editorial on race and cul-
tural appropriation, our Editor-in-Chief and 
an Opinions editor sat down with BSU rep-
resentatives to ensure their perspective was 
incorporated. This meeting was incredibly 
helpful in shaping our editorial. But the fact 
that it needed to happen speaks to the lack 
of diversity of our board. We need to work 
harder to ensure that a range of voices is rep-
resented on the board at all times, working 
across all sections of the paper, and not just 
when we find it imperative to seek it out for a 
certain editorial. 
Finally, the letter implores this publica-
tion to recognize the historical whiteness of 
journalism and to amplify the voices that 
have been silenced. Most institutions in 
this country were founded on the bedrock 
of whiteness, a fact that we do not intend to 
refute. While we cannot change the contexts 
we were handed, we do have control over the 
direction in which we progress. This paper 
may be the product of white hegemony, but it 
does not have to continue to be a space where 
the majority of contributors are white. Go-
ing forward, cooperation and diligent effort 
needs to come from all sides. We hope that 
students will meet us halfway by submitting 
op-eds or signing up to write for the paper so 
they can eventually rise the ranks to editor. 
We want and need a diverse array of voices 
in our pages. As a board, we will work to 
create a more heterogeneous environment. 
While the paper’s relative homogeneity is 
not a product of intent, we wholeheartedly 
acknowledge that more can be done to make 
The Campus an open space.  
The current conversation has developed 
an adversarial tone that we feel is not re-
flective of the ethos of this board. While we 
maintain that the student paper must re-
main a space for all voices — even if those 
very arguments go against our own beliefs 
— we also wish to heal the deep wounds 
that divide this publication from so many on 
this campus. We, the thirty individuals who 
comprise this board, are your fellow stu-
dents who may sit next to you in class, live 
down the hall or stand behind you in line at 
Proctor. We are your friends and your peers. 
While we believe that our role as Middle-
bury’s only paper requires that we maintain 
neutrality when publishing op-eds – instead 
of advancing our own personal beliefs – we 
need to reflect on the power we wield. We 
hold a powerful microphone. As we grapple 
with the responsibility of this microphone, 
we look forward to working with cultural 
organizations to ensure that all voices have 
a chance to be heard. We hear you and we 
stand with you. 
opinions
editorial board 
The content written within the 
Opinions pages may cause emotional 
distress. Please excercise discretion.
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor. The 
opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions 
section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial com-
ics and other commentary, are views of the individ-
ual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the 
opinions of the newspaper. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.
middleburycampus.com. To be considered for pub-
lications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. 
Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all 
submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
A More Inclusive Campus
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Claire Abbadi
MANAGING EDITOR
Leah Lavigne
BUSINESS MANAGER
Wyatt French
NEWS EDITORS 
Christian Jambora, Eliza Teach, Phil Bohl-
man, Ellie Reinhardt
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Sara Hodgkins, Francesca Haass, Lauren 
Alper, Nina Colombotos 
SPORTS EDITORS 
Joe MacDonald, Alex Morris, Emily 
Bustard, Andrew Rigas, Will Case, Remo 
Plunkett
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Rebecca Walker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Emilie Munson, Ethan Brady, Henry Bur-
nett, Renee Chang
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Elizabeth Zhou, Toby Aicher, Oakley 
Haight 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel Frank, Anahi Naranjo, Michael 
O’Hara, Anthea Viragh, Michael Boren-
stein 
DESIGN EDITOR
Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Boone McCoy-Crisp
ONLINE EDITORS
Maggie Cochrane, Pyone Aye 
COPY EDITOR
Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOST
Nathaniel Wiener
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITORS
 Nathaniel Wiener, Pyone Aye
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
official opinion of 
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Why Colorblindness Does Not Work
This column is written by white stu-
dents and for white students. Each week, 
we will discuss topics or themes regard-
ing race and, more specifically, the role of 
whiteness in race relations. If you would 
like to reach out to us personally to con-
tinue these conversations, please feel free 
to do so.
 
“Why does it always need to be about 
race?”
“Are we still talking about this?”
“I don’t see color, I just see people for 
who they are.”
We’ve all heard these things. Maybe 
we’ve even said these things. We remem-
ber saying these things. There is a term for 
this ideology, called colorblindness. To be 
colorblind is to claim that the best way to 
end racism and discrimination is to treat 
everyone equally without considering race 
or ethnicity. In a way, it is to say that we 
should ignore race and simply treat people 
as people. But are those really mutually ex-
clusive?
A professor said in one of our classes 
last week: “I would love to not have affir-
mative action. That would be amazing. The 
problem is that we live in a world in which 
it’s necessary.” Treating people equally, 
without ‘seeing color,’ is to take a person 
out of an historical context. In the case of 
affirmative action, the policy accounts for 
the inequality that pervades academic in-
stitutions by promoting equity, a concept 
driven by needs and justice, not blanket 
equal shares. When we are in the major-
ity group, which as white people on this 
campus, we are, we tend to think the world 
is fair because the world is fair to us. It is 
necessary to acknowledge from what our 
whiteness allows us to benefit. We defi-
nitely can, and do, face oppression, based 
on our gender, our sexuality, our socioeco-
nomic background and our ability. But not 
racial oppression.
Racism and prejudice are not the same 
thing; racism = prejudice + power. Rac-
ism against white people does not exist. As 
a white person, you may have experienced 
prejudice in your direction from a person 
of color, but racial structures of power in 
this country systematically privilege white 
people and disenfranchise people of color, 
particularly black people. White people 
benefit from privilege and power when we 
are not immediately profiled (and mur-
dered) as dangerous for holding a toy gun, 
as Tamir Rice was; when raising our voices 
to a police officer does not make that police 
officer answer immediately with force, as 
Sandra Bland did. Try to notice how many 
white students are in each of your classes. 
A White Student’s Union on Middlebury’s 
campus is unnecessary because the entire 
campus, along with this country, is essen-
tially a White Student’s Union.
The colorblind argument is used now 
because of our country’s history of racism, 
segregation and systemic oppression. Dur-
ing the Civil Rights movement, it would 
be silly to even attempt to hide one’s rac-
ist habits. The mechanisms and laws that 
reproduce racial inequality are no longer 
overt with their racism because overt rac-
ism is now taboo, which wasn’t the case a 
mere 50 years ago. Systemic racism has ob-
scured itself to those who are not victims to 
it, making it easier to believe that we no lon-
ger live in a racist society. It makes it easier 
to ignore how discriminatory housing laws 
and white flight (when white residents of a 
predominantly white neighborhood begin 
to move out as the space becomes more di-
verse) affects the demographics of a neigh-
borhood, therefore affecting its schools. 
You put this together with over-policing of 
non-white neighborhoods and a racist cycle 
becomes apparent. See Ta-Nehisi Coates’ 
epic “The Case for Reparations” for more 
information on redlining, gentrification 
and other racist housing and urban plan-
ning policies.
Ask yourself: am I able to not see color 
because no one has made me aware of how 
out of place I was because of my color? 
Have I found myself in spaces in which I 
am the only white person for the majority 
of my days? When was the first time I real-
ized I was white? When was the first time 
I realized how society sees my whiteness? 
How does the media portray my whiteness? 
Are there multiple portrayals of whiteness 
in each media instance? Have I ever wor-
ried that my whiteness could get me killed?
Saying that we don’t see color leaves 
us unable to acknowledge when someone 
has experienced racism, both interperson-
ally and institutionally. It creates an envi-
ronment that denies that negative racial 
experiences exist and invalidates people 
who can’t help but see color because other 
people see color on them. Since we have 
not been subjected to racial oppression 
as white people, we must listen and learn 
when people of color share their experienc-
es with us. We cannot suppose that our so-
ciety is not racist. When we say to a person 
of color that we don’t see their color, that 
connotes that their skin color is a negative 
thing and that we are able to appreciate 
them in spite of their color. This says that 
whiteness is the norm and that we are able 
to treat them well even though they are 
outside of that norm.
*In this particular article, the term 
“colorblindness” is used. It is the common 
word for this ideology but we would like to 
note that the very use of this word is ableist 
and we encourage everyone to think about 
(and share!) possible other ways to reframe 
this ideology.*
What we are reading:
1. Beyond the Green: Collective of Middle-
bury Voices 
2. The Case for Reparations (The Atlantic)
3. Equality is Not Enough: What the 
Classroom Has Taught Me About Justice 
(Everyday Feminism)
facing whiteness
Aliza Cohen ’17 is from Chattanooga, 
TN
Juliette Gobin ’16 is from Harrison, NY
Molly McShane ’16 is from Washington, 
DC
Emma Ronai-Durning ’18 is from 
Salem, OR
Travis Sanderson ’19 is from Las 
Vegas, NV 
Disclaimer: Reader op-eds do not reflect the opinion of The Middlebury Campus editorial board. 
A Critique of the Opinions Section
Last week’s editorial is a hypocritical 
mess and falsely claims that The Campus 
gives students an adequate space to voice 
their opinions.  In “A Paper for the Peo-
ple,”  the editorial board takes pride in 
publishing any article that’s not outright 
slander. “This section is a reflection of 
the submissions we receive;” “it reflects” 
the views of the campus. “We do not wish 
to be selective” in the articles we publish 
and adding a warning to a piece is “un-
due editorial power.”  See, they say, send 
us whatever, we’ll publish it!
Let’s be clear: This isn’t journalism. 
No self-respecting newspaper publishes 
like this.  
An editorial team isn’t a glorified 
spam filter, a newspaper isn’t a printed-
out copy of Yik-Yak. Editors shouldn’t 
censor based on their own political lean-
ings, but they also shouldn’t allow any 
drivel through. They should edit and 
curate. They should refuse to publish 
articles that lack evidence, that peddle 
shallow morals, that are poorly written. 
When something like “I’m Only Human” 
arrives on an editor’s desk, they have a 
duty to evaluate it, not just publish it 
because it “is able to articulate an opin-
ion.” When something fails to meet The 
Campus’ stated value of a “constructive 
and respectful dialogue,” it shouldn’t be 
published.
But The Campus claims they’re differ-
ent from other newspapers. The Campus 
puts forth that since they publish every-
thing, they’re acting as the student voice. 
It’s a convenient excuse to abdicate re-
sponsibility for what they publish. It’s 
also untrue on both accounts. As stated 
in the masthead, The Campus allows 
editors to deny publication *for any rea-
son.* Opinions have been denied publi-
cation in the past. If The Campus is pub-
lishing everything it receives now, that’s 
only because they lack submissions – if 
everyone at the college submitted some-
thing this week, The Campus would be 
forced to be selective. 
But more importantly, publishing 
everything doesn’t make for a student 
voice.
Currently, the op-ed section isn’t con-
sciously biased, just too myopic to see 
why no one wants to submit anything. 
We know many minority voices can’t be 
found in this section. But what if more 
minorities submitted? The editorial 
board makes the insipid Millsean argu-
ment that if only they could publish all 
the views of the student body, then we’d 
be a step closer to progress. What a flip 
flop: to quote the board’s “A Call for 
Compassion,”  “at an elite, informed in-
stitution such as Middlebury, let us hold 
ourselves to a higher standard of speech 
– one that respects and acknowledges 
the power dynamic at play.” Minori-
ties here get harassed for their identity 
alone; publishing an unpopular opinion 
can subject vulnerable students to fur-
ther harassment. No amount of inclusive 
rhetoric can bracket real world status 
inequalities. Neutral spaces are not free 
spaces.
Then there are numerous, insidious 
ways The Campus doesn’t fulfill its dem-
ocratic promise. The Campus summarily 
rejects “lists and poetry,” thinking these 
forms don’t belong in a newspaper. Of 
course, this statement is wrong; the op-
ed section has published both lists and 
poetry before. In 2013, The Campus pub-
lished “It Is Easy Being Green,” a poem 
that had a trigger warning. Opinions 
don’t need to take a certain form. Poetry 
and other writing styles are some of the 
most accessible means of expression, 
available to anyone. “Journalistic” writ-
ing on the other hand, is a style that’s 
not intuitive at best and classist at worst. 
Privileging one over the other means The 
Campus can’t claim it’s a place where 
students truly can express themselves.
Another way The Campus fails to be 
a voice for students is by taking a stance 
against anonymity. Sure, The Campus 
allows for anonymous submissions un-
der extenuating circumstances. But in 
an editorial they overwhelmingly valo-
rize the “courage” to publish under a 
real name, only paying lip-service to the 
benefits of anonymity. This approach 
discourages two groups from publishing: 
1) people with actual unpopular opin-
ions and 2) any vulnerable minorities 
who will face harassment for their views. 
Some of the most real conversation hap-
pens in the anonymous comments and 
some of the most incisive commentary 
comes from Beyond The Green’s anony-
mous articles. This op-ed section fails at 
sparking these kinds of conversations. 
Instead, we’re subjected to editorials 
that don’t seriously challenge anything. 
Take the “Disrupt the Finance Pipeline” 
editorial from September, which wavers 
between thanking alumni at Goldman 
Sachs for reaching out and condemn-
ing the financial industry for taking ad-
vantage of Midd students. The editorial 
concludes that students should be “more 
thoughtful” about their futures. Here’s a 
cautionary tale of mixing clickbait head-
lines from The Atlantic with boardroom 
consensus. This editorial, like many oth-
ers, apparently failed to contribute to a 
constructive dialogue on campus: there’s 
one comment online. And it’s sarcastic. 
Even seemingly aesthetic quibbles 
are actual signs of democratic failings. 
When President Patton gets to write 300 
words over The Campus’ word limit, are 
all community members here equal in 
expressing their views? When The Cam-
pus insists every writer includes her 
hometown, isn’t that forcing the student 
to subject herself to arguments against 
her upbringing and not her opinion? 
What does a writer’s hometown even add 
to the dialogue?
Ultimately, The Campus’ claim of be-
ing an adequate space for student voices 
is wishful thinking. And here we come to 
some of the worst of this editorial. The 
writers emphatically state that The Cam-
pus does not solicit for op-eds. However, 
a newspaper dedicated to expressing a 
multitude of student views would have 
already proactively worked with cultural 
organizations to include a diversity of 
views. A true people’s voice doesn’t just 
happen. The “publish everything” mind-
set doesn’t work. It’s on The Campus to 
cultivate a truly inclusive student voice.
 
Now publish this.
Reader op-ed
Daniel Bateyko ’16 from Sarasota, FL 
is a former copy editor for The Campus
A Letter to the Community
THE LO-DOWN
Lauren Alper ’16 
is from Mill Valley, CA
  6 |MARCH 3, 2016 opinions
The Implication of Being a Sponge  
Brains are funny things. We wander 
around the world with brains inside of 
our heads. They dictate who we are, how 
we are and what we do. And — on top of 
it all — they are so unbelievably sensi-
tive. 
Ever since the day we were born, our 
brains have been sponges. The most ab-
sorbant kind of sponge you can imagine. 
With each new experience, the brain ab-
sorbs information, educating us about 
how to live. Naturally, the timeline of 
this absorption of information has many 
effects on our behavior. 
Contrary to popular belief, between 
18 and 24 years old, our brains are still 
incredibly absorbant sponges. Brains 
are not done developing until at least the 
age of 25. I don’t know about you, but for 
me, this completely shattered the feeling 
that I had truly reached adulthood. Our 
brains are still babies — incompletely 
developed, relatively inexperienced 
sponges. 
Studies at Dartmouth College, Uni-
versity of Alberta, Newcastle University 
and Temple University have revealed 
some other interesting tidbits about the 
brain at our age:
· Compared to 
older individu-
als, college stu-
dents’ brains are 
less developed 
in the areas that 
integrate emo-
tions and cogni-
tion (the insula, 
caudate and cin-
gulate regions).
· Younger individuals are more prone 
to making rash decisions because their 
reward systems are over-sensitive com-
pared to older individuals.
· The frontal lobe, the area of the 
brain that dictates impulse control, 
among other things, is one of the last ar-
eas of the brain to fully develop.
· Girls’ brains usually mature two 
years faster than boys’ brains during the 
teenage years (sorry, boys).
There are some neural consequences 
of this brain development that help ex-
plain the prevalence of mental health 
issues at this age. Basically, the brain is 
constantly shift-
ing and shaping 
throughout life. 
Neurons, the 
things in your 
brain that com-
municate and al-
low you to func-
tion, are like 
connecting vines. 
As you gain ex-
perience and grow older, they grow and 
prune themselves in order to make the 
most efficient, useful connections pos-
sible. Our brains continue this process 
much later into life than scientists origi-
nally hypothesized. Although some ar-
eas of the brain — like the hippocampus, 
which controls memory — will change 
throughout life, most areas finish this 
process of shifting and shaping around 
the age of 25.
Between 18 and 24, our prefrontal 
cortices are not fully developed. This 
cortex is like the boss of the brain. It is 
responsible for planning, problem-solv-
ing and other “higher order” functions. 
It turns out that planning and stepwise 
problem-solving skills are associated 
with resilience. Resilience — known as 
the ability to bounce back after difficulty 
— is a skill that is very important when it 
comes to mental health.
Let’s think back to my article last 
week. There are astoundingly high rates 
of depression and anxiety on college 
campuses. Although these rates cannot 
be entirely explained by the underdevel-
opment of our college-age brains, such 
underdevelopment can explain these 
rates in part. Our brains are not done 
being spongy. We are not at the point 
where we are able to be as fully resilient 
as we’d like. We lack some coping skills 
— on a biological level. Cut yourself 
some slack — we’re all still kids trying to 
figure out how to be adults.
THE ROOT
Maddie Hoar ’17.5 is from Wellesley, 
MA 
“Girls’ brains usually ma-
ture two years faster than 
boys’ brains during the teen-
age years (sorry, boys).”
To the Middlebury Community,
I want to take the opportunity to apol-
ogize for featuring a picture of myself 
wearing a culturally appropriative outfit 
in the sports section of The Middlebury 
Campus newspaper. The aforementioned 
photo in which I am wearing a sombrero 
has been featured in the weekly “Editor’s 
Picks” widget since I became an editor in 
September of 2014. 
I studied abroad this past fall semes-
ter and therefore was not on campus to 
engage in the many conversations sur-
rounding cultural appropriation—a topic 
with which I was completely unfamiliar 
until returning to Middlebury in Janu-
ary. In J-Term, I resumed my role as an 
editor and the photo was again added 
to the sports section above my name. 
Shortly after the first publication in Feb-
ruary, it was brought to my attention 
that the photo was an example of cul-
tural appropriation and was offensive to 
some members of our community. 
In choosing the photo over a year ago, 
I never intended to offend anyone or 
contribute to an environment at Middle-
bury that is hostile to historically under-
represented groups. After the negative 
connotation of the photo was made clear 
to me, I immediately removed it from my 
portion of the sports section.  
I am sincerely sorry to any member of 
the community that may have been neg-
atively affected by the picture through-
out the months that it appeared in print. 
In addition, I would like to apologize to 
anyone who took issue with the picture 
but felt uncomfortable bringing their 
opinion to the attention of myself or an-
other member of the editorial board. 
On that note, I am very thankful to 
both the students who reached out in-
dividually as well as the members of the 
groups who cosigned the Black Student 
Union’s letter for making me aware of 
the situation and allowing this impor-
tant change to occur. 
The recent discussion surrounding 
my photo has demonstrated the extraor-
dinary capacity we have to make our 
community a better place if we approach 
issues of diversity and inclusion as an 
ongoing learning experience. In that ef-
fort, I am happy to speak with anyone 
who may have thoughts on this issue or 
anything I mentioned in this piece.
Sincerely,
Remo Plunkett
notes from the desk
Remo Plunkett ’17 is a Sports Editor 
from Burlington, VT
Monument Farms, College’s Milk 
Supplier, Talks History, Practices
People paticipating in this year’s “Sleep-Out” will camp at Marbleworks, near the foot of the Otter Creek Falls in Middlebury. 
7featuresmarch 3, 2016   
Why Can’t We 
Be Friends?
In college, so much socializing occurs 
in the bedroom. In high school, no one 
other than my closest friends had reason 
or desire to be in my bedroom. But sud-
denly, even acquaintances are granted 
that privilege. Close friends might bring 
hangers-on, uninvited, into your private 
space, where they can see and touch your 
clothes and your messy desk. 
This raises a couple of questions: is 
the dorm room truly a private space – 
and does it even need to be?
People answer this question differ-
ently. Some value the cleanliness of their 
sheets and the order of their belongings 
too highly to let anyone in more than 
occasionally, while some have picky or 
curmudgeonly roommates who preclude 
them from opening their rooms to social-
izing. Some people are the picky or cur-
mudgeonly roommate.
A few of my female friends will hang 
out in one of their rooms to start the eve-
ning and later migrate to a larger group 
in a guy’s room. The reverse rarely hap-
pens. One friend explained that if they 
opened up these hangouts, they would 
miss out on the opportunity to dance 
ridiculously – and not yet fully dressed, 
they added enthusiastically – to “really 
girly music.” 
Pregames and other planned hang-
outs make up only a tiny fraction of bed-
room interactions. They are far outnum-
bered, at least in first-year dorms, by the 
simple incursions that can feel like any-
thing from breaths of fresh air to panic-
inducing invasions. I experience the lat-
ter every time I’m woken up from a nap 
by a somehow-already-drunk-at-6 p.m. 
face staring at me from a few inches 
away, which happens surprisingly often. 
Even typing that has planted the fear in 
my heart that an inebriated friend may 
one day choose that same method.
For some, the only source of anxi-
ety surrounding their bedroom is that it 
won’t be rowdy enough. A pair of room-
mates on my hall had “an image of col-
lege in their mind” when they first ar-
rived, said a close friend of theirs, and it 
involved “a TV, an XBOX and making the 
room look sick so people come over.”
Many upperclassmen are able to 
find a balance. No longer packed into an 
unflinchingly communal dorm such as 
Stewart, they don’t have to worry about 
random incursions. One upperclassmen, 
who lives in an Atwater suite that often 
hosts large parties, simply locks his door 
on those nights “to dissuade people from 
defiling his bed.” 
Positive incursions into the dorm 
room do exist. They are the friend burst-
ing into your room who is not a bother 
but a pick-me-up, the surprise appear-
ance of a support system. Some nights, 
the dull ache of loneliness overwhelm-
ingly outweighs the need for privacy, and 
you stand at your bedside folding laun-
dry, feeling as though you have no one 
left awake to text and no sibling’s room 
to run to for a chat. You don’t even have 
your dog to hang out with. And in bounds 
your friend, with no care in the world 
that in a previous life your bedroom door 
represented a boundary. He comes in be-
cause he’s your friend, and he wants to 
talk or play pool or do something stupid, 
and he knew where to find you. 
And you couldn’t be happier to see 
him in your room.
By Alex Forde
Contributing Writer
Chemistry Students Do Magic for Local Kids
On Wednesday, Feb. 24, several 
biochemistry students performed a 
magic show using science for local 
children of Addison County. This event, 
held in McCardell BiCentennial Hall, is 
an ongoing tradition of the department, 
spearheaded by Professor of Chemistry 
and Biochemistry Roger Sandwick.
The show was inspired by the ex-
periments that had captured Sandwick’s 
imagination as a child. “We used to 
have this one guy — we called him Mr. 
Chemistry — who would come to our 
class and do all these magic tricks using 
chemistry,” he said. “It’s the one thing 
I really remember from that particular 
third-grade class.”
Photos by Eliot Van Valkenberg
Bob James, a representative of Monu-
ment Farms Dairy in Weybridge, Vt., gave a 
talk about the company’s history and prac-
tices on Tuesday, Feb. 23, in the Hillcrest 
Orchard. James, a native of Middlebury 
and the company’s director of sales and 
distribution, spoke to an audience of about 
25 students and several faculty members 
who teach environmental studies and the 
newly created food studies program.
The College has partnered with Monu-
ment Farms in some capacity for 65 years. 
Currently, the farm supplies Dining Ser-
vices with all of the milk in its dining halls. 
Bob is the third generation in manage-
ment, along with his brother Peter James 
and his cousin John Rooney. James lived 
at the farm throughout his childhood, and 
began as a milk driver after graduating 
from a three-year high school.
The business started with his grand-
father in 1930, who had just 28 cows — a 
modest number by milk standards. He de-
livered small milk routes to the local grocer 
and to private homes. As time progressed, 
James explained, his grandfather was able 
to buy routes out from nearby farms.
Monument Farms now operates from 
five locations. Milk production and pack-
aging occurs only at their main location in 
Weybridge; the other four locations, total-
ing 2,500 acres, are used for land-based 
crop work to feed 
the company’s 500 
milking cows. Their 
main location stays 
open until 5:30 
p.m. on weekdays. 
“We stay open to get 
people on their way 
home from work,” 
James said.
M o n u m e n t 
Farms is classified 
as a producer–han-
dler, since the excess milk is eligible to be 
sold wholesale to larger vendors. The farm 
sells its overflow to Cabot Creamery plant 
in Middlebury, but James said that this 
pays little since Monument Farms is not a 
continuous supplier.
Monument Farms produces whole 
milk, two percent, skim, half-and-half, 
heavy cream, chocolate and low-fat choco-
late. The farm also buys other dairy prod-
ucts — cheese, eggs, and ice cream — from 
other producers, including Hood and Ma-
ple Meadow.
“That way when we go to a small store 
in the country, we can offer that store any 
dairy product they need so they don’t have 
to go to another dairy company for a sub-
stitute.”
James spoke about some unique prac-
tices at the Weybridge farm. Unlike other 
farms, James and his 
crew begin milking 
around 11 p.m. and 
finish by 6 a.m., in ad-
dition to milking dur-
ing the typical time 
in Addison County 
from noon to 5 p.m. 
Legally, a farm can 
hold milk in a bulk 
tank for 48 hours, and 
then picked up and 
goes down on a truck 
to New York or Boston, down for a day to 
get packaged, and then comes back. This 
midnight milking allows the farm to har-
vest milk in 12 hours, putting it on the road 
to New York or Boston for bottling by the 
early morning.
“We’re very proud that we can get the 
milk packaged in, a lot of times, 12 hours,” 
James said.
The company’s Hagar Farm location, 
James said, is a “freestyle type” of farm 
where cows can roam around at their will, 
“go eat and drink at any time, and lay down 
to sleep if they wish.” In a freestyle farm, 
cows come to be milked, rather than work-
ers going to the cows. Most farms in Addi-
son County now operate freestyle.
Monument Farms is not a certified or-
ganic brand, and has been questioned in 
the past as to why. James said that local 
folks could not handle the increased cost 
if the farm were to switch to organic prod-
ucts.
“If we can do the best possible job in 
the conventional way, and can have good 
quality milk using only the essential tools 
one needs to keep the cows healthy, that 
is ideal,” James said. “If we were to sell all 
our milk and switch our equipment over to 
organic, we would need a territory through 
Florida to be able to sell it all. The price 
would be so high that our local folks just 
wouldn’t be able to handle the increased 
cost.”
James stressed that Monument Farms 
is committed to producing local, humane, 
fair, and ecologically sound milk.
Monument Farms Dairy is located 
at 2107 James Road in Weybridge, VT. 
They are open Monday through Friday, 
8:30 a.m. – 5:30 p.m.
“We try to do the best 
possible job, making quality 
milk using only the essential 
tools one needs to keep the 
cows healthy.”
Bob james
monument farms dairy
Monument Farms’ main location on James Road in Weybridge services milk to local 
stores and to the College.
By Ethan Brady
Features Editor
President Patton to Host Workshop 
with New Women Leaders Club 
Middlebury Women Leaders is a new 
club on campus founded and run by Ji-
along Wu ’17.5 and Mariah Levin ’17.5. 
The club works to empower women and 
equip them with skills to promote their 
professional and personal development. 
Their first workshop, on conflict resolu-
tion, will be held on Thursday, March 3, 
at 4:30 p.m. in McCardell Bicentennial 
Hall 210. President Laurie L. Patton will 
host the workshop.
Wu and Levin said they started Mid-
dlebury Women Leaders because they 
wanted to create a space where women 
could learn to navigate situations in 
which they were in the minority. They 
wanted to provide women at the College 
with the skills they would normally not 
get in a liberal arts context. 
Levin said that existing clubs, such 
as Feminist Action at Middlebury and 
the Chellis House, do a “great job” of ad-
dressing female inequality and feminist 
issues. “There’s been no special atten-
tion, as far as I know, to leadership skill 
development. We are just here to fill in 
the gap,” she 
said.
Wu and 
Levin were in-
spired by life 
experiences to 
create this club 
for the College. 
“Last sum-
mer, I was 
working as an 
i n v e s t m e n t 
banking intern and often times, the male 
interns got more attention even though 
we were doing the same work,” Wu said. 
“Usually they got praised and I got ig-
nored.”
Levin attributed her interest in fe-
male leadership to a women’s leader-
ship training event she attended in high 
school. 
“I was with a lot of high-powered 
CEOs,” she said. “I snuck my way in, ba-
sically, and they were all talking about 
these really real inequalities that they 
saw around them even at their really 
high-powered positions. Because these 
were people in high positions, I knew 
that this was something I could experi-
ence, too.”
Although Wu and Levin said that the 
College does a good job of encouraging 
female leadership, Wu has noticed spe-
cific things in Middlebury classrooms 
that have revealed the relevance of Mid-
dlebury Women Leaders. 
“Women students, when they ask 
questions, will first say ‘You know I am 
not so sure’ or ‘I am sorry if this isn’t rel-
evant’ or ‘I apologize’ and then they ask 
the question, whereas men don’t have 
that problem,” Wu said. “These kinds of 
things result in people thinking that men 
should know more than women because 
they are more confident. So, we want 
to change that. We want to change how 
we think about ourselves and how other 
people think about us.”
The club will hold workshops host-
ed by women leaders in order to create 
spaces where Middlebury students can 
learn tangible skills to use in everyday 
life. 
“Basically all of our events are activ-
ity-based where you can get your hands 
dirty with the subject matter, and I 
think workshops really lend themselves 
to that,” Levin said. “The objective is to 
teach students skills they can apply lat-
er.”
“You may walk away with one or 
two skills that you feel solid about that 
you may want 
to apply,” Levin 
said. “I have 
taken a couple 
of workshops 
and I use skills 
all the time and 
I refine them 
and I have more 
questions and it 
is this cool cir-
cular process: 
learning and applying then learning and 
applying.”
These skills include discussion me-
diation, negotiation and public speak-
ing. The first workshop, hosted by the 
College’s president, will focus on conflict 
resolution skills. President Patton has 
had national and international train-
ing in conflict resolution, especially in-
terfaith conflict resolution. She has led 
workshops at both Emory University and 
Duke University and has trained stu-
dents and department chairs in personal 
and professional conflict resolution. 
“I also think conflict management is 
a fabulous field in which we can be cre-
ative about our solutions. When you are 
managing or mediating a conflict, you 
have to think about all the options, not 
just the ones on the table. And you have 
to reframe issues so that people can see 
their way out of the conflict into a livable 
solution,” said Patton. 
Patton decided to get involved with 
Middlebury Women Leaders to help 
women find their voice. 
 “I remember my first presentation 
in a class my sophomore year in college. 
It was all graduate students, and I was 
completely terrified. And it was only af-
ter my professor wrote a long, thoughtful 
response to the things I had argued that 
I realized that she had literally heard my 
voice, and heard the points I was trying 
to make,” she said.
“There’s nothing like that kind of 
bringing people into their own voices. 
It’s magical. I am deeply privileged to 
be able to be in a position to help others 
with that. I don’t think that women make 
better leaders than men. But I do think 
that we are missing out on some fantastic 
leaders if we let traditional gender con-
ditioning get in our way and don’t take 
active steps to overcome it. That is true 
for everyone: women, men, gay, straight, 
trans, cis and non-cis folks. We all need 
to find that voice.”
Middlebury Women Leaders will 
sponsor a variety of hosts for their work-
shops and each workshop will explore a 
different category of female leadership. 
Rana Abdelhamid ’15, president of 
Women Initiative for Self-Empower-
ment (WISE), will also lead a workshop 
for Middlebury Women Leaders. WISE 
works to empower young Muslim wom-
en through through self-defense classes 
and leadership training. Abdelhamid 
will speak about her experience working 
with WISE and how to empower women 
through entrepreneurship programming. 
Carolyn Finney, assistant professor 
of geography at the University of Ken-
tucky, will also host a workshop. She will 
speak on African-American leadership in 
outdoor activities.  
Wu and Levin encourage all students 
at the College to attend Middlebury 
Women Leaders workshops, especially 
those students who wish to strengthen 
their leadership skills. 
“Women have a lot to offer,” Wu 
said, “and we want people to see this.”
More information on MWL and fu-
ture workshops can be found online at 
go/girl.
By Joana Salievska
Contributing Writer
“Last summer, I was working 
as an investment banking intern 
and often times, the male interns 
got more attention even though 
we were doing the same work.”
Jialong wu ’17.5
The Magic of Motion
Sitting is not as evil as it’s being made 
out to be now, but it is tremendously 
important that we don’t “over sit” our 
welcome. We need to stand more through-
out the day, even if that’s while chatting 
with friends, talking on the phone, or just 
getting up in between nightly relaxing 
activities before bed. If you like to watch 
television, be sure not to sit there for 
hours on end while doing so. If you work 
at a computer all day, get up and move 
around or try to stand and work however 
possible. Sitting too long makes you tired, 
can cause brain fog, increases your insulin 
levels, and slows down your metabolism. 
It can even lead to a bad mood, and antsy 
nature. The body likes to move; give it 
what it needs.
Mental Health News:
On Tuesday, March 10, Dr. Cath-
erine Kerr of Brown University will 
present her recent studies on the brain, 
body and mindfulness. This event is in 
Dana Auditorium from 4:30 – 6:30 p.m.
 
By Wellness Leaders
Contributing Columnists
8 features | march 3, 2016
middlebury women leaders
Middlebury Women Leaders is a student organization at the College. Their tagline is #GoGirl. 
By Will McDonald
Contributing Writer
When it comes to large events on 
campus, students are accustomed to 
seeing mainstays like Wilson Hall or an 
athletic arena as the setting for such an 
event. Thus, it came as a welcome sur-
prise to many that one of the largest 
events of Winter Carnival weekend, a 
“1980s skiing” themed party, would be 
held off-campus at the Marquis Theater 
in downtown Middlebury. 
The idea for the party at the Marquis 
was born when the Traditions Commit-
tee, the subset of the Middlebury College 
Activities Board (MCAB) that is tasked 
with planning the Winter Carnival, 
sought to add a new event to the sched-
ule for this year’s Carnival.
“We liked the idea of an off-campus 
event that was accessible, but also want-
ed a slightly different option than what 
people are used to,” said Hannah Mor-
rissey ’18, co-chair of MCAB’s Traditions 
Committee.
The committee recognized that the 
Marquis had hosted several successful 
events in the fall that were geared to-
ward Middlebury students. Hosting an 
MCAB event there had the potential to 
further solidify its place on the radar of 
nightlife at Middlebury.
“ W e 
thought the 
Marquis event 
would be a good 
way to address 
students’ com-
plaints about 
lack of late-
night options 
on weekends,” 
Morrissey said. 
“The Marquis 
was also a great space to host a retro 
themed party, and it was an exciting op-
portunity to partner with a local busi-
ness.”
The Marquis opened the event to 
everyone 18 and older, with the excep-
tion of the bar. This was a less stringent 
requirement than the 21-plus mandate 
requested by several other off-campus 
options the committee considered.
According to Morrissey’s fellow co-
chair, Thilan Tudor ’16, the commit-
tee was pleased with how the first-ever 
MCAB event at the location went.
“The owner and 
staff at the Marquis 
were incredibly help-
ful and flexible,” Tu-
dor said.
“We had a great 
turnout and have 
heard positive com-
ments about the 
event from the stu-
dents who attended.”
Up next for the 
Traditions Committee will be Midd May-
hem weekend in May. While prepara-
tions are still in a preliminary phase, 
both Tudor and Morrissey noted that the 
success of the party at the Marquis made 
it an option that would be readily con-
sidered again.
MCAB Hosts Eighties Party at Marquis
Wellness Tip 
of the Week
“We liked the idea of an 
off-campus event that was 
accessible, but also wanted a 
slightly different option than 
what people are used to.”
hannah morrissey ’18
9 features | march 3, 2016
For local Vermont farmers Marjo-
rie Susman and Marian Pollack, chee-
semaking has been a way of life since 
1982. The proud owners and primary 
operators of Orb Weaver Farm in New 
Haven, Vt., Susman and Pollack produce 
two artisan cheeses sold exclusively in 
Vermont, including at local businesses 
51 Main, the Champagne & Sparkling 
Wine Bar, Otter Creek Bakery and the 
Middlebury Co-
op. 
On their 
sprawling 100-
acre farm located 
just west of Cam-
el’s Hump Moun-
tain, Susman and 
Pollack dedicate 
their winters to 
making artisan 
cheese from No-
vember to May. Following the European 
tradition, these women stir, form, wax 
and date-stamp each wheel of cheese 
they produce by hand, without the me-
chanical stirrers or hydraulic presses 
which have become increasingly ubiqui-
tous in the commercial cheese industry. 
Using these methods, Orb Weaver 
produces their Farmhouse and Cave-
Aged cheeses. These two unique cheeses 
— Susman describes the Farmhouse as 
“a good all around cheese” whereas the 
Cave-Aged is denser and more complex 
— share the same recipe but differ in 
taste because of their individual aging 
processes. 
The Farmhouse Cheese is waxed and 
aged in a walk-in refrigerator for eight 
months. In contrast, the Cave-Aged is 
not wax and is placed in their cheese 
cave — a stone cave resembling the Hob-
bit’s house built into a hillside near their 
barn — for three years of aging. 
With little to no cheesemaking expe-
rience, Susman and Pollack developed 
their cheese recipe by experimenting in 
their kitchen in the early 1980s. 
“Because nobody was making cheese 
at that point, there was no one to ask 
questions of: there was no cheese coun-
cil,” said Susman. “We just sort of put 
our heads down and went for it.”
Since their inauspicious beginnings, 
Orb Weaver Farm cheese has gained na-
tional acclaim, including several recog-
nitions from the American Cheese Soci-
ety in various categories. 
“We have kind of a national reputa-
tion, although we never tried to get it,” 
explained Pollack. 
Although there is demand for their 
cheese in New York City and Boston, 
Susman and Pollack have decided to 
only sell to local Vermont businesses. 
“It is really im-
portant to us to keep 
the cheese local,” 
Susman said. 
Because they’ve 
been in the busi-
ness for so long, Orb 
Weaver Cheese has 
become a staple of 
this region.
“We’ve met 
grown-ups now who 
were raised on our cheese,” Susman 
said. The Penny Cluse Café in Burling-
ton, Vt., even serves an Orb Weaver 
sandwich. 
In addition, Orb Weaver Farm is 
unique because it is one of the few farms 
in Vermont that is owned and operated 
exclusively by women. 
The number of female farmers is 
on the rise nationally and in Vermont. 
In 2012, the year of the last agricultural 
census, female farmers controlled seven 
percent of all farmland and accounted 
for three percent of sales.
USDA data on farming shows that 
Vermont has one of the highest percent-
ages of women farmers in the country. 
Thirty-nine percent of Vermont farmers 
are women, totaling nearly 5,000 female 
farmers in the state.  
More than 22 percent of Vermont’s 
female famers are the principal opera-
tors of their farm, meaning that they are 
the person in charge of the farm’s day-
to-day operations. 
While these figures suggest that 
women are making significant strides 
into the previously male-dominated in-
dustry of farming, numbers take a sharp 
turn south when considering ownership.
Thus, while Susman and Pollack 
are part of this growing trend of female 
farmers, they are also unusual in two 
ways. First, their entrance into farming 
in 1981 placed them at the forefront of 
this wave of female farmers. 
“When we moved here, our neigh-
bors thought we were just two rich kids 
with a trust fund,” Pollack remembered. 
“But we proved ourselves hard workers.”
“Now our neighbors say, ‘we don’t 
know anybody who works like you 
girls,’” Susman added.
Second, Susman and Pollack distin-
guish themselves from the vast majority 
of female farmers because most female 
farmers are often only farm operators, 
not owners.
Susman and Pollack believe their 
gender contributes to some of the suc-
cess of their farm. 
“Men bring a different energy to an 
operation,” Pollack said. “They are rest-
less.” 
Susman suggested that women are 
more likely to be content with a smaller-
scale business, like Orb Weaver’s, than 
male farmers.
Still, cautioned Pollack, women are 
not inherently better farmers. 
“I think it’s a level-playing field,” 
Pollack said. “It depends on your skill as 
a farmer.”
Orb Weaver Farm Celebrates Nearly 35 
Years of Artisan Cheese Making in Vermont
By Emilie Munson
Features Editor
“When we moved here, 
our neighbors thought we 
were just two rich kids with 
a trust fund. But we proved 
ourselves hard workers.”
Marian pollack
co-owner orb weaver farm 
emilie munson
Top: Marjorie Susman poses with a wheel of Farmhouse Cheese. Bottom: Susman 
and her co-owner Marian Pollack bend into the cheese vat to mix curbs by hand. 
emilie munson
Clover is one of six Jersey cows who provides 
milk for Orb Weaver’s two artisan cheeses. 
19
48
19
40
10 features 11featuresmarch 3, 2016    | march 3, 2016
Winter Carnival Continues a Decades-Old Tradition
 This past weekend, Middlebury hosted its 93rd annual Win-
ter Carnival, but with an uncommon twist: no snow. The high for the 
weekend was a balmy 48 degrees, removing the chance for ice sculp-
tures, snowshoe races and broom hockey on Battell Beach this year. 
	 Contrary	to	popular	opinion,	Middlebury	was	not	the	first	Col-
lege to have hosted a Winter Carnival. David Stameshkin’s methodi-
cal examination of the College’s history in The Strength of the Hills: 
Middlebury College, 1915-1990 reveals that what we know as Winter 
Carnival today actually evolved from a predecessor known to students 
as the “Winter Holiday.” Inspired by the festivities that took place 
at Dartmouth College’s annual Winter Carnival — which dates as far 
back as 1910 —  Stameshkin writes that the College’s Outing Club, a 
group analogous to today’s Mountain Club, was compelled to arrange 
a series of “winter sports events just for Middlebury students,” which 
took	place	for	the	first	time	96	years	ago	in	February	1920.	As	the	
events of Winter Holiday found immense success among the student 
body,	the	first	Winter	Carnival	was	born	in	1922,	marking	the	begin-
ing	of	a	decades-old	tradition	that	continues	to	resonate	with	the	21st	
century student.
 This year, in light of the the College’s 93rd Winter Carnival, 
we took a journey through the archives to see what Carnival was like 
from the early 40s through the late 80s.
The cover of the program for the 1937 Carnival, 
which	took	place	from	Feb.	18	to	21.	The	Carnival	
was packed with events, beginning with a Corona-
tion ceremony and culminating in a day-trip to Lake 
Dunmore.  
19
37
Back	in	February	1940,	the	Winter	Ball	was	a	decidedly	formal	affair.	Held	
in Wilson Hall, the Ball was a rare occasion for men and women — who lived 
in separate residential halls on campus — to get dressed up for an evening of 
music and dance. 
19
43
An	equally	impressive	(and	formidable!)	
snow sculpture constructed by students 
during the 1943 Carnival towers over what 
is currently the Parton Health Center. 
In	1948,	the	Associated	Press	solicited	the	
College’s news bureau for photo coverage 
of Carnival events to distribute in papers 
all around New England.
Roster of the 1948 Men’s Ski Team. Historically, the College ski team has com-
peted — and continues to compete — against skiers hailing from Dartmouth Col-
lege, Colgate University and McGill University, among others.  The team’s coach, 
Robert Sheehan, is the namesake for the Snow Bowl’s newest chairlift.
In the 1940s and 50s, Chipman Hill was the site of Middle-
bury College's downhill ski area, and even featured a ski 
jump, the remains of which can still be found. Here, stu-
dents and townspeople gather at the base of the 40 meter 
ski jump to watch the jump competition.
19
50
19
70
By 1970, the Winter Ball had taken on a more casual atmo-
sphere.	The	newly-built	Christian	A.	Johnson	Memorial	
Building,	completed	in	1968	and	now	home	to	the	architec-
ture and studio art students, became the host site for the Ball.
Although	the	ski	races	at	the	Snow	Bowl	attracted	huge	au-
diences, the annual snow sculpting contest was by no means 
inferior to the events on the mountain. The winning snow 
sculpture	of	the	1975	Carnival,	aptly	titled	“La	Mosqueé,”	
stands	on	Battell	beach	with	Allen	Hall	in	the	background.	
19
75
In 1988, a crowd forms as two students sled down Mead Cha-
pel Hill, a pastime which, unspurprisignly, remains incredibly 
popular among students today. 
19
88
Student skaters 
showed	off	their	ma-
neuvers and amazed 
the audience during 
the Winter Carnival 
Ice Show in Kenyon 
Arena.	
Students gather at the Snow Bowl in anticipation of the impending races.
CARTOONS
Emily COx
VAASU TANEJA
WIN HOMER
KAITLYND COLLINS
BOONE MCCOY-CRISP
Written in 1987, Swordspoint by El-
len Kushner is an intimate fantasy novel 
set in a renascence world – a world full 
of swordsmen 
and challenges, 
nobles and in-
trigue, jewels 
and assassinations. The stunning open-
ing line, “Let the fairy tale begin on a 
winter’s morning, then, with one drop of 
blood newly fallen on the ivory snow: a 
drop as bright as a clear cut ruby, red as 
a single spot of scarlet on the lace cuff,” 
immediately shows how intimately the 
reader is placed alongside the characters.
What makes this novel so unusual 
as a fantasy tale is that the world is not 
at stake. Not even the kingdom is under 
threat. Instead, the story centers on a ro-
mance between two men. Richard St Vier 
is the best swords-
man in the world, 
and Alec, the badly-
behaved heir to the 
Duchy of Tremontaine, must choose be-
tween the duchy and his forbidden love.
Swordspoint is beautiful, emotion-
al and poised. I was astonished when 
I first read it, because this book went 
against everything I believed a fantasy 
tale should be. The strength in this un-
conventional story lies in Kushner’s ex-
cellent characterization and lyrical prose. 
Packed with delicate details, the book re-
quires a second and 
a third reading for 
the reader to truly 
see the city. From 
the chocolate whisks 
to the unlucky play 
The Swordsman’s 
Tragedy to the boat-
ing parties where 
fireworks are set off 
to amuse the nobles, 
Kushner has it all mapped out in meticu-
lous detail, fully immersing the reader in 
Richard and Alex’s world.
In a reality of intrigue, treachery, 
danger and secret pasts, what truly 
stands out is the evolution of the two 
men’s relationship, 
which spins from 
true love to artificial 
hatred founded on 
verbal duels. Sword-
spoint strikes me as a 
stained glass window 
or a tapestry brought 
to life from the rich 
mythology and his-
tory that Kushner 
has created. This is a book whose folklore 
will stay with you months after you have 
finished it.  
arts & sciences
don’t
miss
this
Girlhood
Fed up with her abusive family situation, lack of edu-
cational prospects and the “boys’ law” in the neighbor-
hood, Marieme starts a new life after meeting a group 
of free-spirited girls. She changes her name and her 
style, drops out of school, and starts stealing to be ac-
cepted into the gang.
3/5, 3 & 8 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
Diana Fanning Concert
A concert celebrating Diana Fanning’s 40 years of teach-
ing piano at Middlebury College. Her program features 
Brahms’ monumental ‘Variations and Fugue on a Theme 
by Handel.’ One of the outstanding piano works of the 
Romantic era, it is a dazzling masterpiece of imagination, 
virtuosity and expressivity. Free.
3/6, 4 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
NER Out Loud
In the tradition of public radio’s Selected Shorts, 
enjoy this second annual evening of original 
prose and poetry from the New England Review 
literary magazine, read aloud by students from 
Oratory Now. Join the readers and organizers 
for a “S’more Readings” reception after.
3/4, 8 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
On Feb. 25-27 in the Hepburn Zoo, 
The Vagina Monologues returned in its 
third consecutive year at the College, but 
the fresh form and delivery of the play, re-
named Beyond the Vagina (Monologues), 
explored changing definitions of femininity 
and womanhood in an inclusive and ambi-
tious showcase of thought-provoking narra-
tives. 
In an effort to start a conversation 
about previously taboo subjects like fe-
male genitalia, sexual stigmas and violence 
against women, writer Eve Ensler ’75 com-
piled a theatrical celebration of vaginas and 
femininity based on two decades of inter-
views with over 200 women spanning age, 
ethnicity, nationality and sexual experience. 
Premiering in 1996 in New York City — and 
shown in a limited run in the same year 
at the Mahaney Center for the Arts — the 
resulting piece, The Vagina Monologues, 
featured a candid exploration of anatomical 
and sexual awakenings,  feminine shame 
and historical and societal gender oppres-
sion through one common subject: the va-
gina.
After a five-year off-Broadway run and 
a subsequent national tour, the worldwide 
popularity of The Vagina Monologues 
continued to grow after the exposure of a 
Madison Square Garden engagement and 
an HBO television adaptation. In 1998, 
Ensler established V-Day, an organization 
originally staffed by volunteers whose mis-
sion demands that violence against women 
and girls must end. Since the organization’s 
inception, the number of annual Febru-
ary V-Day productions has grown to 5,800 
worldwide, the proceeds of which benefit 
shelters and rape crisis centers to further V-
Day’s mission. All of the proceeds from the 
College’s production were donated to Wo-
menSafe, an Addison County organization 
working toward the elimination of physi-
cal, sexual and emotional violence against 
women.
Though The Vagina Monologues re-
mains a global phenomenon 20 years after 
its debut, the play has garnered significant 
criticism for representing a largely white, 
cisgendered, heterosexual perspective that 
portrays a dated view of femininity and 
womanhood. Director, producer, script 
adapter and lighting designer Rebecca 
Coates-Finke ’16.5, who has worked on 
three consecutive productions of The Vagi-
na Monologues, wanted to create a perfor-
mance experience that addressed these crit-
icisms and expanded the play’s reach and 
relevance. After launching the 2014 show 
with a student monologue and introducing 
an accompanying booklet of student voices 
in 2015 to make the production more Mid-
dlebury specific, Coates-Finke embarked 
on her most ambitious interpretation of the 
show’s potential with this year’s Beyond the 
Vagina (Monologues).
“I wasn’t satisfied with just doing the 
play as it was anymore and I was curious 
as to whether or not it was possible to use 
the script to undermine some of the central 
issues with it in a new play,” Coates-Finke 
said. “I believe that a show can’t be feminist 
if it can’t reflect the context that it’s in, and 
in that way it [The Vagina Monologues] 
does allow itself to become irrelevant over 
time because it keeps repeating the same 
story even when culture has shifted.”
Featuring an all-student ensemble of 
16 cast members and six American sign 
language interpreters dressed in black and 
shades of red, Beyond the Vagina (Mono-
logues) was presented in the round in the 
Hepburn Zoo, encouraging an interactive 
and physical performance style that — like 
the content of the text — did not allow for 
audience complacency. 
In addition to familiar aspects like a 
compilation book of eight monologues writ-
ten, edited and illustrated by students and 
performances of nine monologues from the 
original piece — including Anna Hoge ’19’s 
confident and unapologetic rendition of 
“Hair,” an exploration of the societal pres-
sures placed on women to modify their 
body hair for ‘beauty’ and Jenne Meneses 
Montiel ’19’s Spanish-infused interpreta-
tion of “My Angry Vagina,” a condemnation 
of female medical treatment and the pro-
liferation of consumer products implicitly 
shaming female bodies — Coates-Finke in-
corporated outside speeches and materials 
to shatter the limitations of the original text.
Early in the show, an audio-recording 
of transgender writer, speaker and activist 
Julia Serano’s piece “Cocky” played over the 
loudspeaker as American Sign Language 
(ASL) interpreter Julia Desmarais ’18 of-
fered an emotive translation on a darkened 
stage. As a transwoman who did not have 
genital reassignment surgery grappling 
with her position outside of traditional gen-
der definitions and the constant threat of 
physical violence, the juxtaposition of Se-
rano’s candid voice to the quietly gripping 
visual translation left the audience momen-
tarily stunned by the interplay of raw emo-
tion and articulate narrative in the piece. 
“One of the main criticisms of The 
Vagina Monologues is that it’s biologi-
cally essentialist, so what it does is it uses 
the vagina to talk about the experience of 
being a woman, which ends up leaving a 
lot of people out in terms of conversations 
about sexism and devaluing the feminine,” 
Coates-Finke said. “I wanted to complicate 
that because there are many trans women 
who have not undergone surgery. I wanted 
to use the audio of Serano’s piece to recog-
nize the fact that there was nobody in my 
cast who identified as a trans woman and 
to acknowledge that there are some people 
not in the room whose voices still need to 
be heard.”
The inclusion of ASL interpretations of 
each piece, as well as an increased commit-
ment to physical performance and a greater 
incorporation of multimedia, augmented 
the thematic changes to contribute to an 
overall tonal shift toward inclusivity, inno-
vation and open discussion.
Each audience member was asked to 
write their own definition of femininity on 
a piece of paper upon entering the theater, 
and the responses encapsulated a shifting 
view of femininity as a measure of power, 
self-esteem or choice rather than a static 
biological assignment or reinforced social 
construct. Coates-Finke discussed the re-
flection that three years of engagement with 
The Vagina Monologues has prompted.
“I have learned so much more about 
femininity and what my gender means from 
people who are a-gender or gender queer 
or trans women because there is something 
very powerful about acknowledging in some 
ways that there is a little bit of choice in-
volved in how you get to identify your gen-
der and how you can change and enact that 
every day,” Coates-Finke said.
Another striking addition to the show 
was Stella Boye-Doe ’19’s nuanced rendi-
tion of “Respect,” written by critical race 
theorist and founder of intersectionality 
Kimberlé  Crenshaw for the V-Day produc-
tion A Memory, A Monologue, a Rant and 
a Prayer. The piece confronts the history 
of America’s simultaneous capitalization 
and oppression of the black vagina. Assert-
ing that the United States was built on the 
backs — and through the wombs — of slave 
women, the piece offers startling statistics 
about a continued lack of progress and re-
spect, including the fact that rapists of black 
victims receive, on average, one-fifth of the 
sentence of the rapists of white victims.
Though only a week has passed since 
this reinvention of The Vagina Monologues 
premiered, Coates-Finke and the cast have 
received some positive feedback.
“I don’t think I’ve ever been thanked 
so much for doing a show before, and other 
members of the cast have had similar ex-
periences,” Coates-Finke said. “It has been 
really powerful to hear about people who 
were skeptical of the show because of pre-
vious criticisms and decided to see it for 
themselves. I think I was worried about not 
having gained the trust of the people I really 
wanted to be in the room, so I was glad to 
see that people were trying it out even if in 
the past it hadn’t been what they wanted it 
to be.”
In its ambition to expand its scope 
and explore shifting conversations on 
femininity and gender, Beyond the Vagina 
(Monologues) undermined many of the 
contradictions inherent in its original form, 
incorporating deft artistic decisions to pres-
ent a piece unique to its time and place. 
Coates-Finke’s presentation is a vision of 
what The Vagina Monologues could be, and 
it is my hope that the play can continue to 
push its own boundaries in years to come. 
On Friday, March 4, Coates-Finke will 
be discussing her process in writing, pro-
ducing, and directing Beyond the Vagina 
(Monologues) at 12:15 p.m. in the Aberna-
thy Room.
Vagina Monologues Beyond Convention
By Leah Lavigne
Managing Editor
booking it
By Abigail Walton
Staff Columnist
Swordspoint
Packed with delicate de-
tails, the book requires 
a second and a third 
reading for hte reader to 
truly see the city.
Rebecca Coates-Finke
Rebecca Coates-Finke ’16.5 directed an expanded show of The Vagina Monologues.
14 arts & SCIENCES
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
These disproportionate 
numbers stem from what 
researchers have dubbed 
“the climate paradox,” in 
which the least resonsible 
parties – those that have 
contributed the least to 
carbon dioxide emissions – 
are the most vulnerable to 
climate change.
| March 3, 2016
Speech Contextualizes Paris Climate Talks
Were the Paris climate talks of 2015 
a success or a failure, and where do we go 
from there? These were the central ques-
tions in a talk entitled “Adequacy and 
Equity under Neoliberal Climate Gover-
nance: Assessing the Paris Moment” on 
Thursday, Feb 25. Co-sponsored by the 
Geography Department and the Rohatyn 
Center for Global Affairs as part of the 
Howard E. Woodin ES Colloquium Se-
ries, the presentation featured Timmons 
Roberts, Ittleson Professor of Environ-
mental Studies and Professor of Sociol-
ogy at Brown University.
Standing before a packed room of 
ES majors, faculty members and curious 
students looking to expand their knowl-
edge on a deeply relevant issue, Roberts 
opened his speech with a few stark sta-
tistics. Due to the nature of global cli-
mate governance, people in the least de-
veloped countries – including Myanmar, 
Nepal and Bangladesh – are five times 
more likely than anyone else to die from 
natural disasters. Comprising only 11 
percent of the total population, the most 
disadvantaged civilians of the world live 
in areas that experience 21 percent of 
climate-related disasters and witness 51 
percent of climate-related deaths.
These disproportionate numbers 
stem from what researchers have dubbed 
“the climate paradox,” in which the least 
responsible parties – those that have 
contributed least to carbon dioxide emis-
sions – are the most vulnerable to cli-
mate change. Lacking the proper infra-
structure to respond to environmental 
damage caused by global warming, these 
lesser developed countries pay dearly for 
the climate policies instated by and for 
their wealthier, more powerful neigh-
bors.
So did the United Nations Climate 
Change Conference of 2015 – also known 
as the 21st Conference of the Parties, COP 
21 or the Paris climate talks – address 
this inequity? Roberts, who brings the 
students in his climate and development 
lab to the event each year, unpacked the 
details of last December’s Paris agree-
ment, a plan to reduce climate change 
as negotiated by the 195 participating 
countries, and its long-term implications 
for the world. Because countries had not 
settled on many concrete measures be-
fore the 2015 conference, nearly every 
single issue – from peaking emissions to 
net reductions – was on the table.
A major goal outlined in the 12-page 
document is to “hold the increase in 
global average temperature to well be-
low 2°C above pre-industrial levels and 
to pursue efforts to limit the temperature 
increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial 
levels, recognizing that this would sig-
nificantly reduce the risks and impacts of 
climate change.” Roberts cast a wary eye 
on this clause, however, explaining that 
researchers do not know if the 1.5°C limit 
is even enough to maintain a safe long-
term environment. Besides, with human 
activity already elevating the global tem-
perature by 1°C, the 1.5°C threshold may 
turn out to be more difficult to uphold 
than researchers 
imagine.
Roberts pro-
vided a histori-
cal context for the 
Paris talks by ex-
plaining the evolu-
tion of global poli-
cies across the past 
few decades. In 
1972, representa-
tives convened in 
Stockholm to piece 
together a pre-cau-
tionary approach 
to climate change. 
At the Rio Earth 
Summit in 1992, 
the cost of conservation entered the in-
ternational dialogue. Five years later, the 
Kyoto Protocol institutionalized liberal 
environmentalism, and certain wealthy 
countries became subject to binding lim-
its on emissions.
More recently, the Copenhagen con-
ference in 2009 marked a significant 
turning point in global climate gover-
nance, as officials ushered in a new pro-
cess of pledge and review entitled the 
“Intended Nationally Determined Con-
tributions” (INDC). The United States 
and China, the two largest emitters, 
made initial announcements of their na-
tional pledges in 2013, creating a domino 
effect throughout the international com-
munity. In total, 189 national pledges 
were submitted, all of which reflected a 
general willingness to make meaningful 
and pragmatic changes to their climate 
policies. With these INDCs in effect, the 
global average temperature went down 
slightly, from 3.6°C to 2.7°C.
 “It wasn’t enough, but it was some-
thing,” Roberts said, before quoting the 
following line from George Monbiot in 
The Guardian: “By comparison to what 
it could’ve been, it was a success. By 
comparison to what it should’ve been, it 
was a disaster.”
According to Roberts, the shift from 
top-down command to a completely flex-
ible and voluntary approach gave birth 
to a system of “shared irresponsibility.” 
Plagued by a lack of accountability, the 
policy enacted in Copenhagen has been 
criticized as inequitable and undemo-
cratic.
“The pledges are not binding,” Rob-
erts stated. “Logically, wouldn’t a bet-
ter way of solving this problem have 
been figuring out a budget and dividing 
it up by a fair burden-sharing formula? 
If I were king of 
the world, that’s 
what I would do. 
That’s the rational 
management ap-
proach. We tried 
that for 15 years, 
but countries sim-
ply didn’t sign up 
[at the Kyoto Pro-
tocol].”
The Paris talks 
strived to incor-
porate all pres-
ent parties at the 
conference in a 
long-term plan 
for environmen-
tal conservation. However, the lack of 
binding commitments and enforcement 
measures make some experts doubt the 
efficacy of the agreement. Countries 
are expected to sign the document and 
implement it in their own legal systems 
between April 22, 2016 (Earth Day) and 
April 21, 2017, but there is no estab-
lished consequenc if they fail to do so. 
Furthermore, each nation will determine 
their own goals of emission reduction. 
The Paris agreement operates on an un-
official “name and shame” system, also 
known as the mantra of “name and en-
courage.” The proposed measures will 
not go into effect until the 55 parties who 
produce over 55 percent of the world’s 
greenhouse gas have signed.
Roberts pointed out that the flexibil-
ity granted to participating countries is 
entirely strategic.
“Countries worried about their sov-
ereignty don’t want to be told what to do, 
but they may go beyond what they are 
asked to do,” he explained.
For instance, knowing that the ap-
pearance of coercion might lead to a po-
litical blockade, President Obama pur-
posefully used the word “should” instead 
of “shall” throughout the U.S. treaty. 
66 senators must agree to the proposed 
measures, which may be difficult given 
the nature of the people occupying those 
seats.
Based on the new book Power in a 
Warming World, which Roberts co-au-
thored alongside David Siplet, Assistant 
Professor of Environmental Studies at 
the University of Colorado-Boulder, and 
Mizan Khan, Professor of Environmental 
Science and Management at North South 
University in Bangladesh, the speech 
emphasized the importance of a neo-
liberal climate governance that exempli-
fies both efficacy and equity. Deemed by 
Roberts as the “holy grail of climate jus-
tice,” this approach is partially lacking 
from the Paris agreement.
Because the voluntary aspect of the 
Paris agreement is a far cry from the 
hard-hitting conservation policies that 
the world so desperately needs, Rob-
erts urged the audience to spring to ac-
tion. Now is an opportunity for citizens 
to hold their governments accountable, 
particularly as the opportunities to enact 
radical change become fewer and farther 
between.
“The kinds of solutions to our cli-
mate problems that we can put forward 
now in 2016 are really limited. We used 
to be able to bring out state regulations 
or strong international agreements,” 
Roberts stated, referencing the binding 
1987 protocol to address the hole in the 
ozone, as well as the extra decade once 
allotted to developing countries like 
China and India to reduce their carbon 
emissions.
In light of the recent presidential 
primaries, perhaps it was fitting that the 
first question posed after the presenta-
tion concerned Donald Trump. The con-
troversial Republican candidate has ex-
pressed the intention to back out of the 
Paris agreement should he assume office.
“I feel like I have to ask – what effect 
would Trump have on U.S. agreements 
with other countries?” a student asked.
“It’s hard to imagine Trump being 
very multilateral,” Roberts responded, 
his understatement prompting laughter 
from the crowd. “This problem needs a 
global solution, and the U.S. acting uni-
laterally is not a good approach. A lot is 
on the line.”
The moral of the story? Elections 
matter – and the full implications of the 
Paris talks will continue to come to light 
as countries choose whether or not to opt 
into these national pledges.    
About a month ago, Old Navy re-
leased a children’s sweatshirt with the 
label “Aspiring Young Artist President.” 
Being an artist for its own sake is indeed 
worthwhile, asserted every criticism that 
proceeded to light up the Internet. What a 
soul-sucking world we would live in, they 
continued, if we had no art and no artists.
I could not agree more.
But they forgot one thing: artists can 
influence what the president does. Forget 
that. An artist, if they are great, can influ-
ence society more than any president or 
politician would or could.
Don’t believe me? Harriett Beecher 
Stowe wrote Uncle Tom’s Cabin in 1861 
because she was angry about slavery and 
wanted more white Americans to be ap-
propriately outraged. It worked. Tens of 
thousands of Americans – the very popula-
tions that politicians originally wrote off as 
apathetic – rose up in fury for the first time. 
When Abraham Lincoln greeted Stowe in 
the midst of the Civil War, he bowed down 
his lanky frame to meet her and said, “So 
you’re the little woman who wrote the book 
that started this great war.”
This productive strain of social anger, 
it turns out, has fanned the flame of much of 
the best art our society 
has ever seen. In an 
interview with Arthur 
Miller, the world-re-
nowned playwright of 
Death of a Salesman, 
Charlie Rose asked 
him what distinguish-
es a good playwright 
from a great play-
wright – one like Ten-
nessee Williams, Wil-
liam Shakespeare and 
Miller himself. What 
would they share in 
common?
“I personally 
think what the big 
ones have in common 
is a fierce moral sen-
sibility,” Miller said. “They are all burning 
with some anger about the way the world is. 
The little ones have made peace with it. And 
the big ones, can’t make any peace.”
If this is indeed the case, then why do 
so few do-gooders turn to art as a chan-
nel? Look no further than the slogan on 
the Old Navy shirt, which summarizes the 
unspoken belief about artists curdling in 
highbrow society. Get off your frivolous ass 
and do something that 
actually helps people, it 
might as well say. Help-
ing people is what do-
gooders want to do more 
than anything else in the 
world. To change the 
status quo. If making art 
does not accomplish that, 
most of us figured along 
the way, then perhaps we 
ought to direct our atten-
tion elsewhere.
Some artist reading 
this right now is prob-
ably reeling inside. Of 
course, you have to love 
the craft for its own sake. 
Indeed, the only reward 
you are entitled to when 
you write is the love of writing – not the 
extrinsic rewards. You will not create any-
thing worthwhile or revolutionary unless 
you love doing it.
During our middle school years, we are 
all given a choice concerning creative pur-
suits: either we can start training to become 
a legend, or bump it down to a side hobby. 
At the root of this ultimatum is fear. Fear 
that we will not be productive citizens if we 
spent time on art. Fear that we will not be 
successful artists unless we happen to have 
been born with strange genes that gave 
us an urge to create since before we could 
crawl. Many successful artists fit the second 
description, which is why they only make 
art out of pure compulsion.
In our J-term class, we had the su-
preme privilege of Skyping with the con-
temporary playwrights whose works we 
spent the prior week reading. One of those 
playwrights was Dominique Morriseau, the 
mastermind behind Detroit ’67 and Sunset 
Baby, highly acclaimed plays about racial 
injustice and inner city plight. It was a tre-
mendous relief to learn that the primary 
inspiration for her writing comes from the 
social issues that fire her up. How does she 
avoid being ‘preachy’? She writes about the 
people behind the social issue.
“Politics affect people,” Morriseau ex-
plained. “And when you’re writing about 
people, that always brings in a good story.”
In short, get off your frivolous ass and 
do something that actually helps people. 
Make art.
By Alexa Beyer, Joey Giandomenco,
Charlie Mathon, Henry Miles and 
Sammy Redmond 
Contributing Columnists
At the root of this ulti-
matum is fear. Fear that 
we will not be produc-
tive citizens if we spent 
time on art. Fear that 
we will not be successful 
artists unless we happen 
to have been born with 
strange genes that gave 
us an urge to create.
Playwrights on their plays 
Fun fact: Vermont is home to more 
writers per capita than any other state in 
the country. Must be all the Frost in the 
air. Now, as the sun’s warmth makes the 
campus shed its crystal shell, the wonderful 
works of those writers emerge to our very 
own stage, to be performed aloud by your 
friends and peers.
In the tradition of Public Radio In-
ternational’s Selected Shorts, six student 
orators will read selections from the New 
England Review (NER) literary magazine 
in this second annual live performance of 
NER Out Loud, at 8 p.m. on Friday, March 
4 at the Mahaney Center for the Arts (MCA). 
This event combines the masterful language 
of gripping stories with the animated deliv-
ery and performance of public speaking and 
spoken word. 
The excerpts will be followed by a 
“S’more Readings” reception with the read-
ers and NER staff, along with representa-
tives of several student literary magazines 
and lots of snacks. Both events are free and 
open to the public.
This year’s assortment of prose and 
poetry, carefully chosen from all works pub-
lished in 2015 by NER, offers a thoughtful 
medley of topics. For instance, “Forty-Two,” 
read by Kathleen Gudas ’16.5, intimately 
conveys the pains of loving a man who is 
married to someone else. Meanwhile, “High 
School in Suzhou,” read by Mariah Levin 
’16.5, inspects women’s roles across different 
cultures. 
 Sally Seitz ’17 reports that the piece she 
will be reading, “The Red Painter,” depicts 
“any artist’s struggle to 
create work and be happy 
with the work created;” a 
sentiment that should 
echo through Middle-
bury students.
And according to 
Alexander Burnett ’16, 
his story, “To Bundle or 
to Tarry,” is essentially 
about “bed-sharing in 
early America … essen-
tially colonial spooning.” 
It differs from the rest in that it was originally 
published in 1871 but banned in 1872 because 
it offended Victorian sensibilities at the time 
– even though the author, Henry Reed Stiles, 
was only proving what had been common 
practice for hundreds of years. 
Melanie Rivera ’19 will read “At the Tri-
bunals” by Patrick Rosal, and August Rosen-
thal ’17 will perform “Eleven Girls” by David 
Ebenbach. 
As someone who is relatively inexpe-
rienced with public speaking and definitely 
frightened by it, I enjoyed 
the opportunity to ask a 
few questions to several 
of this year’s orators.
Middlebury Cam-
pus (MC): What do you 
like about public speak-
ing?
Sally Seitz (SS): 
“Well, particularly with 
NER it’s less about pub-
lic speaking for me, and 
more about storytelling. It’s rare to get a 
chance to just sit and hear a story out loud. As 
students, we are exposed to plenty of written 
stories, but being told a story orally is a com-
pletely different experience and art form.”
Alexander Burnett (AB): “This will 
be my first performance with Oratory Now, 
but I did Speech and Debate all throughout 
high school, so I’ve always enjoyed public 
speaking. It’s a powerful feeling to command 
a room.”
MC: Do you ever get anxious before 
speaking? 
Mariah Levin (ML): “To this day, I 
get nervous before talking in front of people. I 
think it is just a normal part of being exposed. 
But, with more experience I know how to 
calm my nerves and channel the energy to be 
helpful instead of harmful.”
Kathleen Gudas (KG): “Although 
I’m a Theatre major, I still get stage fright. I 
usually deal with my pre-performance anxi-
ety by listening to music and taking deep, low 
breaths.”
NER Out Loud is the result of a new 
partnership between the New England Re-
view, the Mahaney Center for the Arts and 
Oratory Now, the student speech society.
Oratory Now is committed to helping 
people speak with conviction, sincerity and 
persuasive power. Members believe that by 
learning to speak and listen effectively, we 
can become a more connected and resilient 
community. In addition to public speaking 
contests and events like NER Out Loud, Ora-
tory Now also offers workshops and class-
room coaching to help hone students’ public 
speaking skills. Visit go/oratorynow to see 
upcoming opportunities.
Meanwhile, the New England Review 
seeks to provide a place outside of mass 
culture where meticulous craft and steady 
thought are the norm instead of speed and in-
formation overload. The publication accepts 
submissions year-round in nearly every form 
of the written word. 
Editors and contributors to the student 
literary magazines Blackbird, Frame, Mid-
dGeo and Translingual will also be on hand 
at the post-show reception to discuss their 
publications and give sample readings from 
their pages.
Performing Arts Sp    TLight
 
Robert Keren
Six student orators will read sections from the New England Review literary magazine at 8 p.m. on Friday, Mar. 4 at the MCA.
This year’s assortment 
of prose and poetry, 
carefully chosen from 
all works published in 
2015 by NER, offers a 
thoughtful medley of 
topics. 
By Connor Forrest
Senior Columnist
March 3, 2016 | 15arts & SCIENCES
In the mind of bandleader Michael 
League, Snarky Puppy was born out of a pas-
sion for jazz. League studied the form and 
started the band of like-minded musicians 
at the University of North Texas. The band 
later transplanted to a base of operations in 
Brooklyn, N. Y., and has grown in both mem-
bers and musical dynamism since its debut al-
bum in 2006. Lovingly known as “the Fam” to 
their fans as well as to one another, the rotat-
ing 24 plus member group consistently charts 
unprecedented pathways through funk, with 
welcome detours into jazz, soul and every 
turn of music they can handle.
Recorded live, as most of their albums 
are, in New Orleans, Family Dinner Vol. 2 is 
a direct descendant of 
the group’s 2013 al-
bum Family Dinner 
Vol. 1. Assembling a 
flock of virtuosic mu-
sicians and perform-
ers, League and com-
pany deliver a genre-defying set of music that 
incorporates both original pieces written by 
“the Fam” and their guests, as well as inven-
tive takes on already recorded music brought 
to the table by the visiting performers. Fam-
ily Dinner is an apt name for the album, for it 
has the feel of a meal prepared by many hands 
that somehow manages to hit each distinct 
flavor of music without spoiling your appetite 
for the next course.
The album begins with “I Asked,” which 
features American folk and jazz singer Becca 
Stevens, as well as members of the Swedish 
folk band Väsen. It begins as a chiefly acous-
tic track that features Stevens’ voice, but after 
four minutes it evolves into an atmospheric bit 
of prog rock, with a sparse electronic and per-
cussive instrumentation overlaid with vocals 
that border on chants. It is arguably the weak-
est installment on the album, but if nothing 
else it reinforces the risk-taking tendencies of 
a group that is willing to do anything, as long 
as they have never done it before.
Latin rock and salsa infused “Molino 
Molero” follows this up, and with guest turns 
by legendary singer-songwriter Susana Baca 
and guitarist Charlie Hunter, the song is in-
fectiously good-natured. Baca’s voice is per-
fectly backed by the instrumentalists, and 
when she cedes the floor to Hunter the ar-
rangement puts his playing on full display. 
Hunter dances through a nearly two-minute 
solo that feels right out of any of Carlos San-
tana’s best work, which crescendos to bring 
back Baca and the rest of the band for the end 
of the song. It works 
as an ideal segway 
into the upbeat tone 
of the majority of the 
album. 
With another 
180-degree twist, 
“Liquid Love” is an overhauling of guest sing-
er Chris Turner’s soulful rocker. “The Fam” 
gives center stage to Turner and his back-up 
singers, but also serves as a proper intro-
duction to the stellar horns sections Snarky 
Puppy is blessed with. Turner turns in a vo-
cal performance that is dripping with sultry 
tone, and even though the song goes on a bit 
too long when all is said and done, the song 
builds well on the energy and fun of “Molino 
Molero.” 
Not content to settle into soul and stay 
there, “Soro (Afriki)” provides a dramatic 
shift in tone from the closing notes of “Liq-
uid Love.” It features guest vocals from Salif 
Keita, a singer-songwriter from Mali known 
as “the Golden Voice of Africa,” as well as so-
los from South American musicians Bernardo 
Aguiar on drums, and Carlos Malta on flute. 
Snarky Puppy delves further into the world 
music genre. It opens with Malta’s solo, and 
gives way to Keita and a contingent of back-
up singers who blend traditional African 
music with the jazz provided by “the Fam.” 
The piece as a whole 
possesses a highly 
cinematic quality. It 
moves through differ-
ent tones and modes 
in a narrative fashion, 
presenting distinct 
segments of sound that 
would not be out of 
place backing a Quen-
tin Tarantino movie. 
“Sing to the 
Moon” harkens back 
to the soul of “Liquid 
Love,” but while Turn-
er focused on a sexy 
soul, Laura Mvula, 
who here provides a powerhouse vocal on a 
reinterpretation of her song, settles into a 
slow build performance that is haunting in 
its beauty. As the song progresses, it builds 
from minimal instrumentation that evokes 
the quiet moonlit that Mvula sings of, and 
bursts forth into a passionate crescendo with 
all hands on deck. It is easily a highlight of 
the album that shows how much can be done 
with so little when a song is in the hands of 
master craft musicians. 
The last three songs of the album, “Don’t 
You Know,” “I Remember” and “Somebody 
Home” are a trio of pieces that bring the mu-
sical works full circle. “Don’t You Know” fea-
tures English prodigy Jacob Collier on a piano 
part that ebbs back and forth equal parts Duke 
Ellington and Maurice Ravel. “I Remember” 
sees American electronic duo KNOWER 
channeling their inner Michael Jackson with 
saxophonist Jeff Coffin bringing out the best 
in the horns section with his animated play-
ing. After these two pieces centered on crack-
ling performances of pure musical energy 
and camaraderie, “Somebody Home” revisits 
the folk introduced on 
the first track, but this 
time in a much quieter 
fashion celebrating a 
man who has been in 
the business for de-
cades: David Crosby. 
“ S o m e b o d y 
Home” is Crosby’s, 
and he takes a min-
ute to introduce the 
song, joking with the 
audience and talking 
with the band. What 
follows is the most re-
served performance 
on the album. Much 
of the song is solely Crosby on acoustic gui-
tar. When Snarky Puppy does join, they do so 
with a tenderness that showcases their abil-
ity to go from bombastic to gentle seamlessly. 
While many bands may be tempted to send 
an album out on an energetic piece, “the Fam” 
sees an opportunity to slow down and enjoy a 
performance with another legend. 
As a whole piece of art, Family Dinner 
Vol. 2 displays a group that celebrates musi-
cians of the past and future that all bring a 
distinct and celebratory tone of creation to a 
group devoted to the exploration of the craft. 
The sprawling instrumental sections may not 
be the most accessible music on the market, 
but for those who will take the time to sink 
into it, there are many rewarding moments. 
The rotating 24 plus 
member group con-
sistently charts un-
precedented pathways 
through funk, with wel-
come detours into jazz, 
soul and every turn of 
music they can handle.
By Devin McGrath-Conwell
Senior Columnist
 For the Rec    rd
Snarky Puppy
Family Dinner Vol. 1
 16advertisements   | march 3, 2016
JOIN OUR PACK
WRITE FOR THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE INTERESTED, EMAIL CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
GREEN PEPPERS
Official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
ft
(802) 388-3164
Track & Field Heads Toward Division III Championship 
In a highly competitive Open New 
England Championships meet, which fea-
tured over 70 teams from all three colle-
giate divisions, the Middlebury track and 
field team continued to post the type of 
numbers that should allow them to finish 
their indoor season very successfully over 
the next two weeks. Although the events 
were run on a banked track (which allows 
for slightly faster times in many events), 
many of the Panther times landed them 
on the national DIII leaderboard even 
after they had been adjusted. Out of 32 
scoring teams, the women finished 20th; 
the men came in 31st out of 36.
Alex Nichols ’17, who anchored the 
4x400 quartet that finished third and 
garnered All-New England honors, spoke 
briefly about the different atmosphere at 
the larger meet. 
“The biggest difference with Open 
meets is that they are just a lot bigger,” he 
said. “ The crowd can be pretty huge and 
enthusiastic, the building is louder and 
there are so many athletes that events be-
come more competitive.  When you com-
pete at a smaller meet, there’s a chance 
that any given event won’t be particularly 
intense that day, but with so many people 
at an Open meet you always know that 
the people racing, jumping or throwing 
against you will be fierce competition, 
and that really adds an electricity that 
makes you want to do well.”
Many of the Panther athletes had no 
problem matching that higher intensity. 
The men’s 4x400 team, made up of Jim-
my Martinez ’19, Brandon Cushman ’16, 
James Mulliken ’18 and Nichols, smashed 
the previous school record by almost 
a second (now 3:15.92) and posted the 
11th-best time in Division III this year. 
The women’s 4x400 was just as impres-
sive impressive: Jackie Kearney ’16, Lucy 
Lang ’19, Paige Fernandez ’17 and anchor 
Alex Morris ’16 finished sixth overall 
(first among Division III teams) and set 
their own school record with a time of 
3:51.28, good for the ninth-fastest time in 
DIII. Not wanting to miss out on the fun, 
the women’s distance medley relay team 
(Nicole Schachman ’16, Kate McCluskey 
’18, Lauren Bougioukas ’16 and Abigail 
Nadler ’19) posted the fourth fastest DIII 
time this season, crossing the line fourth 
in 11:49.92.
In fact, setting records was the name 
of the game for all the Middlebury ath-
letes at the meet. Nicole Wilkerson, who 
spends all year with many of the runners 
as both the cross-country coach and an 
assistant track coach, was quick to point 
out how well the team competed across 
the board. “Everyone that competed this 
weekend either matched their best per-
formances or ran their personal bests,” 
she explained. “The energy on the team 
was high and everyone was really excited 
to compete: the results reflected that.”
For the men, other notable finish-
ers included Kevin Serrao ’18, who re-
vised his school record in the 800-meter 
race en route to a 9th place finish with a 
time of 1:53.14, and Sam Cartwright ’16, 
whose time of 4:13.45 placed him 10th in 
the mile. In addition to her contribution 
to the distance medley relay, Nadler be-
came the first female Panther to break the 
10-minute mark in the 3,000-meter race, 
smashing the old record by almost 10 sec-
onds with a time of 9:58.71.
With Division III championships at 
Grinnell College in two weeks, most of the 
athletes who aren’t competing for a quali-
fying time this weekend will be laying off 
the gas in order to finish the season as 
healthy as possible. “Training this week is 
definitely going to focus more on recov-
ery for a lot of us who are continuing the 
indoor season,” Nichols said. “ We’ve now 
hit the point where we’ve had to run some 
very intense and important races in back 
to back weeks, and so practice will focus 
a lot more on being healthy and making 
sure we feel good as we head into the last 
couple weeks before what we hope will be 
a Midd-filled nationals meet.”
Middlebury will be sending a contin-
gent of athletes to compete in the East 
Coast Athletic Conference Champion-
ships on Staten Island this weekend; a 
handful of others still vying for qualifying 
times will head down to Tufts for one last 
opportunity.
By Robert Erickson
Staff Writer
A handful of podium finishes, including 
Rob Cone ’17’s first-place finish in the sla-
lom, propelled the Panther ski teams to a 
fourth place finish in the Middlebury Car-
nival this past weekend. The EISA Cham-
pionship races were held at the Snow Bowl 
on Feb. 26-27 for the Alpine teams, and at 
Rikert Nordic Center on Feb. 27-28 for the 
Nordic racers. University of Vermont cap-
tured the title with 989 points, followed 
by Dartmouth (826), University of New 
Hampshire (749) and the Panthers (710).
The Alpine team kicked off the only 
home carnival of the season in a big way 
when Cone won Friday’s slalom race. Af-
ter five top-ten finishes this season, Cone 
was able to break through with the win to 
lead the Panther men. Chris McKenna ’17 
and Riley Plant ’18 also contributed to a 
strong team performance, finishing in 15th 
and 16th places. The women’s team placed 
three racers in the top-20 to add more 
points to the team score. First-year racer 
Lexi Calcagni ’19 paced the group in 15th 
place, while Caroline Bartlett ’19 and Elle 
Gilbert ’16 finished in a tie for 16th place.
Cone continued his excellent skiing on 
the second day of racing, finishing second 
overall in the giant slalom after finishing 
with the fast first run. With his first and 
second place finishes, Cone earned EISA 
skier of the week honors.  Plant tied his best 
effort of the carnival season with a sixth 
place finish, and Christoph Niederhauser 
’16 finished out his successful career on the 
Middlebury Ski Team with a 31st place ef-
fort. The women’s team earned their best 
finish of the season, placing three racers 
in the top-12. Calcagni, in her best perfor-
mance yet, placed fourth, and the duo of 
Gilbert and Bartlett were close behind in 
11th and 12th places, respectively.
“I was thrilled with the performance 
by the girls in the GS,” Head Alpine Coach 
Stever Bartlett recounts. “Lexi pulled out a 
clutch performance to gain qualification to 
the NCAA Championships, and despite big 
mistakes by Elle and Caroline in the first 
run they were able to battle back for the 
best one-day team score of the season for 
the women.”
Nordic action also kicked off on Sat-
urday, with the women’s 5K free race and 
the men’s 10K freestyle. Annie Pokorny ’16 
earned her second-straight win with a time 
nearly nine seconds faster than the next op-
ponent.
“Going into Saturday’s race, I knew that 
I would have the skis and the fitness to win, 
so long as I could put together the techni-
cal details in between,” Pokorny said. “We 
had a huge cheer squad at the start and fin-
ish line, which really gave me the energy 
to push through the hills, navigate the de-
scents and send it all the way to the line.”
Kaitlin Fink ’16 tied her best finish of the 
year placing 13th, and just one second be-
hind her was Cate Brams ’18 with a season-
best 15th place finish. Patrick McElravey ’17 
returned to action on Saturday for the men, 
finishing a team-best 19th. Lewis Notton-
son ’19 was next for the Panthers in 22nd 
place, followed by Jacob Volz ’18, who fin-
ished in 26th.
The Nordic team concluded carnival ac-
tion on Sunday, competing in the 15K and 
20K classic races. Pokorny once again led 
the women’s team, finishing in sixth place. 
Brams was next for the women, finishing in 
14th, while Katie Feldman ’18 rounded out 
the scoring in 27th place. On the men’s side, 
McElravey led the Panthers in 15th place, 
while Sam Wood ’19 and Volz finished up in 
22nd and 26th.
Middlebury is now off until the NCAA 
Championships held from March 9-12 in 
Steamboat Springs, Colo. Both the Alpine 
and Nordic teams are sending multiple ath-
letes and have high expectations.
“It is a ski race so anything can happen, 
but I am confident that the guys and girls 
will put forward great performances,” Ste-
ver said. “They have all worked hard and we 
will take care of the variables we can con-
trol, and then just ski as fast as possible.”
Panther Skiers Finish Fourth at Home Carnival  
By Nicole Roos
Senior Writer
march 3, 2016| 17SPORTS
3:51.28
7:21
22
School-record setting time 
for the 4x400 relay team 
of Jackie Kearney ’18, Lucy 
Lang ’19, Paige Fernandez ’17 
and Alexandra Morris ’16, the 
nation’s ninth-fastest time
Amount of time expired in OT when 
before Jake Charles ’16 scored the 
winning goal against Hamilton in the 
NESCAC Men’s Hockey Quarterfinals.
Points scored by Matt St. Amour 
’17 in Men’s Basketball’s NESCAC 
Championship win over Amherst.
Final place on the rankings table for both 
squash teams after competing at the CSA 
Team National Championships.
by the Numb3rs
15
The third time was the charm for the 
Middlebury men’s hockey team against 
Hamilton.
After tying the Continentals in their 
first two matchups of the season, Jake 
Charles ’16 scored the winning goal 7:21 
into overtime, and the Panthers defeated 
Hamilton 2-1 in Clinton, N.Y. on Saturday, 
Feb. 27, to advance to the NESCAC semifi-
nals. They will play Amherst on Saturday, 
March 5, and the winner of that matchup 
will play for the NESCAC championship 
the following afternoon.
Only one point separated the Conti-
nentals from the Panthers in the NESCAC 
standings when they entered the game 
on Saturday. In the teams’ first matchup, 
Middlebury went ahead 2-0, before Ham-
ilton scored three unanswered goals in 
the second period and Travis Stephens ’18 
made it a 3-3 tie in the final twenty minutes 
of play. Then, one week before last week-
end’s face off in the playoffs, the teams tied 
1-1, setting up the quarterfinals as the rub-
ber match between the fourth-seeded Con-
tinentals and fifth-seeded Panthers.
2:50 into the game, the Panthers scored 
first on Evan Neugold’s ’16 sixth goal of 
the year. Charles passed to Neugold in 
the neutral zone, and Neugold carried the 
puck down the right side. Neugold made 
one defender miss then slung a wrist shot 
past Hamilton netminder Evan Buitenhuis 
for a 1-0 Middlebury lead.
The Panthers took that one goal lead 
into the first break, but Robbie Murden 
tied the game just 39 seconds into the 
second period with his 
conference- leading 
17th goal of the season. 
Middlebury attempted 
to clear the puck but 
was unsuccessful, and 
the puck found its way 
to the NESCAC leading 
scorer, who handled 
the rest, beating Liam 
Moorfield-Yee ’16 to 
the short side.
The Continentals 
had one more golden 
opportunity in the pe-
riod on a two-on-one 
advantage. They drew 
Moorfield-Yee out of 
the net but shot just 
over the crossbar, and the game stayed 
tied entering the final 20 minutes of regu-
lation.
Hamilton outshot the Panthers 17-5 in 
the third period, but could not beat Moor-
field-Yee. Early on, Moorfield-Yee went 
to the ice to make a save and the puck re-
bounded precariously into the crease, but 
a Middlebury defender arrived to clear the 
puck away from the empty net. Without a 
decisive goal, the game went to overtime.
“As a goalie, your job description is 
to stop pucks,” Moorfield-Yee said. “To 
be able to do that over the past couple of 
weeks has been a rewarding experience.”
Seven minutes into 
overtime, a Hamilton 
player swung the puck 
around the boards be-
hind his own net, try-
ing to clear it, but it 
bounced to Charles in 
the center of the ice. 
Charles passed to Vin-
cent Gisonti ’18 at the 
right post whose shot 
was stopped but re-
bounded out to the 
right. Charles was there 
to slide home the game-
winning goal after 67:21 
of action.
The Panthers got 
their second and most 
important overtime win in eleven tries, 
even though the Continentals outshot 
them by a margin of 41-25.
“Liam gave us all the confidence in the 
world,” Neugold said. “He absolutely stood 
on his head and made crucial saves when 
we made mistakes during the game. He 
played his biggest game in our most im-
portant game of the season.”
Moorfield-Yee’s 40-save effort between 
the posts garnered him NESCAC Player of 
the Week honors. 
Middlebury now turns to sixth-seeded 
Amherst on Saturday, March 5, whom they 
will face at Trinity, the highest remaining 
seed in the bracket. The Panthers defeated 
Amherst both times during the regular 
season, by scores of 2-0 and 3-1. However, 
the Lord Jeffs were able to record six goals 
in the third period to come from behind 
and upset third-seeded Bowdoin and will 
be riding that momentum into this upcom-
ing weekend.
In the other semifinal matchup, sec-
ond-seeded Trinity will face eighth-seeded 
Tufts, who knocked off top-seeded Wil-
liams on Saturday. The winners of both 
games will compete for the NESCAC 
championship and an automatic berth in 
the NCAA tournament the following day.
“It’s going to take the same level of 
commitment and buy-in that we played 
with against Hamilton,” Neugold said. “If 
every guy on the team is playing his heart 
out, playing the way we played Saturday 
and buying into the team system, then 
that’s all you can ask for.”
With two wins this weekend, the team 
would win its first NESCAC championship 
in six years and eighth in team history. 
Middlebury last reached the championship 
game in 2012, the season before this year’s 
group of nine seniors arrived on campus.
Men’s Hockey Continues its Playoff Run 
ByAndrew Rigas
Sports Editor 
“Liam gave us all the 
confidence in the world. 
He absolutely stood 
on his head and made 
crucial saves when we 
made mistakes during 
the game.”
Evan Neugold ’16
Men’s Hockey Captain
The men’s basketball team punched 
their ticket to the Division-III edition 
of March Madness by beating the NES-
CAC’s two best regular season teams on 
championship weekend. Two weeks prior, 
Middlebury (17-10) lost to Trinity (19-7) 
and Amherst (22-5) by a combined total 
of 24 points, but that meant nothing to 
the Panthers entering this game.
“Playoffs are a different game and it’s 
all about who wants it more,” Center Matt 
Daley ’16 said. 
Middlebury earned their spot in the 
semifinals of the NESCAC Championship 
by beating Wesleyan 86-74 on Saturday, 
Feb. 20. On Saturday, Feb. 27 Middlebury 
took it to the hosting Bantams, winning 
70-58. The following day, the Panthers 
eked out an 81-79 victory over Amherst 
in a game that featured 23 lead changes, 
clinching the third NESCAC title in pro-
gram history following previous champi-
onships in 2009 and 2011. Unlike in those 
championship seasons when Middlebury 
played as the No. 1 seed in the NESCAC 
tournament, the Panthers were the no. 4 
seed this year.
“The difference with this champion-
ship,” Coach Jeff Brown said,”was that in 
order for us to get to the NCAA tourna-
ment, it was very clear and very apparent 
that we would have to win that champion-
ship game. So I was certainly a lot more 
relaxed [in 2011 and 2009]. This past 
weekend we knew it was do-or-die.”
On Friday night, against top-seeded 
Trinity, Middlebury led for the majority 
of the contest, scoring the first basket and 
maintaining the lead until the 7:11 mark 
of the first half. Daley had eight of the 
Panthers’ first 16 points, kicking off what 
would prove to be a dominant weekend 
for the senior big man. Trinity took a 23-
20 lead on a Jeremy Arthur three-pointer 
with 6:39 to go in the first, but the advan-
tage would be short-lived for the Bantams 
once Matt St. Amour ’17 drilled a three-
pointer of his own a minute and a half 
later to regain the 24-23 lead. Middlebury 
ended the half on a 10-2 run capped by a 
Zach Baines ’19 lay up to make it 34-25.
The Panthers kept Trinity at bay 
throughout the second half, never letting 
the lead go below six. Middlebury was 
able to halt every Trinity run with a stop 
and a big bucket of its own. Unlike in their 
previous meeting, the Panthers defended 
the three-pointer well and only allowed 
Trinity to shoot 6-27 (22.2 percent) from 
deep by switching all perimeter screens 
and not giving the Bantams open looks.
Trinity made the Panthers anxious 
when Andrew Hurd made a deep three 
with 34 seconds to play to make it a sev-
en-point deficit, but a pair of free throws 
from Adisa Majors ’18 effectively iced the 
game.
St. Amour lead all scorers with 20 
points and added nine rebounds. Matt 
Daley (18 points, six rebounds), Jake 
Brown ’17 (11 points, eight assists), and 
Majors (11 points, six rebounds) all joined 
St. Amour in double figures. 
Unlike Friday’s contest, there was no 
time to relax for the Panthers on Satur-
day against Amherst in a game that went 
down to the wire. The Purple and White 
have a long history in the NESCAC Cham-
pionship. Of the 17 NESCAC title games 
that have been played since the confer-
ence was formed in 2000, Amherst has 
competed in 14 of them and, after the 
loss to Middlebury, has compiled a 7-7 
record. That history meant nothing to 
Middlebury, as the Panthers refused to go 
away, even after falling behind by 11 mid-
way through the first half.
Amherst started the game hot, and 
their nationally top-ranked three-point 
defense stifled Middlebury’s shooters all 
day long. The Panthers began chipping 
away at the 11-point lead with some con-
tributions from players who do not usual-
ly score a lot of points. Jack Daly ’18 made 
a free throw, Baines tallied six out of eight 
points at one stretch, and Hilal Dahleh 
’19 finished at the rim. The final 2:28 of 
the first half were crucial for Middlebury. 
After Jayde Dawson of Amherst made it 
a 36-29 game in favor of the Purple and 
White, the Panthers stopped Amherst 
from scoring for the rest of the half. A pair 
of baskets by Majors and Baines made it 
a three-point game, and just before the 
buzzer Jake Brown went coast-to-coast 
and made a circus shot to make it a one-
point game, 36-35 Amherst, at the end of 
the first half.
Amherst quickly opened up a six-
point lead early in the second half, but 
Middlebury came right back. From the 
18:04 mark until there were 10 seconds 
left in the game, neither team led by more 
than three points. 
After very few fouls in the first half, 
Middlebury was able to get to the line 26 
times in the second half alone, making 
18 of those attempts (69.2 percent), and 
keep Amherst off of the free throw stripe 
(9-16, 56.3 percent, in the second half). 
With the score knotted so closely, every 
possession had a unique intensity to it. 
The turning point came with 33 seconds 
left in the ball game. Following a missed 
jumper by Majors, Amherst’s Johnny Mc-
Carthy corralled the board and took off 
down the court. With two Panthers in his 
way around the free throw line, McCarthy 
tried a hesitation move and crossed over 
to his left. But as he rose up to attempt 
the go-ahead runner, the whistle blew and 
the official called a carry against McCar-
thy, a call that is rarely seen even once 
during the course of a typical game. Down 
by one, Amherst was forced to foul and 
sent Baines to the line. The rookie calmly 
sank two free throws, McCarthy missed 
a three-pointer at the other end, and St. 
Amour followed that up with two more 
free throws to make it an 81-76 game. Mc-
Carthy’s half court three-pointer fell, but 
in vain, as time expired and Middlebury 
went home with the 81-79 championship 
win.
Daley was phenomenal again with 16 
points on 7-8 (87.5 percent) shooting and 
five rebounds, despite going up against 
two of the league’s best defensive centers 
in Trinity’s Eg Ogundeko and Amherst’s 
David George.
“My body is hurting from this week-
end, to be honest,” Daley said, “because of 
the shots I took from those guys, who are 
savages in the paint.”
St. Amour’s 22-point, seven-rebound 
day was enough to earn him NESCAC 
Player of the Week Honors as the de facto 
Most Valuable Player of the tournament. 
Daly racked up a double-double with 13 
points and 12 boards, and Baines added 
12 points off of the bench.
“The biggest difference [from the first 
weekend against Trinity and Amherst] 
was how motivated we were,” Majors said. 
“We needed the two wins this weekend 
and we all played like it.”
Middlebury will travel to Stockton 
University in New Jersey to face off with 
Salisbury University in the NCAA First 
Round on Friday, March 4 at 5:30 PM. 
A victory will set the Panthers up for a 
match up with the winner of the game be-
tween the host Stockton Ospreys and the 
Keene State Owls, whom Middlebury beat 
earlier this season.
After a 3-5 start to the season, 
Middlebury has played like a different, 
better team of late, and the Panthers are 
confident that their season will not end 
this weekend, including Matt Daley.
“We’ll keep the momentum,” Daley 
said.
|  march 3, 2016 18 sports
Men’s Basketball Upsets Trinity and Amherst, Wins NESCAC
By Joe MacDonald
Senior Writer
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKING
TEAM
EMILY’S EXCELLENT EIGHT
2
MEN’S BASKETBALL
Such an exciting 81-79 
win over Amherst for the 
conference title!
Women’s HOCKEY
They’ve won or tied 84 
percent of their games this 
season, and are No. 1 in the 
NESCAC standings.
3
Men’s Hockey 
The conference title is 
within reach.
4
Skiing
They’ve been really 
consistent with their fourth 
place finishes this year.
5
7
women’s Squash
The team seems really 
happy with last weekend’s 
performance.
6
Indoor Track and field
The men and women have 
set an impressive amount of 
school records this season. 
(Yay Alex)!
Men’s Squash
They do well against some 
tough competitors.
SPRING SPORTS
Look out for our Spring 
Previews next week!
Men’s Squash Tops Brown, Finishes Fifteenth 
The men’s squash team rounded out 
its season last weekend, on Feb. 26-28, 
when it travelled to New Haven, Conn., 
for the CSA National Championships. 
Ranked 15th in the CSA’s final regular 
season rankings, the Panthers qualified 
to play in the second division at nation-
als for the first time since the program 
made back-to-back appearances in the 
2010-2011 and 2011-2012 seasons.
The team had a tough start to the 
weekend when it lost its top player An-
drew Jung ’16 due to illness. On Friday, 
the Panthers faced tenth-ranked Cornell. 
They lost 9-0 in the quarterfinal match, 
but played close games throughout the 
lineup.
Coach Mark Lewis said the team 
learned of Jung’s illness a week-and-a-
half before nationals. 
“As you might suspect everyone was 
upset first for Andrew and for the team,” 
Coach Lewis said. “He has been a great 
number one, captain and teammate, and 
to see his final opportunity to play for 
Middlebury taken away was difficult. I 
can only imagine how difficult it was for 
him.”
On Saturday, Feb. 27, the Panthers 
faced Navy for the second time this sea-
son in a consolation semifinal game. 
When the teams first met, Middlebury 
won a 5-4 squeaker in a match played at 
the Yale Round Robin. This time when 
the teams met at the Yale courts, the 
Panthers dropped the match 9-0. While 
Middlebury’s lineup had to be shifted up 
because of Jung’s absence, the Panthers 
still played the Midshipmen closely in 
their individual matches.
David Cromwell ’16 and Wyatt French 
’17 had to play in the top two slots in the 
rematch after both won in the second 
and third slots during the regular season 
meeting. Cromwell lost in straight sets 
but gave Navy’s top player, sophomore 
Jack Herold, three tough games includ-
ing a 13-11 second set. French’s match 
went to five games in the second slot, 
winning the second and fourth sets 11-6 
and 11-5, respectively. French dropped 
the first and fifth sets 11-8, but almost 
pulled off a third set victory before fall-
ing 11-9. Will Kurth ’18 also took his 
match to five games in the seventh slot 
and even led two sets to one before los-
ing the fourth and fifth sets 11-9 and 11-
5, respectively.
On Sunday, Feb. 28, the Panthers 
closed what has been an excellent season 
with a storybook ending. 
In the 15th-16th place game, the Pan-
thers faced a rematch with a talented 
Brown team who the Panthers defeated 
5-4 at home during J-term. 
Again, the Panthers faced an up-
hill battle as each individual was slot-
ted up. But that was not going to stop 
Middlebury.
 “I suspect that on a subconscious 
level Andrew’s absence in our line-up 
versus Brown might have served as extra 
motivation for everyone to step up their 
games,” Lewis speculated.
Ben Krant ’17 edged the Panthers 
ahead when he came from behind 
Brown’s Foster Hoff in the sixth slot. 
Krant showed resolve in the comeback 
effort, as he exchanged 12-10 games with 
Hoff before dropping the third game 14-
12. Fitness paid off for Krant as he fol-
lowed a win in the fourth game with a 
12-10 win in the decisive match.
“It was the longest match I’ve ever 
played in terms of minutes,” Krant said, 
“and the only time every game except for 
one was more than 11 points. But it was 
our senior’s last match so everyone was 
willing to work as hard as possible.”
French outlasted Jake Blasberg in 
the second slot, winning close games 
in straight sets, while Cadienhead and 
Kurth won in four sets on the third and 
seventh spots on the ladder. Cadien-
head, who played most of last season in 
the second slot for the Panthers, played 
well in his return to the top three.
“I think Cadienhead’s mindset for his 
match was sheer determination,” Lewis 
said. “He’s a gifted athlete who can open 
up the court sometimes for his oppo-
nent. I suggested that he keep his game 
simple and use straight hitting to limit 
his opponent’s options before using lots 
of angles.  Although it is difficult to stick 
with this plan, he did and it paid off.”
With the teams tied 4-4, Cromwell 
took the court against Brown sophomore 
Thomas Blecher, who had defeated Jung 
in straight sets at the top of the ladder 
earlier in the season. Cromwell faced a 
tough task, but with the final match of 
the season in the balance, he proved up 
to the challenge. 
“Cromwell was simply impressive in 
his match,” Lewis said. “He slowed the 
pace of the game down, kept the tempo 
in his wheelhouse and took away the 
shooting skills of Blecher.”
Cromwell won a close first set 11-9 
before Blecher took the second one 11-
7. Cromwell proceeded to shut Blecher 
down with an 11-3 win in the third game, 
but he could not carry this momentum 
over into the fourth set as Blecher forced 
a fifth winner-take-all set. 
“David knew exactly what he needed 
to do,” Lewis said when asked about 
what they talked about between sets. “All 
I said was, ‘you know what you need to 
do…keep doing it.’ I felt that it was im-
portant to keep things really simple and 
obvious so his mind wouldn’t be clut-
tered and so he could concentrate only 
on things that were effective.”
Characteristic of the season he has 
had, Cromwell persevered and won a 
close 12-10 game in thrilling fashion, se-
curing the victory for the Panthers and a 
15th place in the season’s final standings 
- the program’s best finish since 2012.
Lewis reflected that the biggest take-
away in his first season at the helm was 
getting to know his players.
“This takes time but I feel like every-
one, myself included, made significant 
strides in this area.”
Cromwell and French will be back in 
action next weekend, March 12-13, when 
they head to Chelsea Piers in Stamford, 
Conn., for the CSA Individual Champi-
onships.
By Will Case
Sports Editor
The Middlebury women’s hockey team 
clinched the host site for the NESCAC 
championship for the fifth time in six years 
and the ninth time overall. The Panthers 
(18-4-3), seeded first in the tournament, 
defeated eighth-seeded Colby 4-3 on Sat-
urday, Feb. 27 in a quarterfinal game in 
Chip Kenyon ’85 Arena for their seventh-
straight victory. Forward Maddie Winslow 
’18 garnered NESCAC Player of the Year 
honors, the sixth Middlebury player to 
earn that honor.
In the semifinals, Middlebury will host 
fifth-seeded Trinity at 1 p.m. on Saturday, 
March 5, while second-seeded Amherst 
will match-up against third-seeded Con-
necticut College at 4 p.m. The winner of 
each game will advance to the conference 
championship game at 2 p.m. on Sunday, 
March 6.
In the quarterfinal matchup against 
Colby, the Panthers scored the first goal 
eight minutes into the first period. Seiz-
ing the puck from the right boards, Jes-
sica Young ’18 passed it to Elizabeth Wulf 
’18, who centered the puck so that Win-
slow could one-time it into Colby’s net. 
Middlebury was aggressive for the rest of 
the period, finishing with a 13-2 advantage 
in shots on goal, but Colby goalie Angelica 
Crites kept it a one-goal game.
The Mules came bursting out of the 
starting gate for the second period, record-
ing four of the first five shots, but scored 
no goals to show for it. Four minutes into 
the period, Middlebury extended its lead 
to 2-0 when Grace Jennings ’19, posi-
tioned at the left point, sent the puck float-
ing high past several defenders into the net 
for her third goal of the season.
Colby responded with several scoring 
attempts in the waning minutes of the 
second. Middlebury netminder Julia Neu-
burger ’18 sustained an aggressive bout of 
attempts by the Colby offense. The Mules 
did not back down, and at 17:33 managed 
some crisp passes from the right before 
Bella Papapetros, open from the far left 
side, one-timed the puck into an open goal 
before Neuburger could turn her back. 
An answer came 44 seconds later when 
Rachael St. Clair ’19 sped past defend-
ers on the left and slid the puck behind 
Colby’s goalie in a dramatic goal that gave 
Middlebury a two-point lead.
Seconds into the third period, Mad-
die Winslow, who has emerged as a fierce 
point-maker for the Panther offense, 
picked up a loose puck, skated halfway 
down the rink, and slotted the puck in the 
upper corner. The goal, her team-leading 
15th of the season, brought the score to a 
comfortable 4-1.
At the 15:44 mark of the third period, 
Papapetros made a diving centering pass 
to Delaney Flynn who scored, toying with 
the nerves of Head Coach Bill Mandigo and 
the rest of the team, whose trophy hopes 
last year were nearly dashed by Hamil-
ton in the same quarterfinal matchup in a 
three-overtime game.
Colby then pulled Crites with 1:45 left 
in regulation and were awarded a power 
play with 52 seconds on the clock for a six-
on-four advantage. With a two-man ad-
vantage, Colby slipped the puck between 
Neuburger’s feet at the right post to make 
it a one-goal game. Middlebury waited the 
next forty seconds out to keep the score at 
4-3 and secure home ice for the rest of the 
playoffs. In the game, the Panthers nearly 
doubled the Mules 38-20 in shots on goal. 
Colby went 1-for-2 on the power play, 
while Middlebury went 0-for-1.
“The game on Saturday took a team 
effort to win,” Shanna Hickman ’19 said. 
“Julie Neuburger played amazing and 
made some big saves, while everyone else 
focused on doing the little things from 
back checking to winning battles. We did 
a great job moving the puck and creating 
and finishing scoring opportunities.”
The victory brings the Panthers’ in-con-
ference unbeaten streak to 30 games. The 
Panthers hope to avenge last year’s fumble 
in the finals at the hands of third-seeded 
Trinity. The team still managed a berth 
in the NCAA tournament last winter, but 
their run ended in the quarterfinals with a 
loss to Norwich.
“It feels great to once again be part of 
the NESCAC championships,” Wulf said. 
“We are excited to have home ice through-
out the playoffs, but we know that any-
thing can happen.”
The Panthers are certainly the favorite 
entering NESCAC championship, but fate 
might undo near-certainties again. 
march 3, 2016| 19SPORTS
Women’s Hockey To Host NESCAC Championship
YES
I’ve bet against them twice and 
been wrong, so it’s time to take a 
chance. 
OVER
He’s been kinda good this year.
YES
They look pretty unstoppable.
NO
C’mon guys, I smell a bit of ed’s 
picks padding here. Gotta beef up 
these questions.
editors’ picks
YES
I’ll go with Will’s logic on this one. 
Plus I’ve decided to pick in favor of 
Middlebury teams from now on.
UNDER
A wild guess.
YES
Going with my new policy.
YES
How could I bet against them after 
such a great season?
Emily Bustard (59-67, .468)
Alex Morris (91-84, .520)
Andrew Rigas (35-25, .583)
Men’s Basketball: Will Midd (17-10) 
defeat Salisbury (21-6) in the first 
round of the NCAA tournament on 
Friday, March 4?
Men’s Hockey: Will the men’s 
hockey team win the NESCAC 
championship?
NBA over/under: Stephen 
Curry’s season average of 5 
three-pointers made against the 
Thunder on Thursday, March 3.
Women’s Hockey: Will the 
women’s hockey team win the 
NESCAC championship?
YES
They’re on a roll right now. 
Momentum carries them through.
OVER
He’ll go off at Roaracle.
YES
Their unbeaten in conference play 
and are on home  ice.
YES
The top seeded Ephs already 
lost. Looks like we’re going for a 
championship trifecta!!!
YES
Salisbury is nationally-ranked, but 
Amherst is ranked higher and Midd 
just beat them.
OVER
I can’t pick against the guy.
YES
They didn’t lose in the NESCAC all 
year, and I don’t think they will this 
weekend either.
YES
I cover them so I have to pick 
them.
NO
I hope the team can pull off another 
win, but Salisbury looks very strong.
OVER
The average is going up! 
YES 
The NESCAC title is theirs to lose, 
plus home ice advantage doesn’t 
hurt. 
YES 
They have a tough weekend 
ahead, but I think they’ll sweep it. 
REMO PLUNKETT (50-43, .537)
         Will Case (8-8, .500)
Women’s squash finishes season with victory over virginia 
The road to the CSA Team Nation-
als, held this year at Yale’s Brady Squash 
Center, is far from easy. Composure, de-
sire and mental toughness are key com-
ponents to reach the tournament. The 
Middlebury Panthers conquered these el-
ements throughout the season and it paid 
off.
The 15th ranked Middlebury Panthers 
clawed and scratched their way to earn a 
spot amongst No. 1 Harvard, No. 3 Princ-
eton and No. 4 Trinity just to name a few. 
The team, comprising of Zoe Carey ’16, 
Tiffany Hau ’16 and Saskia Pownall-Gray 
’16, faced Drexel, Franklin & Marshall 
(F&M) and the University of Virginia.
The Panthers faced the Drexel Dragons 
in the quarterfinal match of the Nationals 
on Friday evening. Coming into the tour-
nament the Panthers knew they would 
have to give one hundred percent effort 
and heart to come out on top. Though sev-
eral of the matches were close, the wom-
en’s team fell 7-2 to the Dragons.
“It was long,” Coach Mack Lewis said. 
“It started off a bit rough with both teams 
losing their first two matches to strong 
teams.”
In the quarterfinal loss, Caroline Jah-
rling ’18 and Lucy Bostwick ’18 had the 
only victories. Jahrling went the full mile 
in a five-match win against Drexel’s num-
ber seven, pushing through in the final 
match with a 11-7 victory.
Bostwick also had an amazing tourna-
ment run. In each of her victories, she dis-
mantled the competition.
Lewis said, “Bostwick had a particu-
larly strong performance this weekend. 
She is a tough competitor who has over 
the course of the season tightened up her 
game.”
In her matches against Drexel’s number 
six, she won all three of her matches: 11-7, 
11-4 and 11-5. Bostwick would continue to 
shine as she won her next six matches; one 
against Franklin and Marshall, the others 
against the University of Virginia.
She has “acquired a greater self-aware-
ness of her own game and pushes herself 
incredibly hard day in and day out. This 
combination yields results,” Lewis com-
mented.
Though the Panthers fell early, Lewis 
applauded the team’s effort.
“The scores for the women accurately 
indicate the matches were close and that 
we had chances in both,” he said. “We 
wanted to win every match we played but 
came in seeded to finish 15th and that’s 
where we finished.”
After the quarterfinal loss to Drexel 
and a consolation loss to Franklin Mar-
shall, the Panthers faced No. 16 Virgin-
ia.  Middlebury beat the Cavaliers 8-1, 
in 2007. This time around Virginia was 
hungry for a victory against the Panthers. 
However, revenge would not be had as the 
Panthers beat the Cavaliers 7-2 to hold 
their national ranking at fifteen. The Pan-
thers cruised to their victory and ended 
their season on a high note.
Liddy Renner ’18 was very optimistic 
about her team’s standings during the 
weekend.
“The weekend went well because we 
beat the teams we should have beat,” she 
said. “I’m excited for what we are going 
to be capable of next year and hopefully 
compete at a whole new level at Nation-
als.”
Lewis also had positive things to say 
about the women’s team after their last 
victory against Virginia.
“What does the future hold? I can’t be 
certain, but I know that [they] are com-
mitted to work on their games in the off-
season. We’ll look to be physically and 
mentally stronger next year.”
The Women’s Squash team ended their 
season with a record of 9-9. Next year the 
Panthers hope to minimize their injuries, 
compete at an even higher level and look 
to bounce back next season stronger and 
tougher than ever.
“I expect that we’ll be ranked near 
where we are now (No. 15) and will see to 
move up as far as possible,” Lewis said.
By Sebastian Sanchez
Contributing Writer
By Ethan Brady
Features Editor
sports 20
NESCAC CHAMPIONS
The Middlebury men’s basketball team defeated 
second-seeded Amherst by a score of 81-79 to 
win the NESCAC title and secure an automatic 
bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
The women’s hockey team will host the 
league championship for the fifth time in six 
years after defeating Colby in the quarterfi-
nal matchup. 
The Middlebury alpine and nordic ski 
teams placed fourth overall to finish 
regular season competition and look 
ahead to the NCAA Championships 
in Steamboat Springs, Colorado to be 
held from March 9-12.
PANTHERS TO HOST NESCAC TOURNaMENT
skiing concludes carnival season on home slope
jeff patterson
michael o’hara
michael borenstein
