Racist comments appeared on 
Yik Yak last week, an anonymous 
social media app, that criticized 
statements made by Student Gov-
ernment Association (SGA) First-
Year Senator Charles Rainey ’19 
concerning racism on campus. 
The posts appeared following the 
publishing of a Campus article 
that detailed two bills Rainey had 
written criticizing the College’s 
MLK Today event and calling on 
President of the College Laurie 
L. Patton Former Supreme Court 
Justice Antonin Scalia’s comments 
regarding black students on col-
lege campuses.
Among the posts were the fol-
lowing:
We don’t like Rainey because 
he’s making up stuff about rac-
ism at Midd like if we freed you all 
from slavery what more do you 
want
Rainey is an attention whore, 
sexual predator, and anti-white 
jigaboo. Impeach him
IMPEACH. RAINEY. NOW.
After these posts appeared 
Rainey sought support and guid-
ance from administrators, includ-
ing his commons dean, Chief Di-
versity Officer Miguel Fernández 
and Dean of Students Baishakhi 
Taylor. The anonymous nature 
of the platform left Rainey little 
remedy; Rainey explained that 
only violent threats would spur an 
investigation into the posters, like 
the ones posted on Yik Yak at the 
University of Missouri in Novem-
ber.
“Ironically, these comments 
are only aiding me in my efforts 
to ameliorate this institution,” he 
said. “It is my hope that this co-
ordinated, racist attack on my en-
deavors and character has served 
as a reminder for the faculty, 
staff, administration and all of our 
2,500 students here that our cam-
pus is immensely plagued by rac-
ism. According to the responses 
[on Yik Yak], a substantial por-
tion of our community is not com-
fortable with idea of an inclusive 
Middlebury. Personally, it is very 
distressing that we have mem-
bers of our community who felt so 
threatened by the prospect of truly 
embracing historically marginal-
ized groups on this campus, in this 
case students of African descent, 
that they were inclined to resort 
to racially-charged hate speech in 
order to voice their discomfort. 
Nonetheless, with great progress 
comes great resistance. My goal 
remains the same. I will continue 
to fight for true inclusivity on this 
campus and continue the much-
needed conversation around this 
substantial issue offline, where it 
will be most productive.”
Patton addressed incidents like 
Rainey’s in an email sent to stu-
dents on March 8. In it she reiter-
ated the first community standard 
in the student handbook, “culti-
vating respect and responsibil-
ity for self, others, and our shared 
environment,” and urged students 
to abide by it in their interac-
tions especially as the College has 
broached sensitive “issues of race, 
gender, privilege and inclusivity.”
“The anonymity and imper-
sonal quality of some social me-
dia sites has at times shown itself 
to be a less considerate environ-
ment,” she wrote. “While they can 
be places of kindness and gener-
osity, they also can be platforms 
for disrespect, revenge, and hate. 
When this happens, it must be 
condemned by all. Everyone in our 
community should understand 
the damaging effect that personal 
comments or attacks — anony-
mous or otherwise — can have on 
individuals and on the community 
as a whole.”
Middlebury Posse scholars at-
tended the PossePlus Retreat this 
past weekend, March 4-6, in Silver 
Bay, New York. Held every year, 
the retreat aims to address national 
and on-campus issues often involv-
ing race, class, gender and power. 
The events are attended not only by 
Posse scholars, but also by College 
faculty, staff and fellow students in-
vited by the Posse scholars.
The Posse Foundation is a non-
profit organization that identifies 
and recruits students with leader-
ship and academic potential from 
public high schools in urban areas, 
forming these students into 10-12 
person “posses” which then attend 
a given college or university as a 
group. Posse scholars are awarded 
four-year, full-tuition scholarships 
from the foundation’s partner in-
stitutions of higher education. 
Middlebury has been one of the 
foundation’s partner schools since 
1998, and today works with Posse 
students from New York, Chicago 
and Los Angeles.
The theme for this year’s retreat 
was “Sticks + Stones: Language 
and Speech in a Diverse Society.” 
Attendees discussed the contention 
between the right to free speech 
and the right to limit offensive lan-
guage, a dispute which has sprung 
up on campuses nationwide. Activi-
ties over the weekend ranged from 
larger group discussions to smaller 
circles about the power of language 
and what speech should be consid-
ered acceptable in online forums, 
apps like Yik Yak, social media sites 
and college newspapers. Students 
discussed the problematic use of 
certain types of speech on college 
campuses and possible solutions 
that ranged from trigger warnings 
to Administrative responses.
Posse Scholar Daniel Amar Pena 
’16 said this year’s event, the third 
he has attended, was a successful if 
imperfect experience.
“This was my third retreat and 
personally I have seen improve-
ments compared to the first retreat 
I attended,” he said. “While the 
topic this year was very broad and 
not enough energy was focused on 
the issues occurring at Middlebury, 
the retreat was an overall success.”
“The retreat provided a space for 
each scholar, their Plus Ones and 
faculty/staff to engage in conversa-
tions both on the macro and micro 
levels...I am hopeful that going for-
ward, the Posse Foundation and 
Middlebury will be able to bring the 
conversations that happen on these 
retreats back to campus and the ad-
ministration,” he added.
PossePlus Retreat Focuses 
on Speech and Inclusivity
By Devin McGrath-Conwell
Senior Writer
Racist Posts 
Target Student 
on Yik Yak
March 10, 2016 | Vol. 114 no. 17 | middleburycampus.com
CONSENT PROJECT 
ENCOURAGES 
HONEST DIALOGUE 
ABOUT INTIMACY
PAGE 14
MIDD DISCOUNT 
COMEDY PROVOKES
PAGE 17
CHEMICAL FACTORY 
CONTAMINATES 
WELLS IN NORTH 
BENINGTON
PAGE 4in
sid
e
BØrns To HEAdline MCAB Spring Concert
By Nick Garber
Staff Writer
SEE POSSEPLUS, PAGE 2
On Saturday, Feb. 27, the Mid-
dlebury College Activities Board 
(MCAB) revealed BØRNS as the 
headliner for this year’s spring 
concert. The announcement was 
made during the Winter Carnival 
Ball. The process of choosing and 
booking BØRNS for the concert 
began in the fall amidst specula-
tion of who would be picked to fol-
low last year’s artist, T-Pain. 
“We’re really excited to bring 
BØRNS to campus this year,” 
Concerts Committee member 
Sara Hodgkins ’17.5 said. “The 
very weekend after he performs at 
[the College], BØRNS will travel 
to California to perform at Coach-
ella, one of the most prominent 
music festivals in the world.” 
Contrary to what many fans ex-
pect from the name BØRNS, Gar-
ret Borns is not of Scandinavian 
decent, but instead was born and 
raised in Grand Haven, Mich. 
“I just did it because it looks 
cool. It also makes it easier to find 
“BØRNS” via search engines and 
hashtags,” he revealed during an 
interview with InStyle in October. 
Finding distinction in the mob of 
musicians trying to make a name 
for themselves can be a challenge, 
but the decisions Borns makes 
seem to be working. 
Borns trained in magic as a 
child, but has since moved from 
small town magic tricks to head-
lining his own international 
tour. The rock-star life took the 
24-year-old first to New York, and 
then Los Angeles as he searched 
for an opening to make the music 
he wanted to. That opening came 
when he met Tommy English. 
English co-produced BØRNS 
2014 EP Candy, which featured 
“Electric Love,” the single that 
made people take notice of this 
newcomer. BØRNS followed up 
the EP with his full-length album, 
Dopamine, which was released in 
October of last year. 
“The Michigan singer looks 
and sounds like he’s stepped out 
of Velvet Goldmine, high-fived 
Lana Del Rey, added an unnec-
essary accent to his surname and 
gone into the studio with the sole 
purpose of making girls in cro-
chet shorts feel like they’re having 
the time of their lives but also a 
little sad at the same time,” Kate 
Hutchinson wrote in her review of 
the album for the Guardian. 
Students gathered in Crossroads Cafe with Professors of Political Science Matthew Dickinson and Ber-
tram Johnson to watch presidential primary results as a part of Super Tuesday on March 1. The event 
was co-organized by the College Democrats and Republicans.
STUDENTS GATHER FOR SUPER TUESDAY
IvAn ValladAres
SEE SPRING CONCERT, PAGE 19
By Christian Jambora and 
Phil Bohlman
News Editors
Racially-charged and personal posts (pictured above) appeared on 
social media app Yik Yak targeting SGA First-Year Senator Charles 
Rainey ’19.
| March 10, 20162 NEWS
By Will DiGravio
SGA Correspondent & Staff Writer
SGA 
Update
The Jan. 21 meeting of the Student 
Government Association (SGA) began 
with an announcement from Larson 
Lovdal ’16.5 that $43,000 has been 
raised to construct the Ian Burgin ’08 
Memorial Lodge, exceeding the project 
team’s goal by $23,000. Last year, 
the SGA committed $40,000 towards 
the project. Construction of the cabin, 
located on the Rikert Trail Network, will 
begin next fall. 
SGA President Ilana Gratch ’16 
reported that dining services will take 
over the operation of 10 o’clock Ross. It 
is Gratch’s hope that this transition will 
ultimately broaden the options available 
to students. 
Gratch asked senators for feedback 
on the commons system to introduce 
at a meeting of the College Board of 
Overseers, for which she is a member. 
Senators agreed that attitudes towards 
the commons system vary by individual 
experiences. 
Speaker of the Senate Reshma 
Gogineni ’16 suggested that one way to 
improve the system would be to have 
each commons run more consistently in 
what they do and what kinds of activities 
they offer. Ross Senator Trisha Singh 
’18 said that there should be more inter-
commons traditions. 
Next in the meeting, the SGA passed 
an election reform bill, authored by 
SGA Director of Membership Zak Fisher 
’16, and sponsored by Gratch. The bill 
suggested the elimination of the current 
system of single-transferable-vote (STV) 
and instant-runoff  (IRV) voting, to be 
replaced by a winner-take-all system. 
According to Fisher, the old system 
presented logistical issues and confused 
the electorate. It is the belief of the SGA 
that a winner-take-all system will make 
elections more efficient and easier to 
grasp.
President Gratch began the Jan. 
28 meeting by welcoming Rae Aaron 
’19.5 and Sebastian Grandas ’19.5, the 
newly elected Feb senators, to the SGA. 
Gratch also announced that because 
no candidate ran to fill the vacant 
Wonnacott Commons senate seat, she is 
now responsible for appointing someone 
to the position. 
SGA Treasurer Aaron de Toledo ’16 
then presented a mid year update on the 
Finance Committee. As of Jan. 28, the 
Committee has received $1.38 million in 
requests and has granted $1.13 million. 
de Toledo said that the committee has 
$35,000 available to spend, however, 
allocating this money would not be 
ideal because it would cut into the 
organization’s reserve funds. Over the 
past year, the Committee has established 
a new policy dealing with the funding of 
sound systems, and is currently working 
on new policies regarding club sports 
and commons funding. At present, 
the Committee is preparing for spring 
budgeting. 
After de Toledo’s presentation, 
senators engaged in a discussion about 
budget philosophy. Senators agreed that, 
in the future, the SGA should be wary in 
funding large capital projects, as they 
pose long term  risk. Community Council 
Co-Chair Tiff Chang ’17.5 said that the 
SGA should look to implement implicit 
bias training for the Finance Committee, 
and that there should be a greater effort 
to make sure that the Committee is more 
diverse. 
National Media Energized by Drink Ban
Fraker Prize Awarded by GSFS Department
Dining Services’ announcement to cease 
the sale of energy drinks on campus follow-
ing a proposal from the Community Council 
has caught the attention of the national me-
dia and been the focus of a range of scrutiny.
The debate held by the Community Coun-
cil and the ensuing decision first gained 
the attention of Susan Donaldson James, a 
Vermont -based NBC freelance journalist. 
She interviewed three students on campus 
and published an article about the ban. From 
there, news sites including Time Magazine, 
the Bowdoin Orient and almost 100 others 
picked up the story and covered it from a va-
riety of angles.
Many sources published statistics and 
quotations provided by Myles Kamisher- 
Koch, a dining software intern at the College, 
who first proposed the idea to the Commu-
nity Council. Much of the language in the 
coverage also came from Executive Director 
of Food Services, Dan Detora, who released 
the announcement about the ban.
Cosmopolitan reporter Megan Friedman 
took a more humorous approach, opening 
her article by saying students “will have to 
rely on lots and lots of coffee during final 
exams from now on,” without the help of 
energy drinks for staying awake. She added 
that, “it’s a major blow for all -nighter study 
sessions in the library.” 
The Huffington Post, on the other hand, 
challenged the validity of the health risk cor-
relation that Detora cited in the announce-
ment. An article in the Bowdoin Orient, re-
assured students that Bowdoin College plans 
to continue the sale of energy drinks, which, 
according to Bowdoin Director of Dining and 
Bookstore Services, Mary McAteer Kennedy, 
have declined in popularity in recent years 
but still sell at high rates during exams weeks. 
On March 4, Yahoo News published in-
formation from the American Heart Asso-
ciation’s recent research showing the nega-
tive effects of energy drinks to the heart. In 
their article, Yahoo mistakenly reported that 
the College banned both the “sale and con-
sumption of energy drinks on campus.” The 
College has not banned the consumption of 
these drinks. 
Since the consumption of energy drinks 
on campus is still allowed and the drinks are 
easy to come by, those in opposition to the 
new rule have instead voiced concern with 
the College’s infringement on students’ abil-
ity to make personal decisions rather than 
anger over limiting the actual acquisition of 
the energy drinks. 
Prior to being approached by NBC in 
Wilson Cafe, Phil Hoxie ’17.5, not an energy 
drink consumer but an opponent of the 
ban, was unaware of the new ban and was 
shocked by the media response. “There’s too 
much going on in the world right now, they 
should have better things to cover ... and yet 
energy drinks,” he said. 
Additionally, he disagrees with the ban, 
saying, “If the Community Council thinks 
that we aren’t responsible enough to make 
good choices as far as how much caffeine 
we consume, are they doing us any favors? I 
would say no, they’re not.” 
By banning the drinks, he believes the 
College is not only doing a disservice to the 
students by robbing them of an aspect of 
their educational environment, but also do-
ing a disservice to the College’s image. 
“As far as the coverage goes,” Hoxie said, 
“I think what [the College] administration 
should be worried about is, are they play-
ing into framing [the College] as an over-
controlling environment toward their stu-
dents?”
Although students like Hoxie offer a valid 
argument, Community Council Co- Chair 
Tiffany Chang ’17.5 and Vice President for 
Student Affairs and Dean of the College Katy 
Smith Abbott draw attention back to the 
original impetus and facts behind the recom-
mendation and subsequent ban. 
According to Smith Abbott, Dining Ser-
vices had the power to unilaterally stop the 
sale without notification to the Council or 
student body, but the research showing the 
health risks that Kamisher- Koch presented 
persuaded the Council members that this ac-
tion, as Smith Abbott said, “was really about 
being consistent with our mission statement 
and our dining statement, which is on the 
books.” 
Both Smith Abbott and Chang agreed that 
it was clear the media used this as an op-
portunity to publish a sensational story that 
would tap into a broader national conversa-
tion, turning it into something much larger 
than it really is. 
By Rae Aaron
Contributing Writer
Michael Garel-Martorana ’16 attended 
the event as a guest, and feels strongly about 
Posse’s role on campus.
“Posse plays an important role in these 
discussions because Posse Scholars are not 
afraid to speak their mind, to put things into 
action,” he said. “They are strong, resilient in-
dividuals. The retreats put on by the founda-
tion tackle topics that people need to engage 
with and learn about.”
Pena felt that this year’s focus on speech 
was especially timely. “Personally, I feel that 
this issue is becoming relevant to every cam-
pus across the nation and conversations such 
as the ones facilitated by the Posse Founda-
tion are necessary,” he said. “Both academic 
and personal instances of freedom of speech 
on campuses have garnered much attention 
by media outlets, campus administrators and 
the student body. While the standards for 
freedom of speech do vary between public 
and private institutions, I believe that free-
dom of speech, in certain contexts, can be 
damaging both emotionally and psychologi-
cally to a campus community and the victims 
of hate speech. I am a strong believer that the 
retreat was only the beginning of larger group 
discussions regarding this topic that need to 
occur on campus.”
Garel-Martorana noted that the retreat 
serves as a powerful educational tool. “No 
one can hear the stories, see the powerful 
support system that marginalized students 
provide for each other, and engage in the 
discussions at PPR, without recognizing that 
there are problems all too real for so many of 
us on campus, and that change is not up for 
debate.”
Last Tuesday, March 8, the Women’s 
and Gender Studies department honored 
Elizabeth Dunn ’18 with the Alison 
Fraker Essay Prize, an annual award that 
commemorates the memory of Alison 
Gwen Fraker ’89.
Fraker was a “much-
beloved, vocally 
feminist student” 
who passed away in 
a car accident weeks 
before her graduation. 
The award ceremony, 
which is traditionally 
celebrated on 
International Women’s 
Day, is dedicated 
to her memory and 
passion for the study 
and practice of gender 
equality. 
Students are 
nominated for projects 
submitted in any 
department as long 
as they address issues 
focused in gender 
studies. These projects 
are then presented to 
a board of faculty who 
chooses one winner 
and two honorable mentions.
This year, 13 different projects, 
completed by 19 students, were nominated. 
In recent years, nominations have diverged 
from the traditional essay form and this 
year included songs, presentations and 
podcasts, among others.
Director and Professor of Gender, 
Sexuality and Feminist Studies Sujata 
Moorti and Director of Chellis House Karin 
Hanta lead the ceremony and presented 
the awards.
Dunn’s piece, an essay titled “Race 
Play and Racism,” was nominated and 
presented by Anson Koch-Rein, a visiting 
assistant professor of Gender, Sexuality 
and Feminist Studies. Koch-Rein 
commended Dunn’s essay for its success 
in engaging with the “uncomfortable 
intersection” between race play and 
racism “by drawing into the conversation a 
discussion of racial stereotypes and porn, 
the history and legacy of rape and sexual 
exploitation in slavery and writings…
theorizing and reflecting on the meaning 
of race-play scenes”.
“Rather than dismissing race play 
as either an object of study or immoral 
practice, the essay engages the possibilities 
of what it might mean to think through 
race play,” he said.
One of the two honorable mentions was 
awarded to Sarah Kotb ’16 for her critical 
narrative, “The Death of Scheherazade Or 
How Not to Write About Arab Men.” In her 
piece, Kotb responds to a class discussion 
about the novel “Reading Lolita in Tehran: 
A Memoir in Books,” by Azar Nafisi.
Catharine Wright, director of the 
Writing Program, nominated Kotb and 
introduced her at the ceremony. Wright 
called Kotb’s narrative a “brilliant, 
sarcastic, biting, self-
reflective piece about how to 
situate herself as a feminist 
between Arab patriarchy and 
white, western imperialist 
brand of feminism”.
The next honorable 
mention was presented by 
Moorti to Sarah Karerat 
’18 for her essay, “Policing 
Native Sexualities: Section 
377 of the Indian Penal Code” 
in which she examined how 
a law from mid 19th-century 
colonial India continues to 
affect the lives of people a 
post-colonial Indian society. 
“I was very impressed 
by the scope of the project 
and and the broad range of 
discourses Sarah brings to 
make us understand how the 
production of a sodomite in 
India was the product of 
both colonial and sexual 
discourses,” Moorti said.
The ceremony, and the award, allow 
students to engage with issues of gender 
and sexuality within larger contexts. 
“One thing I really appreciate was how 
intersectional everything sounded,” Dunn 
said. “Nothing just dealt with one issue; 
they all coalesced around different issues 
of marginalizing aspects of peoples’ 
identities. I appreciated this whole event 
because it was a spotlight on such a wide 
range of papers and topics.”
By Ellie Reinhardt
News Editor
Elizabeth Dunn ’18 was awarded the Alison Fraker Prize last Tuesday at the 
annual ceremony.
Michael O’hara
PossePlus Retreat Encourages Discussion
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
March 10, 2016 |  3        News
AEI Hosts Talk on Inequality, Poverty and Policy
The College hosted its fifth annual Mir-
acle Network Dance Marathon last Friday, 
March 4, as part of a nationwide movement 
to support local children’s hospitals. The 
10-hour event supported the University of 
Vermont Children’s Hospital and included 
dancing, live student performances, local 
food and celebrations.
Across the country, chapters of For 
The Kids from over 300 different schools 
are hosting their own dance marathons to 
raise money that will go directly to local 
hospitals. The money will provide child-life 
care, research and medical equipment for 
the children and families these hospitals 
serve. This year the College raised $18,500, 
crushing last year’s record of $12,000.
Erin Miller ’16.5, president of the com-
mittee organizing the event, said that “For 
The Kids has been a huge part of my Col-
lege experience…This event provides stu-
dents and community members not only 
the opportunity, but the privilege, to make 
a difference in numerous patient's lives.”
The event brought together hundreds of 
students, town residents and children from 
the local hospital and this year, there were 
over 330 registered participants.
“Our campus rarely rallies together in 
support of a common cause,” Committee 
Member Rebecca Berry ’16.5 said. “It is an 
honor, privilege and responsibility for us 
to fight for the next generation of children 
in our community. Dance Marathon brings 
out the best in [the College].”
Although the event already took place, 
the College’s For The Kids chapter is work-
ing to bring their group to the forefront of 
a movement happening at large colleges 
and universities around the country. In ad-
dition to raising money through the Dance 
Marathon and other events, they are host-
ing the Conquering Disease Spring Sympo-
sium from April 5-8 this year. 
The fifth annual Miracle Network Dance Marathon, hosted by For the Kids Middlebury, raised over $18,000 for the University of 
Vermont Children’s Hospital.
For the kids middlebury
By Ellie Reinhardt
News Editor
Dance Marathon Raises Over $18,000
The American Enterprise Institute 
(AEI) Club, along with the Economics 
and Political Science Departments hosted 
Scott Winship to speak this past Thursday, 
March 3 in McCardell Bicentennial Hall. 
Winship, the Walter B. Wriston Fellow at 
the Manhattan Institute, presented a talk 
titled, “Inequality, Poverty, and Policy.” 
Phil Hoxie ’17.5, President of the AEI 
Club, asked Winship to present after 
hearing him speak over the summer. 
Hoxie said, “I chose Winship because 
I think he has a really nuanced and 
important view to hear. For so many 
people, when they talk about inequality 
and poverty, it is either plan A or plan 
B. And if you noticed from the talk, he’s 
really in between the two. It’s a false 
dichotomy almost.” 
Winship’s research interests include 
standards and economic mobility, 
inequality and insecurity. He has 
previously been a fellow at the Brookings 
Institution and the Manager of the 
Economic Mobility Project of the Pew 
Charitable Trust. He has also served as a 
Senior Policy Advisor at Third Way.
“I thought that he would be a really 
good pick for Middlebury if you look at 
what motivates different kinds of people. 
Liberals are motivated a lot by empathy 
and conservatives are motivated a lot by 
a wide range of different things,” Hoxie 
said. “I thought that because he spent so 
much time at Brookings, he could talk 
about an issue that is very touchy in a 
way that really connected with people’s 
values, and I think he did just that.”
Winship began by reviewing several 
studies regarding the trajectory of 
inequality over the course of the 
last century before delving into how 
poverty has progressed over the same 
period. He ended by sharing some of 
his own research into the inequality of 
opportunity between different races and 
genders before addressing several policy 
proposals.
He argued that the apparent rises in 
inequality are somewhat exaggerated. 
After rising a great deal in the 1970s and 
1980s, inequality has not risen much 
since. Winship said, “If you care about 
whether the middle class is pulling away 
from the poor, there is certainly a lot of 
inequality between those two groups, but 
it hasn’t gotten worse since the 1980s. 
What has changed a lot is the top that 
pulled away.”
Associate Professor of Political 
Science and Department Chair Bertram 
Johnson found this to be some of the 
most interesting data. “At least since 
the publication of Thomas Piketty’s 
2014 book Capital in the Twenty-First 
Century, academics have been aware 
of the dramatic contrast in wealth and 
income between the top one percent and 
everyone else,” said Johnson.
 “The pattern in the data below the 
very top is not as dramatic. Reasonable 
people could react differently to this – 
either interpreting it as a reason to worry 
less about inequality, or interpreting it as 
a further indication of the distinctiveness 
of the super-wealthy. Either way, it was 
interesting.”
Winship cited changes in tax laws 
affecting when people realize assets such 
as capital gains as a plausible reason for an 
over-exaggeration of income inequality. 
Another part of this, he argued, is that 
that changing tax rates altered what 
people declared as individual income as 
opposed to corporate tax income. 
“A big part of the rise in inequality 
was because of the changes in tax laws, 
some of which produced real inequality 
increases. So as tax rates go down, 
people are going to work longer, they’re 
going to retire later, they’re going to take 
more risks and try to innovate more,” 
Winship said. “So that’s a real increase 
in inequality, but some of it is just an 
artifact.”
In terms of poverty trends, he argued 
that conservatives are apt to say we 
have lost the war on poverty because 
the figures are just as high as those from 
the 1960s. However, Winship explained 
that the official measure doesn’t take 
into account four of the five biggest 
anti-poverty programs in the country. 
Accounting for these programs, including 
SNAP and Medicaid, actually show that 
the poverty rate has almost been cut in 
half, according to Winship, although 
evidence suggests intergenerational 
mobility hasn’t really improved over 
time.
His new research consists of studies 
comparing income mobility across racial 
and gender lines.
“It was nice to have essentially a 
low key, balanced presentation on a 
subject that is important and can give 
rise to confrontation,” Charles A. Dana 
Professor of Political Science Murray Dry 
said. “I suppose if you combine income 
inequality and race, that’s when you’re 
likely to get confrontation.”
In terms of potential policy measures, 
Winship proposed the expansion of 
the earned income tax credit as well 
as a housing voucher program to 
support people who want to move to 
neighborhoods with more opportunity. 
He also raised the issue of expanding 
child tax credits for married couples. 
This is not to say that this should cut it 
for un-married couples, but it would be 
an incentive to reduce out-of-wedlock 
births. He further emphasized the need to 
experiment with local initiatives through 
funding small-scale programs to see what 
models have potential. Johnson said, “I 
found the transparent way in which he 
used data to be refreshing. It allowed us as 
an audience to ask intelligent questions, 
at the same time as it challenged some 
of our assumptions. I didn’t agree with 
every policy proposal that he offered, 
but one could tell what aspects of the 
analysis each was based on – an aspect 
of the presentation that allowed us to 
draw our own conclusions. Winship’s is 
a perspective on inequality that we do 
not usually see, and although it doesn’t 
address every angle on the subject, it was 
informative and interesting.”
For their next sponsored talk, Hoxie 
said the the AEI Club is bringing in 
former White House Counsel to President 
Ronald Reagan, Peter J. Wallison, to 
present on April 14.
By Eliza Teach
News Editor
Faculty Talk 
Policy, Articles
and Lunch at
March Plenary
By Will DiGravio
Staff Writer
At the monthly plenary faculty meeting on 
March 4, the faculty discussed a proposal to 
create an open-access repository at the Col-
lege. The proposal was presented by Associ-
ate Professor of Sociology and Anthropology 
Svea Closser on behalf of the Open Access 
Working Group and the Faculty Council. 
A repository is a database where faculty 
can make their published articles available 
for free in one location. The repository would 
include scholarly journal articles, conference 
proceedings and book chapters. It would not 
include creative works, books, commissioned 
articles or other publications where authors 
are compensated directly for their writing. 
Though submission of articles would be 
mandatory, faculty members would be able 
to obtain a waiver should they not want an 
article included. The faculty voted to table the 
proposal and will vote on it after discussing it 
in open meetings. 
Later in the meeting, Professor of Psy-
chology Barbara Hofer, on behalf of the Fac-
ulty Council and Appeals Council, proposed 
changes to the Faculty Handbook. She pre-
sented six recommendations aimed at clari-
fying misunderstandings that originate from 
the current handbook language regarding the 
faculty review process. 
One recommendation proposed changing 
handbook language to say that any candidate 
denied a reappointment or promotion would 
be provided with a written rationale for the 
decision. Another proposed modifying a pas-
sage to clearly state that all tenured faculty 
members, even when on academic leave, are 
expected to submit a letter regarding a col-
league undergoing review. The faculty in at-
tendance tabled the proposal and will vote on 
it after discussing it in open meetings. 
The faculty approved a proposal, made by 
the Educational Affairs Committee, to clarify 
language regarding honors eligibility after a 
student commits an academic honesty infrac-
tion. The old language rendered students who 
received either an official or unofficial Col-
lege discipline ineligible for graduation and/
or departmental honors. Now only students 
who receive an official College discipline are 
ineligible from those honors.
Joseph Burr Professor of Chemistry & 
Biochemistry Rick Bunt made a motion, on 
behalf of the First Year Seminar Steering 
Committee, to support the creation of an “All 
College Luncheon Day.” At the luncheon, fac-
ulty would sit at tables, grouped by depart-
ment or program, and have lunch with unde-
clared students on one day, once a semester, 
to answer questions and provide guidance 
to students. The goals of the luncheon are to 
better communicate curriculum changes to 
students, build greater relationships between 
faculty and students and get students accli-
mated to the advising process. The faculty 
approved the motion, which formally recom-
mends that the administration implement 
the luncheon. 
The Vermont Department of Public 
Service (VDPS) has come under intense 
scrutiny this week for omitting criticisms 
from an internal report assessing its ac-
countability to the public. In a letter to 
the Department, lawyer James Dumont 
argued that VDPS independence is com-
promised by the influence of the gover-
nor, who appoints the director of the or-
ganization and retains undue influence 
over decision making at the Department. 
Although VDPS Public Service Commis-
sioner Chris Recchia told the Senate 
Finance Committee that an appendix 
to the report included all commentary, 
which was also avail-
able online, Dumont’s 
criticism was left out. 
“A lawyer must, 
under our code of 
ethics, represent the 
wishes of the client,” 
Dumont wrote in a re-
tainer. “I believe it is 
high time for the leg-
islature to re-exam-
ine whether ratepayer 
advocacy should be 
directed by a person 
who is appointed by 
the governor, serves 
at the pleasure of the governor and ... in 
some major cases has been ordered or 
strongly urged to make decisions based 
on the wishes of the governor without 
regard to the expertise and opinions of 
the professional staff and lawyers within 
the Department.”
The report, eventually issued on 
Feb. 22, did not include this suggestion, 
instead stating that “... there is no indi-
cation that the current structure of the 
Department creates any real or inherent 
conflicts of interest.”
In June of 2015, Governor Shumlin 
signed an act of the Vermont State Leg-
islature mandating VDPS to  “... evalu-
ate the pros and cons of various forms 
of ratepayer advocate offices,” and to 
develop “any recommendations on how 
to improve the structure and effective-
ness of the Division for Public Advocacy 
(DPA) within the Department of Public 
Service.”
In theory, the DPA is responsible 
for ensuring that ratepayers in Vermont, 
no matter what utility they pay for, are 
protected from exploitative price hikes 
or unfair rate changes, and is generally 
intended to advocate on behalf of con-
sumers. Because a limited number of 
utility companies are able to operate in 
Vermont, the VDPS 
is meant to simulate 
competition and reg-
ulate the non-com-
petitive market.
The VDPS is 
part of the executive 
branch, and is run by 
a commissioner ap-
pointed by the gov-
ernor. Critics like 
Dumont assert that 
placing ratepayer ad-
vocacy under the um-
brella of an appoint-
ed office rather than 
one chosen by ratepayers compromises 
the independence of the office.
Supporters of this structure say it is 
economical and better meets the needs 
of the public. In a press statement, Rec-
chia claimed that her staff mistook Du-
mont’s letter for personal comments 
that he did not wish to be used in the 
VDPS audit.
“My staff just misinterpreted Mr. 
Dumont’s request in his letter about 
providing formal comments,” said Rec-
chia, “and they thought that he did not 
wish to include those.”
“Obviously, after [hearing about 
this] yesterday, he did want them in-
cluded and we have posted those since 
then on the website,” she continued. 
“But that was entirely a staff interpreta-
tion decision based on their conversa-
tions with him. And I respect the fact 
that, checking it out today, that’s what 
they told me.”
However, Dumont is not alone in 
his opposition to the current VDPS 
structure. During the audit process, 
AARP Vermont 
Advocacy Director 
Philene Taormina 
pointed out that 
the VDPS struc-
ture is unique to 
Vermont.
“One week the 
public advocate is 
fighting with the 
company to make 
a large expansion 
in a pipeline or 
a big renewable 
project and ... then 
the next week they 
take off that hat 
and all of sudden 
they represent ratepayers ...”
On Feb. 24, Dumont also told the 
Senate Finance Committee that his let-
ter points to a set of larger issues at the 
Department. 
“In my letter, I specifically raised 
this very issue, which is the Department 
staff and the public advocate are not be-
ing listened to because the decisions are 
being made from the top down instead of 
from the bottom up.”
Carl Scott, who retired from Green 
Mountain Power in 2014 after years of 
dealing with the state’s regulatory sys-
tem, also testified Thursday. 
“The department is designed by 
statute to be the competition ... for the 
regulated monopoly. Good competition 
yields razor-thin margins while produc-
ing a superior quality product,” he said. 
However, there are doubts by many that 
the VDPS is doing this job efficiently, in-
stead kowtowing to corporate interests 
at the expense of the taxpayer.
Vermont is among the states with 
the highest cost of electricity in the 
country, at 11th most expensive. It is 
also different from all the others in New 
England: utilities are not able to sell 
cash credits for their 
renewable power into 
a regional marketplace. 
Vermont has, on 
average, earned $50 
million per year from 
this program, which 
was used to hold down 
rates. Normally guard-
ed by a Public Advo-
cate, these could jump 
as much as six percent 
in Vermont next year. 
The American As-
sociation of Retired 
Persons (AARP), one 
of the loudest voices in 
the PR battle, released 
a stinging rebuke of the VDPS following 
revelations that evidence was discluded 
from its audit.
“The Public Advocate and its divi-
sion are comprised of attorneys who, by 
statute 2 and ethical codes, are required 
to act on the behalf of their client, the 
Commissioner of the Department of 
Public Service, not ratepayers,” reads 
the executive summary of the critique. 
“Thus, the office of the Public Advocate 
is, unfortunately, a misnomer since he 
or she does not represent ratepayers by 
statutory definition, but instead, repre-
sents the commissioner – who, in turn, 
reports to the governor.”
local
Department of Public Service Censors Criticism in Audit
Harry Cramer
Local Editor
“There is no indica-
tion that the current 
structure of the de-
partment creates any 
real or inherent con-
flicts of interest.”
VT Dept. of Public Service
Internal Audit
“The office of the pub-
lic advocate is, unfor-
tunately, a misnomer 
since he or she does 
not represent taxpay-
ers but instead rep-
resents the Commis-
sioner – who, in turn, 
reports to the Gover-
nor.”
AARP Press Release
Last Monday, Allen Gilbert announced 
that he is leaving his position as the Execu-
tive Director of the Vermont Chapter of the 
American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), 
after holding this title for 12 years.  Gilbert 
has not decided when his last day will be, 
but has clarified that he will maintain his 
position until the summer while a replace-
ment is being found. 
It is expected that this replacement 
process will take about three to four 
months.  The search for Gilbert’s succes-
sor has commenced and will span the na-
tion with efforts facilitated by Board Chair 
James Morse.
“It’s been a great run,” Gilbert said in 
an interview with VTdigger. “12 years is a 
long time. It’s a full-throttle job and I just 
need to slow down.” Gilbert also ensured 
that he does not plan to quit his work all to-
gether, but emphasized the desire to be at 
a place where he can take care of his health 
as well.  Indeed, Gilbert claims to have a 
list of about five public policy projects that 
he will give attention to despite the fact 
that he is leaving his position.  
“I don’t see myself stopping from do-
ing some form of gainful work.  I’ve got a 
long list of things I still want to do,” Gilbert 
assured the Burlington Free Press in an in-
terview.  
The longtime president clearly was 
not lacking in things to do during his 12 
year term with the ACLU.  Before leading 
Vermont’s ACLU, Gilbert held a job as a re-
porter for the Rutland Herald, worked as 
an English teacher in Germany and served 
as a partner in a public policy and research 
communications firm. As a Worcester resi-
dent, Gilbert assumed the position of ex-
ecutive director when Vermont’s chapter 
of the ACLU only had three staff members. 
By the end of Gilbert’s term, the chapter 
was composed of five staff members.  One 
major implementation of Gilbert’s was the 
addition of ACLU Vermont’s first staff at-
torney.  
“The growth in staff and the strategic 
location [of the group’s offices] are sym-
bolic of Allen’s successful efforts to expand 
the ACLU’s work and visibility,” praised 
Board Chair James Morse in an interview 
with VTdigger.  
Morse’s second element of praise re-
fers to Gilbert’s decision to relocate the 
Vermont ACLU’s offices from the Vermont 
College of Fine Arts on East State Street 
in Montpelier to Elm Street.  The goal and 
successful effect of this relocation of offices 
was for the members of the ACLU chapter 
to place themselves closer to the Vermont 
Statehouse, where they hoped to inspire 
and fight for concrete changes.  In fact, 
the executive director himself has been 
described as being a frequent presence 
at the Statehouse where he has shown no 
fear for engaging in heated debate with law 
enforcement members.  Gilbert further ex-
pressed his passion for his job to VTdigger 
as he claimed to enjoy that he “never knew 
what was coming down the pike” as execu-
tive director of the Vermont ACLU.
After announcing his decision to step 
down from the head position, Gilbert re-
vealed two of his proudest moments and 
accomplishments in his work in the ACLU. 
The first major accomplishment that he 
cited was his involvement in the Guiles v. 
Marineau case in 2006.  This was a free-
dom of speech case in which a middle 
schooler’s right to political speech was con-
tested.  The ACLU ultimately emerged vic-
torious with this case in the circuit court.
The second major accomplishment 
that Gilbert cited was a discrimination law-
suit that the ACLU worked to use to coun-
ter the Wildflower Inn in Lyndonville.  This 
case emerged in 2012 when the Wildflower 
Inn refused to host a wedding reception for 
a lesbian couple.  This case was a success 
for the ACLU and for Gilbert because the 
inn settled and agreed to pay the women a 
civil penalty for their actions.  
According to VTdigger, Gilbert ex-
pressed that “a civil liberty is never com-
pletely and permanently won,” and that he 
has been honored to have been given the 
opportunity to play a role in fighting to pro-
tect them in his role as the leader of Ver-
mont’s American Civil Liberties Union for 
all these years. 
Director of ACLU Steps Down in Vermont
By Rebecca Walker
Local Editor
Courtesy Burlington Free Press
Allen Gilbert (left) was the Executive Director of the ACLU in Vermont for over 12 years.
Flint, Mich. Hoosick Falls, N. Y. 
North Bennington, Vt. 
“We are facing a water contamina-
tion crisis across our country. North 
Bennington is the latest in a long line of 
communities who can no longer trust the 
most basic necessity of life,” said Erin 
Brokovich on her website, a consumer 
advocate involved in the Hoosick Falls 
investigation. 
Brokovich is most famous for lead-
ing a $333 million settlement lawsuit 
in 1996 against Pacific Gas and Electric 
(PG&E) for contaminating drinking wa-
ter in Hinkley, Calif. 
On Feb. 25, Governor Peter Shumlin 
(D) released a statement that test results 
from private wells in North Bennington 
revealed harmful levels of Perfluoroocta-
noic Acid (PFOA). All the sources affect-
ed were located within a mile from an 
abandoned Chemfab factory owned by 
Saint-Gobain Performance Plastics, the 
same company responsible for the recent 
PFOA contamination in Hoosick Falls, 
N.Y. where high levels of the chemical 
were found in the public water supply.
PFOA is a byproduct of producing 
Teflon, a non-stick coating used to treat 
pots and pans throughout the late 20th 
century. In the early 2000s, research 
linked PFOA exposure to increased rates 
of testicular and kidney cancer, high 
cholesterol and other endocrine-related 
disorders in humans. In 2006, the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency man-
dated companies to phase-out PFOA 
production by 2015. 
However, PFOA is a very stable 
chemical that does not degrade easily. It 
stubbornly persists, both in the environ-
ment and in the body. 
“When people are exposed to PFOA, 
the chemical stays in the body. These 
chemicals do not dissolve in fat like 
other persistent pollutants,” according 
to the Department of Health. “Instead, 
they accumulate in the blood. The time 
it takes for half the PFOA to leave your 
body is two to four years.” This is also as-
suming one is not exposed to additional 
PFOA from Teflon-coated pans. 
Trace levels of PFOA are predicted 
to be present in 95 percent of the hu-
man population from pole to pole; even 
polar bears have tested positive. This is 
why PFOA levels are still a problem in 
the area, despite the factory being aban-
doned since 2002 following only two 
years in operation.  
While the Vermont Department of 
Health offers kits for private well owners 
to test their water for inorganic chemi-
cals like lead and arsenic, it does not of-
fer a kit for PFOA detection. According 
to the Department of 
Health website, “Lab-
oratories in Vermont 
are not equipped to 
test for PFOA. The 
Department of Envi-
ronmental Conserva-
tion will collect water 
samples to send to an 
out-of-state lab for 
this specialized test-
ing.” 
As of Feb. 25, 
Vermont state offi-
cials have been going 
door-to-door, col-
lecting samples from 
private wells within 
a one and a half mile 
radius of the Chem-
fab factory to test for 
PFOA. The Vermont 
Health Department 
has a stricter drink-
ing water level for PFOA at 20 parts-per-
trillion (ppt) than the national standard 
of 400 ppt set by the E.P.A. While the 
calculations are based “on the same sci-
ence,” Vermont accounts for exposure 
to children early in life while the E.P.A. 
based their standard on exposure to 
adults. The wastewater treatment plant 
tested at 618 ppt and the landscaping 
business 168 ppt. The residential wells 
ranged from 40 to 2,880 ppt.
According to Dr. Harry Chen, Com-
missioner of the Vermont Department of 
Health, PFOA is most dangerous when 
ingested; external exposure through 
water-resistant clothing or washing pots 
is negligible since PFOA cannot absorb 
into the skin. 
On March 4, tap water from another 
Saint-Gobain factory, this time in Merri-
mack, N.H., was tested for PFOA. It test-
ed at 0.3 micrograms per liter. While the 
E.P.A. does not enforce drinking water 
standards for PFOA, it has established a 
“provisional health advisory” for any lev-
el higher than 0.4 micrograms per liter.
“This is concerning news,” said Gov-
ernor Shumlin in a statement. “We are 
fortunate that the public drinking wa-
ter systems are not impacted. We will 
continue to be vigi-
lant about testing 
private wells in the 
North Bennington 
area, getting bottled 
water to those who 
need it and address-
ing any health con-
cerns or impacts go-
ing forward. No one 
should have to worry 
about the safety of 
the water they drink. 
We will be there for 
those impacted until 
the situation is re-
solved.” 
The Saint-
Gobain Corporation 
has been provid-
ing bottled water to 
residents affected by 
possible PFOA con-
tamination in North 
Bennington and Hoosick Falls. A fed-
eral class-action lawsuit against Saint-
Gobain on behalf of Hoosick Falls has 
been underway since September 2015. 
The lawsuit, spearheaded by Brokovich 
and the law firm Weitz & Luxenberg, will 
now include North Bennington in its in-
vestigation as well.  
In a recent speech to residents of 
Flint, Mich., Senator Bernie Sanders 
urged his own state officials to “aggres-
sively investigate the well water situa-
tion in North Bennington, keep families 
informed and ensure Vermonters have 
access to clean and safe water.” 
“The state must hold the polluters 
responsible for their actions,” he said.
You may have passed it by on your 
way to Burlington, or you might have 
turned the car and parked like we did. 
Monroe St. Books is an unabashed, yet 
not entirely flashy, used bookstore on Rt. 
7 North, lined floor to ceiling with peel-
ing paperbacks and once-loved hardcov-
ers. 
Upon entering the store, we find the 
owner squatted on a small stool amidst 
the children’s books. The lines on his 
forehead sit above his wide-rimmed 
glasses, and they crinkle together when 
he tells us of the vastness of his collec-
tion. They have 100,000 used books on 
display and 60,000 more in the back.
“People sometimes come in here 
and they have a panic attack – they have 
to lie down or leave,” store owner Dick 
Chodkowski says. “They can’t handle it 
because there’s too many books. They 
profess that they love books, but it’s just 
too much for them. It’s kind of sad. I al-
ways tell them to just concentrate on one 
area.”  
He turns toward the rows of picture 
books before him, brushing his fingers 
against the bindings.
 Chodkowski explains his store was a 
hobby that got out of control; he brushes 
much of his story aside and keeps his 
pages bound. 
“It’s easy to collect books. There’s no 
end to the books. It’s finding the good 
books that’s tough,” Chodkowski says. 
Chodkowski and his wife, Flanzy, have 
spent hours upon hours with the books 
over the years, as they’ve built upon their 
collection. He takes pride in the variety 
of Monroe St.’s selection, with stacks of 
beekeepers’ guides, old mysteries and 
collections of poems. 
“There’s a book for everyone,” he 
says.  When we ask if he has a favorite, he 
furrows his brow, saying, “I don’t have a 
favorite; I can’t play favorites. They’re all 
my children.” 
I ask if he can help me find what 
I’m looking for, the original Winnie 
the Pooh, one of a four-part collection 
I’ve been tracking down. He knows his 
shelves well and leads me directly to A.A. 
Milne, where the exact book sits, slightly 
dusted and waiting. Though the story 
and the copy are both well-used, there 
is a sense of newness as I claim it as my 
own. I slide it off the shelf with satisfac-
tion, an act I’m sure Chodkowski has 
seen countless times.  He thanks me, and 
turns back to his work.  
With a story in every nook and cran-
ny, the multitude of treasures in this 
bookstore gives increasing meaning to 
what lies within the bindings. 
Leaving Monroe St. Books, the book 
I grip in my hand is more than merely 
what’s written on the pages; it is the whir 
of stories that have been opened and 
closed, passed down to new hands, and 
are ready to be lived again. 
Chemfab Factory Contaminates Water in Bennington
By Hye-Jin Kim
Senior Writer
“We will continue to 
be vigilant about test-
ing private wells in 
the North Bennington 
area, getting bottled 
water to those who 
need it and addressing 
any health impacts go-
ing forward. No one 
should have to worry 
about the safety of the 
water they drink.”
Peter Shumlin (D)
Governor of Vermont
Stories Find New Life at Monroe St. Books
By Wendy Walcoff
Contributing Writer
Courtesy VPR
Richard Spiese, Manager of the Vermont Waste Water Management Project, indicates the 
location of wells that were contaminated by the chemical to residents of North Bennington.
march10, 2016| 5local
 Last week, Middlebury’s Community 
Council voted to recommend the disconti-
unation of energy drink sales on campus, cit-
ing the “problematic behavior” that can arise 
from the consumption of such drinks. A letter 
to MiddExpress cus-
tomers — signed by 
Dan Detora, Middle-
bury’s executive di-
rector of food servic-
es — states, “There is 
scientific literature 
that demonstrates 
a strong correlation 
between the con-
sumption of energy drinks and problematic 
behavior in young adults and college students, 
including increased alcohol consumption, in-
creased likelihood to drive while intoxicated, 
increased probability of use of other intoxicat-
ing substances and increased participation in 
high-risk sexual activity.” The decision was 
met with varying degrees of support and criti-
cism, as well as national news attention. We 
find the  sales ban powerful – at least symboli-
cally – and recognize 
the need to address its 
troubling implications. 
First, this ban serves 
as a conspicuous re-
minder that the College 
has taken few concrete 
steps to mitigate stu-
dent stress. Second, the 
language surrounding 
the ban — namely, the 
unsubstantiated men-
tion of a correlation 
between energy drinks 
and sexual activity — 
has made the College 
the subject of mockery 
in the headlines of na-
tional media outlets.
While we acknowledge the well-inten-
tioned motivations of the Community Council 
in approving the ban, we believe that such a 
decision does not fall in accordance with the 
philosophy of the College in terms of personal 
responsibility. Consider the Honor Code, one 
we all sign within our first few days of enter-
ing Middlebury, whose authors are described 
as “students in a community of individuals 
that values academic integrity as a way of 
life.” Although the code is used formally as an 
academic standard, it embodies the culture 
and values of the College, which place great 
importance on personal responsibility. The 
Honor Code allows students more academic 
freedom — such as take-home assignments 
and unproctored exams — than most other 
colleges and universities, with the expecta-
tion that we will rise to the occasion with great 
integrity and behavior that is healthy to both 
the individual and the learning community as 
a whole.
Middlebury students are expected to 
exhibit a matured ability to make respon-
sible academic decisions, an expectation that 
should be holistically applied to its assump-
tions of the student population. A ban on the 
sale of energy drinks implies Middlebury 
students are not capable 
of making decisions that 
affect their own bodies, a 
direct contradiction to the 
values clearly stated in our 
academic code. We believe 
that decisions based on 
the health and wellness of 
students should more ac-
curately reflect the values 
we uphold in our com-
munity, academically and 
beyond. When we gradu-
ate, we’ll have access to en-
ergy drinks. If we choose to 
consume energy drinks in 
college, we should choose 
to do so responsibly -- as 
such, an imposed lack of ac-
cess does not benefit Middlebury students in 
the long run.
Furthermore, we understand that student 
stress was a factor in Community Council’s 
decision to ban the sale of the drinks. Al-
though we commend their efforts to con-
sider the health of the Middlebury student, 
we believe this ban addresses only a minor 
manifestation of the culture of stress on cam-
pus, a culture that could be vastly improved 
with a commitment to more constructive 
changes. On many levels, the ban feels to us 
like a shallow gesture that is overshadowed by 
institutional contradictions such as the fact 
that copious amounts of coffee — including 
Starbucks Doubleshot drinks — are still sold 
in campus stores. We would love to see Com-
munity Council confront this institution’s fail-
ure to make concrete steps towards changing 
the culture of stress on this campus, rather 
than making small changes that feel almost 
patronizing. After the weighty conversations 
around student stress last spring, the sales 
ban is one of the few changes intended to be-
gin to address that culture, but one that falls 
far short of making any substantive improve-
ments.
Members of this board varied in the degree 
to which they found the energy drink ban 
problematic, sparking a conversation around 
other products not sold on campus. Many 
supported the fact that no tobacco is sold; oth-
ers brought up the question of soda or fatten-
ing foods—should those be banned also? This 
sparks the question of a movable line, and the 
people who have the power to draw it. Com-
munity Council, it should be noted, is a board 
comprised of students, faculty and staff. The 
students are appointed by the Student Co-
Chair. We believe that a board with such influ-
ence should be more directly representative 
of the people whose decision it most affects. 
Community Council can produce significant 
legislation that directly affects the lives of stu-
dents, including the possible installment of 
security cameras and the controversial deci-
sion to disband ADP, formally referred to as 
Prescott house. We suggest that Community 
Council adopt new publicity tactics — such as 
proactive polling and all-student emails — to 
help keep students in the loop. Additionally, 
when crafting resolutions, we implore Com-
munity Council to make careful use of their 
language — lest NBC run with a few peculiar 
sentences.  
    There are so many initiatives and projects 
at Middlebury that are worthy of attention 
and recognition, and we find such pointed 
focus on this energy drink ban unfortunate; 
the skewed emphasis misrepresents our com-
munity. But if we do take student stress seri-
ously, we must do more — we must strive to 
pass more concrete proposals that address 
the wellbeing of the student body in a direct, 
robust manner. A ban on the sale of energy 
drinks — needless to say — is not enough.  
opinions
editorial board 
The content written within the 
Opinions pages may cause emotional 
distress. Please exercise discretion.
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor. The 
opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions 
section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial com-
ics and other commentary, are views of the individ-
ual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the 
opinions of the newspaper. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.
middleburycampus.com. To be considered for pub-
lications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. 
Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all 
submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
Undercaffeinated and Underwhelmed
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Claire Abbadi
MANAGING EDITOR
Leah Lavigne
BUSINESS MANAGER
Wyatt French
NEWS EDITORS 
Christian Jambora, Eliza Teach, Phil Bohl-
man, Ellie Reinhardt
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Sara Hodgkins, Francesca Haass, Lauren 
Alper, Nina Colombotos 
SPORTS EDITORS 
Joe MacDonald, Alex Morris, Emily 
Bustard, Andrew Rigas, Will Case, Remo 
Plunkett
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Rebecca Walker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Emilie Munson, Ethan Brady, Henry Bur-
nett, Renee Chang
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Elizabeth Zhou, Toby Aicher, Oakley 
Haight 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel Frank, Anahi Naranjo, Michael 
O’Hara, Anthea Viragh, Michael Boren-
stein 
DESIGN EDITOR
Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Boone McCoy-Crisp
ONLINE EDITORS
Maggie Cochrane, Pyone Aye 
COPY EDITOR
Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOST
Nathaniel Wiener
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITORS
 Nathaniel Wiener, Pyone Aye
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
official opinion of 
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Disclaimer: Reader op-eds do not reflect the opinion of The Middlebury Campus editorial board. 
AN OPINIONATED RESPONSE 
Last week, former Campus copy editor 
Dan Bateyko submitted a strongly worded 
criticism of the Opinions section. He chal-
lenged us to publish it and we did, despite 
its scathing tone.   
The concerns that Dan raises are not new 
to us — they are concerns that our board 
wrestles with on a regular basis. In spite 
of his use of phrases like “insipid Millsean 
argument,” we will address Dan’s concerns 
with respect.  
The Campus is not the New York Times. 
Running Middlebury’s only newspaper 
comes with a specific set of responsibilities 
that major publications are behooved to ig-
nore. We firmly believe that it is our respon-
sibility to provide a space for all voices, even 
the voices that members of our community 
would rather not grant a platform. Dan cor-
rectly points out that a newspaper should 
not be a “glorified spam filter.” We agree. 
However, we do not view the opinions of 
students on this campus – all of which are 
published because they ostensibly have 
something to contribute to this community 
– as unsolicited contributions best placed 
directly into the trash. We reserve the right 
to deny publication for any reason, but we 
do not desire to exercise this right. This is 
not due to a lack of submissions; rather, it is 
due to a desire to represent as many people 
in these pages as we can.
That said, the Opinions team has de-
cided to exercise increased editorial power 
over the submissions that come our way. 
We maintain that all submitted opinions 
have a place in these pages, but they do 
not have to be printed more or less as they 
come. Of course, we will not print direct vio-
lations to our code of conduct. But we also 
have been wary of editing beyond stylistic 
and grammatical changes; there is a fine 
line between editing and censoring student 
voices. We also worry that we become com-
plicit in arguments we dislike by elevating 
their quality. 
While we are still grappling with our 
editorial role, we believe that the Opinions 
team can and must exercise more editorial 
control over our section’s content. There is 
a middle ground between denying publica-
tion to opinions we find offensive and letting 
all the “drivel” through. Moving forward, we 
intend to work with writers to make sure 
their opinions are expressed in an intellec-
tually rigorous and coherent manner. We 
believe that more agency over the opinions 
in this section will result in a better paper 
and higher caliber of campus discourse. 
Our stance against anonymity is part of 
this quest for a better campus discourse. If 
people can’t stand behind their arguments 
openly, it calls the argument that they are 
making into question. People think harder 
about pieces they have to put their name 
on. However, there is a place for anonymity 
and we have willingly granted it in compel-
ling cases. Earlier this year, we published an 
anonymous op-ed from a student suffering 
from mental illness, as well as one this very 
week from a student accused of sexual as-
sault. In both of these cases, authors asked 
us for anonymity and we found their rea-
soning compelling. Anonymity is not some-
thing that we take lightly.
Dan asserts that the editorial board 
contradicted itself by calling for “a higher 
standard of speech — one that respects 
and acknowledges the power dynamic at 
play” when we published recent “unpopu-
lar” opinions. Our board holds itself to this 
standard and hopes the student body will 
do the same. However, when student con-
tributors fail to meet this expectation, their 
unpopular opinions still have the right to 
be expressed. Our board often writes about 
what we wish our community would strive 
to become, not necessarily what it is today. 
We can both convey these expectations and 
fulfill the most important democratic prom-
ise — freedom of speech — without contra-
diction. As we write in our Feb. 24 editorial 
“A Paper for the People,” “… we understand 
that community standards may be shifting 
around what is acceptable speech. We hear 
those voices and we care. At the same time, 
we prize freedom of expression and don’t 
want to limit it without a very serious dis-
cussion from the student body about what 
exactly those standards are.” 
   As for concerns regarding lists and po-
etry, we stand by our policy to reject pieces 
that do not comply with standard journal-
istic form. The policy about lists and poetry 
has changed since the example he cited 
from 2013, when no members of the edito-
rial board held their current positions. Dan 
insinuates that requiring a certain form of 
submission equates to a journalistic poll 
tax. Journalistic writing may be classist in 
a broad sense of the national landscape, 
where many people don’t have access to the 
education that grants their opinions legiti-
macy. At Middlebury, however, every stu-
dent at this school is held to a certain aca-
demic standard that makes them more than 
capable of adhering to the form that this pa-
per requires. While we agree that this is not 
the only form an opinion can take, we are 
not excluding any individual from having 
their voice heard. There are other outlets on 
this campus for more creative engagement.
 We would also like to take this time to 
quickly clarify other issues that were raised. 
We do not strictly enforce a word limit, and 
our publication of longer pieces by Presi-
dent Patton is not an act of privileging the 
administration. We let plenty of our colum-
nists and op-ed writers go over the word 
limit if they feel it necessary. 
We thank Dan, in addition to other 
students who have publicly and privately 
voiced their criticisms of The Campus. We 
hear you, and we have been tirelessly work-
ing to evaluate these concerns and make 
changes where we feel necessary. 
Notes From the Desk
Sara Hodgkins ’17.5, Francesca 
Haass ’16.5, Lauren Alper ’16 and 
Nina Colombotos ’18 are Opinions 
Editors
An Education for the Future
The United States spends, on average, 
$12,379 per pupil for each year of public 
K-12 education. Among Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development 
(OECD) countries, the U.S. ranks second 
in dollars spent per pupil. This is what we 
have to show for it. Only 33 percent of 8th 
graders are at, or above, proficiency level 
in math; similarly, only 34 percent of 8th 
graders are at, or above, proficiency in 
reading. For 12th graders, only 26 percent 
were at or above proficiency in math and 
only 38 percent were in reading. We could 
go on, but the numbers just get worse.
One of the biggest problems with our 
schools is the way that we fund them. Cur-
rently, a large portion of school funding 
is done at the local level through property 
taxes. This leads to great levels of inequal-
ity among public schools because higher 
income areas are able to raise more rev-
enue. If you are in a low income school 
district, more often than not, the only way 
to send your child to a better school is to 
move. We do not think this is right. We 
support a system in which equal funding 
follows each student, and it is not con-
ditional on where you live. Educational 
Savings Accounts (ESAs) could make this 
possible. An ESA is a fund of money pro-
vided by the state to each family for their 
child’s entire K-12 education. The money 
can only be spent at accredited education-
al institutions. Additionally, ESAs encour-
age cost savings on the part of both the 
parent and the school. Because the money 
rolls over, and any money not spent on 
K-12 education can be spent on college, 
parents are incentivized to be frugal and 
schools are incentivized to provide higher 
quality servic-
es at a lower 
price-point.
We need 
a system 
that encour-
ages schools 
to compete 
to provide 
high quality 
services at a 
lower price. If 
students had 
more choices 
as to where 
they went 
to school, 
schools would 
work more 
like busi-
nesses competing for market share. With 
ESAs, the schools that provide the best 
possible education at the most afford-
able rates would flourish. This would al-
low everyone to have the opportunity to 
receive an education that they want and 
deserve. It would also allow for parents 
to have greater influence over the educa-
tional programs offered at their children’s 
schools, and would encourage a greater 
diversity of educational opportunities. 
We believe that children should have the 
opportunity to pursue their passions and 
study subjects that many schools are cut-
ting today, such as music, theater, ma-
chine shop and advanced sciences. These 
programs are vitally important to our 
nation’s future, and through ESAs we be-
lieve that they would be supported and 
expanded.
Another important component of our 
nation’s edu-
cational sys-
tem that has 
been regret-
tably neglect-
ed are trade 
schools. Trade 
schools pro-
vide opportu-
nities for stu-
dents to learn 
valuable skills 
and provide 
steady jobs 
for a stronger 
future. We be-
lieve that these 
programs need 
to be a larger 
part of our ed-
ucational system. Students should have 
the opportunity to gain valuable job skills 
if they so choose. Once students meet 
standardized graduation requirements, 
we believe they should have the choice 
to spend their education money at trade 
schools or other job training programs. 
If the goal of our education system is to 
increase opportunity and reduce poverty, 
then trade schools must be part of that 
system.
One of the most tragic parts of our 
current education system is that our na-
tion’s teachers are undervalued. Howev-
er, when money follows students, skilled 
teachers become more valuable. Schools 
will be incentivized to attract and retain 
better teachers in order to attract more 
students. This will link teacher pay to the 
quality of education that they provide, 
just like any other service. Many people 
have had a teacher in their lives that has 
made a significant difference, and under 
this system, those teachers would be the 
most rewarded.
No plan, ultimately, is perfect. There 
will be many challenges to overcome as 
we move from our current system to one 
for which we are advocating. The fact 
of the matter is that some schools will 
weather the transition better than oth-
ers. Those schools that can meet the new 
educational standards necessitated by 
this system will thrive; those schools that 
cannot provide an adequate education for 
our nation’s students will be forced to re-
form or shut down. New schools, that can 
better serve those students, will take their 
place. ESAs will put money back into the 
hands of parents, rather than administra-
tors, and will incentivize new schools to 
open in order to better meet the needs of 
some of our nation’s most disadvantaged 
students.
We want to see a future in which all 
students, no matter their race, back-
ground or socioeconomic status, have the 
opportunity to receive an education that 
will serve them for the future. As inequal-
ity of opportunity continues to widen, we 
have a choice to make. Any plan or system 
that we choose to support must put the 
students first.
Talking Politics
Phil Hoxie ’17.5 is from 
Orinda, Calif.
Alexander Khan ’17 is from 
Phoenix, Ariz.
“We want to see a future in 
which all students, no matter 
their race, background, or eco-
nomic status, have the opportu-
nity to receive an education that 
will serve them for the future. 
As inequality of opportunity 
continues to widen, we have a 
choice to make. Any plan or sys-
tem that we choose to support 
must put the students first.”
White Privilege and Housing Policy
This column is written by white stu-
dents and for white students. Each week, 
we will discuss topics or themes regard-
ing race and, more specifically, the role 
of whiteness in race relations. If you 
would like to reach out to us personally 
to continue these conversations, please 
feel free to do so.
 In this article, we give an overview of 
the practice of redlining, discriminatory 
housing laws and predatory loans. These 
practices are essential to understand-
ing how white privilege operates in the 
United States. We encourage you to do 
further research since these practices are 
complicated and intertwine to oppress 
and discriminate against people of color, 
especially Black and Brown communities.
In the aftermath of the Great Depres-
sion, President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s 
National Housing Act (1934) subsidized 
housing development as one means for 
economic development. As part of this 
act, the Federal Housing Administration 
(FHA) was created to generate greater 
mobility through providing home loans 
with very low interest rates. The FHA did 
not act equally, however, and intention-
ally created racially segregated neighbor-
hoods.
The spatially segregated spaces of the 
suburbs extended into urban areas as 
well. Through redlining, the FHA marked 
communities of color (primarily black 
communities) as “hazardous” while pro-
viding white neighborhoods of similar 
socioeconomic status with private mort-
gages.
As white people bought new homes 
with the help of the FHA, restrictive racial 
covenants required that any subsequent 
buyer of a home had to be white. Thus, 
even if black families had the means to buy 
a home in middle-class white neighbor-
hoods, the own-
ers of the homes 
they attempted 
to move into 
were contractu-
ally obligated 
not to sell to 
them. The dam-
age went further 
still. Through a 
practice known 
as blockbusting, 
white families 
not yet reached 
by racial cov-
enants were in-
timidated into 
selling their homes at low prices by threats 
of neighborhoods “turning Black.” These 
realtors bought houses at low prices and 
sold them with drastic mark-ups to fami-
lies of color. This practice of blockbusting 
combined with redlining disallowed black 
people from purchasing “good homes” in 
“good neighborhoods,” creating racially 
and economically segregated neighbor-
hoods that restricted access to jobs, edu-
cation and healthcare.
The Fair Housing Act of 1968 did not 
resolve these issues. Predatory loans be-
came a major issue especially after the 
Great Recession of 2008. Predatory loans 
were not equally bad for all communities. 
According to ReverbPress, “Black women 
were as much as five times more likely 
than white men to receive a subprime 
loan” and two thirds of people receiving 
subprime loans actually qualified for less 
dangerous loans and lower interest rates. 
What could explain these disparate num-
bers? Black communities were specifical-
ly targeted by banks such as Wells Fargo. 
Former Wells Fargo executives have re-
vealed that their offices “saw the black 
community as fertile ground for subprime 
mortgages, as working-class blacks” at-
tempted to achieve what had been impos-
sible during the harshest era of redlining. 
These loan officers specifically targeted 
black churches 
and were re-
warded by supe-
riors for steer-
ing clients in 
the direction of 
more dangerous 
lending prac-
tices. Accord-
ing to a recent 
study written 
about in The 
Atlantic, “Race 
alone accounted 
for nearly all 
of the dispar-
ity in high-cost 
mortgage lending between whites and 
minorities.” The result of this targeted 
attack on black finances has been stark. 
In Baltimore, there is a clear correlation 
between the almost 50,000 vacant homes 
left behind by the crash and the “concen-
tration of black folks living” in the city. 
Even worse, the 2008 recession induced a 
decline in median black wealth from nine 
percent to five percent of median white 
wealth. That is, an average white family 
has $20 for every dollar that a black fam-
ily has today.
Strictly defining neighborhoods and 
therefore reinforcing economic inequal-
ity between neighborhoods doesn’t only 
affect the price and quality of homes. It 
directly affects funding for public educa-
tion in those neighborhoods since pub-
lic education in many states is funded 
through local property taxes, ensuring 
many difficulties in social mobility. No 
efforts were made to actively reverse our 
history of highly discriminatory housing 
policies. Inherited wealth and cultural 
capital are primary mechanisms for social 
mobility and redlining, subprime loans, 
under-funded schools and the over-po-
licing of these neighborhoods that have 
been deemed dangerous (and therefore 
are acted upon as if they are just that) 
ensure extreme difficulty in accumulating 
wealth and social mobility. Furthermore, 
white society points the finger at these 
neighborhoods as if their suffering is 
self-inflicted and that they simply cannot 
“pull themselves from their boot straps,” 
without considering all of the obstacles 
that Black and Brown people face that 
white people do not. Holding individuals 
responsible in this way without holding 
the systems in place accountable has ul-
timately been used as a tool to justify the 
over-policing of neighborhoods, the War 
on Drugs, police brutality, discrimination 
in sentencing and mass incarceration 
that disproportionately affect Black and 
Brown people more than white people.
Next week, we will be discussing police 
brutality and mass incarceration.
What we’re reading: 
1. “The Case for Reparations” 
(The Atlantic) 
2. “15 Charts That Prove We’re 
Far From Post-Racial” (Huffington
Post) 
3. “Ways the American Dream Is Ac
tually Just Affirmative Action for
White People” (Everyday Feminism) 
Interested in continuing these conver-
sations? Come to discussions Thursday 
evenings at 7 p.m. in the Gifford Class-
room. Everyone is welcome!
“... the 2008 recession in-
duced a decline in median 
black wealth from 9 percent 
to 5 percent of median white 
wealth. That is, an average 
white family has $20 for ev-
ery dollar that a black fam-
ily has today.”
facing whiteness
Aliza Cohen ’17 is from Chattanooga, 
TN
Juliette Gobin ’16 is from Harrison, 
NY
Molly McShane ’16 is from 
Washington, DC
Emma Ronai-Durning ’18 is from 
Salem, OR
Travis Sanderson ’19 is from Las 
Vegas, NV 
march 10, 2016 | 7opinions
“Now don’t go getting sentimental!”
I continued chopping — onion, after 
onion, after onion. It was the first day 
of MAlt DC, a trip to “explore the ethics 
of inequality in the capital of one of the 
wealthiest nations in world history,” as 
our tag-line (primarily used to fundraise 
from doting family members and profes-
sors) went. The ovens hissed; the voice 
of a berating chef shrilled from a nearby 
room. We were in a kitchen beneath a 
monstrously large homeless shelter just 
out of view of the grand, lavish halls of 
Congress. As government white collars 
chopped bills that primarily benefited 
the white collar majority, we chopped 
onions for people that society drove to 
the margins.
After several hours, we ended our 
shifts at the same time as the workers. 
But the next day, we didn’t return imme-
diately to work.
“So y’all go to Midd?” the white CEO 
asked us. He smiled. “I went to Wil-
liams!”
We laughed and listened as he gave us 
a full description of the kitchen. He took 
our questions and mulled over them for 
more than an hour while the workers 
were on the shift we were also scheduled 
to be working. The CEO had intervened, 
so we couldn’t join them until the conver-
sation concluded. The only people in the 
room — a very public cafeteria — were 
products of the “Liberal Arts.” We were 
very aware of that, especially when the 
CEO stopped speaking 
when an outsider en-
tered. As soon as they 
were gone, he smiled 
amiably. And then he 
continued as if he nev-
er stopped.
That wasn’t the only 
instance of our privi-
lege leading to excep-
tional treatment. A few 
days later, the fact that 
we were college stu-
dents earned us a trip 
— in the middle of our 
shift—to a “gourmet 
coffee and bagel shop.” 
We were a potential source of expansion 
for the kitchen, since they had a program 
designed specifically for college cam-
puses. Drinking coffee with yet another 
white face, every minute felt like its own 
forever. I thought about the workers, no 
doubt cutting onions, back at the kitchen.
We started to realize the kitchen hier-
archy possessed a racial element. First, 
the workers were overwhelmingly black 
— former inmates and patients. They 
were victims of mass incarceration, the 
“negative externalities” of policies made 
just around the corner at the Capitol. 
They had no choice but to work if they 
wanted to get back on their feet. Second, 
the leaders of the business itself were all 
white. (The only exception was someone 
who had been promoted from the work-
er class). 
T h e r e 
d i d n ’ t 
seem to 
be any 
a n i m o s -
ity, for-
t u n a t e l y , 
and every-
one was 
directed at 
the same 
p o s i t i v e 
goal. But 
that didn’t 
mean the 
racial ele-
ment did not exist.
Another dimension of the hierarchy 
became clear over the next few days. The 
workers were black, and management 
was white, but what about the in-be-
tween? The middle — which included us 
— seemed to be split evenly between “re-
quired community service” and “volun-
teer” classes. The former’s presence was 
mandated, so members were less privi-
leged than us, although they also were 
white. One was a student at Virginia Tech 
whose education had been interrupted 
for a “private reason.” He would be “back 
on his feet” after another few months. 
(“Just pretend to work,” he whispered 
when we finished our task). The volun-
teers, like us, were much more tempo-
rary, but also mostly white. Beyond just 
us ambassadors of the state of Vermont, 
there were well-positioned capitalists do-
ing their service, and a Class of 2015 col-
lege graduate who was flitting from non-
profit to non-profit to “find her passion.”
I thought about that for a while. How 
can someone who works seven days a 
week to even have a chance at a job and 
someone who can live in her parents’ 
house as a restless volunteer be in such 
close proximity? How can both the vic-
tims and victors of society be so close to-
gether  — not only in the kitchen, but in 
the city —  where the wealth of Congress 
lies directly next to the poverty of the 
kitchen? How can we ignore race when it 
continues to be a very apparent division? 
How can the myth of post-racialism con-
tinue to persist when reality exists?
Just as we were leaving to return to 
campus, one of the workers — who we 
had gotten to know well — smiled at us. 
She gave one of us her phone number, 
and asked a few questions.
“You’re in college? Ah, you’ll be fine!”
And then she turned away, vanishing 
back into the kitchen.
           
A Report From the Capital
Poverty Prose
Travis Sanderson ’19 
is from Las Vegas, NV
“How can we ignore race 
when it continues to be a very 
apparent division? How can 
the myth of post-racialism 
continue to persist when re-
ality exists?”
Reflections on Seeing
In 2007, Middlebury College’s Com-
mencement speaker was former Presi-
dent Bill Clinton.  If you weren’t here 
then, it is probably still possible for you 
to imagine the attention that was gar-
nered by his presence on campus.  We 
dealt with increased security, the prom-
ise of an audience that extended well be-
yond family and well-wishers, and how 
to keep the day focused on our gradu-
ates.  It was busy, bordering on chaotic. 
Almost nine years later, though, I don’t 
actually remember the logistics or the 
specific headaches.  I remember a single 
anecdote distilled into a single phrase: 
“I see you.”  Here’s the relevant excerpt 
from President Clinton’s speech: 
“A little north of there [in an area of 
South Africa], in the central highlands, 
when people meet each other walking 
along paths and one person says, ‘hello, 
how are you, good morning,’ the answer 
is not ‘I’m fine, how are you?’ The an-
swer, translated to English, is ‘I see you.’ 
Think about that. Think about how em-
powering that is. Think about the differ-
ence between that and a world of people 
obsessed with concentrating power in-
stead of empowerment, with control 
instead of freedom, with imposed ideol-
ogy instead of reasoned evidence. ‘I see 
you.’” 
Memories of President Clinton’s 
speech surfaced for me this past week-
end, when I had the privilege of attend-
ing the Posse Plus Retreat.  I am very 
grateful for that opportunity, and for the 
moments of deep discomfort as well as 
personal connection that I experienced. 
Throughout the retreat, the facilitators 
consistently employed that same phrase, 
“I see you.” Certainly it was used to ac-
knowledge a raised hand as someone 
waited to speak.  Frequently, though, it 
was a more strik-
ing, more deeply 
felt version of the 
phrases we so typi-
cally depend upon, 
“I hear you,” or 
sometimes “I feel 
you.”   How often 
have we tossed off 
those phrases, re-
lied on them as 
a mechanism for 
keeping a conversa-
tion going, as tes-
timony that we are 
good listeners, as 
a passive expression of support?  How 
realistic is it for us to really hear or feel 
someone’s experience when it is dissimi-
lar from our own?  And what shifts when 
we thoughtfully, and genuinely substi-
tute that one word, “see”?  I want to ac-
knowledge that in a world where some 
are constantly surveilled, and others are 
visually impaired, there’s plenty that’s 
problematic about privileging sight.  But 
I believe there is a way for us to move 
toward a culture of “I see you” in ways 
that include, and also move beyond ex-
clusively what is visible.  
“I see you” is a beginning.  It’s differ-
ent from “I get you,” and significantly 
distinct from  “Based on your appear-
ance I already know where you come 
from/what you major in/listen to/worry 
about/carry.” “I see you” is an affirma-
tion of another person and a confirma-
tion of our own limitations. However 
we might “see” someone else — with our 
eyes, ears, through touch — that’s all 
we get with-
out earning 
s o m e o n e ’ s 
trust.  If we 
are not will-
ing to be less 
i m p o r t a n t , 
less powerful, 
less sure for a 
sustained mo-
ment, we’re 
not capable 
of really see-
ing, and we’re 
d e f i n i t e l y 
not moving 
toward a deeper understanding of and 
sense of responsibility to others. We 
might think of this as a different kind 
of resilience:  a willingness to shed the 
comfort of our hard-earned confidence, 
to acknowledge that we only know what 
we know, however we have come to know 
it. I’m interested in us considering this 
reverse resilience on a personal as well 
as on an institutional level:  Middlebury 
is a remarkable place with much to be 
proud of AND much to work on. We’re 
going to get better only by acknowledg-
ing where we come up short. 
This takes me to the other reason that 
“I see you” has stuck with me;  the intan-
gible is impossible to lean on.  Through-
out this year and particularly this past 
weekend, I have heard students observe 
that the administration is not doing any-
thing to improve the experience of stu-
dents of color on campus, and that our 
silence is deafening.  This is painful to 
hear, both for the lived reality that it 
conveys and for its juxtaposition with 
my own experience; as an administrator, 
I can say with conviction that everyone 
with whom I work closely is working ev-
ery day, in real ways, on inclusion.  A list 
of efforts and successes is not relevant 
here, as  I have no doubt that the work 
that occurs in meetings, through e-mail 
and in conversations with alumni and 
trustees feels invisible and glacial to 
many.  We need to change that, to find 
visible ways to improve the campus con-
versation, the campus climate and the 
lived experience for students in the here 
and now.  Here are two things I feel sure 
of:  we won’t accomplish this with Yik 
Yak diatribes, the farthest thing from 
“seeing you” that I can imagine.  And we 
won’t accomplish a campus shift simply 
through administrative mandates — it’s 
going to take inventive and evolving 
partnership. Let’s lose the anonymity 
and start seeing each other, with all the 
vulnerability and discomfort that re-
quires.  If you’d like to connect, I invite 
you to join me in office hours on Tuesday 
afternoons, 3 - 4:15 p.m., in Old Chapel 
104, or at lunch in Proctor, Thursdays 
from 12:30 - 1:30 p.m.  Let’s work on this 
now, together.  
“If we are not willing to be 
less important, less power-
ful, less sure for a sustained 
moment, we’re not capable 
of really seeing, and we’re 
definitely not moving to-
ward a deeper understand-
ing of and sense of responsi-
Reader op-ed
Katy Smith Abbott is the Dean of the 
College
ALUMNI FIND HUMOR IN SALES BAN
To the editor,
I laughed out loud when I saw Mid-
dlebury making national news with its 
recent ban on Red Bull. So did the en-
tire station full of paramedics and EMTs 
where I volunteer, since I couldn’t help 
but pass around the NBC News article 
quoting college officials who blamed en-
ergy drinks for “high-risk sex and drug 
use.” We had dramatic readings and 
re-readings of portions of the article in 
which a room full of colleagues with 100+ 
years of combined experience in emer-
gency medicine could barely get through 
Dining Services Executive Director Dan 
Detora’s quote - “I see it as the equiva-
lent of banning cigarettes” - without hy-
perventilating. As a friend who’s a doctor 
and fellow Middlebury alum put it: “The 
college that wanted to drop the drinking 
age to 18 is now banning caffeine.”
I can just picture the scene now: mem-
bers of Community Council huddled 
around the WebMD symptom checker, 
inputting their daily energy drink con-
sumption and convincing themselves 
they were in the middle of a major car-
diac episode. Those of us who attended 
Middlebury before the school turned 
into Nanny University eagerly await the 
college’s coming bans on saturated fats, 
soft drinks over 12 ounces, sharp ob-
jects and any items that may hurt when 
thrown.
Letter to the editor
Derek Schlickeisen ’09 
  8 | March 10, 2016 opinions
Reexamining Our Sexual Assault Investigative Process
THE LO-DOWN
Lauren Alper ’16 
is from Mill Valley, CA
Letter to the Middlebury community
Though the John Doe case was set-
tled months ago and he is no longer en-
rolled at Middlebury, I nonetheless feel 
compelled to weigh in. I empathized 
with Doe. I’m not saying he is innocent, 
but I’m not calling him guilty either. I, 
too, was accused of sexual assault (and 
cleared after an extensive investigation, 
more on that later). There is a myriad of 
ways a rape investigation can go wrong. 
There are several factors that can ad-
versely affect alleged perpetrators, al-
leged victims and the integrity of the in-
vestigation.
We have evolved as a society. Stu-
dent activists have fought for the rights 
of silenced voices. Now, previously mar-
ginalized voices are heard, and this has 
changed how we view some of the most 
painful experiences these individuals go 
through. Nowhere is this clearer than in 
conversations regarding sexual violence. 
I would like to believe that we are slowly 
moving away from victim-blaming and 
that we take any allegation of sexual vio-
lence with the seriousness it deserves. 
On this campus, I feel that it is unthink-
able to stand in front of someone who 
claims to be a victim of sexual violence 
and dare ask: “are you sure?” Anyone 
who questions a victim publicly would 
be shamed and ostracized.
Yet in academics, skepticism is the 
defining trait of a good learner. We are 
taught to inquire and doubt everything 
that surrounds us. And so it is striking 
when we are prevented from doing so 
in cases involving sexual violence. This 
“always believe the victim” mentality 
implies that the person at the other end 
of the accusation must be guilty. He’s 
being accused ergo, he must have done 
it. The presumption of innocence goes 
out the window, along with due process. 
How does this affect someone? People 
might be reluctant to be seen with or talk 
to the accused. Who wants to be associ-
ated with someone who has been called 
a rapist? As a consequence, the person 
who has been accused is left isolated and 
confused, all because of one person’s tes-
timony.
And the effects don’t end there. Af-
ter a student has reported an incident, a 
No Contact Order (NCO) will be put in 
place. This prevents the alleged victim 
and perpetrator from having any type of 
contact. While this is a good measure, 
it poses a different set of challenges. If 
two individuals happen to have a com-
mon group of friends, or live in the same 
house/dorm, it will reinforce the state of 
isolation, pushing the accused to move 
out of his or her room and creating a 
divide among friends. This also gives 
the alleged victim an outlet to push his/
her own version and interpretation of 
events. If someone approaches you and 
asks “did you do it?” it feels an awful 
lot like the “are you sure?” question we 
choose not to ask alleged victims.
If someone is (unofficially) accus-
ing another person of rape and causing 
significant harm, could you initiate an 
investigation to clear your name? The 
answer is, surprisingly, no. You are pow-
erless, trapped between bureaucracy 
and one person’s account of how things 
happened. At this point, I started ques-
tioning the “judicial system” we have at 
the College. I put it between quotation 
marks because it is a farce. It claims to 
be fair, but it lacks transparency and 
allows for situations like the one I de-
scribed above to happen. It can make 
promises, but there is no guarantee they 
will be fulfilled. Title IX states that stu-
dents will be protected and not discrimi-
nated against in such a way that prevents 
them from learning or creates a hostile 
environment for learning, yet I was sub-
jected to a hos-
tile environment 
where my social 
life, academic 
career and men-
tal health were 
all in jeopardy. 
All this hap-
pened before an 
official investi-
gation had been 
launched. 
According to Middlebury’s handbook, 
complaints of this nature need to be re-
solved within 60 days. My case took over 
150 days. This investigation extended 
from the second week of J-term until 
two weeks after classes were over. I was 
forced to balance the emotional burden 
of my investigation and my academic ca-
reer for half a year. I thought it would 
only take 60 days, but as I got deeper 
and deeper into the process, the further 
away the conclusion to this awful ordeal 
seemed. For those unfamiliar with the 
process, it goes something like this:
1. A report is made to either Pub-
lic Safety or the Judicial Affairs Officer 
(JAO).
2. A No Contact Order (NCO) is re-
quested, preventing both parties from 
having any form of contact.
3. A formal request for an investiga-
tion is put forth by the alleged victim.
4. A private investigator is appointed 
to collect materials relevant to the case. 
The investigator collects official reports, 
statements and conducts interviews re-
garding the alleged incident.
5. The accuser and accused receive all 
the materials collected by the private in-
vestigator and have a chance to review 
them. They then have the opportunity to 
hand in a written response regarding the 
evidentiary materials.
6. Responses are reviewed and those 
in charge of the investigation decide if 
the written responses contain any addi-
tional leads that should trigger another 
investigation or further interviews. If the 
people in charge decide there is a need 
for further examination, the process 
goes back to step 4.
7. If the evidence is conclusive, it will 
be passed on to the Human Relation Of-
ficer (HRO) for examination and delib-
eration.
8. An interview between the HRO and 
the accused is conducted (merely a for-
mality at this point since no more evi-
dence can be introduced).
9. A decision and rationale for said 
decision is usually made within a week 
of the interview.
The first two steps are fairly straight-
forward: the alleged victim contacts 
Public Safety or the JAO. The alleged 
perpetrator is notified and served with 
the NCO. The issue with this is that only 
the alleged victim has access to this “ju-
dicial system” and it completely excludes 
the alleged perpetrator, preventing him/
her from ever 
filing a com-
plaint against 
someone who 
unfairly accuses 
them of a de-
spicable crime. 
Reputations can 
suffer on both 
ends. I also take 
issue with point 
five. I was prom-
ised the evidence acquired by the private 
investigator on two separate occasions, 
but these promises were nothing but 
lies. When the administration finally 
delivered the first round of evidence, it 
was the first week of midterms, on a day 
I had a test in one of my hardest classes 
from that term. All of my inquires before 
this date about the availability of the evi-
dence was met with a firm “by the end 
of week” and every disappointment gen-
erated by the failure to deliver the evi-
dence was met with a vague “next week.” 
At this point, I was angry and no longer 
trusted the people presiding over the 
case. It felt that they were trying to get 
rid of me. Midterms are difficult enough 
as is, but I now also had to grapple with 
reading approximately 15 accounts of 
the night I allegedly raped someone. 
Reading the same story from 15 differ-
ent people’s perspectives, one after the 
other, is an incredibly tough experience. 
It requires mental preparation. I was ad-
vised to have someone I trust go through 
this process with me. After two weeks 
of being dismissed with a “sorry, next 
week,” the school finally released the 
first round of evidence. The presentation 
of evidence was incredibly disorganized 
and additional evidence, not included 
in the initial email to me, was added 
multiple times, creating a long, incoher-
ent record. But I thought that this was 
the only way I will ever get to clear my 
name. There was nowhere else to go, so 
despite the fact that I did not trust the 
College officials overseeing the process, 
I needed to gather the courage to finish. 
So I followed the procedure. I wrote a re-
sponse defending my account and point-
ing at evidence that supported it. Unfor-
tunately for me, my alleged victim lied 
again and told the investigator that my 
group of friends had covered up sexual 
assault in the past. This led to yet an-
other investigation. I had to go through 
points four and five again. New evidence 
was released “coincidentally” during 
the second week of midterms (this was, 
of course, after requesting the evidence 
twice again). Now the school was making 
learning impossible. I felt that I was be-
ing harassed using bureaucratic means 
with an end goal of having me fail, so 
that I would be kicked out. From the very 
beginning I cooperated with the school. 
I provided a detailed and consistent ac-
count of the events that transpired. Yet 
I felt that this was not good enough and 
the school wanted to get rid of me.
The College’s system for dealing with 
sexual assault does not give you what 
you deserve, regardless of whether you 
are an alleged victim or alleged perpe-
trator of violence. The “preponderance 
of evidence” standard employed by col-
leges, in which you are guilty even when 
you are only 51 percent likely to have 
committed a crime, is much weaker than 
the “beyond any reasonable doubt” stan-
dard used in courts. There is no reason 
to prove that you actually committed a 
crime and this leads to a weak due pro-
cess. In case the school does find you 
guilty, you could face a suspension, ex-
pulsion or a nasty comment on your re-
cord. I have witnessed people do reck-
less things at parties like illegal drugs, 
destruction of school property and un-
derage drinking that could land them 
the same punishment as sexual assault. 
As a victim, you could end up facing your 
attacker a semester or year after the in-
cident. You want justice? Don’t go to the 
administration, go to the police. The col-
lege system is not a safe one. The system 
is very prone to make mistakes, mistakes 
that weigh heavily on people’s mental 
health. From a student perspective, next 
time you hear someone has been ac-
cused of sexual assault, take a moment 
and look at this process critically. Not 
everyone who is accused is guilty and 
not all those who report sexual assault 
are victims. If you think I’m wrong, go 
ahead, challenge my words. I would love 
for activists to disagree with me. There 
is a much needed debate regarding the 
standards to which we should hold our-
selves accountable.  
 
Editor’s Note: In light of the specif-
ic account and criticisms made in this 
column, The Campus asked the admin-
istration if it wanted to respond.  We 
publish that response here.
 
Middlebury College understands 
that the process of investigation and 
adjudication of any alleged violation of 
our Student Handbook Policy can be a 
challenging and trying experience for 
students in spite of all best efforts. This 
is especially true with cases involving 
reports of sexual misconduct or related 
offenses. We ap-
preciate the im-
pact these mat-
ters can have on 
student lives.
Without com-
menting on this 
or any particular 
case, the Title IX 
Office makes ev-
ery effort to con-
duct its investi-
gations in a manner that is both timely 
and thorough. While it is our goal to 
complete investigations within 60 days, 
this is not always possible, as we state 
clearly in our policies. Student and class 
schedules, school breaks, availability of 
witnesses, col-
lection of evi-
dence and the 
need to review 
conflicting ac-
counts and con-
tested claims 
with care, as 
well as to pro-
vide the parties 
with sufficient 
time to thor-
oughly review and respond in writing to 
all evidence, all can extend the process.
We want to emphasize that we be-
lieve Middlebury’s processes, while they 
can never be perfect, are thorough and 
fair. The federal government requires 
that colleges use a “preponderance of 
evidence” standard in cases involving 
reports of sexual assault, and we make 
every effort to apply it with great care.
 Finally, and perhaps most impor-
tantly, we sincerely hope that anyone in 
our community who believes they have 
been or may have been involved in an 
incident of sexual misconduct, domes-
tic or dating violence or misconduct or 
stalking, or is aware of such an incident, 
will report it. Information on how to do 
so is available at go/sexualviolenceinfo. 
If you have any questions, please con-
tact my office.
“The College’s system 
for dealing with sexual as-
sault does not give you what 
you deserve, regardless of 
whether you are an alleged 
victim or alleged perpetra-
tor of violence.”
Letter to the editor
Sue Ritter is the Title IX Coordinator/
Compliance Officer
Reader op-ed
This student has requested to remain 
anonymous, and given the highly 
personal and sensitive nature of the 
piece, the Campus decided to grant this 
request. 
“We want to emphasize 
that we believe Middlebury’s 
processes, while they can 
never be perfect, are thor-
ough and fair.”
march 10, 2016 | 9opinions
In her 2016 letter outlining her phil-
anthropic goals for the year, Melinda 
Gates chose to focus on the question of 
unpaid work. Specifically, she outlined 
the imbal-
ance in the 
amount of 
time men 
and women 
spend on 
tasks that must be done to fulfill neces-
sary life functions. She is talking about 
chores. Gates notes that when it comes 
to cooking, cleaning and caring for chil-
dren and the elderly, “in every part of 
the world, women spend more time on 
unpaid work than men do.” This is not 
just a problem of the “developing world”; 
even in Europe and North America, 
women average twice as much daily time 
on unpaid work than men.
If you were to take notice, you would 
find that this gap also exists at Middle-
bury. Last weekend at a party, I watched 
two young men tussle over a bottle of 
champagne and drop it, spewing the 
champagne all over the floor. Immedi-
ately, three women jumped into action 
to mop it up, while the students who cre-
ated the mess returned to the party with-
out a second thought. As a sophomore, I 
attended a small dinner with a visiting 
scholar. At the end of the meal, all of the 
female students, without exception, in-
stinctively started cleaning up the meal, 
while all of the male students continued 
their conversation. And I have one fe-
male friend who has repeatedly request-
ed to spend the night in my apartment 
because her male suitemate’s mess has 
made the space so inhospitable.
Of course, like most cases, this isn’t a 
simple binary issue of women do X while 
men do Y. At the Middlebury Women 
Leaders’ conflict resolution workshop 
with Laurie Patton last week, we spent 
half an hour workshopping a conflict in 
which a male participant could not con-
vince his suitemate to wash his share 
of the dishes. Over the weekend, I was 
thrilled that a couple of men took the 
lead in cleaning up after the Hillel Ba-
gel Brunch, a responsibility I assumed 
would fall to me as one of the organiza-
tion’s presidents. But as much as I ap-
preciated that they stood up to help, 
I don’t believe they deserve to be ap-
plauded. We expect women and girls to 
clean. It shouldn’t be a pleasant surprise 
when men and boys choose to pitch in, 
but rather there should be just as much 
of an expectation for them to contribute 
their time.
The issue of who does unpaid work is a 
matter of respect, both for the spaces we 
are lucky to inhabit and for the people 
with whom we cohabitate. As Middle-
bury students, there is little expectation 
for us to contribute to the typically un-
paid work that is necessary for our daily 
functioning; we are lucky to have paid 
maintenance staff who upkeep all cam-
pus buildings. Perhaps it would help fos-
ter a sense of accountability if we were 
responsible for our own mess. Because 
there is currently minimal responsibil-
ity on students to do this unpaid work, 
there exists the perception that it is un-
worthy of our precious time. Although 
the maintenance staff does much of the 
heavy duty cleaning, the need for some 
small amount of unpaid labor persists in 
suites, superblocks, kitchens and other 
common spaces. We all know that time 
is a valuable, limited resource. Thus, the 
disparity in men’s versus women’s time 
spent on unpaid work is all the more 
devastating. It is important time that 
otherwise could be spent on studies, 
hobbies or professional development. 
Such is the opportunity cost of unpaid 
work. I promise that if you look around 
your residence or other spaces that are 
precious to you on this campus, there 
is more work to be done for this neces-
sary upkeep. I challenge you to search 
for these opportunities and make your 
contribution of unpaid work, regardless 
of your gender.
 
The Question of Unpaid Work: No, I’m Not Talking About Your Internship 
reader op-ed
Shelby Elise Friedman  
’16 is from Dallas, Texas
On Club Sports and Student Interests
Do you currently play a club sport? 
Have you ever tried one out? I think a typ-
ical experience of many students on this 
c a m p u s , 
if they 
are not of 
the 300+ 
c l u b 
sport ath-
letes, is 
that they tried a club sport for a day or 
two, and found it wasn’t for them. I would 
estimate that the number of people who 
have ever tried or participated in a club 
sport (even for a brief period of time) is 
at least 700 students.
Politically, we have seen much discus-
sion about accessibility on this campus. 
What is accessibility? Are all facilities ac-
cessible? On a less quantifiable level, are 
experiences and organizations on campus 
accessible for people of all backgrounds? 
These questions become very prevalent 
when examining the nature of athletics 
at Middlebury. The athletic center is not 
an accessible place for many students. 
On a base level, it is populated by people 
who seem to already be physically fit and 
absolutely beautiful. A girl on my fresh-
man hall once quipped that Midd made 
her want to “run 4 miles with full makeup 
on.” Gymtimidation is not the only fac-
tor, however. Some gym facilities, like 
the squash courts or the hockey arena, 
remain inaccessible to those whose who 
were not fortunate enough to learn how 
to use these facilities adequately. I, for 
one, did not know about the existence of 
squash until I arrived at Middlebury.
Beyond facilities, varsity sports are 
decidedly not-accessible. Before the start 
of the year, coaches plan and assemble 
the majority of their teams. There is the 
remote possibility of walk-ons, especially 
in sports like track, but this is not a prev-
alent phenomenon. As a consequence, 
the fitness center often feels segregated. 
Non varsity athletes generally use the 
cardio machine areas and the weight 
room, while varsity athletes use those 
areas and seemingly everything else. 
Intramural teams will certainly use the 
turf in the field house or the basketball 
courts, but always scheduled around the 
practice times of varsity squads. This is 
not a knock against varsity athletes, but 
it is important to acknowledge that the 
foundation of varsity athletics is inac-
cessibile. To remain competitive, sports 
like lacrosse need people who already 
know how to play and are physically fit. 
If you want to learn how to play lacrosse, 
or master tennis, or swim competitively, 
tough luck. 
Let’s now examine the structure of the 
competitive club sports, which I will ab-
breviate as CCS, to differentiate from the 
recreational club sports (which do not 
engage in competition with other teams). 
These sports, which include crew, rugby, 
and water polo, have active rosters of 
over 125 students. Crew itself has about 
60 members, and would be about the 
same size as our largest varsity teams. 
These athletes practice in season on a 
similar structure to varsity programs. 
Speaking for crew, on the water practices 
are about 3 hours a day, 6 times a week. 
Practices off the water tend to be short-
er, with no drive to Lake Dunmore, but 
are more intense. During the off season, 
each rower was asked to erg/run/swim/
lift their way to 1,425,000 meters. This is 
approximately the distance between the 
center of town and Charlotte, North Car-
olina. From friends and acquaintances, 
it seems other CCS share similar dedica-
tion in practice and fitness. The ultimate 
key to club sports is that they are perhaps 
the most accessible competitive athletic 
programs at Middlebury. The majority of 
people at Middlebury can sign up to be 
a “novice” in one of these sports, some-
one who has had little or no prior contact 
with the game. Regardless of your physi-
cal starting point, these novice programs 
are designed to take you to the appropri-
ate fitness level needed to be competitive. 
On the financial side, club sports have a 
powerful financial aid structure to help 
lower the barriers for people who want 
to participate. This aid is raised through 
fundraising. All the members of the team, 
beyond practices, spend hours to make 
sure that all can participate.
 There is currently an initiative in the 
SGA to set a funding cap on club sports, 
so that each club sport is funded (per 
person) the max amount allocated by 
each student’s extracurricular participa-
tion fee, which is just above four hundred 
dollars. Currently, sports like sailing 
and crew are taking more than this fee 
per athlete, meaning that each athlete is 
costing more than the fee they are put-
ting in. The concern is that this funding 
scheme is unfair, and the Finance Com-
mittee has also taken this view. The new 
proposal will slash some budgets for club 
sports by up to 30 percent, which may 
leave some sports unable to exist beyond 
a recreational level. I, too, share the con-
cern that no club or organization should 
be funded more than the “fair” level.
Where is the administration when it 
comes to this? Are the interests in club 
sports as legitimate as financial inter-
ests in Monterey or opening a new school 
abroad? Is Middlebury College rooted 
in the small liberal arts campus or a gi-
gantic international corporation? If the 
new funding gap is applied, somewhere, 
somehow, the administration could pro-
vide $20,000 dollars to keep the club 
sports at the same operating level. It is 
particularly notable that the college’s fi-
nancial health is not particularly vibrant, 
as admitted by the head of the Finance 
Committee. Yet, the issue of club sports 
involves the livelihood of hundreds of stu-
dents. The interests of students should be 
the first priority of Middlebury, and the 
diffusion of responsibility that Athletics, 
Old Chapel and other agencies on cam-
pus have shown in solving the funding 
issue of club sports is concerning. Why 
should students who practice and fund-
raise for upwards of 12-20 hours a week 
also have to defend the legitimacy of their 
interests? Why should a student-run Fi-
nance Committee be forced with dealing 
with an issue that should have never been 
theirs to solve?
I am not going to defend why club 
sports are important to people. Ask any 
club sport athlete. If this funding cap 
passes, club sport budgets will decrease, 
and student interests on this campus will 
be damaged. I ask you, as fellow peers 
at Middlebury, who also believe in ide-
als of accessibility and student life, to 
urge your respective senators in the SGA 
to vote no this upcoming Sunday. Until 
a new funding proposal can be reached, 
with the deficit in funding picked up by 
the administration, continuing with the 
cap will do far more harm than good.
 
Reader op-ed
Colin Boyle ’18
is from Leicester, Mass.
  10 | March 10, 2016 opinions
CARTOONS
Emily COx
WIN HOMER
KAITLYND COLLINS
BOONE MCCOY-CRISP
12 features 13featuresmarch 10, 2016    | march 10, 2016
SPRING SPORTS PREVIEW
Men’s Tennis 
The men’s tennis team has two goals this spring: to play like a cham-
pionship team and to win a national championship. In 2013, the Panthers 
reached the NCAA Quarterfinals before losing. The following year, they 
made the semifinals before bowing out last year. Last year, they won the 
NESCAC for the first time in five years and made it to the NCAA champi-
onship match but lost Claremont-Mudd-Scripps. If that trend continues, 
the Panthers will be national champions in May.
“It’s kind of an overlapping goal,” Assistant Coach Brice Parmelly said. 
“To be a championship team doesn’t always mean to win a championship. 
It includes everything within our control: being the most fit team in the 
country, being the toughest competitors and being the most cohesive unit.
The team already has one national champion. In the fall, Noah Farrell 
’18 won the Division III singles national title at the 2015 USTA/ITA Na-
tional Indoor Intercollegiate Championships after being named NESCAC 
Rookie of the Year his first year at Middlebury a season ago. Joining him 
at the top of the lineup will be Ari Smolyar ’16, last year’s top singles player 
who finished last spring ranked first in the Northeast and sixth nationally. 
The depth that propelled the team to a 22-4 record and the champion-
ship last season includes a trio of sophomores: Will de Quant ’18 (23-4 
last year and 9-2 in the fall), Timo van der Geest ’18 (6-5 and 5-4) and Kyle 
Schlanger (10-4 and 6-3).
“We could easily go over and talk about every single guy, and there 
is marked improvement from where they were when they came in,” Par-
melly said. “We’ve got a really good team.”
Golf
Men’s and women’s golf look to get back on the course at the end of 
the month.
Monica Chow ’16 is the women’s senior captain and leads a strong core 
of sophomores that includes Katharine Fortin ’18, Hope Matthews ’18 and 
Sarah Breckinridge ’18.
“We will be heading south for Spring Break to play,” Fortin said. “With 
the temperatures looking like they’re on an upward trend, we’ll probably 
get on the course before break. We are all golf-deprived, so we can’t wait 
any longer.”
On the men’s side, expectations are as high as always for the two-time 
defending NESCAC champions.
“Our number one goal is to win NESCACs,” Bennett Doherty ’18 as-
serted.
Fitz Bowen ’17 returns from a semester abroad and looks to three-peat 
as the NESCAC individual champion. Last season, in his first-year spring 
Doherty split the title with Bowen. After a strong fall season, a host of 
Panther first-years Scott Guidotti ’19, Phil Morin ’19 and Reid Buzby ’19 
look to follow suit. Junior Matt Marra ’17 was named captain this spring 
and will also play a role in the quest to three-peat.
Having been abroad, Bowen has been off the course but still will com-
pete in the effort to help the Panthers to a three-peat.
“I’ve played very little since going abroad,” Bowen says. “But I doubt 
it will affect my play this spring. I played eighteen holes today and hit it 
pretty well.” 
Spring Track
While there are still 17 runners competing in indoor track and field 
nationals this upcoming weekend, the Panthers are gearing up for the 
spring season that will begin with a spring break trip to San Diego, CA 
where warm weather should make for fast times at Point Loma Nazarene 
University.
“San Diego is a great week of training and bonding for the team,” Se-
nior Captain Sam Cartwright ’16 said.
Key contributors will be javelin throwers Carly Anderson ’16 and Dev-
on Player ’18 who both competed at last year’s NCAAs and senior Adrian 
Walsh ’16 who is still competing in the indoor NCAA 5,000 meter race. 
Joining Cartwright as men’s captains are seniors Brandon Cushman ’16, 
Danny Plunkett ’16 and Conor Simons ’16, while the women’s team is led 
by Anderson, Halle Gustafson ’16, Jackie Kearney ’16, and Alex Morris ’16.
“We are looking to push the athletes to improve,” said Coach Martin 
Beatty ‘84, who expressed the team’s goal is to “win the NESCAC.”
Softball
The softball squad is determined to build on last year’s NESCAC west 
division second-place finish and to take another step forward.
“We have a good group of returners with a lot of experience,” Coach 
Kelly Bevere said. “Especially our seniors, who are pushing everyone to 
compete and improve.”
The team’s captains include Neve Stearns ’16, Carlyn Vachow ’16, 
Jackie Stearn ’16 and Kat Maeher ’16. The quartet of seniors have several 
goals to finish strong in their final season.
“Our first team rule is to win,” Vachow said, “ to put us in the best posi-
tion to get to the NESCACs and then NCAA’s”
In addition to their highly competitive spirit, the Panthers have strong 
team chemistry.
“The team chemistry is great, and there is no class division,” Taylor 
Gardner ’18 said.
“We’ve put a lot of emphasis on team bonding and giving everyone a 
chance to be in leadership positions,” Vachow added.
The team has more than a dozen players who both can pitch and hit, 
giving the Panthers a leg-up on many NESCAC opponents.
“Everyone is competing. At this point, I couldn’t even put together a 
starting lineup,” Coach Bevere says.
The Panthers begin play later this month when they head to Clare-
mont, FL. for their annual spring break trip.
Baseball 
The Middlebury baseball program is coming off its worst season since 
1967. It has been eight years since the team has finished the season above 
.500 and is looking to recover from the last two years in which it has won a 
combined nine games. The Panthers ended their 2015 season with a record 
of 4-24, their eighth consecutive losing record. That winning percentage of 
.142 was the worst for the program since 1967, when the Panthers when 
0-10. The Panthers last made the conference championship in 2006, when 
they won the league title and advanced to the NCAA Tournament for the 
first time in program history.
Head Coach Bob Smith enters his final season after 31 years as the pro-
gram’s head coach. Donnie McKillop ’11, a graduate of the program, was 
hired in January as an assistant.
Despite last year’s performance, the Panthers have some hope for this 
season: 22 of their 27 players are returning, including a number of key play-
ers in the lineup.
“Things have gone very well this season so far,” Smith thinks, “pitching 
is stronger with some new young arms, and our position players are battling 
it out for starting spots.”
Smith said the team’s scrimmages in the new Virtue Field House have 
gone well, and he hopes this energy will carry over when the schedule be-
gins. “It’s a little early to say who will play where,” Smith said.
The Panthers are scheduled to play Bates in a double-header on March 
19 in Northboro, MA. They will then Tucson, Ariz. for their annual spring 
break trip.
Women’s Lacrosse
Women’s lacrosse begins the season under the direction of new Head 
Coach Kate Livesay ’03.
The Panthers start the season ranked fourth nationally in the pre-
season polls. Once again, the team plays a difficult schedule that includes 
seven nationally ranked opponents.
Despite the loss of all-Americans Katie Ritter ’15 and Catherine Fowler 
’15 the team is brimming with talent. Nine of its top 10 scorers from last 
season return. Two-time all-American midfielder Laurel Pascal ’16 will 
lead the charge.
The Panthers will rely on strong offense spearheaded by Mary 
O’Connell ’17, Bridget Instrum ’16 and Alli Sciarretta ’16, while Chrissy 
Ritter ’16, Delaina Smith ’17, Hollis Perticone ’18 and Evie Keating ’18 
anchor the midfield.
Coach Livesay expects Perticone to have a breakout season.
“We want to have her involved in more plays,” said Livesay. “She is 
a very skilled player with great instincts and is a real threat to the cage.”  
Defense is an area where the team looks to improve as the season be-
gins.
“We tend to be a pretty competent attack with a lot of talent,” Livesay 
said. “We came into this season with defense as an immediate focus and 
it has been great to see the team gain a lot of confidence in that phase of 
the game.”
Livesay is excited for this opportunity to return to her alma mater and 
to lead a talented squad.
“It feels like a big responsibility but more than anything it is really 
exciting and fun.”
Men’s Lacrosse 
Men’s lacrosse enters the season ranked ninth in the national pre-
season poll coming off a 13-6 campaign in which they advanced to the 
second round of the NCAA Tournament before losing to Amherst. Once 
again, the Panthers will play one of the toughest schedules in the country 
and face five teams ranked in the preseason poll.
The team returns significant firepower with eight of last year’s nine 
top scorers returning, including two-time all-conference selection Jon 
Broome ’16, Jack Rautiola ’16 and an experienced midfield of Tim Giar-
russo ’16, Kyle Soroka ’16, Sean Carroll ’16 and Jack Cleary ’16. Henry 
Riehl ’18 looks to build on a strong first-year season and to contribute to 
the offensive effort this spring.
Defensively the Panthers will rely on Jack DeFrino ’17 and Eric Rogers 
’18, as well as a strong defensive midfield of Harrison Goodkind ’16, all-
conference selection Joey Zelkowitz ’17 and Nick Peterson ’18. Goaltender 
Will Ernst ’17 enters his second season starting between the pipes.
“We will need to be a mentally tough team to continue to grow this 
season, pushing one another while facing such a grueling schedule,” 11th 
year Head Coach Dave Campbell said. “We will need to build off of last 
season and carry that momentum over into this spring.”
Women’s Tennis
The women’s team hopes to improve upon a successful 2015 campaign 
that included an 11-7 record, a trip to the NCAA quarterfinals and two All-
Americans, Ria Gerger ’16 and Lily Bondy ’17. The Panthers return their 
top four singles’ players and five of their six doubles’ players from the 
team that won two matches in the NCAA tournament last season.
“I think we have tremendous depth,” Head Coach Mike Morgan said. 
“Within our group, we are entirely comfortable putting any one of them 
against anyone in the country. I’d say we are very, very strong that way.”
Gerger will be at the top of the ladder for Middlebury in singles and 
doubles, after earning All-American honors in both (her third time as a 
singles’ All-American) and advancing to the quarterfinals of the NCAA 
Singles Tournament a year ago. Bondy, Alexandra Fields ’17 and Kaysee 
Orozco ’17 will join Gerger in the Panther lineup as each won more than 10 
matches apiece last season. Bondy, in particular, looks primed for a good 
spring after going 7-3 this fall and reaching the semifinals of the USTA/
ITA New England Regional singles tournament. 
“The team is dialed in,” Morgan said. “There is a lot of really good 
competition, so you have to be. I think this team is as close, together and 
moving in the same direction as I’ve had.”
Writing by Ethan Brady, Will Case, Colby Morris, Trevor 
Schmitt, Andrew Rigas, Sebastian  Sanchez and Christine 
Urquhart
Design by Julia Hatheway
‘The Consent Project’ Workshops Encourage 
Honest Dialogue About Intimacy and Sex
People paticipating in this year’s “Sleep-Out” will camp at Marbleworks, near the foot of the Otter Creek Falls in Middlebury. 
14 features | march 10, 2016
Julia Alvarez to Host 
Storytelling Talk Next Week
On March 16 at 7 p.m., Julia Alvarez 
will be joined by Haitian-American 
novelist Edwidge Danticat for conversa-
tion in Dana Auditorium focusing on the 
art and power of storytelling. The event, 
titled “Scheherazade’s Sisters,” is named 
after Šahrāzād, the narrator of One 
Thousand and One Nights — also known 
commonly as the Arabian Nights.
Alvarez and Danticat also hope 
to discuss human “w/righting” cross-
culturally and trans-nationally, writing 
across languages, feminism and collabo-
ration in organizations such as Border 
of Lights.
What is consent? Does consent have to 
be verbal, or can it be reached through body 
language? Am I supposed to get my boy-
friend/girlfriend’s consent each time before 
having sex with him/her? What makes for 
good sex? Why don’t we talk about sex more 
as a community? 
These were some of the questions that 
were raised in Winter  and Spring-term Con-
sent Workshops, organized and led by Ame-
lia Marran-Baden ’17 and Jeremy Alben ’18. 
In light of recent sexual assault cases in the 
press and the John Doe case at Middlebury, 
Marran-Baden set out to create a collective 
initiative to reframe the way that we think 
about consent and encourage students to 
talk about sex. She was inspired by a man-
datory “Consent is Sexy” workshop that she 
attended as a first-year at Barnard College 
before transferring to Middlebury College. 
“The Consent Project is about giving 
students that space to talk about sex and to 
enjoy talking about sex,” Marran-Baden ex-
plained. “You’re going to have a better time 
if you’re open with your partner and open 
with yourself about what you want.”
Over bagels and popcorn, the workshop 
participants answered light-hearted sex 
trivia questions such as “how many nerve 
endings are in a clitoris” (the answer is 
about 8,000) and then broke off into small 
group discussions about sex, intimacy and 
consent. To date, the Consent Project has 
hosted one male-identifying workshop, 
three female-identifying workshops and one 
co-ed workshop, all ranging from six to 30 
participants. 
“It exceeded my expectations,” said 
Alben, talking about the male-identifying 
workshop that he led over J-term. “We re-
ally got the ball rolling around subjects that 
people don’t normally talk about in a group 
of peers.” 
“I thought it was really wonderful to 
speak in a small circle and to share our per-
spectives on a generally more intimate topic 
such as sex,” orkshop participant Kai Wig-
gins ’16.5 said. 
Initially, the workshop participants 
tended to have negative reactions about 
what consent means. Many students ex-
pressed their confusions and discomfort 
around the convoluted definitions of con-
sent and the “he said/she said” dialogue that 
often ensues after cases of sexual assault.
“There’s an inclination nowadays to 
push back against this movement and say 
that so many people are being falsely ac-
cused,” said two-time workshop attendant 
Aleck Silva-Pinto ’16. “There have been false 
accusations, which is terrible, but if there’s 
more awareness, then more people are safe.” 
After acknowledging their discomforts, 
workshop participants engaged in an open 
and honest dialogue about intimacy. 
“This is in no way a blaming type of con-
versation,” Julia Lesh ’16 explained. “This is 
taking consent away from the realm ‘guys 
are at fault’ and acknowledging that the rea-
son many of us struggle to confront our re-
lationships with sex and sexuality is because 
of our society, our culture, the things that we 
watch, the things that we see and that’s not 
anyone’s fault.”  
The Consent Project does not seek to 
demonize or extinguish hookup culture at 
the College, but instead to cultivate an en-
vironment on campus where students feel 
comfortable talking about sex and commu-
nicating with their sexual partner, whether 
it’s a one-night stand or a boyfriend of 10 
years. Having a conversation is such a basic 
way to lead to a healthy understanding of 
intimacy and to normalize the various ways 
that people relate to sex: whether you really 
don’t like sex, you masturbate three times a 
day or you like to engage in kinky role play. 
“There seems to be a disconnect be-
tween what students are doing and how 
they’re feeling,” said Marren-Baden, ad-
dressing the College’s hookup culture. “Why 
has sex become so normalized and yet talk-
ing about it has become so strange?”
“The more we talk about consent, the 
less we can justify fudging our standards,” 
clarified Francesca Haass ’16.5, who has at-
tended several Consent Project workshops. 
“If this conversation spreads across campus, 
I think we have a real chance to close the gap 
between what we think consent should be 
and how it often plays out.”
As the Consent Project grows, Marren-
Baden and Alben hope to draw a more di-
verse crowd to the workshops and make the 
space as inclusive as possible. To date, the 
workshops have consisted of mainly hetero-
sexual, white students. Marren-Baden and 
Alben recognize that sex is in no way het-
ero-normative and seek to bring in as many 
perspectives as possible to their upcoming 
consent talks. 
“Why has sex become 
so normalized and yet 
talking about it has be-
come so strange?”
Amelia Marran-Baden ’17
Project Organizer
Amelia Marran-Baden ’17, the founder of 
the Consent Project, poses in Johnson.
By Esme Valette
Contributing Writer
Bill Eichner
Crossword: How Well Do You Know Midd?
1.     Every other Tuesday
2.     Shirts off 
3.     A drink and a church 
4.     Atwater dining hack 
5.     New kids on the block 
6.     A general and our president 
7.     THURSDAY!   
8.     Movies and fistpumps 
9.     Proctor ______ 
10.  Tiny desk concert 
11.  Ross mystery 
12.  King of salad dressing 
13.  D1 
14.  WOMPWOMPWOMP 
15.  RIP ______ House 
16.  Justin Bieber, eg. migratory birds 
17.  Atwater ceiling and BiHall Window 
18.  This Saturday 
19.  Freshman dorms and that professor 
20.  “It’s not JV, its ______!”
21.  It hangs low 
22.  Not pizza? 
23.  “Biddie” dessert
24.  Free samples 
25.  Nonsensical water animal 
26.  Pond and sculpture 
27.  Art History department local, abb. 
28.  _____ Back Mountain  
29.  Battell and Dunmore 
30.  A drink and our ex-dean 
31.  Light beverage and commons 
dean 
32.  Number of beers you can fit 
in a frisbee 
33.  Allegedly invented here
34.  ___-palooza 
35.  Given at graduation
36.  Largest window in Vermont 
By Will Nathan
Contributing Columnist
Emilie Munson
A Head Full of Fun
This weekend, the Middlebury Col-
lege Organic Farm (MCOF) students 
went on their monthly trip to Essex 
Farm in New York. Usually they return 
with dirt-clad clothes and fresh pro-
duce, but this time they came back with 
some advice from the farm’s owner, 
Mark Kimball. It went something like 
this:
“Sleep more, work less, eat good 
food. It is all going to get done. Lose the 
watch and spend more time with people 
or doing all the things you always say 
you’re going to do. Go climb a tree, 
wrestle with your friends and pass time 
in a head space of curiosity and intro-
spection.”
By Wellness Leaders
Staff Columnists
Wellness Tip 
of the Week
Christian students, faculty, staff and 
alumni gathered on March 5 in Axinn 229 
to discuss how to find communities of 
faith and meaningful work after gradua-
tion. The all-day workshop, titled “Living 
Faith: Christian Leadership on Campus 
and Beyond,” featured a morning prayer 
and panel discussions with alumni who 
graduated as early as the Class of 2005.
For Gilbert Kipkorir ’16, the weekend 
provided an invaluable forum to network 
and meet alumni several steps ahead of 
him on lives driven by faith in God.
“If my experience this weekend is 
anything to go by, such events are defi-
nitely vital,” Kipkori said. “Not only was 
this event encouraging to me, but it also 
gave me a picture of what life might look 
like after graduation. Being a senior, this 
could not have come at a better time.”
Chaplain of the College Laurie Jor-
dan ’79 described the event as helpful for 
students who hope to incorporate Chris-
tian values into life after graduation. 
“The weekend was supposed to be 
a chance for people to talk about these 
things that I think they really do think 
about,” Jordan said. 
“Often, the faith di-
mension, the religious 
values dimension isn’t 
always pulled in and so 
it was fabulous to have 
these alumni talk be-
cause they were very willing to be trans-
parent and open to talk about what kind 
of journey they’ve been on.”
She said that the use of “God lan-
guage” varies among people. “Compared 
to your average conversation around 
work and talent and passion, this was a 
time when people could really freely use 
their God language.”
Armel Nibasumba ’16, who sits on 
the leadership team for Middlebury In-
tervarsity Christian Fellowship, said he 
enjoyed the event because it stressed 
that there is “no model path” for Chris-
tian life after college.
“This past weekend’s 
event raised questions 
I never considered,” 
Nimbasumba said. “The 
different experiences 
that the speakers voiced 
showed the various 
paths taken but importantly the impor-
tance of keeping Christ at the forefront 
of their careers. It is possible to priori-
tize one’s Christianity in non-religious 
careers.”
He added that alumni of faith bring 
a different wisdom and breath of expe-
rience that current Middlebury students 
can benefit from. “It’s always great to 
hear perspectives of people who have 
been in your shoes and can now look at it 
from a different angle.”
Jordan organized a workshop simi-
lar to this one in 2006, when she hosted 
alumni who returned to the College to 
share their working experiences with 
students curious about Christian life af-
ter graduation. The event focused on vo-
cational and cross-cultural aspects of the 
Christian faith.
Jordan said that the term “vocation” 
is now seen through a secular lens, but 
that it has historical roots in Christian-
ity.
“In the Christian tradition, the word 
‘vocation’ comes from the Latin for ‘to 
call.’ So both vocational and talking 
about your ‘calling’ were originally theo-
logical concepts,” she said. “Many of 
these theological concepts have obvious-
ly and easily been secularized. So now, 
vocational sometimes as a track in high 
school means that you’re learning some 
kind of trade or skill.”
Jordan explained that for some of 
the alums who returned Saturday, their 
vocation is both their calling and their 
day-job work. For others, the work they 
do pays for their passion, or their true 
vocation.
“Sometimes you get really lucky, and 
you feel, ‘God has given me the brain, the 
skills, the talents to be a really good doc-
tor, social worker, whatever.’ Then your 
paid work and what feels like your mis-
sion and life are the same,” Jordan said. 
“Sometimes it might be that computer 
coding you’re remarkably excellent at it, 
but that actually is just going to help you 
fund what you feel is your passion in life, 
which might be completely unrelated.”
“Of course, it could be that computer 
coding is also your passion and you’re 
going to figure out a way for that to be 
grounded in your values and you won’t 
choose to work for certain kinds of com-
panies and so on,” she added.
For alumnus Devon Parish ’05, the 
faithful foundation she laid at the Col-
lege served her during the move to work-
ing life.
“I think my undergraduate years 
were kind of a huge growth time in terms 
of my faith. I was also a religion major, 
studying it and experiencing it at the 
same time. I think since then it’s been 
about how to fit faith with experience 
of the real world. If it hadn’t had that 
strong of a foundation, there wouldn’t be 
that much left,” Parish said.
“Having the community of people 
that you can come back to even when 
you’re in a period of transition or you 
don’t have a church, you don’t have a 
body to relate to, I still have my Middle-
bury people to relate to. This was the 
place where I understood my faith and 
these were people with whom I could be 
my true self.”
This week’s Good Ol’ Campus col-
umn reaches back into the college ar-
chives to March 1888 with the school 
publication The Undergraduate. The 
publication, founded in 1875, consisted 
of town bulletins, personal announce-
ments, literature and poetry and op-
eds.
The paper begins with an introduc-
tion to Middlebury:  
The College is finely located in the 
midst of a beautiful park in the village 
of Middlebury, Vermont. The locality 
is healthful, and the College offers the 
advantage of thorough instruction at a 
moderate cost. 
The Undergraduate’s news bulletin 
shares stories from nearby colleges, 
such as the fearful baseball game that 
erupted at Chattanooga. Town events 
include the spread of measles and a 
winter blockade, while Sporting and 
Plunder announce the possible inven-
tion of a baseball pitching machine.
College Notes
At Cornell University they teach the 
Persian Language.
The Trustees of Amherst have rec-
ommended that the number of students 
be limited to three hundred. 
A student of Chattanooga Universi-
ty, Tennessee, was killed by the umpire 
of a bass-ball game, recently, for disput-
ing his decision. 
Rev. Byron Sunderland ’38 has Pres-
ident Cleveland as a regular member of 
his audience. 
Town and Campus
There have been several deaths in 
town from measles. 
Several students were detained out 
of town by the snow blockade. 
Junior exhibition occurs March 20, 
followed by the usual hop.  
A pleasant drive whist [a popular 
card trick game in the 19th century] 
party was given by Mrs. Farnsworth re-
cently. 
Sporting and Plunder
A prominent sporting man has in-
vented a machine which he intends to 
use as a base ball pitcher. 
Several enthusiastic yachtsmen are 
about to petition the faculty for a course 
in navigation. 
At Lafaette the memorial services 
on Washington’s birthday were graced 
with a grand rush between the Freshman 
and Sophomores. After a struggle lasting 
nearly an hour, the Freshmen, covered 
with the mud of victory, retired with pa-
triotic (?) shouts of ‘first in war’ etc.  
Editorial 
One of our esteemed exchanges — 
The Dartmouth — to whose opinions we 
would pay most humble deference, criti-
cizes our policy of admitting to the liter-
ary department of our paper what it is 
pleased to characterize as ‘A fiery politi-
cal tirade’….
We would not be understood as ap-
proving of political mud-slinging, much 
less of arguments ad hominem, but we 
are far from being convinced that a lively 
— yes, ‘fiery’ — debate on these ques-
tions can result in injury to any one, or 
that it is in any sense out of place in the 
literary columns of a college paper. 
In an impassioned letter to the edi-
tor, one student questions student moti-
vation on campus regarding studies in 
the spirit of the liberal arts.
To the Editor of The Undergradu-
ate:
I cannot help looking forward to the 
day when the low ambition that studies 
for ‘marks’ only shall have passed away; 
when culture, not ‘honors’ when refine-
ment not ‘high standing’ when broad 
humanity, not prizes, when, in short the 
desire for a liberal education, not the 
greed for the petty precedence of the 
class-room, shall inspire every true stu-
dent with a thirst for the waters of the 
true Helicon, whose sources lie in our 
libraries…Let us then, lay aside all baser 
motives, and lead our lives consecrate to 
the holy priesthood of the serene, eternal 
Goddess of Wisdom. Libramator. 
march 10, 2016   
Living Faith Workshop Connects 
Students with Christian Alumni
By Henry Burnett
Features Editor
“These were the 
people with whom I 
could be my true self.”
Devon Parish ’05
15features
laurie jordan
Students and alumni came to Axinn 229 to discuss how to lead a life of faith after graduation.
By Grace Levin
Contributing Writer
The Good Ol’ Campus: The Undergraduate
16 features | march 10, 2016
As spring semester gets underway, the 
College is abuzz with activity. From classes 
to sporting events, there is hardly room to 
deny that life at the College is anything but 
uneventful. But besides classes and extra-
curricular activities, there is something 
else that lingers on students’ minds this 
season: the summer internship. 
In addition to navigating the process 
of applying for suitable internships, stu-
dents may face the challenging task of 
securing funding for opportunities that 
do not provide compensation. While the 
financial burden of an unpaid internship 
may deter students from taking on an oth-
erwise exceptional opportunity, the Center 
for Careers and Internships (CCI) hopes to 
remedy this situation. Last year, the CCI 
rolled out a new funding program wherein 
rising juniors and seniors could apply for 
a fixed grant of $2,500 that would go to-
wards funding an unpaid opportunity. 
Cheryl Whitney Lower, Associate Di-
rector of Internships and Early Engage-
ment at the CCI said, historically, students 
were provided with “significantly less” 
funding than the current $2,500 grant. 
“The grants cover more expenses and 
allow students decision-making power 
over how they want to spend their summer 
and gain experience or explore an inter-
est,” Lower said. “This amount will typi-
cally cover a significant portion of a more 
expensive experience in another country 
or in a city away from home, for example. 
Others may choose to do an internship 
with lower expenses and use some of the 
money to offset lost summer wages.” 
And for Joel Wilner ’18 and Andrew 
Hollyday ’18.5, the grant did just that. Wil-
ner and Hollyday both received funding to 
participate in the Juneau Icefield Research 
Program (JIRP), a program that recruits a 
select group of undergraduate and gradu-
ate students to participate in hands-on 
research in glaciology, or the study of gla-
ciers. 
Wilner, who hopes to pursue a PhD in 
glaciology, says that his time in Juneau, 
Alaska, was the perfect complement to his 
interest in glaciers. 
“I have always been fascinated by the 
Earth’s cold regions, from both scientific 
and cultural standpoints,” Wilner said. 
“Even when I was very young, my favor-
ite geographical areas to study were places 
like Greenland and Antarctica. I became 
interested in studying glaciology in an 
academic capacity after climbing the gla-
ciers of Mount Rainier before coming to 
Middlebury. ” 
In Alaska, Wilner’s scientific and cul-
tural interest in glaciers naturally con-
verged. On top of “traversing the entire 
width of the Alaskan panhandle” from Ju-
neau to Atlin, British Columbia — all on a 
single pair of cross-country skis! — Wilner 
also got the opportunity to assist in first-
hand scientific research. 
“I worked with Dr. Seth Campbell, a 
research geophysicist from the University 
of Maine and the Cold Regions Research 
and Engineering Laboratory,” Wilner said. 
“We used ground-penetrating radar to 
investigate how surface meltwater perco-
lates from the surface of glaciers to form 
layers, which has important implications 
for improving our models regarding how 
glaciers will respond to climate change.” 
Nonetheless, the value of Wilner’s 
time in Alaska went beyond simply gain-
ing work experience. 
“The most memorable part of my ex-
perience at JIRP was staying at Camp 8, 
which is essentially a one-room metal 
shed near the summit of Mount Moore, a 
7,000-ft-high jagged mountain near the 
US-Canada border,” Wilner said. “Two 
other students and I took a three-day shift 
at Camp 8 with the purpose of relaying ra-
dio messages between other camps on the 
Juneau Icefield that couldn’t communicate 
with each other directly by radio. Because 
this was our only real duty for those three 
days, we had a lot of free time. We spent 
this time looking out over a vast expanse of 
the Taku Glacier watching the sunset from 
our sleeping bags on the roof of the shed. 
The solitude was simply enchanting and 
life-changing, despite the abundant mold 
and mouse droppings in the shed where 
we lived!” 
For Camille Kim ’16, the $2,500 grant 
went primarily towards paying for hous-
ing and provided a jumping off point for 
exploring her interest in software devel-
opment. As a summer intern at the Wyss 
Institute for the Biologically Inspired En-
gineering at Harvard University, Kim was 
given the opportunity to develop her own 
software. 
“The main project I was working on 
involved writing software to operate a de-
vice that researchers would use to auto-
mate the process of growing bacterial cul-
tures, as well as a web application and user 
interface that would allow users to control 
and monitor their experiments remotely.” 
Kim said the most satisfying moment 
of her internship was when the code she 
authored was allowed to run on its own. 
“I still remember the first time we ac-
tually hooked up all the different hardware 
components and just let our code do its 
thing — it was a really satisfying moment 
to see what we’d been working on all sum-
mer start moving and coming to life,” she 
said. “It was a huge feeling of accomplish-
ment to see that happen right in front of 
me.” 
Similarly, Divesh Rizal ’17 says that 
teaching science and mathematics to 
eighth and tenth grades at the Udayapur 
Secondary English School in his native 
Nepal would not have been possible had it 
not been for the funding he received from 
the CCI. 
Surrounded by “highly energetic, 
mischievous and curious” students, Rizal 
views teaching as an “art” that requires a 
heightened sense of awareness. 
“Teaching is an art that requires an 
acute understanding of people around us,” 
he said. “It requires a state of being when 
you can truly speak to somebody, ensure 
your words are being heard. An important 
aspect of teaching is learning about the 
art of teaching itself, about your audience, 
about their opinions.” 
Although he was only able to spend 
a month at Udayapur, Rizal found it dif-
ficult to distill his experience into a single 
memorable experience. 
“Almost everything was memorable,” 
Rizal said. “But perhaps the most would 
be the impromptu singing competition we 
had in our class one day. It was the day 
when it rained heavy outside. Since the 
classrooms do not have glass windows, the 
water disrupted the class and the students 
on the opposite side made more room for 
the students by the window. Since we had 
a rather dense part in the room, we aban-
doned our books and took on a suggestion 
from one of the students. The ‘competition’ 
was between girls and boys in the class. 
The girls did a rather great job and they 
won the competition without a sweat.” 
In addition to the $2,500 grants for 
rising juniors and seniors, the CCI also of-
fers $1,000 “Explore Grants,” which are 
targeted towards first-year students and 
first-year Febs who have not yet commit-
ted to a particular career path and simply 
wish to “explore” different fields. 
Students who posses a strong passion 
for dance can also take advantage of the 
CCI’s “Dance Festival Grant,” which Lower 
said were designed keeping in mind that 
“for many dance majors, participation in 
these festivals is important to their devel-
opment as dancers and artists.”
To learn more about the different 
kinds of grants offered by the CCI and 
how to apply, visit go/funding. 
CCI to Continue Summer Internship Funding 
Initiative, Promoting New Student Ventures
By Renee Chang
Features Editor
Brian Lacharite
Top: Joel Wilner ’18 spent his summer researching glacier formation in Juneau, 
Alaska. Bottom: Camille Kim ’16 works in a lab at the Wyss Institute. 
Divesh Rizal ’17 taught science and mathematics in addition to giving talks about computer science at the Udayapur 
Secondary School in Gaighat, Nepal. This experience was made possible by the $2,500 grant he received from the CCI last year. 
arts & sciences
don’t
miss
this
Food Insecurity in a Globalized World
Organized by the Rohatyn Center for Global Affairs, 
this conference will approach food insecurity from a 
variety of different diciplines and perspectives, fea-
turing a bevy of professors discussing the politics and 
culture of food systems. Thursday through Saturday.
3/10-12, VARIOUS TIMES AND LOCATIONS
Maria Joao Pires and Julien Brocal, piano
Maria Joao Pires, one of the finest musicians of her gen-
eration, performs recitals with her most gifted piano stu-
dent as part of her “Partitura Project,” designed to create 
an altrusitc dynamic between artists of different genera-
tions. In their Vermont debut, Pires and Brocal each play 
two Beethoven sonatas. 
 3/12, 8 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
NER Vermont
New England Review’s Vermont Reading Series 
presents poets Jennifer Grotz and Sydney Lea 
and fiction writer Janic Obuchowski, who will 
read from their recent work. Free and open to 
the public. 
3/14, 7 P.M., 51 MAIN AT THE BRIDGE
Hepburn Zoo has always been known 
as a venue for unconventional art perfor-
mances, but last weekend’s performance 
may have topped them all: On Friday, 
March 3 and Saturday, March 4, the 
doors opened, free of charge, for Mid-
dlebury Discount Comedy’s second ever 
show, Much Love in this Air.
Founded last fall by Shannon Gibbs 
’18, the campus’s first sketch com-
edy group is comprised of 11 students: 
President Gibbs, Vice President Isabella 
Alonzo ’18, Producer Liana Barron ’18, 
Head Writer Greg Swartz ’17.5, Head Di-
rector Alexander Herdmann ’17, Faraz 
Ahmad ’19, Dan Fulham ’18, Sebastian 
LaPointe ’18, Peter Lindholm ’17.5, Jack 
Ralph ’18 and Marney Kline ’17.5. Com-
ing from a wide range of experience levels 
and majors – from computer science to 
theatre to English, with no discipline in 
the clear majority – the company produc-
es all of its sketches through a collabora-
tive round-table format.
Posters for the show featured all 
members of the company lying in a sea of 
roses, completely nude save for a few pet-
als photoshopped strategically over their 
private parts. According to Gibbs, the 
provocative, creepy and vaguely romantic 
vibe behind these promotional pieces was 
completely intentional and particularly 
accentuated by the fact that Much Love 
in this Air premiered nearly three weeks 
after Valentine’s Day. ‘Who says the sea-
son of love is over?’ the posters seemed to 
ask, foreshadowing the unconventional 
sense of humor that lay behind the en-
tirely student-run production.
Gibbs opened the show with a list 
of trigger warnings for sexually explicit 
material, violence, abortion and other 
inflammatory topics. In the 24 sketches 
that followed, ranging in length from a 
mere 30 seconds to several minutes, these 
themes were escalated, decontextualized, 
satirized, broken apart, muddled up and 
in some instances, oddly mishandled. 
Puzzling at some moments and shocking 
at others, Much Love in this Air proved 
to be far more unsettling a performance 
than even its posters could suggest.
Sexual content was pervasive 
throughout the show, beginning with a 
three-part series of sketches in which a 
male student, played by Swartz, is taken 
hostage and forced into a sexual bondage 
by a female Public Safety officer, played 
by Alonzo. Another student, played by 
Barron, watches on in helpless horror. 
The premise for this story is understand-
able enough: two students are caught 
drinking underage, and the officer must 
confiscate their alcohol. However, the 
situation quickly escalates into a bizarre 
commentary on the tense relationship 
between Public Safety and the general 
student body. As Barron appeals to the 
administrator to release her boyfriend, 
she ends up screaming hysterically into 
the phone, “Right, you’re trained, but 
who the fuck are you helping?” followed 
by, “Why do I voluntarily go into this bu-
reaucratic shit hole?” She is eventually 
transferred to the Department of Exis-
tential Crises, where a soothing voice on 
the other end, performed by Ahmad, in-
structs her to “imagine yourself running 
through a field of puppies with a middle-
aged, robust Public Safety Officer” and to 
“gently breathe in and lock your fingers 
underneath your cheeks.”
“Now, if you have a tight little ass-
hole, press two and you will be trans-
ferred back to Public Safety,” Ahmad says 
in the final line of the sketch, leaving the 
audience to pause and then giggle in be-
wilderment.
Such was the nature of most of the 
night’s performances: Shameless in 
their absurdity, the sketches were often 
cloaked in dark humor and met with rela-
tive silence, as the viewers struggled to 
process what they had witnessed onstage. 
For the most part, MDC’s outlandish ap-
proach to comedy seemed incongruent 
with the audience’s taste – but this did 
not seem to faze the actors, whose em-
phatic voices and humorously exaggerat-
ed facial expressions remained as strong 
as ever from beginning to end.
Another sexually explicit scene, in-
nocently titled “Science Class,” featured 
a teacher offering his students a “more 
hands-on experiences” through a new 
form of “dirty work.” This euphemistic 
language quickly gives way to the crude 
question, “How many of you have been 
f**ked in the ass before?” The class pro-
ceeds to split into pairs to carry out this 
activity, with one student’s clear discom-
fort becoming the focal point of the les-
son. Perhaps surprisingly, the blatant ri-
diculousness and obscenity of the sketch 
drew considerable laughter from the 
crowd, though many audience members 
were undoubtedly left asking themselves 
what exactly they were laughing at – and 
what message the outrageous script was 
trying to convey.
The line between outlandish humor 
and incomprehensible absurdity was 
crossed at a few points throughout the 
night. For several uncomfortable min-
utes, the audience watched as Winston 
and Lydia, a dysfunctional young couple 
as portrayed by Gibbs and Fulham, broke 
out into a fight at a night club, dancing fe-
verishly together the entire time. The jux-
taposition between their volatile words 
and cheery, perfectly synchronized cho-
reography was clever, though their enun-
ciation was often obscured by their quick 
movements, making it difficult to follow 
the conversation. The parts that were au-
dible, however, were often too over-the-
top and intentionally lewd for the audi-
ence to feel comfortable laughing.
“You mean you’ve been using con-
doms this whole f**king time?” Lydia 
shrieks at one point.
“Maybe if you weren’t such a f**king 
slut c**t we would think twice about it, 
Lydia,” Winston responds.
The tendency to veer too far into un-
settling extremes escalated into outright 
violence during “Faraz’s Final Rose,” a 
scene based on the wildly popular real-
ity show The Bachelor, as well as during 
a couple of abortion sketches. Firstly, the 
final rose ceremony – in which the bach-
elor selects one of three beautiful girls to 
be his wife – concludes with Chris Har-
rison, the host of The Bachelor as por-
trayed by Lindholm, chasing down and 
shooting the first runner-up, played by 
Gibbs. “I’m still alive, asshole,” are her fi-
nal words in this unnecessarily grotesque 
scene. What had begun as an entertaining 
commentary on the problematic premise 
of The Bachelor devolved into an unwar-
ranted display of violence.
Next, in what was likely the most 
disconcerting performance of the night, 
a pharmaceutical clinic offers a list of 
painful options to women seeking an 
abortion, including but not limited to hy-
pothermia, being thrown down a flight of 
stairs and a series of punches to the gut, 
courtesy of a creepy man named Lucifer. 
In this jarring satire of the current health 
care system, lines like “I think sluts like 
you deserve a 50-50 shot” and “My father 
took me hostage so I wouldn’t murder 
the child we made” are delivered with a 
sort of bluntness, a blatant desire to pro-
voke, that comes across as inappropriate. 
When the first woman to request an abor-
tion emerged blood-stained from behind 
the curtain, followed by a stab to the torso 
that took the life of the second patient, 
the disapproving silence from the crowd 
seemed to be directed not at the real-life 
issues that inspired the sketch, but rather 
at the wildly disturbing content of the 
sketch itself.
Recognizing that their self-identi-
fied “Freudian” style can be more than a 
little odd, Middlebury Discount Comedy 
(MDC) writes all of their sketches with 
the hopes of highlighting the severity of 
real-world problems.
“We take an issue that’s pertinent 
to us as Middlebury students or as citi-
zens of the world and we blow it up to an 
extent that it’s so decontextualized that 
people can see the satire we’re trying to 
go for,” Barron explained. “We’ll height-
en it and heighten it and heighten it until 
finally, it’s violence.”
“This show tackles issue that are a bit 
more sensitive and takes them to a darker 
place,” Swartz added.
Not all moments in Much Love in this 
Air were completely off the mark, howev-
er. A 30-second public service announce-
ment, delivered by Fulham, brought the 
crowd to a roaring laughter with its sheer, 
deadpan simplicity: “Now, remember, 
kids,” he said. “Drugs. One day, you just 
start doin’ em.” In contrast, a cult-like 
sing-along of the phrase “Prepare the way 
of the Lord” in “Trump’s Inauguration” 
introduced an eerie sense of hysteria to 
the room. This creepy take on the po-
litical storm that has ravaged the United 
States was met with a positive reception, 
as disgust toward the Trump campaign is 
a common sentiment amongst the over-
whelming majority of Middlebury College 
students.
Meanwhile, in terms of prevalent on-
campus issues, a sketch entitled “Atwater 
Speed Dating” resonated with many. In 
this well-executed performance, a female 
student meets one unappealing candidate 
after another – from the insensitive and 
dull to a guy who refers to himself ex-
clusively as “Jaboi” – during a night out. 
Taking place amidst blaring music in a 
shadowy suite, it is an apt interpretation 
of a social scene that many students have 
described as stifling, unsatisfactory and 
frustratingly cyclical.
“People like it when you talk about 
things that are relevant and happening 
right here, in here, in this bubble,” Bar-
ron explained. “We have a tone to us 
that’s very idiosyncratic and dark.”
Following a whirlwind perusal of 
relevant issues both on campus and in 
the real world, a stand-out sketch of the 
night centered on the group’s round-table 
sessions. All 11 members of the company 
gathered onstage to parody the process of 
pitching ideas and writing scripts, with 
one major plot twist: the actors were all 
topless (save for 3-D heart attachments 
covering the girls’ nipples). As the scene 
progressed, the inexplicable half-nudity 
began to make more sense. Gibbs propos-
es that they all be topless together for their 
next show, to which Alonzo responds, “I 
don’t think that’s really tasteful, Shan-
non; not all of us are comfortable with 
our bodies like that.” A heated debate 
ensues – “What’s the joke?” “What’s the 
context?” – and as the audience stared at 
the bare-chested group of people before 
them, the irony became suddenly clear. 
Infused with a strong dose of Freudian-
ism, the scene ends on an abrupt and 
meta note.
Comedy has long served as a vehicle 
for powerful social commentary, bringing 
humankind’s ills under the most reveal-
ing of lights and inviting all to observe. 
However, the humor behind Much Love 
in this Air hinged largely on a brash in-
sensitivity that alienated audience mem-
bers more than it challenged them to ex-
plore the difficult issues at hand. Though 
there were certainly moments of clever 
satire sprinkled throughout the night, if 
the uncomfortable silences were any in-
dication, the show was deeply perplexing 
and perhaps too heavy to bear at times. 
Whether in moments of laughter or quiet 
unease, MDC pushed the audience to con-
sider why they were or were not laughing, 
as their shotgun-firing, belly-bleeding 
sketches blurred the line between what 
is appropriate to convey and what is not.  
Middlebury Discount Comedy Provokes
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
Michael O’Hara
The series on Public Safety escalated from underage drinking to an existential crisis.
I was rash in my youth and often dis-
missed Beethoven as inaccessible and inap-
plicable to my grandiose existence. I real-
ize now that Beethoven and I actually have 
quite a bit in common. For instance, he orig-
inally planned to write his last three sonatas 
in quick succession, but after completing the 
first, Op. 109, in the fall of 1820, he was side-
tracked by illness and other projects. We all 
know how that goes – the exact same thing 
happened with my final papers last semes-
ter.
Coincidentally, this week’s Performing 
Arts Series artist has made it her life’s mis-
sion to elucidate misguided youths such as 
myself as to the power of classical music. As 
part of her “Partitura Project,” a coopera-
tive venture allowing musicians of different 
generations to exchange artistry and men-
torship, world-renowned Portuguese pianist 
Maria João Pires will perform at the Col-
lege on Saturday, March 12. She will share 
the stage with her protégé Julien Brocal in 
a concert that flits between Debussy, Ravel 
and Beethoven.
The duo will begin the evening with 
a beautiful four-handed rarity, the likes of 
which have not been played on our stage in 
15 years. Prélude à l’après midi d’un Faune 
is based off a poem that was inspired by a 
painting and has been described as “soft 
chirps and calls … heard over a syncopated 
accompaniment, bursting into the wayward 
panic of a lost bird calls” by John Henken 
of the Los Angeles Philharmonic. The song 
has been transcribed for a four-handed per-
formance – two people sitting on the same 
bench, playing different parts of the melody 
together as 20 fingers dance over the key-
board. The rest of the show will alternate be-
tween Mr. Brocal and Ms. Pires, from Ravel 
to Beethoven and back again. 43 years apart 
in age, the two master pianists are sure to 
deliver juxtaposed performances and offer a 
unique comparison of style.
Henken describes Op. 110, the first piece 
that Pires will play solo, as “wearily lament-
ing.” He suggests that the Arioso is “a half-
step lower in a symbol of exhaustion … the 
melody itself is now full of sighs and little 
gaps, as if the music were short of breath.” 
If only my professors looked so fondly upon 
similar qualities in my assignments.
Pianist Alfred Brendel wrote that the 
conclusion “reaches out beyond homophonic 
emancipation, throwing off the chains of mu-
sic itself.” Yes, that’s right, the strength of the 
hills was Beethhoven’s also.
In addition to these pieces, the con-
cert program will include favorites such as 
Beethoven’s “Moonlight” Sonata No. 14 and 
Op. 111 – the final, towering masterpiece 
whose opening Henken calls “savagely an-
guished.”
As one of the finest musicians of her 
generation, Maria João Pires continues to 
transfix audiences with the flawless integrity, 
eloquence and vitality of her art. Born in Lis-
bon in 1944, Pires gave her first public per-
formance in 1948 and has not stopped since, 
studying and performing with some of the 
greatest pianists of our time and now sitting 
among their ranks.
Over the past 40 years, Pires has also 
dedicated herself to reflecting upon the influ-
ence of art on life, community and education. 
The Partitura Project is the ultimate expres-
sion of this love, as it is a shared endeavour 
with a group of highly gifted young pianists. 
The aim of this project is to create an altru-
istic dynamic between artists of different 
generations, offering a supportive and con-
vivial environment amidst a world too often 
entrenched in competition.
Born in 1987 in Arles, France, Julien 
Brocal has been praised by Pires and just 
about everyone else for his “poetry, spon-
taneity, restraint and a profound sense of 
structure and awareness of sound.” He began 
learning the piano at the age of five and was 
performing by the time he was seven.
19 years later in January 2013, Pires took 
Brocal under her wing at the Cité de la Mu-
sique in Paris, when she invited him to par-
ticipate in the birth of the Partitura Project. 
They have since shared performances and 
recitals in the world’s most famous concert 
halls, given workshops and offered educa-
tional programs to children, all with the aim 
of introducing classical music to a broader 
audience.
This Saturday, March 12, you are that 
audience.
The Maria João Pires/Julien Brocal pia-
no concert will take place on Saturday, March 
12 at 8 p.m. in the Mahaney Center for the 
Arts. Tickets are only $6 for students. To find 
more information or purchase tickets, stop by 
one of the box offices in McCullough or the 
MCA, or visit go/boxoffice.
Performing Arts Sp    TLight
 
© Felix Broede courtesy of Deutsche Grammophon
By Connor Forrest
Senior Columnist
18 arts & SCIENCES
 The somewhat erratic release of The 
Life of Pablo has proven such an utter 
whirlwind that Kanye West might actu-
ally still be scribbling in some last-minute 
changes to the record as it slowly infil-
trates pop culture. From the spontaneous 
private listening party at Madison Square 
Garden to his bemusing appearance on 
Saturday Night Live to the innumerable 
manic-depressive tweets explaining the 
chaos thereafter, Kanye has left the world 
rather perplexed with this one.
Pablo seems but a dream to most peo-
ple right now, and their questions abound: 
What is this new record all about? Where 
did it come from? Is any of this even real?
Is any of this 
real?
Well, in pursuit 
of what this album 
is truly after, taking 
that question into serious consideration 
can lead us to some fairly interesting plac-
es.
What is important to recognize is that 
the entire thing does not actually exist to 
most people right now. In a percipient 
business move, Kanye decided to release 
Pablo exclusively through TIDAL, the 
streaming service of which he is a major 
stakeholder. This strategy did attract sig-
nificant numbers, but the vast majority of 
people have now either poached it online 
or lost enthusiasm to seek it out. The Life 
of Pablo seems peculiarly unreal – in fact, 
it is doubtful that a single hard copy even 
exists – but the truly extraordinary thing 
is that the music within the album entirely 
substantiates its dreamlike state of being.
Most striking are the quick changes in 
tempo and harmony throughout, tearing 
the audience from the previous theme and 
transporting them into this strange new 
world that must be quickly understood. 
And then, like a dream, the moment you 
begin to feel grounded, the track ends im-
mediately and a new bit-crunched synth 
drops in with those dark falsetto tones act-
ing as a snare – something only Kanye can 
let loose. The most haunting track, “Free-
style 4,” epitomizes such a quality while 
inspiring a notion closer to that of a night-
mare than a dream.
This kind of tactic naturally follows 
the surreal impermanency of Yeezus, but 
it seems so haphazardly put together that 
the audience is left questioning how much 
of this is rightly intended. Well, Kanye lets 
us in on a little secret during “FML,” tell-
ing us, “I been thinking about my vision / 
Pour out my feelings, revealing the layers 
to my soul.” Somehow, the great Mr. West 
seems utterly lost, 
driven by his anxiety 
and afraid to tell the 
truth.
The follow-
ing track, “Real 
Friends,” breaks everything down – hos-
tile music included – and he explains how, 
really, life is just too fake. This has all been 
fake: the words, the intimidation, the puls-
ing bass, crunched-up synths, brick-wall 
limiters – it is all part of the façade. And 
it is these slowed down drums echoing off 
the walls, the looping melancholic melody, 
the repeated phrase, “Real friends / Till 3 
a.m. / Calling just to ask you a question / 
To see how you was feelin,” that bring ev-
erything back to reality.
But Kanye is a pretty capricious char-
acter.
He does not miss a beat as he drags 
us back down the rabbit hole, back into 
his phantasmagoria of music and perfor-
mance. Perhaps the strangest moment ac-
tually lies outside the album proper, and 
onto the stage of SNL. His performance 
of the opening track “Ultralight Beam” on 
Feb. 13 was baffling, to say the least, with 
the cavernous light board behind his gos-
pel choir, a mellowed-out clerical revival 
at the end and a more than uncomfortable 
finish of Kanye jumping around the stage 
screaming at people to download TIDAL 
and listen to the album right now.
If nothing else after watching this, the 
audience is left with a bizarre sense that 
they may literally 
be dreaming right 
alongside Yeezus. 
Again, the questions 
abound: What should 
we make of that? If 
this is art, how do we 
respond to that, and 
what does it matter 
to anyone? Assured-
ly, The Life of Pablo 
was designed for us 
to ask those ques-
tions exactly.
To narrow the 
scope a little: as col-
lege students, we too are oftentimes left 
with this overwhelming sense of discursive 
dreaming. There is fervency and vision, 
but we also feel lost among the crowd. We 
are told we can make a difference, that 
our education is what will change the fu-
ture; but for now, we remain in a state of 
limbo, consumed within that “bubble” that 
everyone always seems so desperate to es-
cape. Where is reality? Existing in a place 
of perpetual change can sometimes chal-
lenge our understanding of how “real” we 
are being within our community. People 
always talk about community, and where 
is that then?
Living inside this centralized, ener-
gized academic setting can bring forth 
some fairly heated discussions: discourse 
that we ask to be a part of because we ac-
knowledge that we are here to engage with 
and learn from one another. If we neglect 
community, though, we see arguments as 
one-sided. We affirm our own beliefs and 
block out the rest of the noise. We burrow 
down and seek individual answers, instead 
of seeking together. It is important to rec-
ognize that we exist in a place of learning 
– and that it is best to learn from mistakes 
– but that does not erase the fact that we 
oftentimes act impetuously, hurling forth 
our sophomoric dis-
putations into the 
daunting realm of 
academic debate. It 
is true of all college 
students that we are 
quick to act on our 
emotions.
And this kind 
of behavior does not 
seem too far off from 
the message that 
Kanye’s album and 
his accompanying 
online performance 
have brought us in 
the past couple weeks. The numerous ex-
planatory tweets and exclusionary tactics 
further build that tension between fake-
ness and realness, and it all seems like 
some kind of hoax or dream. But, as if fur-
ther contradiction is required, its inspir-
ing beacon of hope through this endless 
sea of emotion and uncertainty is that of 
ultimate love.
It is incongruous and ironic that the 
same artist who raps with such heated 
vulgarity is able to produce an album that 
contains the simple plea for love. Kanye 
poses his troubles, wondering how any of 
this life could be real when things seem to 
be so different. As he says, “We’re on an ul-
tralight beam. / This is a God dream.” But 
instead of acting out of reckless emotional 
attack – which he has had his fair share of 
– he finally comes around to tell us how he 
has seen the real message of love and unity 
at the end of that beam of light. 
Most striking are the 
quick changes in tempo 
and harmony through-
out, tearing the audi-
ence from the previous 
theme and transporting 
them into this strange 
new world that must be 
quickly understood.
By Harper Whitt
Contributing Columnist
 For the Rec    rd
The Life of Pablo
Maria Joao Pires started the Partitura Project to train young classical pianists. She will perform at 8 p.m., March 12 in the MCA.
|march 10, 2016
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
“Our job is to bring a show 
to campus that every sin-
gle person is going to find 
something exciting about, 
whether it’s just that it’s 
spring and it’s an event, or 
that they love the artist, 
we want to put on an event 
that everyone will enjoy.”
-Katherine Brown
MCAB  Committee Co-chair
Artist BØRNS Headlining Spring Concert
With the prevailing positive re-
sponse to Dopamine, BØRNS is poised 
to become a bonafide star.
The process of bringing any act to 
campus is a challenging one. The un-
dertaking of booking and arranging for 
BØRNS to play began in September on 
the six-person Concerts Committee. 
“Our Committee has a role in what 
they think their friends and the stu-
dent body wants 
to see,” says Con-
certs Committee 
Co-Chair Izzy Kan-
negieser ’17. 
The Commit-
tee combines their 
opinions wih di-
rect input from the 
student body at 
large. 
“This year we 
did a survey that a 
lot of people filled 
out,” says Kather-
ine Brown ’18, the 
second Concerts 
Committee Co-
Chair. “The survey 
results came back and the student body 
was in favor of [an] Indie/Alt Pop band.” 
Once all of this information was 
compiled and reviewed, the Committee 
assembled a list of artists and sugges-
tions on more general aspects such as 
genre, and sent it to a booking agency 
based out of Boston that assisted them 
in honing in on the most fitting perfor-
mance. This process is more complex 
than it may initially seem. An array of 
constraints must be taken into account 
when narrowing down a list of possible 
performers. One of those constraints is 
cost. 
“We have a budget,” says Brown, 
“we’ll send [them] a name and [they’ll] 
tell us ‘Okay, you guys can never afford 
that. Here’s what you can.’” 
In addition to cost, Middlebury’s lo-
cation plays a distinct role in dictating 
who can play the show. Only bands that 
are touring in the area around the time 
of the concert are feasible. 
“Often we’ll have artists that we re-
ally like, and we reach out to them and 
want to book them, and they would love 
to come but they’re 
touring on the 
West Coast over 
those dates,” says 
Brown. “If you’re 
in Boston Middle-
bury’s not so far, 
but if you’re really 
anywhere else it’s 
not an easy one-
stop flight.” 
When BØRNS 
was settled on as 
the act, the logis-
tics of securing the 
space for the show 
became the next 
hurdle. 
“People might 
think ... ‘Oh, of course Kenyon will be 
available this weekend at this time,’ but 
actually it’s a long process,” says Kann-
egieser. 
When the space is secured, the com-
mittee must book a crew to come in and 
take care of the physical preparation of 
the stage and sound. This show will be 
handled by Atomic Professional Audio, a 
local business based out of North Clar-
endon, Vt. 
Nonetheless, the set-up is a hands-
on experience for the Co-Chairs as well. 
“The day of the concert we’re there at 8 
a.m. getting the stage set up. We’re actu-
ally moving things off of the truck and 
getting things set up, and after the con-
cert we’re there making sure it all gets 
taken down,” says Kannegieser. 
Even with the logistics of the act 
confirmed, a concert is nothing with-
out an audience, so marketing is essen-
tial. The Co-Chairs describe a balancing 
act of deciding on ticket prices and sale 
times with the Box Office. MCAB does 
not make a profit off of the show, but 
whatever revenue is brought in is used to 
fund the Midd Mayhem show that hap-
pens later in the year. Generating excite-
ment for the show is key to it being a suc-
cess both financially and socially as an 
enjoyable experience for the concert-go-
ers. They focus on spreading details such 
as the best time to arrive and the open-
ing act, which often gets lost in the an-
nouncement of the headliner. This year, 
local Burlington band Madaila, who have 
toured with the Flaming Lips and played 
with Grace Potter, will open for BØRNS. 
“They are Burlington’s hottest band for 
sure,” says Kannegieser. 
“Our job is to bring a show to cam-
pus that every single person is going to 
find something exciting about, whether 
it’s just that it’s spring and it’s an event, 
or that they love the artist, we want to 
put on an event that everyone will en-
joy,” says Brown. 
Tickets for the April 9 show will go 
on sale for students on March 20. They 
are $8 if pre-ordered at the Box Office, 
and if not sold out, they will be available 
for $15 at the door.
Christopher Gabello
BØRNS, best known for his song “Electric Love,” is headlining the Spring Concert.
March 10, 2016 | 19arts & SCIENCES
Last weekend, March 4-6, David 
Cromwell ’16 and Wyatt French ’17 
represented the men’s squash team at the 
College Squash Association individual 
championships at Chelsea Piers in 
Stamford, Conn. Cromwell and French 
won the consolation championships in 
their respective pools within the Molloy 
Cup draw. The CSA’s top 16 players play 
for the national title in the Pool Cup draw, 
while individuals ranked 17 to 80 play 
in the Hoehn Cup draws. Heading into 
the weekend, Cromwell and French were 
ranked 55th and 56th nationally.
Both Cromwell and French drew tough 
opponents in their first matches of the 
weekend. Friday morning, March 4, French 
opened against Trinity’s Afeeq Ismail, who 
holds the 41st ranking nationally and is 
rated a high 5.6 by U.S. Squash.
Even in the underdog role, French 
played with his characteristic grit and stole 
the first game from Ismail, winning 11-5.
“I think I did take him by surprise in 
the first game with good length and high 
pace,” French said. However, as one of the 
top players in the country, Ismail bounced 
back and defeated French in each of the 
next three sets.
“It was great to play Afeeq [to begin the 
weekend],” French said. “However, in the 
last three games, he wore me down and did 
a great job of keeping me under pressure.”
Meanwhile, Cromwell took to the 
court on Friday morning to face off with 
Princeton’s Cody Cortes to begin his 
tournament slate. Cortes played much of 
his first collegiate season in the second 
slot on the Tigers’ ladder. Cromwell spent 
the first two sets adjusting to the lefty, 
dropping both 11-6.
 “I was a bit thrown off because he was a 
lefty and I haven’t played many lefties this 
year,” Cromwell said.
Cromwell managed to squeak out a 13-
11 victory in a back-and-forth third set, 
but dropped the fourth set 11-7 to lose the 
match.
“I didn’t play particularly well and I 
never really settled into a rhythm and 
didn’t find ways to really hurt him so he 
took the match,” Cromwell continued. “I 
was frustrated because that [match] was 
definitely winnable, but I knew I had to 
move past it. It helped clarify some things 
I needed to do if I wanted to win the next 
one.”
And win the next one both Cromwell 
and French did. They were both up early 
Saturday, March 5, to prepare for 9 and 
9:45 a.m. matches, respectively. In the first 
round of the Molloy A group consolation 
bracket, French went up against Dickinson 
freshman Brian Hamilton. Hamilton was 
no match for French, as the Middlebury 
number two took down Dickinson’s 
number two in straight sets.
Cromwell began his run in the Molloy 
B group consolation bracket by facing 
C.J. Smith, a senior from Colby who was 
named second team all-NESCAC earlier 
last month. After winning the first set 11-
6, Cromwell had to mount a comeback 
against Smith. The second set slipped from 
Cromwell’s grasp, as he narrowly lost 12-
10. It appeared as if Smith would take the 
match after he edged ahead two sets to one 
with a big 11-3 third set victory, but true 
to form Cromwell held out. The Panther 
senior battled back and controlled the rest 
of the match, winning the fourth set 11-8 
and the decisive fifth set 11-5.
With their victories, Cromwell and 
French then played again that afternoon. 
Once again, French steamrolled an 
outmatched opponent, MIT’s number one 
Justin Restivo, in straight sets. Cromwell 
was tasked with facing a familiar foe, 
Brown’s Jack Blasberg. The Panthers 
have already narrowly defeated Brown 
twice this season, the most recent bout 
coming two weekends ago, Feb. 26-28, in 
the CSA team championships 15th-16th-
place playoff. Cromwell played Blasberg 
on one of those two occasions, during the 
Middlebury round robin, Jan. 16, and won 
a closely contested four set victory. 
This time, Cromwell had to overcome 
a hamstring issue aggravated over the 
course of the weekend. Nevertheless, an 
extra hurdle could not stop Cromwell. He 
took the first game 12-10 and then fought 
back after dropping the second and third 
sets with another 12-10 win to even the 
match at two sets apiece. He took the 
match with an 11-6 fifth set victory.
French and Cromwell entered the 
championship matches of their pools 
on Sunday, March 6, looking to end two 
brilliant seasons with an exclamation 
point.
This time it was French who took on 
the familiar face, Williams number three 
Galen Squires, who French has had a lot of 
success against this season.
“I definitely had a mental edge going 
into the match because I had already 
beaten him twice,” said French “He is a 
really solid player and it was fun to play 
him again. But I did play pretty well and he 
was also less consistent than usual.”
French made clean work of Squires, 
beating the Williams senior in straight sets 
for the third time this season.
Cromwell’s final collegiate match came 
against Rochester’s Lawrence Kuhn, a 
high quality freshman who spent much of 
the season hidden at fifth on the Rochester 
ladder despite his semi-professional 
experience in his home-country, South 
Africa, and the fact that he finished the 
season ranked 34th nationally. Yet, it 
was Cromwell who looked the part of 
the higher-ranked favorite on Sunday 
morning.
Cromwell and Kuhn swapped 11-8 
victories to start off the match.
“I had a hamstring issue heading into 
the match, and I knew I had to capitalize 
on opportunities and cut the points a bit 
shorter than usual,” Cromwell said.
Cromwell used the attacking strategy 
to propel himself to victory, as he defeated 
Kuhn 11-6 in the third set before finishing 
him off in the fourth.
“Turns out,” Cromwell quipped, “that 
attacking style serves me well. I should 
play like that more often.”
Cromwell is not done, though. After an 
inspiring, stellar senior season in which 
he  traversed the Panthers’ ladder and won 
the clinching match against Brown in the 
15th-16th-place playoff in the top slot, he 
will look to continue playing squash on the 
pro tour.
“I am taking a couple days off this 
week,” Cromwell said of his future plans, 
“and then I will continue training because 
[next week, March 14] I head down to 
Virginia to compete in the U.S. closed 
nationals.”
Cromwell then plans to train rigorously 
for the rest of the spring under the watchful 
eye of Coach Mark Lewis, who formerly 
played on the tour himelf. 
“[Coach Lewis] is going to guide my 
development,” Cromwell said, “which will 
help me keep a steady rate of improvement 
before I start playing in tournaments this 
summer.”
French will return to the team next 
year for his senior season. Having played 
most of the season in the third slot and 
with Andrew Jung ’16 and Cromwell 
graduating, French will likely occupy one 
of the top slots on Middlebury’s ladder 
again next season.
“It does seem like I will play high on 
the ladder next year,” French said. Yet, 
he echoed what team has said since the 
season ended with six recruits set to join 
the team next season. “Everyone is very 
motivated to improve.”
They always say it’s hard to beat a 
team three times in one season. The 
men’s hockey team discovered that on 
Saturday. After defeating defending NE-
SCAC champion Amherst twice in the 
regular season, the fourth-seeded Pan-
thers could not do so for a third time, 
falling to fifth-seeded Amherst 4-2 in the 
NESCAC semifinals on Saturday, March 
5 at Trinity.
Amherst advanced to the NESCAC 
championship for the third straight sea-
son, where they fell to Trinity 5-1. The 
Panthers finished their first season of 
Head Coach Neil Sinclair’s second stint 
with an 8-11-7 record, the third straight 
year they have finished with a losing re-
cord following 24 consecutive winning 
seasons. However, this year’s Panthers 
advanced to championship weekend for 
the first time in three years after fail-
ing to make it out of the quarterfinals in 
2014 and 2015.
Middlebury thoroughly handled 
Amherst both times in the regular sea-
son, getting ahead early and allowing 
one goal in two games. On Dec. 12, the 
Panthers traveled to Amherst and shut 
out the hosts 2-0. When Amherst vis-
ited Middlebury on Feb. 21 in the sec-
ond-to-last game of the regular season, 
Middlebury won by two goals, 3-1, in the 
seniors’ last game in Kenyon Arena.
All of that meant nothing when Sat-
urday arrived, and Amherst jumped out 
to a 1-0 lead 8:48 into the contest when 
John Festa beat a Middlebury defender 
and sent a wrist shot into the bottom 
corner for his first career goal.
“We had our chances,” Sinclair said. 
“We had chances and weren’t able to 
capitalize on them early on in the game, 
so we were fighting from behind for the 
rest of the game.”
At the 4:54 mark of the second period 
Middlebury went on the power play and 
threatened to score numerous times. 
Amherst netminder Connor Girard 
saved every shot that came his way as his 
team successfully killed the Middlebury 
power play. The Panthers struggled on 
the power play all season, scoring only 
nine times, fewest in the conference.
On an Amherst power play later that 
period, Topher Flanagan found Thom-
as Lindstrom wide open in front of 
Middlebury netminder Liam Moorfield-
Yee ’16. Lindstrom received the pass and 
beat Moorfield-Yee to the top right cor-
ner, giving Amherst a 2-0 lead.
Still up 2-0 entering the third period, 
Amherst’s Patrick Arena added one more 
to his team’s lead early on, batting the 
puck out of midair and into the back of 
the net. With only 15:38 seconds remain-
ing in the game, the Panthers faced a 3-0 
deficit and the end of the season loomed 
large. Seven and a half minutes later 
Mike Najjar ’17 got Middlebury on the 
board, beating Girard from long-range 
to bring Middlebury within two goals 
with 8:06 remaining.
Time worked against Middlebury 
from that point on and the Panthers 
pulled Moorfield-Yee with 3:35 left in 
the game. 24 seconds later, Festa scored 
his second goal of the game and the first 
of his career from beyond the red line. 
Max Greenwald ’16 ended his career 
with pride as he scored the Panthers’ 
second goal of the day with 52 seconds 
remaining when, he got to his own re-
bound and pushed the puck home for his 
fourth goal of the season. But 52 seconds 
later the horn sounded on the Panthers’ 
season and the careers of nine seniors: 
Greenwald, Moorfield-Yee, Evan Neu-
gold ’16, Terrance Goguen ’16, Ron Fish-
man ’16 (who was named second team 
all-NESCAC for leading all defensemen 
in points – Jake Charles ’16, Zach Hag-
gerty ’16, Brendan McGovern ’16 and 
Paul Falvey ’16. Fishman made the All-
NESCAC second team, scoring five goals 
and assisting on 12 more this season, 
which led all defenseman in points in 
NESCAC play.
“The senior class brought a lot to the 
table for the last four years and they’ve 
been a huge part of the Middlebury 
hockey program,” Sinclair said. “I’m 
very grateful in my first year back here 
they were welcoming and made the tran-
sition go really smoothly, and am proud 
of what they were able to accomplish on 
the ice. It’s going to be really sad to see 
them go.”
By Will Case
Sports Editor
Zach Haggerty’s ’16 attempt at a hard, low shot on net was ultimately saved 
by the Amherst goalkeeper.
Cromwell, French Finish Stellar Season Victorious
|  March 10, 2016 20 sports
Jeff Patterson
17
1 
2
Members of the Middlebury indoor track 
and field team who will compete at the NCAA 
Championship meet this week in Iowa. 
Game-winning goals scored by women’s 
hockey player Maddie Winslow ’18 as the 
Panthers captured the NESCAC title over the 
weekend. 
Goals scored by Laurel Pascal ’16 in the 
women’s lacrosse team’s season opener 
versus Conn. College. 
by the Numb3rs
6
1,024
Rank for men’s tennis player Noah Farrell 
’18 in the Divison III singles preseason poll. 
Career points for men’s basketball 
player Matt St. Amour ’17 at the end 
of the team’s season this year. 
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor
Men’s Hockey Falls to Amherst in NESCAC Semis 
in Nine Seniors’ Last Game
March 10, 2016| SPORTS 21
The men’s basketball team’s Cinderel-
la run came to a halt on Saturday, March 
5 with a 74-72 loss to Keene St. at Stock-
ton University in Galloway, NJ. The pre-
vious night, March 4, Middlebury held 
off  24th-ranked Salisbury’s comeback 
bid with a 75-73 upset victory, but on 
Saturday it was the Panthers’ comeback 
attempt that fell short. 
After earning a bid to the NCAA Tour-
nament with a surprising run through 
the NESCAC Tournament, few outside of 
Middlebury expected the Panthers to ad-
vance beyond the first round. Their first 
round opponent, the Salisbury Sea Gulls, 
came into the evening with the second-
ranked defense in the country and a de-
sire for revenge against the NESCAC — a 
year ago, Trinity knocked Salisbury out 
in the second round of the NCAA Tour-
nament — but Middlebury jumped out to 
an early lead.
Playing in the early game of the eve-
ning, with host Stockton set to play 
Keene St. later that night, only a sparse 
crowd got to witness Middlebury’s hot 
start. The Panthers led 18-7 after 7:22 of 
play, thanks in large part to Matt Daley 
’16 who had four points and a dunk in the 
opening moments of the game and Matt 
St. Amour ’17 who had six early points. 
Throughout the first half, Middlebury 
was able to stifle the Sea Gulls’ offense. 
Salisbury fired up 15 three pointers in 
the first half alone but only connected 
on two of those attempts. Meanwhile, 
the Panthers pounded the ball inside, re-
lying on their size advantage to shoot 14-
25 (56.0 percent) from the floor and out 
rebound their opponent 22-12 en route 
to a 36-25 halftime advantage.
Salisbury came storming back out of 
the break, making it a 43-41 game a little 
over five minutes into the second half. 
The Panthers tried to stretch the lead, 
but the Sea Gulls kept fighting back, get-
ting within one point at 62-61 with 4:54 
to play. 
Nursing a 73-70 lead with under 30 
seconds to go, the Panthers fumbled 
possession and Salisbury’s Justin May 
came away with the steal. At the other 
end Middlebury denied the Sea Gulls a 
chance at a game-tying three pointer, 
but Salisbury’s All-Conference forward 
Gordon Jeter laid the ball in off a re-
bound to make it 73-72 with nine sec-
onds to go. Salisbury then immediately 
fouled St. Amour on the inbounds pass, 
sending him to the line where he calmly 
sank two free throws.
Down by three, the Sea Gulls were 
on the hunt for a game-tying three 
point attempt, but St. Amour wisely 
fouled Salisbury’s point guard Adrien 
Straughn to send him to the line for 
two foul shots. Straughn hit the first to 
make it a two-point game and then in-
tentionally missed the second, hoping 
to create a tip-in opportunity. The ball 
ricocheted around the rim and bounced 
out of bounds with a measly fraction of a 
second remaining and Salisbury in pos-
session. The Sea Gulls attempted a last 
ditch effort for a tip in, but the release 
was too slow and the shot was waved off, 
giving the Panthers a thrilling 75-73.
Amidst his game-high 27 points, 
St. Amour became the 20th player in 
Middlebury men’s basketball history to 
hit the 1,000 point mark, finishing the 
game with 1,006. Daley (13 points, six re-
bounds) and Zach Baines ’19 (14 points) 
joined St. Amour in double figures, and 
Jack Daly ’18 grabbed a game-high 11 
boards. The Panthers crushed Salisbury 
on the boards, snagging 37 to the Sea 
Gulls’ 26, and shot a terrific 21-26 (80.8 
percent) from the free throw stripe.
The Panthers felt good about their 
Second Round match up with Keene St., 
whom Middlebury had beaten 83-74 
earlier in the season on the road, but the 
Owls proved to be on top of their game 
this time around. 
Middlebury struggled to take care of 
the basketball in the first half, usually a 
point of strength for the Panthers. Keene 
St. forced eight first half turnovers, 
which allowed the Owls to take 16 more 
field goals than Middlebury in the first 
half. The Owls were also lights out in the 
first period, shooting 17-38 (44.7 per-
cent), and Middlebury failed to find any 
rhythm offensively. All told, Keene St. 
entered the break up 41-29 with Sweet 
16 aspirations in their sights. 
The script completely flipped in the 
second half, and the Owls sweet shooting 
was the only thing that kept them afloat. 
Middlebury hammered the boards, out 
rebounding Keene St. 30-13, and took 
care of the basketball, committing just 
four turnovers.
Middlebury chipped at the Keene St. 
lead over the course of the second half, 
playing with a single digit deficit for most 
of the frame. With 1:25 left, though, the 
Panthers’ hopes began to fade as Keene 
held on to a seven-point lead. Then St. 
Amour injected some life into his team. 
By Joe MacDonald
Senior Writer
Track & Field Brings Most Competitors to NCAA in 
Team History with Four Relays and Two Individuals
The Panther Indoor Track and Field 
teams turned in a strong showing at the 
ECAC Championships on March 4-5, in 
their last meet before the season culmi-
nates in the National DIII Indoor Cham-
pionships next weekend.
The men finished 17th out of 51 teams, 
while the women settled in 23rd out of 50 
schools. A pair of school records fell along 
the way: Nicole Schachman ’16 won the 
1,000-meter race in a Middlebury-record 
time of 2:56.18, while Maddie Pronovost 
’17 improved on her old pentathlon record 
with a score of 2,992 points, good for sixth 
place.
Generally pleased with the results, 
Coach Martin Beatty ’84 couldn’t help 
but praise one athlete in particular. “It 
was a solid meet,” he said. “We left with 
an ECAC Champion in the 1,000 meters 
— Nikki Schachman. She is a real suc-
cess story, in that she was a walk-on who 
had to prove her way onto the team as a 
freshman in a tryout. Now she is the ECAC 
champion and going to the NCAA’s as the 
leadoff leg in the distance medley relay.”
Among the other Panthers who gar-
nered all-ECAC honors (with a finish in 
the top eight) were the members of the 
men’s 4x400 relay team — Jimmy Mar-
tinez ’19, James Mulliken ’18, Brandon 
Cushman ’16 and Alex Nichols ’17 — who 
retained their top-12 national ranking 
with a third-place time of 3:16.98. Kevin 
Serrao ’18 placed fourth in the 800-meter 
race (1:53.95) and Jonathan Perlman did 
the same in the mile race (4:18.24), while 
John Natalone ’19 cleared 14’11.5” in the 
pole vault en route to a seventh-place fin-
ish.
The women got a boost from a strong 
performance in the 3,000-meter run by 
Katherine MacCary ’19, who crossed the 
finish line tenth in 10:31.88.
In addition, the Panthers had a hand-
ful of athletes compete at the Last Chance 
Meet at Tufts on Friday, March 4. In the 
men’s distance medley relay, the team 
of Serrao, Lucas Carpinello ’16, Mul-
liken, and Sam Cartwright ’16 turned in 
the 10th-best time in the country for the 
winter (10:04.05), good for fourth place. 
Sebastian Matt ’16 finished third in the 
5,000-meter run (14:44.34).
The men’s and women’s teams will be 
sending 17 athletes to Nationals: the most 
in school history. However, those athletes’ 
successes are the entire team’s successes, 
according to Pronovost.
“The representation of athletes 
Middlebury College will have this year 
is remarkable,” she emphasized. “Four 
relay teams and two individual athletes 
qualified for Nationals this year, which 
speaks to the strength and depth of talent 
our athletes on the Middlebury Track and 
Field team possess. The hype around na-
tionals this year has been incredible due 
to the success of so many individuals on 
the team, and I know that those racing at 
Nationals will certainly feel the presence 
and support from those not competing.”
Of course, that’s not to say the rest of 
the athletes will be twiddling their thumbs 
back at home. “Track and field is an in-
teresting sport that has back-to-back sea-
sons,” Beatty pointed out. “indoor and 
outdoor actually overlap, since we still 
have people competing indoors, while oth-
ers are training for the first outdoor meet. 
The NCAA people are doing workouts to 
be fresh and peak for the championship, 
while the now spring track people are do-
ing harder workouts. Everyone is excited 
to watch the webcast of the indoor NCAA 
and cheer on our top indoor people.”
When asked whether the team’s perfor-
mance this year had surpassed expecta-
tions, Pronovost responded with a defini-
tive yes. 
“I strongly believe that the team’s hard 
work and dedication to the sport has al-
lowed the team to exceed our coaches’ ex-
pectations for the indoor season,” she said. 
“I’m confident that the team will ride this 
momentum into the spring season, and I 
look forward to seeing Middlebury Track 
and Field show the rest of the NESCAC 
league what it means to be a Panther.”
The men’s and women’s 4x400 and 
distance medley relay teams will compete 
at the DIII National Championships at 
Grinnell College in Iowa. In addition, Alex 
Morris ’16 will serve double-duty, compet-
ing individually in the 400-meter dash as 
well as anchoring the 4x400 relay; Adrian 
Walsh ’16 will represent Middlebury in the 
5,000-meter race.
By Rob Erickson
Staff Writer
Men’s Basketball Ends NCAA Run with Heartbreak
5-4 (OT)W
17-6 W
74-72 L 
PANTHER SCOREBOARD
men’s LACROSSE vs. Conn. College 5-4 W 
Exceptional goaltending helped 
the Panthers come out on top in 
the low-scoring affair. 
The squad generated a lot of 
offense to blow past Conn. in 
their season opener on the road. 
The women are conference 
champions after a thrilling 
overtime performance. 
Men’s hoops ended their 
season with a close loss in the 
second round of NCAA play. 
The team ends its season in the 
NESCAC semifinals with a loss 
to the Lord Jeffs on the road. 
women’s hockey vs. Amherst   
women’s lacrosse  @ Conn. College 
men’s basketball vs. Keene St. 
men’s hockey vs. Amherst 4-2 L
Despite the team’s struggles from the 
three point arc all night long, St. Amour 
confidently jacked up a three that found 
the twine to bring the Panthers within 
four, 70-66. 
The Panthers entered full press mode, 
looking to cause turnovers. Matt Daley 
fouled Keene St.’s Ty Nichols on the next 
possession, and Nichols made both free 
throws, again appearing to lock up the 
victory. On the other end the Panthers 
looked for the first clean shot from deep, 
and it was Jake Brown ’17 who got an 
open look from the left corner. His at-
tempt went far too long, but Jack Daly 
fought his way into possession for an 
offensive board. Amidst a sea of oppos-
ing Owls, Daly found Brown in the exact 
same spot who hoisted up another trey 
and this time canned it to make it a 72-
69 game and Middlebury immediately 
called a timeout.
Almost as if it were scripted, Keene 
St.’s inbounder did the unthinkable on 
the following play and made a risky, 
looping pass towards center court that 
Jack Daly was able to tip and St. Amour 
corralled for the steal. Without hesita-
tion, St. Amour took it to the rim for an 
easy two, making it 72-71. Daley fouled 
on the inbounds, sending Keene St. to 
the line with 40 seconds left. Keene St.’s 
Lucas Hammel sunk both to make it 74-
71. 
Back on offense, Daly erred on his 
three point attempt, but Matt Daley kept 
the play alive with an offensive board 
and found St. Amour who was fouled. 
Normally money from the charity stripe, 
having shot over 80 percent all season, 
St. Amour made his first but missed his 
second attempt and the Owls came down 
with the board. 
Up 74-72 with 20 seconds to go, 
Keene St. had a chance to ice the game. 
However, the pressure must have gotten 
to Keene St.’s Nate Howard, because the 
big man missed both free throws. Jack 
Daly grabbed the board and pushed 
the ball up the court where Middlebury 
called a timeout with 11 seconds to go 
needing a bucket of any kind.
Inbounding from the left side of the 
court, the Panthers ran Brown off of a 
double screen but he was covered well. 
St. Amour followed Brown and received 
the inbounds pass. His first look at a po-
tential game-winning three was quickly 
closed off by a Keene St. defender, so he 
found Daley near the free-throw line. 
Daley made a move toward the rim and 
tried an off balance shot that careened 
off the cylinder and bounced to Daly. 
His put back was no good, but somehow 
the ball once more fell into the Panthers’ 
hands as the final seconds ticked away. 
St. Amour, the team’s go-to scorer all 
season long, had one last chance to tie 
the ball game - a spinning, fadeaway 
jumper with three defenders bearing 
down on him - from the left short corner. 
Unfortunately his attempt hit the front 
of the rim with the Owls ahead, 74-72, as 
the final buzzer sounded.
On the night, St. Amour racked up a 
game-high 18 points, while Jake Brown 
had 17, Daley had 13 points and 13 boards 
and Daly had 12 points and 11 boards.
The Middlebury women’s lacrosse 
team opened its season on the road with 
a 17-6 win over Connecticut College on 
Saturday, March 5 and a 17-5 win at 
Rensselaer on Tuesday, March 8. 
Saturday’s matchup was the women’s 
first contest without the leadership of 
former Head Coach Missy Foote, who 
led the program for 34 seasons. In her 
final season, Foote guided the team 
to a 16-4 record and an appearance in 
the NCAA Final Four. Replacing Coach 
Foote is Kate Livesay ’03, who returns 
to Middlebury after serving as head 
coach of the Trinity women’s lacrosse 
team from 2010-2014 before joining 
the Panthers as an assistant coach in 
2015. Coach Livesay commented on her 
first win as Middlebury’s head coach 
following Saturday’s victory. 
“[The win is a] nice affirmation of all 
the hard work over preseason,” Livesay 
said. “You never know exactly what 
team is going to show up when there is 
no game to scout prior to playing a new 
team.  For us, it was important that we 
were able to have success in many of the 
new things we were trying and to have a 
win on top of that is great.” 
Middlebury’s win was a team effort 
with nine different players scoring 
goals. However, the undeniable star 
of the game was captain Laurel Pascal 
’16, who matched Conn. College’s entire 
scoring effort by adding six of her own 
on the day.  
Pascal was not the only midfielder 
who had an outstanding game. Alli 
Sciarretta ’16, Hollis Perticone ’18 and 
Bridget Instrum ’16 each finished the 
game with two goals apiece, while Mary 
O’Connell ’17 dished out six assists in 
addition to scoring a goal herself. The 
scoring was rounded out by Chrissy 
Ritter ’16, Bea Eppler ’17, Hailey 
Cosseboom ’17 and Emma McDonagh 
’19, who each contributed a goal to the 
win.  
Middlebury established a fast pace 
early on in the contest, quickly surging 
to a 5-0 lead.  Conn. College responded 
with two goals to round out the score 
at 5-2.  From that point, the Panthers 
dominated the game, mounting a 7-0 
run to close out the first half.  
Leading 12-2 at the half, the Panthers 
kept the pressure on Connecticut College 
by maintaining a strong offensive effort 
throughout the remainder of the game.
First-year Goaltender Kate Furber 
’19 played the majority of the game, 
recording four saves in her collegiate 
debut.  Madeleine Kinker ’16 finished the 
game in the net for the Panthers. Livesay 
believes that Furber is going to make an 
immediate impact for the Panthers. 
“She is very aggressive, vocal and 
quick. She also anticipates very well,” 
Livesay said. 
The coach expects Furber to be a 
“big presence” within the team’s high 
tempo defense as the season progresses. 
Outside of the cage, the Panther defense 
was anchored by strong performances 
from Maggie Caputi ’16 and Jessie Yorke 
’17. 
“Defense was the strength of our team 
that day,” Livesay added. 
Having an extra week of preseason 
before their first game this year allowed 
the team to “both mentally and physically 
prepare for the season,” Kate Hodgson 
’16 said.  Several members of the team 
believe that the extended preseason 
preparation was an integral part of their 
win this past weekend. 
“As a whole, we are stronger and 
faster than we have ever been in past 
years and I think that comes from our 
conditioning in preseason,” Eppler said.
On Tuesday, Middlebury dominated 
Rensselaer from the beginning, jumping 
out to a 3-0 lead within the first 3:20 of 
play and cruising to a 17-5 win. Ritter 
and Sciarretta both scored three goals, 
while O’Connell assisted on two.
The team will travel to the Boston 
area this weekend for a doubleheader 
on Saturday, March 12 against Tufts 
followed by a second contest on Sunday, 
March 13 versus MIT. Tufts handed the 
Panthers one of their four losses last 
season in a tight game that was decided 
by a score of 12-11. 
| March 10, 2016 22 sports
By Christine Urquhart
Senior Writer
Women’s Hockey to Play UMass-Boston in NCAA
The Middlebury women’s hockey team 
won the NESCAC Championship on Sun-
day, March 6 for the eighth time in the 
program’s history with a 5-4 overtime vic-
tory against Amherst in Chip Kenyon ’85 
Arena. Sunday’s game was the sixth time 
in the tournament’s history — the first NE-
SCAC championship was in 2002 — that 
the title game has gone to overtime, and 
Middlebury has played in five of those six 
games.
It was a team win and we were all so 
happy after the game,” said Maddie Win-
slow ’18, the heroine of both games. “No 
one on our team had ever won a NESCAC 
championship before so it was a cool ex-
perience to have it be everyone’s collective 
first win.”
The Panthers advanced to the finals af-
ter defeating Trinity 3-1 in the semifinals 
on Saturday. The beginning of the first 
period was heated, with close scoring at-
tempts coming from both teams. Trinity 
nearly secured an early lead two minutes 
into the game, but the puck sailed just over 
the crossbar. The Panthers went on the 
power play at 14:18 in the first, but none 
of their three shots on goal made it past 
Bantam goalie Sydney Belinskas. Minutes 
later, Trinity went on their own power play 
and managed to make something of it. 
With 12 seconds left in the period, Emma 
Tani gathered the puck, weaved her way 
through the Panther defense and placed a 
high shot past Julia Neuburger ’18 to give 
the Bantams a 1-0 lead.
Midway through the second period, the 
Panthers mustered an answer. Off a feed 
from Julia Wardwell ’16, Jenna Marotta 
’19 drilled a shot at 8:57 from the right 
point into the back of the net. The goal 
came on the power play and was Marotta’s 
first in her collegiate career.
“Jenna scored her first goal of the sea-
son on an unreal shot to tie it up,” Win-
slow said. “You couldn’t pick a better time 
to get your first goal.”
Trinity made an attempt to break the 
1-1 deadlock on a rush up the right side. 
Shannon Farrell skated along the boards 
before passing it to her teammate Kate 
Fraley, who one-timed it, but Neuburger 
swept it away to keep the score tied.
Middlebury went on the power play in 
the closing minutes of the second period, 
and Winslow scored her team-leading 
16th goal of the season with another assist 
by Wardwell. In response, Trinity upped 
the pressure in the third period, with two 
attackers each taking close-range shots. 
Neuburger stopped both shots, but the 
Bantams nearly scored on the rebounds as 
well before the Panthers ended the danger.
Trinity called a timeout with 53 sec-
onds remaining and pulled its goalie in fa-
vor of an extra attacker. At the faceoff, the 
Panthers diverted the puck out of reach of 
the Bantams until Jessica Young added 
an insurance goal on an empty net. The 
game, an even 22-22 matchup in shots on 
goal, ended with a score of 3-1 and sent 
Middlebury to the finals on Sunday.
The battle for the trophy between the 
Panthers and Amherst ended in overtime, 
when Winslow scored to secure a hard-
fought 5-4 win. The Panthers came out 
with a 3-0 lead, but by the middle of the 
second period Amherst had upended that 
score with four goals in a row, making it 
4-3.
“The NESCAC finals is the kind of 
championship game every hockey player 
dreams of playing in,” Winslow said.
The Panthers came out with an early 
lead 40 seconds into the game when Alter-
nate Captain Katie Mandigo ’16 redirected 
a pass from Wardwell through the legs of 
Amherst goalie Sabrina Dobbins. They 
doubled their lead at 3:01 with a goal from 
the slot by Young, assisted by Winslow.
Amherst pushed back during a power 
play after Middlebury’s second goal, and 
with eight minutes left in the first the Pur-
ple & White had two quality chances that 
Neuburger stopped. Mandigo responded 
less than a minute later with a one-timed 
shot off a pass from Shanna Hickman ’19 
in the slot that blasted past the Amherst 
goalie.
But the tempo of the game began to 
change with 3:02 left in the period, when 
Amherst’s Sara Culhane won a battle for 
the puck behind the net and scored a back-
handed goal on the wrap around. Amherst 
then surged in the second period, scoring 
three straight goals to take a 4-3 lead. The 
first goal, a wrister that sailed through traf-
fic and over Neuburger’s shoulder, came 
6:36 into the period. The next came two 
minutes later when Katie Savage collected 
her own rebound and fed the puck out to 
the right circle, where Katelyn Pantera 
launched it netward to tie the game 3-3. 
Amherst took the lead at 12:59 as Culhane 
placed a shot that Neuburger made an at-
tempt to block but deflected in.
Down but not out, Middlebury tied the 
game again with a goal by Janka Hlinka 
’18, who corrected a shot by Audrey Quirk 
’18 into the net. The Panthers came up 
empty on a power play at 14:18. Amherst 
came inches away from winning the game 
in the final 25 seconds of regulation, when 
a charging attacker rebounded the puck 
against the left post. The puck stopped 
short, forcing overtime.
Middlebury had another power play 
early on in the overtime period, but 
Amherst killed it off and responded with 
a 2-on-1 rush toward Neuburger, who 
blocked the shot.
Young started the deciding play in 
overtime for the hosts, collecting her own 
rebound off a blocked shot and sliding a 
centering pass to Winslow. Winslow, at 
the right circle, one-timed the puck into 
the goal for her team-leading 17th of the 
winter — this time a championship-win-
ning goal.
“Scoring the overtime winner was 
definitely one of the best moments in my 
hockey career,” Winslow said. “My line 
mate Jess Young fed me a beautiful pass, 
and I was able to one time it top corner.”
Winslow scored the game winner in 
both of Middlebury’s final and semifinal 
games. She now leads the NESCAC in as-
sists, with 23, and points, with 40. Win-
slow finished the tournament with four 
goals and five assists, setting a new cham-
pionship record of nine points over all 
three rounds.
With the win, sixth-ranked Middlebury, 
ending the season with a 20-4-3 record, 
earned the conference’s automatic bid to 
the 2016 NCAA Division III tournament. 
Middlebury will host University of Mas-
sachusetts Boston (16-12-0), on Saturday, 
March 12. Amherst received an at-large 
bid to the tournament and will face Platts-
burgh State, to whom Middlebury lost 3-0 
in January. The winner of that matchup 
will go on to face either Middlebury or 
UMass Boston on March 18.
By Ethan Brady
Features Editor 
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKING TEAMRigas’ Reasoning 
2
women’s hockey
First NESCAC 
championship for 
everyone on the team.
Men’s Basketball
Yeah they lost, but who 
thought they would make 
it that far? I don’t know of 
anyone.
3 Women’s LacrossEOutscored their opponents 
34-11 in their first two 
games. That’s pretty good.
4 
men’s Lacrosse
Two games, two wins. 
They’ll move up if they 
beat Tufts...if.
5
7
Men’s Hockey
They were one of the best 
four teams in the NESCAC, 
but only 7th on this list. 
Midd is darn good at 
sports.
6
Track & field 
Seems like they’re making 
history every week.
cromwell & French
What a season for these 
two.
Hau & Pownall-Gray
They didn’t win, but they 
qualified for nationals.
Women’s Lacrosse Eases Past 
Conn. College in Season Opener
Shanna Hickman ’19 chases the puck during Middlebury’s 3-1 NESCAC Semifinal win 
over Trinity. The Panthers had lost to Trinity last year in the NESCAC Quarterfinals.
Michael Borenstein
March 10, 2016| 23SPORTS
The Middlebury men’s lacrosse team 
opened up the season last Saturday, 
March 5, with a big 5-4 win over their 
NESCAC rival Connecticut College, fol-
lowed by a 16-10 defeat of Endicott on 
Tuesday, March 8.
With the win, the Panthers, currently 
ranked sixth nationally, continued last 
year’s trend of domination at home. 
The Panthers have now won 11 straight 
games on Youngman Field at Alumni 
Stadium after going 10-0 on their home 
turf in 2015.
After the Panthers held Conn. College 
scoreless in the first quarter, in large 
part due to the play of goalkeeper Will 
Ernst ’17 who made three of his 12 saves 
in the opening period on his way to being 
named NESCAC Player of the Week, the 
Camels’ Ross Thompson broke the tie 
with 13:10 left in the second quarter with 
an unassisted shot from 12 yards out. 
The Panthers refused to stay down 
for long, however, as Joey Zelkowitz ’17, 
a First Team All-NESCAC selection last 
year, responded with a caused turnover 
and a coast-to-coast goal less than three 
minutes later. The Panthers kept firing 
and took advantage of a man-up oppor-
tunity at the 7:05 mark when Kyle So-
roka ’16 fed first-year Jack Gould ’19 for 
Gould’s first career point. 
The Camels, in typical gritty NESCAC 
fashion, evened the score at 2-2 with 
2:35 left in the first half when Tucker 
Mscisz scored his first of two goals on 
the day.
Mscisz’s second tally came early in 
the second half when he snuck a low 
burner past Ernst at the 13:07 mark to 
give Conn. College the 3-2 lead. The Pan-
thers had an answer, however, as Gould 
fed a pass to Captain Sean Carroll ’16, 
who smoothly finished to end yet anoth-
er quarter with the game all knotted up.
Both teams continued to play tight 
defense in the fourth quarter as neither 
side could break the tie until Henry Riehl 
’18 found a pocket of space at the 8:24 
mark and converted on a Parker Lawlor 
’18 pass. 
The Camels responded quickly with 
6:26 left in the game as Thompson as-
sisted a PJ Kelleher goal. At the 5:44 
mark the Riehl-Lawlor connection pro-
duced what would be the game winner 
as Riehl’s second goal of the day put the 
Panthers up 5-4 heading into the final 
minutes of play.
At a crucial and potentially deadly 
point with 4:40 remaining the Panthers 
found themselves man-down for one 
minute. Ernst came up huge with two 
saves on Kelleher on back-to-back point-
blank opportunities only to make a third 
on Mscisz, following a timeout from the 
Camels.
After a high shot with 10 seconds left 
and an ensuing Middlebury timeout, 
Conn. College found themselves in an 
opportunity to win the game with a good 
look at the net. Unfortunately for the 
Camels, as was the case all afternoon, 
that also meant a good look at Ernst who 
yet again came up big for the Panthers 
and stopped a Derek Bertolini shot as 
time expired.
Senior Captain Jon Broome ’16 was 
happy to start the season on the right 
foot but he was far from satisfied. 
“The first few games of the season are 
always interesting because every team 
is still trying to figure out what works, 
schematically and personnel-wise. Our 
defense played well and our offense 
generated some good looks, but we still 
have plenty of room for improvement,” 
Broome said. 
Riehl, with two goals, Gould, with a 
goal and an assist and Lawlor, with two 
assists, led the Panther offense on the 
day. On the other side of the ball seven 
different Panthers caused turnovers. 
Middlebury held a 31-30 edge in shots, 
while Conn. College won the groundball 
battle by a margin of  23-16. The Pan-
thers cleared 12-16 opportunities, while 
the Camels went 15-23.
On Tuesday, Middlebury defeated 
Endicott 16-10. Carroll led the Panthers 
with five goals, while Broome scored 
twice and assisted on four goals.
The Panthers will take on Tufts, the 
defending national champions, at home 
on Saturday, March 12 at 2 p.m.
Panthers Win Opener, Ernst Player of the Week
By Trevor Schmitt
Contributing Writer
Despite it being a low-scoring, 5-4 affair, 
the Panthers outshot the Conn. College 
Camels 31-30 last Saturday, March 5 
to extend their home winning streak to 
11 games at Youngman Field at Alumni 
Stadium.
Michael Borenstein
YES
I can’t see it going any other way.
TUFTS
It’s an early season challenge for 
sure.
KANSAS
I always put Kansas down as my 
bracket winner and they always 
let me down. Hoping this year is 
different.
SPURS
What everyone else said.
editors’ picks
YES
Especially since they get to play at 
home.
MIDDLEBURY
Got to go with Middlebury on this 
one. (Honestly still a little unclear 
on what this question means...)
SPURS
They have been really good this 
year, and OKC has been struggling 
a bit recently.
KANSAS
This seems to be the majority 
opinion.
Emily Bustard (61-68, .472)
Alex Morris (94-84, .528)
Andrew Rigas (37-26, .587)
Women’s Hockey: Will Midd 
defend the home ice in the NCAA 
Quarterfinals against UMass Boston 
on Saturday, March 12?
NBA pick’em: Who will win, 
Thunder (43-20) @ Spurs (53-
10)?
Men’s Lacrosse: Who wins, Tufts 
(-4.5) @ Middlebury on Saturday, 
March 12?
CBB: Who will earn the top 
overall seed in the men’s NCAA 
tournament?
YES
The Panthers have been dominant 
all season and will continue their 
excellent run.
MIDDLEBURY
Straight up it would be a stretch to 
say they’ll beat top-ranked Tufts, 
but give the Panthers 4.5 and I’m 
taking them.
KANSAS
They won the regular season title 
in the country’s most competitive 
conference.
SPURS
Tough to pick against a team 
that hasn’t lost at home.
YES
You just can’t pick against a team 
that is so hot.
MIDDLEBURY
In fact, I think Midd can spring the 
upset and stay undefeated.
MICHIGAN ST.
I don’t think Kansas is that good. 
Bill Self is overrated.
THUNDER
I still think the Thunder are going 
to make some noise out west.
YES 
Momentum is in the team’s favor 
after a huge win in the NESCAC 
final. 
MIDDLEBURY
Tufts is looking to defend its national 
title from last season, but I think 
the Panthers will give them an early 
season scare. 
KANSAS
It’s going to be madness.
SPURS
I’ll let their home record do the 
talking on this one. 
REMO PLUNKETT (51-45, .531)
         Will Case (10-9, .526)
Last weekend, March 4-6, Saskia 
Pownall-Gray ’16 and Tiffany Hau ’16 
competed at the College Squash As-
sociation individual championships at 
Chelsea Piers in Stamford, Connecticut. 
Pownall-Gray and Hau entered the tour-
nament ranked 51st and 60th.
Powell-Gray faced 46th-ranked Hed-
vika Suchanova of Dickinson College in 
her opening match. She was defeated in 
a five-match marathon, losing the decid-
ing game 11-7.
Powell-Gray then entered the con-
solation bracket, and lost to George 
Washington’s Abigail Shonrock in a 
three-game match. In the last game, 
Pownall-Gray showed signs of come-
back, but ultimately Shonrock gained 
the upper hand and won 15-13.
Hau competed against 37th-ranked 
Alexandra Toth from Princeton and un-
fortunately fell in three games (11-5, 11-
4, 11-7). However, Hau remained upbeat 
about her time at the championships.
“I had a wonderful weekend and 
played some of the best squash I had all 
season,” Hau said. “It was really exciting 
[playing at Chelsea Piers that] I hadn’t 
been to before.” Hau had a crowd of sup-
porters on hand, including her family, 
Panther teammates, Coach Mark Lewis 
and friends from home.
After her loss in the opening-round 
match, Hau beat 69th-ranked Brandy 
Williamson from Mount Holyoke in a 
four game showdown. She won the final 
game 11-5. Though she lost in her next 
match against 53rd-ranked Victoria Ar-
joon of Bates College, Hau put the week-
end in perspective.
“It was nice being able to finish on 
that [note] being a senior in my last 
weekend of squash,” Hau said.
When asked about her goals, Hau said 
she just wanted to enjoy her time and 
compete to her best potential.
“I wanted to enjoy it,” Hau said, “it 
was my last weekend of collegiate squash 
so I wanted to leave the weekend feel-
ing proud of myself and the way that I 
played. I wanted to be able to look back 
and remember how fun it was. I defi-
nitely achieved that and with those good 
feelings definitely came some good re-
sults.”
Hau also gave praise to her team-
mates for their support and encourage-
ment.
“[Though] it was strange not having 
the whole team together,” Hau acknowl-
edged, “hearing from [teammates] and 
remembering the energy from the week-
end before at Nationals definitely pro-
pelled me through the tournament.”
By Sebastian Sanchez
Contributing Writer 
Hau, Pownall-Gray Compete for Women’s Squash
sports 24
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
LOSES BY TWO TO 
KEENE STATE
PAGE 21
MEN’S LACROSSE 
SNEAKS PAST CONN. 
COLLEGE
PAGE 23
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Unstoppable.
Women’s hockey wins eighth nescac title.
Read more on page 22.
Michael Borenstein
