The College joined the Insti-
tute for International Education’s 
(IIE) Syria Consortium last week. 
The College and the Middlebury 
Institute of International Studies 
at Monterey will be two of the 50 
schools in the consortium com-
mitted to admitting refugees from 
the Syrian civil war and providing 
them with scholarships. 
The IIE is one of the world’s 
largest international education 
and training organizations. The 
independent nonprofit aims to im-
prove and increase access to edu-
cation worldwide by organizing 
scholarship, training and exchange 
programs.
President of the College Laurie 
L. Patton told The Campus that 
she believes “we need to do every-
thing we can to make higher edu-
cation accessible across the globe, 
especially at an institution like 
Middlebury.” 
Vice President for Student Af-
fairs and Dean of the College Katy 
Smith Abbott views the decision as 
“consistent with our institutional 
mission, both at the undergradu-
ate college and at Monterey.”
Patton is “thrilled that Midd 
students took the initiative for Syr-
ian students in need,” referring to 
the Go/Refuge movement started 
by Jeff Holland ’19 and Travis 
Sanderson ’19 in Dec. 2015. The 
two began their call for the College 
to increase its involvement in the 
Syrian refugee crisis with opinion 
pieces in The Campus. 
According to Holland, he and 
Sanderson, “Realized that we are 
members of a financially well-en-
dowed, privileged community, and 
we thought we should use our re-
sources for something important. 
Something like the biggest human-
itarian catastrophe of our time.”
Last summer, when Sanderson 
lived in Vienna, Austria, he wit-
nessed the local community unite 
to donate resources to the refugees 
in the area — he participated by 
donating food.  Holland said Sand-
erson’s experience moved him to 
join Sanderson in his efforts to 
compel the College to do more to 
support refugees. “We’re not truly 
an international institution if we 
don’t partake in major world issues 
in whatever way we can,” Holland 
said in a an email to The Campus. 
Holland and Sanderson’s initial 
petition at Go/Refuge has collect-
ed around 100 signatures to date. 
The pair expanded their base of 
active supporters by urging those 
students who signed the petition 
to write opinion pieces of their 
own, and by reaching out to pro-
fessors and student organizations. 
This proved successful; according 
to Sanderson, “all of the support-
ers who wrote articles have taken 
on larger roles” in the movement, 
and Go/Refuge has been endorsed 
by the College’s International Stu-
dent Organization, Amnesty Inter-
national, Middlebury Students for 
Bernie Sanders and Professor of 
German Roman Graf. 
The College’s decision to join 
the IIE’s Syria Consortium comes 
as a long-awaited victory for all of 
the active participants in the Go/
Refuge movement. Sophie Hud-
son, an exchange student from 
the University of Nottingham and 
author of the op-ed “A Call for Em-
pathy,” felt an impetus to get in-
volved with the movement because 
of her unique perspective as an ex-
change student. She questions the 
injustice in the drastic difference 
between her educational experi-
ence and the current state of edu-
cation for Syrian refugees.
“Why am I welcomed here with 
open arms but people whose whole 
education had stopped and been 
put on hold aren’t?” she asked. 
Hudson said that her main motiva-
tion for participating in Go/Refuge 
was her belief that “no one should 
have to halt their education.”
Both Hudson and Rebecca Du-
ras ’19, the social media coordina-
tor for Go/Refuge, acknowledge 
that while the College’s member-
ship in the Consortium is not a 
complete solution to the current 
state of education for Syrian refu-
gees, according to Duras it is “a big 
step towards making at least one 
refugee’s dreams come true.”
After solidifying support from 
members of the community like 
Duras and Hudson, Sanderson 
and Holland met with Patton dur-
ing her office hours. Holland re-
ports that Patton “was extremely 
open-minded and receptive to our 
ideas,” and that he and Sanderson 
“can’t thank her enough for hear-
ing out what we had to say and for 
acting on it.”
Members of the Go/Refuge 
movement have been vocal in 
their belief that Middlebury is in a 
unique position to make an impact. 
Shaheen Bharwani ’19, author of 
the op-ed “Go/refuge: The Syrian 
Academic Emergency,” wrote in an 
email to The Campus that he “can 
think of few institutions that are 
as well equipped to act on this is-
sue as Middlebury College,” citing 
the school’s large endowment as 
“helpful in the case of refugees who 
require financial support,” and the 
school’s renowned Arabic pro-
gram as “hardly inconsequential 
when considering native Arabic-
speaking refugees potentially fac-
ing language barriers in any host 
country.” 
The group also argues that the 
existence of the Middlebury C.V. 
Starr School Abroad in Amman, 
Jordan, at the University of Jor-
dan, should make the College’s 
involvement in the crisis fairly 
easy to initiate.“[The program in 
Jordan] gives us an additional ad-
vantage,” Smith Abbott said. “Not 
only is our staff there able to work 
directly with any promising candi-
dates, but they are also able to help 
guide the fundraising efforts of 
students here in Vermont.” 
Vice President for Academic 
Affairs and Dean of the Schools 
Jeffrey Cason, views the School in 
The Student Government As-
sociation (SGA) voted to pass 
the Club Sports Funding Meth-
odology bill on Sunday, March 
13. The proposal, sponsored by 
Sophomore Senator Colin Boyle 
’18, calls for the creation of a 
committee tasked with develop-
ing alternative methods of fund-
ing club sports before a March 
2017 deadline.
Currently, about 350 students 
are active in club sports includ-
ing the crew, rugby and water 
polo teams. Funding for these 
teams is predominantly derived 
from the $410 Student Activities 
Fee (SAF) that every student is 
required to pay at the beginning 
of the year in addition to the 
comprehensive fee covering tu-
ition and housing — the Depart-
ment of Athletics does not con-
tribute funds for these teams. 
To cover additional costs, these 
teams rely on alumni donations, 
extensive fundraising initiatives 
and personal contributions.
Boyle’s proposal will seek to 
bridge the deficit between the 
full operating costs of these 
teams and a per capita funding 
scheme, like the one proposed 
by SGA Treasurer and Chair of 
the SGA Finance Committee 
Aaron de Toledo ’16.
De Toledo’s proposed bill 
would reform the methods in 
which the Finance Committee 
allocates funds to club sports 
by operating on a per capita ba-
sis, calling for a tier system in 
which clubs are designated cer-
tain funding caps based on the 
number of participants and the 
general cost of the sport. Sports 
such as the equestrian, crew and 
sailing teams would comprise 
the first tier, and their funding 
would be capped at the maxi-
mum $410 per person.
In turn, funding for the club 
sports recognized in the first 
tier — which tend to require the 
most expensive equipment — 
would be cut by nearly a third of 
their current levels. Changes in 
this form of funding would have 
little effect for teams in lower 
tiers such as cycling, fencing 
and badminton, which are not 
as costly.
“We try to strike that balance 
as best we can, but given the fact 
that we do hear criticism, we 
want to create a more transpar-
ent process, but also a more eq-
uitable process,” de Toledo said. 
“It’s not a strict equality thing 
by any means. However, it’s cap-
ping [the funds] a little bit by 
kind of balancing that spectrum 
of equality and meeting every-
one’s needs.”
Under Boyle’s bill, the pro-
posal detailed by de Toledo will 
not take effect and no changes 
will be made to the current 
funding methodology. The new 
committee will be tasked with 
finding alternative funding so-
lutions and will be comprised 
of the head and two members 
of the Finance Committee, one 
treasurer or representative from 
each individual club sport and 
SGA Addresses
Club Sports 
Funding
March 17, 2016 | Vol. 114 no. 18 | middleburycampus.com
MIDDLEBURY 
CELEBRATES 
8TH ANNUAL
CHILI FEST
PAGE 5
SEXPECTATIONS 
DISCUSSES 
MIDDLEBURY
HOOKUP CULTURE
PAGE 14
STUDENT TESTS
M&C TRUCK,
MOVES CLOSER
TO SUCCESS 
PAGE 13in
sid
e
SEE SGA BILL, PAGE 3
By Tess Weitzner
Staff Writer
The Middlebury community gathered on Main St. last Saturday, March 12, to celebrate the 8th Annual 
Vermont Chili Festival. Students and community members tasted the 50 different kinds of chili and 
voted for their favorite. Local restaurant Sabai Sabai won Best Overall Chili.
ANNUAL CHILI FESTIVAL HELD IN TOWN
Anthea  Vita viragh
College Joins Consortium
Supporting Syrian Refugees
By Elizabeth Sawyer
Contributing Writer
SEE COLLEGE, PAGE 2Phil Bohlman
Funding for Club Sports
Per Student
| March 17, 20162 NEWS
By Nick Garber
Community Council Correspondent 
& Staff Writer
Community 
Council Last Thursday, March 10, several students 
hosted their own bar night at 51 Main, an event 
they hope will grow into an enduring aspect 
of the College’s social scene. The restaurant 
space was set up for the evening as a casual 
bar environment, with drinks served by 
student bartenders and music by a student DJ. 
Despite the inclement weather, the space was 
filled to capacity; over 280 students attended 
throughout the night.
The event, envisioned and planned by 
Graham Shaw ’16.5 in collaboration with the 
51 Main Student Advisory Committee, was 
intended as a proof of concept for Shaw. “I 
envisioned it as something different than the 
offerings that already exist…a low-key, adult 
space where students can hang out or grab a 
casual drink, and not have to compete with the 
music to hear one another,” Shaw said. 
The high turnout and revenue 
demonstrated significant student demand for 
that space. Shaw and the Committee plan to 
continue hosting bar nights, smoothing out 
their operations and eventually expanding the 
cocktail menu. Aside from some calls for more 
bartenders in the future, students responded 
favorably. Many praised the “communal vibe” 
and resemblance to an “urban” bar scene. 
Students also responded favorably to the 
diversity in grades and social groups drawn to 
the event.
Shaw explained that he came up with the 
idea for such a space last year after being 
frustrated by issues inherent to the College’s 
social scene.
He criticized the repetitiveness of party 
options on campus. “I felt like the school 
wasn’t doing a good job of cultivating either 
a fun social scene or a healthy drinking 
atmosphere,” Shaw said. “Atwater and social 
houses in particular don’t have the same vibe. 
They’re dark and sweaty, and it’s not like they 
really foster conversation or lead to healthy 
relationships.”
Shaw added that the monotony of available 
parties can contribute to an unhealthy 
drinking culture. Ideally, he envisioned this 
bar night would provide a middle ground. 
It would be well-lit with softer music and 
a place where students could have casual 
conversations while drinking without feeling 
pressured to binge-drink. In this vain, the 51 
Main bar night is an attempt to foster a more 
adult, relaxed nightlife option with a healthier 
drinking culture.
51 Main became the site for the student-
run event after Shaw published an op-ed in 
Middbeat in November describing a lack of 
nightlife options on campus and calling for “a 
space that is by students and for students — 
a space designed by students, decorated with 
student art, maintained by student workers 
and serving the student body.” 
In response to that piece and a pilot event 
in McCullough, Shaw was contacted by Dining 
Services, who also run 51 Main, to discuss the 
possibility of using their space. 
Madeleine Raber ’16 helped to form the 
51 Main Student Advisory Committee over 
J-term, which did preliminary research on 
how students would like to see the space 
used. Students responded with overwhelming 
demand for a nightlife space, and event 
planning went forward from there.
“As a space that was originally intended 
for students, it is clear that it is not serving 
this purpose,” she said. “[This] is why the 
demonstrated interest in the student-run 
bar was so encouraging. The lack of nightlife 
options at Middlebury creates a great 
opportunity for 51 Main to provide such a 
space, whilst also increasing student traffic on 
a regular basis.”
Beyond adding more bartenders to increase 
service, the Committee plans to limit the next 
bar night to students aged 21 and over, citing 
the difficulties of having to monitor a mixed-
age crowd to prevent underage drinking in the 
space. The next bar night is planned for March 
24, where these changes will be implemented.
The 51 Main Student Advisory Committee 
has other ideas to expand student use of 51 
Main down the line. They hope to organize 
ticketed events such as beer or wine tastings 
and collaborations with other student 
organizations such as WRMC for student 
DJs, WOMP for live music or Blackbird for 
readings. 
For now, however, Shaw said, “Our priority 
is to have the most fundamental aspect of our 
operation down, which is making sure that we 
can run a legitimate, fast, well-organized bar.” 
Student-Run Bar Night Held at 51 Main
Trivia Night
Are you a master of fun facts? Take a 
break from studying and challenge your 
friends to a trivia night. There will be free 
food and really cool prizes!
THURSDAY AT 9 P.M. IN CROSSROADS CAFE
Yoga Classes
It doesn’t matter if you can do the Lotus 
or Warrior 2 pose, join us for some relax-
ing yoga this Monday.
MONDAY AT 7 P.M. IN MITCHELL GREEN LOUNGE
MCAB Speaker Jia Jiang
Jia is an entrepreneur, blogger, speaker 
and writer, with a book in progress. Come 
hear him talk this Tuesday, 3/22.
TUESDAY AT 8 P.M. IN WILSON HALL
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
By Leo Stevenson
Contributing Writer
Jordan as integral to the partnership. 
“We have staff in Jordan who are will-
ing and able to interview potential appli-
cants to Middlebury as undergrads or to 
the Middlebury Institute as graduate stu-
dents,” Cason said. 
Director of the School in Jordan Ker-
stin Wilsch will be at the College for two 
days this upcoming weekend, and is plan-
ning to meet with Sanderson and Holland 
on March 20 to discuss the College’s role 
in providing financial support for Syrian 
refugees in Jordan. Wilsch echoed the 
sentiments of the Go/Refuge movement. 
“We can’t stop the conflict in Syria, but 
we can render help to those suffering 
from it,” she said. 
Sanderson praised Patton and Abbott 
for going “beyond our expectations in put-
ting Middlebury on the moral road in the 
Syrian refugee crisis.” However, he said 
that more could be done, such as raising 
awareness of the Syria Consortium in or-
der to motivate students at other schools 
to begin similar movements. “With mil-
lions of refugees who need safety, many 
of whom need education, there is always 
work to be done,” Holland said.
College Talks 
Syrian Refugees
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
The fourth annual International and In-
terdisciplinary Conference, titled “Food In-
security in a Globalized World: The Politics 
and Culture of Food Systems” was hosted 
at the College’s Rohatyn Center for Global 
Affairs on March 10-12. The conference ex-
plored the politics, economics and history of 
food insecurity and included presentations 
by Middlebury professors and guest lecturers 
from around the world. According to Tamar 
Mayer, the Robert R. Churchill Professor of 
Geosciences who directs both the Rohatyn 
Center and the International and Global Stud-
ies Program, the conference organizing com-
mittee selected the 17 papers presented out of 
54 submissions.
The topic of global food insecurity was 
chosen in 2013 when Mayer and the Rohatyn 
Center Steering Committee planned confer-
ence topics until 2020. 
“Food insecurity is probably one of the 
most important social problems of our time,” 
Mayer said. “Students need to understand 
that food insecurity is constructed. It’s not 
natural. A lot of it is political – it’s the eco-
nomic systems that created it, it’s the neolib-
eral policies that created it. And our students 
are either going to challenge those, or going to 
participate in them, or both.” 
Lee Schlenker ’16 attended the confer-
ence and enjoyed the variety of perspectives. 
“It was nice to have professors who came to 
Middlebury who had very different purposes 
or missions with their research,” Schlenker 
said. “Even if I don’t really agree with all of the 
things that were said I think it’s nice to have 
that interdisciplinary perspective.” 
Jessie Mazer, a graduate student at the 
University of Vermont, gave a presentation 
on local issues of food insecurity. Her talk fo-
cused on how undocumented migrant dairy 
farmworkers in Vermont struggle to feed their 
families. Mazer highlighted the difficulties 
Mexican farmworkers face in Vermont, which 
she identified as the second whitest state in 
the nation. Mazer posited that government 
surveys do not capture the full extent of food 
insecurity among migrants because people of-
ten say they can afford certain foods that they 
cannot access. 
“[The migrant workers are] saying that 
‘Yes, we have enough money to access food 
but we can’t go to the grocery store because 
we don’t have transportation and when we go 
to the grocery store we’re at risk for deporta-
tion,’” Mazer said. 
On Saturday the conference turned to 
discussing solutions to food insecurity. The 
College’s William R. Kenan Professor of Food 
Studies Molly Anderson argued in her presen-
tation that changes to the food system must 
start with grassroots movements to inspire 
the public interest needed to push reform 
onto the political agenda. 
“As this permeates through society—this 
awareness of impacts and the influence of 
these legislators—then cultural values and be-
liefs start changing,” Anderson said. 
David Cleveland, an environmental studies 
professor at the University of California, San-
ta Barbara, presented his work looking at the 
intersection between food justice and climate 
justice. His research focused on the medical 
and environmental benefits of healthier diets. 
The alternative diets had less red and pro-
cessed meats and less processed grain than 
the average American diet. They included 
more vegetables, beans and fruits. By adopt-
ing healthier diets Cleveland suggested Amer-
icans could save billions on healthcare costs 
and reduce green house emissions related to 
food production.
The conference ended with Angélica Se-
gura ’16 and Francesca Conde ’17 providing 
a summary in which they identified six over-
arching themes. The first theme was individu-
al choice versus broader food safety. 
“A lot of the topics highlighted the prob-
lematic trade off that has often occurred when 
the rights of the citizens are sacrificed in order 
to eradicate food insecurity,” Segura said. 
Next, they discussed the way food insecu-
rity relates to class and gender. The third topic 
explored how food insecurity is the product of 
systematic disinvestment in low-income com-
munities and lack of institutional state sup-
port. The fourth theme they outlined was the 
need to identify dominant actors in the food 
discussion. “In the past few years we have 
witnessed a seismic shift in farming driven by 
new technologies and the nature of such tech-
nologies means that not all of us have the sci-
entific understanding that is often necessary 
to participate in the conversation,” Segura 
said. 
The fifth theme looked at food as cultural 
capital by noting the importance of social net-
works in food insecure communities. Lastly, 
the pair explored the tensions between pro-
ducers and consumers and between industry 
efficiency and the nutritional value of food.
“Over the past few days ideas have been 
put forward that have shattered a traditional 
understanding of food insecurity and have ex-
posed it for what it really is,” Segura said. “[It 
is] a phenomenological experience, a histori-
cal product and often the result of trade poli-
cies and power interest.”
For a full list of presenters, presentation 
topics and to see videos of the panels visit the 
Rohatyn Center website. 
By Sarah Asch
Contributing Writer
Rohatyn Center Discusses 
Global Food Insecurities
Community Council met on Tuesday, 
March 8, and began with a brief 
presentation by Associate Dean for 
Judicial Affairs and Student Life Karen 
Guttentag, and Associate Dean for 
Judicial Affairs and Student Life AJ Place. 
Each year, as mandated by the College 
Handbook, two Community Council 
members serve on the committee to select 
the student members of the next year’s 
Judicial Boards.
“It’s a really interesting way to get 
a perspective on the community and 
what people’s concerns are,” Guttentag 
said. “Participating in this is a really 
exciting and enlightening lens into how 
the community is working and into how 
different members of the community 
experience it.”
Next, the Council welcomed Alden 
Cowap ’17 and Matt Witkin ’16.5, who 
serve as President and Vice President of 
the Chromatic social house. Cowap and 
Witkin visited the Council to propose an 
amendment to the Social House Fall Term 
Housing Policy Regulations.
The current regulations allow no more 
than two sophomores to live in Tavern 
or Chromatic houses, and no more 
than one sophomore to live in the Mill 
or Xenia; Cowap and Witkin proposed 
increasing these maximums to six and 
two, respectively.
“Social houses provide a very deliberate 
and diverse community experience,” 
Cowap said. Cowap also cited the ability 
of social houses to facilitate campus 
leadership. “By allowing sophomores to 
live in the house, it makes them more 
engaged and active members, which will 
lead to better leadership, and to them 
wanting to take on leadership positions 
at a younger age so we don’t just have 
juniors and seniors.”
In the end, the Council was convinced, 
and voted to approve Cowap and Witkin’s 
recommendation by a vote of 13 to 1, with 
2 abstaining.
On Tuesday, March 15, Council 
members spent most of the meeting 
brainstorming potential projects to focus 
on for the remainder of the semester. 
Among numerous other ideas, Emma 
Bliska ’18 suggested instituting “protected 
breaks,” meaning that assignments could 
not be due immediately after a school 
vacation.
Ilana Gratch ’16 proposed allowing 
faculty and staff to eat at dining halls at all 
times. (Currently, faculty are only allowed 
to eat once per week with a student, and 
no such program exists for staff).
Vignesh Ramachandran ’18 suggested 
a reform of the counseling services 
at Parton Health Center; specifically, 
Ramachandran cited numerous students 
of color who feel that they have received 
inadequate counseling by the mostly-
white staff. “A lot of my friends who can 
afford it go to counselors in town, who 
they rate better,” he added.
Finally, the Council reviewed a list 
compiled by Bliska detailing possible 
solutions to student stress; a continuation 
of the Council’s concentration on the 
subject during the Fall semester. The list 
had been compiled from suggestions made 
by various Council members, though 
each idea had not necessarily been voted 
on individually by the entire Council. If 
approved, this list would have been sent 
directly to the working group on stress 
established by President of the College 
Laurie L. Patton.
In the end, however, Council members 
expressed reservations over endorsing a 
document whose recommendations had 
never been approved individually, and 
elected to postpone further action until 
next week’s meeting.
march 17, 2016 |  3        News
two members of the Senate.
However, if this committee does not 
find a feasible solution by March 2017, 
the SGA and the Finance Committee will 
pass de Toledo’s plan.
Nathaniel Wiener ’18, treasurer of the 
sailing team, said, “If the budget goes 
into effect as proposed, we will either be 
forced to cease being a competitive team 
or raise our team dues to $300 to 400 
per participant … [this increased fee] will 
likely lead to decreasing first-year enroll-
ment next year and, in turn, decreased 
funding for the club going forward since 
we will have fewer competing members.”
Clara Sternberg ’19 of the equestrian 
team voiced similar concerns that cuts to 
team funding would force membership 
to be more exclusive, allowing only those 
who can afford an increased membership 
fee to participate.
“The prospect of limiting beginner 
participation would go against our desire 
to bring people into the sport, especially 
those who have not had the opportunity 
to ride before coming to [the College],” 
she said. “It is likewise unfair to ask team 
members to pick up the funding discrep-
ancy by paying more out of pocket when 
we already spend hundreds of dollars to 
be able to ride.”
Members of the crew team also ex-
pressed apprehension towards de To-
ledo’s proposal and, along with the 
equestrian and sailing teams, attended 
the SGA meeting on March 13. Senators 
opened the floor for discussion of the 
proposals raised by de Toledo and Boyle. 
When the senate voted to pass Boyle’s 
proposal, loud applause ensued from all 
three teams.
“We are very happy that the Senate 
chose to pass this proposal and not insti-
tute a funding cap for this year, as it will 
give us time to work with them to find a 
better solution,” President of Middlebury 
Rowing Erika Sloan ’16 said. “We under-
stand the difficult position that the SGA 
is in — ideally, at least some of our fund-
ing would be covered by the administra-
tion/athletics and not fall to the SGA. 
Though the school has been unwilling to 
do so in the past, we hope that the com-
mittee formed as a result of Boyle’s pro-
posal will enable us to move towards that 
goal in a clear and organized way.”
She continued, “Drastically cutting 
our funding, as the original proposal 
would have done, would have had a dev-
astating impact on our ability to remain 
the team that provides such an important 
opportunity to so many Middlebury stu-
dents. With no other options, we would 
have been forced to raise our member-
ship fees. This is the absolute last thing 
we want to do, as our goal is keep row-
ing at Middlebury open and accessible to 
anyone who wishes to learn the sport and 
be part of the team. We already stretch 
our gift account thin providing as much 
financial aid as we possibly can, and rais-
ing the participation fee would likely also 
raise barriers to inclusivity that are sim-
ply unacceptable.”
Boyle, who is also a member of the 
crew team, was thrilled by the decision.
“I think a lot of club sports just en-
countered the reality that they almost 
just lost a significant amount of their 
budget,” he said. “I think it will light a 
little fire, and I think that club sports will 
need a lot of momentum behind finding a 
solution because I think we know admin-
istration needs to be pushed.”
SGA Bill Seeks new Funding Solutions for Club Sports
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Members from the crew, equestrian and sailing teams attended the March 13 SGA 
Senate Meeting in opposition to a proposal that would drastically cut their funds.
Will DiGravio
Last Wednesday, March 9, Governor 
Shumlin visited North Bennington to hold 
a town hall style meeting with residents 
and discuss the ongoing water contamina-
tion crisis. Shumlin announced that water 
in the Bennington area had been contami-
nated by a carcinogen known as perfluo-
rooctanoic acid, or PFOA, and assured res-
idents that his administration would make 
fighting the contamination a top priority.
“We are not going 
to desert you,” Shumlin 
told the concerned on-
lookers. “We’re going 
to make sure that we 
not only get through the 
short-term challenges 
figuring out how we get 
clean water to folks on 
a permanent basis, not 
just the stuff for truck-
ing in, then figure out 
how we hold whoever 
did this accountable.”
The spill can be 
traced back to a Chem-
fab factory, which was 
acquired by Saint-
Gobain Performance 
Plastics in 2000, and 
shut down just two years 
later. Saint Gobain is currently embroiled 
in a similar PFOA contamination crisis in 
Hoosick Falls, New York, for which it has 
been fighting a class-action lawsuit since 
September of 2015. The lawsuit, spear-
headed by the law firm Weitz & Luxenberg, 
will now include evidence from North Ben-
nington.
In the past, PFOA had a variety of com-
mercial uses, but was phased out by the 
Environmental Protection Agency due to 
its carcinogenic qualities. At the Chemfab 
factory in North Bennington, it was used to 
apply protective coatings onto fabric. 
Saint-Gobain released the following 
statement following the PFOA incident: 
“We understand that tests commissioned 
by the Department of Environmental Con-
servation showed no detection of PFOA in 
the public water system for Bennington. 
The tests did reveal elevated levels in three 
private wells, as well as two commercial 
sites. Saint-Gobain Performance Plastics 
has contacted state and local officials, and 
has offered to fund the provisioning of 
bottled water and point-of-use filtration 
systems for these locations, and others 
that might be affected. We will cooperate 
with all local, state and 
federal officials as they 
investigate and manage 
this issue.”
A spokeswoman for 
Saint-Gobain said that 
the company followed 
strict environmental 
protocols during its two 
years of operation in 
North Bennington. Offi-
cials at both the Depart-
ment for Environmental 
Conservation and at the 
Governor’s Office will 
focus on testing wells 
in the surrounding mile 
and a half diameter. 
Chuck Schwer, the 
Director of the Vermont 
DEC’s waste manage-
ment and prevention division, explained 
that this 1.5 mile diameter was an “edu-
cated guess.”
“We aren’t sure exactly of how the 
chemical was released into the environ-
ment,” Schwer explained, “Was it an air-
bourne-type problem, or was it a release at 
the factory that just got into groundwater? 
Looking at the topography, understanding 
a little bit the properties of the chemical, 
we developed the mile and a half.”
Getting the results from these tests 
can take weeks, and it is still unclear as 
to the full extent of the contamination. 
Schwer urged residents to reach out to the 
division if they owned a private well in the 
area.
“The first step is figuring out exactly 
how widespread the problem is,” Taylor 
Dobbs, a reporter for VPR, said in an in-
terview. “Once they know that, then they 
know ... where to target their efforts and 
who they really need to help.”
One resident living near the plant, 
Jim Goodine, argued that the smell radiat-
ing from it had been a problem since the 
mid-1970s. Although he had complained 
to the company that the smell was so bad 
at times he could not leave his house, his 
complaints led nowhere.
“You know, I’m a carpenter,” said 
Goodine in an interview with VPR. “And 
these were big guys, industrialists with 
factories in different places, and they show 
up in Brooks Brother suits, and you feel in-
timidated by people like that.”
“In hindsight I’m kicking myself as 
hard as I can ... I feel partly responsible 
that I didn’t go to the state and say, ‘You 
have to do something here. You have to 
find out what’s going on.’”
In an effort to better educate the pub-
lic about the developing situation, both the 
Vermont Department of Health and the 
Department for Environmental Conser-
vation (DEC) have launched websites on 
the situation in North Bennington. Ben-
nington College also recieved a grant from 
the National Science Foundation Rapid 
Response to conduct original research on 
PFOA, and will offer a six-week course on 
water contamination and how to manage 
it in the spring and fall. The class will ex-
amine the PFOA molecule chemically and 
how this chemical might move through soil 
and groundwater.
“We’re going to have to learn some-
thing about how [PFOA] becomes intro-
duced to the groundwater and how it mi-
grates through the groundwater, and how 
you ultimately wind up getting it out and 
restoring the safe water supply,” said Tim 
Schroeder, a professor of earth science at 
Bennington College.
Still, for residents in the North Ben-
nington area, the PFOA crisis is an imme-
diate one. Many residents are still in limbo, 
awaiting the results of a week-long test for 
the carcinogen in their private wells. In the 
meantime, Saint-Gobain has offered to pay 
for their bottled water.
local
Toxic Chemical Enters Private Wells in N. Bennington
Harry Cramer
Local Editor
“We are not going 
to desert you. We’re 
going to make sure 
that we not only get 
through the short-
term challenges 
[but] then figure out 
how we hold whoev-
er did this account-
able.”
Peter Shumlin (D)
Governor of Vermont
Super Tuesday is called “super” for 
a reason. Out of all the primaries, March 
1 alone awards candidates on the Demo-
cratic side a total of 862 delegates, the 
largest chunk given in one day. Winning 
a majority on Super 
Tuesday is therefore 
a strong indicator of 
a candidate’s chance 
of nomination. Ber-
nie Sanders, longtime 
senator of Vermont, 
suffered heavy hits on 
March 1 when he won 
only four of 11 states. 
After this loss, it is fair 
to ask: Are Americans 
still feeling the Bern?
Let us do some 
delegate math. The modest lead Hillary 
Clinton had before Tuesday, a mere 61 
delegates, grew to a total of 233 follow-
ing the big day. In a race where all del-
egates are given on a proportional basis 
– the Republican race is the only one 
with winner-takes-all states – the grow-
ing gap might become unsurmountable 
if the trend continues. 
Adding to this worry is the super-
delegate format the Democrats have. 
Superdelegates are differentiated from 
normal delegates by their ability to free-
ly choose who to vote for prior to the 
nomination, alongside the added liberty 
of being able to change their minds. 
This serves as a double-edged sword 
for Sanders, who could recapture some 
of the 465 superdelegates currently 
pledged to Clinton, or lose them entire-
ly, which sets the true delegate gap after 
Super Tuesday at 673. From a math-
ematical perspective, 
March 1 was not a good 
day for Sanders.
However, in the 
aftermath of Super 
Tuesday, Sanders’ 
Campaign Manager 
Jeff Weaver remained 
optimistic about the 
future of the campaign.
“We have a win-
ning hand in this 
game, and… [are] go-
ing to continue to play 
it for a while,” Weaver 
said. To him, the fact that Clinton’s lead 
increased was not as important as Sand-
ers’ victories; Sanders was able to win 
almost all five of the states he originally 
set out to win. Sanders only lost Massa-
chusetts, by a very close margin.
In Vermont, where Sanders won all 
the delegates up for grabs on March 1st, 
residents are enthusiastic and proud of 
having their senator compete on the na-
tional stage. 
Miguel Fernandez, the Chief Diver-
sity Officer at the College and a proud 
Vermonter, is not surprised that Bernie 
is shaking up the political campaign. In 
an interview conducted following Super 
Tuesday, he explained that Sanders’ ap-
peal stems from his character.
“He’s very genuine, he’s himself, 
[and] he speaks it how it is. There’s no 
BS with Bernie,” Fernandez said.
Even in Washington, President 
Obama commented on the authenticity 
of Sanders’ message. Obama described 
Sanders as someone with “the virtue of 
saying exactly what he believes ... with 
great passion ... and fearless[ness].”
Will Sanders’ campaign succeed in 
the near future? It isn’t guaranteed, but 
it is also not impossible. Currently, the 
campaign is riding a wave of momentum 
following a major upset in Michigan six 
days ago. 
As Fernandez noted towards the end 
of the interview: “Everybody wrote Ber-
nie off before things even started … and 
then he started to win.” 
Ultimately, the 74-year-old senator 
from Vermont has captured the imagi-
nation of thousands, brought out young-
er voters in drones to election, and still 
has a chance of possibly pulling off a his-
torical upset in the ongoing nomination.
Are Americans Still ‘Feeling the Bern?’
By Edward Acosta
Contributing Writer
Courtesy VPR
Courtesy nbc
The Chemfab factory made material for large corporate projects, like the roof of Denver Airport.
“We have a winning 
hand in this game, 
and we are going to 
continue to play it 
for a while.”
Jeff Weaver
Sanders Campaign Manager
Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders faces an uphill battle against Hillary Clinton.
On Saturday, March 12, the 8th an-
nual Vermont Chili Festival was held 
in downtown Middlebury.  From 1 to 4 
p.m. the sun was shining and the street 
was filled with around six thousand 
Vermonters on the hunt for chili from 
top restaurants and caterers, as well 
as good entertainment provided by lo-
cal street performers. About 40 types 
of chili were packed into tents along 
the street, and 
each business was 
expected to sup-
ply around 15 to 
30 gallons of their 
specialty chilies in 
order to enter the 
competition.  Sa-
bai Sabai emerged 
as the victor of this 
year’s festival, tak-
ing the cake (or 
perhaps the chili) 
as their kitchen 
sink Thai flavored chili won the title 
of “Best Overall” and a cash prize of 
$1,000.  This was the first year that Sa-
bai Sabai has participated in the Chili 
Festival, and beginner’s luck certainly 
seems to have applied to their praise-
worthy dish.  
“This is a Bangkok chili.  It’s a 
chicken chili with Thai spices and we’re 
serving it with tortilla chips and pea-
nuts.  A lot of people seem to really like 
it.  It’s a little different,” explained a 
waitress from Sabai Sabai. “I’ve been 
trying to talk the chefs into doing Thai 
nachos and maybe putting it on the 
menu for an appetizer.”  
After Sabai Sabai’s success at the 
festival, Middlebury natives may be in 
luck if a chili-inspired addition to the 
menu is brought to fruition.
Every chili-eater had the option to 
vote for their favorite chili and their 
favorite booth at the festival, and the 
businesses with the highest number of 
votes earned a cash prize.  In addition, 
a panel of judges was set to decide the 
best of the best chili in six categories: 
pork, game, chicken, beef, veggie and 
kitchen sink.  
Two Brothers 
Tavern followed 
Sabai Sabai, earn-
ing “Second Best 
Overall,” and re-
ceiving a cash 
prize of $750 for 
their beef chili. 
Park Squeeze, a 
restaurant in Ver-
gennes, placed 
“Third Best Over-
all,” winning $750 
for their pork chili.  The Park Squeeze 
Restaurant, participating in the Ver-
mont Chili Festival for the third time, 
fell just short of its goal this year.
“This is sort of the traditional style 
that I would do,” said the Park Squeeze 
chef as he scooped the chili.  “It’s a 
pork chili and we’re getting our pork 
from Heritage Farms in Otter Creek. 
I’m hoping for the top prize this year.”
 For the content-specific categories 
of pork, game, chicken, beef, veggie, 
and kitchen sink, the business winners 
were Park Squeeze, The Lobby, Indulge 
Salon, Middlebury College Brisket, La 
Boca Wood Fired Pizza and Sabai Sa-
bai, respectively.  The winners in each 
of these designated categories were 
awarded $100.  The two final coveted 
awards were given to Sabai Sabai as the 
“People’s Choice” and Our House Bistro 
(in Winooski, Vt.) as the “Best Booth.” 
These two designa-
tions earned the 
businesses prizes 
of $500 and $200, 
respectively.
All of the chefs 
worked hard to defy 
the typical expecta-
tions of a chili dish. 
Jeff Trump, Head 
Chef at the Lobby 
in Middlebury, was 
certainly no excep-
tion.
“This one’s on 
the menu.  It’s a 
venison maple chi-
potle chili with ha-
zelnut crème-fraiche and fried shallots. 
We took first place with it last year,” 
Trump recalled with pride. It seems 
that this prize-winning chili met its 
match on Saturday.
Some of Middlebury’s own stu-
dents even put their chili-making skills 
to the test at the festival.  Middlebury 
Foods, a student-run nonprofit, had a 
chili stand and their vegetarian chili 
earned runner-up in its category.
“It was really rewarding; the Atwa-
ter dining staff that we cooked along-
side was incredibly helpful and kind to 
the three of us,” says Alex Brockelman 
’18, who cooked for Middlebury Foods 
on Saturday. “The crowds were sweet 
and appreciative for the most part, mi-
nus the occasional belligerently drunk 
student. All in all a great experience.”
Competition aside, the town was 
brought to life with good food, face 
painting, street performers, live music 
and positive energy. The Chili Festival 
has been named one 
of the “Top 10 Win-
ter Events” for the 
past five years by the 
Vermont Chamber of 
Commerce, and it con-
tinues to live up to its 
praise. 
The money raised 
at the festival supports 
the Better Middlebury 
Partnership, which 
plays a key role in or-
ganizing and facilitat-
ing community events 
every year.  The fun 
did not stop once the 
chili bowls were all 
emptied.  There were two after par-
ties with live music for the most zeal-
ous of chili lovers.  The Horse Traders 
performed at Two Brothers Tavern and 
BandAnna took the stage at 51 Main.
“It’s fun and it’s nice to be outside,” 
remarked Trump. “It’s nice seeing peo-
ple from around town.  The festival is a 
good community gathering event.” 
This sentiment was echoed by stu-
dents at the College as well: “I think the 
chili fest is a really nice event because 
it brings students and Middlebury resi-
dents together,” Julia Hower ’19 said. 
“It also gives students a chance to get 
off campus, which can be really re-
freshing.”
Middlebury Celebrates 8th Annual Chili Festival
By Rebecca Walker
Local Editor
Clockwise from left: Visitors enjoy balloon hats in downtown Middlebury; eager chefs serve chili; preparations at Our House chili booth; the Middlebury street is crowded with chili-lovers.
march17, 2016| 5local
Anthea Vita  Viragh 
“It’s fun and it’s nice 
to be outside.  It’s nice 
seeing people from 
around town.  The fes-
tival is a good commu-
nity gathering event.”
Jeff TrumP
Head Chef at the Lobby
 “It’s a chicken chili 
with Thai spices and 
we’re serving it with 
tortilla chips and pea-
nuts.”
Sabai Sabai Waitress
Best Overall Winner
Last Sunday, March 13, the Student 
Government Association (SGA) passed 
Sophomore Senator Colin Boyle’s Club 
Sports Funding 
Methodology bill. 
The bill extends 
club sports fund-
ing at its cur-
rent level and, 
in anticipation 
of future budget 
constraints, del-
egates a committee to find an alterna-
tive method of funding by March of 2017. 
The Campus calls upon this committee 
to find a solution that is both equitable 
among the club sports programs and fair 
in regards to all student activities. 
Currently, club sports are exclusively 
funded by Student Activities, which de-
rives its funding from the $410 activities 
fee paid by each student at the start of 
every year. Students are required to 
pay this fee on the premise that 
it will directly benefit them. 
In some ways it does –  a 
large portion of 
the budget sup-
ports organiza-
tions like MCAB, 
the SGA and Com-
mons that service 
the entire student 
body. However, an en-
tire 10 percent of the bud-
get supports club sports 
teams. Only 350 students 
participate in club athletics, 
yet every student pays to sup-
port these programs. While The 
Campus believes club sports are 
integral to the College’s athletics pro-
gram, we believe these teams represent a 
disproportionate amount of the Student 
Activities budget.
Club sports provide a diverse array of 
competitive and recreational opportuni-
ties where varsity options do not neces-
sarily exist. For many students, play-
ing a club sport is a defining element of 
their Middlebury experience. Many of 
the teams are highly competitive or even 
compete at the varsity level. For exam-
ple, our men’s rugby team is one of the 
best in the country, and women’s water 
polo is ranked in the top 15th nationally. 
We realize that these programs are 
expensive and require resources that 
non-athletic organizations do not. While 
some student organizations can afford 
a tighter budget, significantly reducing 
a club team’s funds could jeopardize its 
existence. Every year, more students are 
participating and team budgets are in-
creasing. While the average student or-
ganization budget is two thousand dol-
lars per year, the median sports team 
receives eight thousand dollars. Club 
sports are increasingly expensive to 
fund; asking all stu-
dents to support 
these programs is 
not a sustainable 
solution. 
U n -
til the 
Col lege 
f i n d s 
a bet-
ter way 
to source 
the funds, 
we would at 
least like to see 
increased equity 
among the pro-
grams. Currently, 
some teams have 
access to the Ath-
letic Department’s trainers, while others 
do not. Other teams have fundraising 
pools to support students struggling to 
pay out of pocket expenses, while others 
do not. If the school is choosing to fund 
club sports teams instead of bringing in 
more speakers or sending cultural orga-
nizations to conferences, all teams must 
have equal opportunities. For those 
teams that compete at the varsity level 
and receive the most resources, the Col-
lege should consider making their var-
sity status official. Participating at the 
varsity level, sailing and crew compete 
against teams that are funded by their 
schools’ administrations; perhaps Mid-
dlebury should follow suit. Teams that 
demonstrate low participation numbers 
should not be funded through the stu-
dent activities fee that places the finan-
cial burden of a select few on the general 
student population.
If the committee does not come up 
with its own solution, a plan introduced 
by Finance Committee Chair Aaron 
de Toledo will take effect. De Toledo’s 
proposal creates funding caps for club 
teams by creating three tiers. Tier one 
sports – men and women’s water polo, 
men and women’s crew, sailing and the 
equestrian team – are ones that the are 
uniquely expensive or whose coaches are 
paid for by the College. Tier two sports 
– quidditch, men’s volleyball, cycling, 
fencing and ultimate frisbee – do not 
have coaches but compete against other 
schools. Tier three teams – badminton 
and figure skating – do not compete. 
The plan would cap the tier one sports 
at $410 per person, tier two at $307.50 
and tier one at $205 – all in an attempt 
to find a balance between equality and 
meeting the teams’ needs. De Toledo’s 
plan also proposes a College-sponsored 
financial aid pool, so that all students 
who want to participate have the chance 
to do so. The Campus calls on the SGA to 
reconsider de Toledo’s plan or one like it 
going forward. 
We recognize that the administration 
may not be able to take on club programs 
as an additional cost. Nonetheless, the 
College should at least reexamine its 
budget to see if there any funds that 
could be reallocated, or consider ex-
ternal funding sources such as team-
driven fundraising or alumni donations. 
Neither the current system nor the plan 
put forth by de Toledo are ideal, and 
we expect both the Finance Committee 
and the SGA to make difficult decisions. 
At this time, The Campus believes that 
charging the entire student body is not a 
sustainable model, especially consider-
ing the rising costs. We would like to see 
our Student Activities budget support-
ing programs that benefit everyone, not 
just self-selected individuals. 
opinions
editorial board 
The content written within the 
Opinions pages may cause emotional 
distress. Please excercise discretion.
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor. The 
opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions 
section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial com-
ics and other commentary, are views of the individ-
ual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the 
opinions of the newspaper. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.
middleburycampus.com. To be considered for pub-
lications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. 
Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all 
submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
A Call for More Equitable Funding
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Claire Abbadi
MANAGING EDITOR
Leah Lavigne
BUSINESS MANAGER
Wyatt French
NEWS EDITORS 
Christian Jambora, Eliza Teach, Phil Bohl-
man, Ellie Reinhardt
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Sara Hodgkins, Francesca Haass, Lauren 
Alper, Nina Colombotos 
SPORTS EDITORS 
Alex Morris, Emily Bustard, Andrew Rigas, 
Will Case, Remo Plunkett
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Rebecca Walker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Emilie Munson, Ethan Brady, Henry Bur-
nett, Renee Chang
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Elizabeth Zhou, Toby Aicher
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel Frank, Ivan Valladares, Michael 
O’Hara, Anthea Viragh, Michael Boren-
stein 
DESIGN EDITOR
Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Boone McCoy-Crisp
ONLINE EDITORS
Maggie Cochrane, Pyone Aye 
COPY EDITOR
Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOST
Nathaniel Wiener
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITORS
 Nathaniel Wiener, Pyone Aye
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
official opinion of 
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Disclaimer: Reader op-eds do not reflect the opinion of The Middlebury Campus editorial board. 
“All paradises, all utopias are designed 
by who is not there, by the people who are 
not allowed in.” — Toni Morrison 
Many of you may know, and others of you 
may wish not to know, that many members 
of our community are involved in “secret” 
societies on campus. From the leisure activ-
ities that many peers engage in, to the exclu-
sive social networks that are forged on cam-
pus, Middlebury is not an institution that 
makes it possible for all students to flour-
ish. Secret organizations foster an exclu-
sion that encourages its members, and elite 
students alike, to disengage with students 
from disadvantaged backgrounds. Secret 
societies reinforce many students’ sense of 
not belonging on campus. Thus, secret so-
cieties create a stratified social environment 
that infiltrates and perpetuates sharp class 
and racial divides that undermine any real 
strides towards inclusion.
One of the year-end events for many 
members of our community is known as the 
Rites of Spring. It works through an invite-
only system where the mostly straight, white 
and overwhelmingly upper class (or soon to 
be) male members of these societies invite 
five male friends to the party, each of whom 
invite a date. Having a close friend, Brian, 
who went to this event two springs ago, my 
understanding is that it is strongly encour-
aged for members and their invites to bring 
straight female students. Brian brought his 
girlfriend at the time, and it seemed most 
of his cohorts did something along the 
same lines. For the night of the event ev-
eryone gets dressed up in their finest garb, 
pregames at a Ridgeline social house, and 
takes a bus to an undisclosed, off-campus 
location for a night of bacchanalian revelry, 
at the cost of $50 for every member. From 
Brian’s recollection, there was an open bar 
and a band followed by thumping dance 
music, cigars and a beautiful view of the 
Adirondack Mountains across Lake Cham-
plain. Though it seemed like everyone else 
had a good time, it was one of the worst 
nights of Brian’s college career, because he 
recognized that this event could only thrive 
in environments structured by inequity. If 
everyone on campus could make this invite 
list, the Rites of Spring would lose its utility. 
Ultimately what I find problematic is that 
this sort of exclusivity 
comes at a cost. First 
off there is a class ele-
ment. A fifty dollar en-
trance fee to one party 
is no petty charge, 
and I’ve been told that 
members must also 
pay dues to be part of 
these organizations. 
Rather than speculat-
ing about the inner 
workings of these so-
cieties’ finances, what 
stands out to me are 
their more explicitly exclusive elements: 
off-campus events and residences; suits and 
dresses; the financial ability to fund such 
fetes; luxuries many students cannot even 
begin to imagine affording.
 Secondly, there’s an implicit racial dy-
namic wherein the demographic repre-
sented by these societies is even whiter than 
Middlebury’s already overwhelmingly white 
population. It is redundant and problematic 
that there are many organizations which 
hand-pick their members in order to create 
exclusive, white and wealthy spaces when 
many students of color and students from 
low-income families already feel alienated 
by the student body and College at large. 
These organizations foster a campus envi-
ronment that encourages students to sus-
tain myopic worldviews that deny the com-
plexities of their less-advantaged peers’ life 
experiences.
 German Philosopher Max Weber posits 
that elite social clubs, such as secret societ-
ies, are the primary means through which 
powerful groups distinguish themselves 
from less powerful groups. “For all practical 
purposes,” he wrote, “stratification by status 
goes hand in hand with a monopolization 
of … opportunities. Material monopolies 
provide the most effective motives for the 
exclusiveness of a status group.” This high-
lights that Middlebury 
secret societies are not 
inconsequential; rath-
er, they are emblematic 
of how power scales 
up and scales down 
in society, and reveals 
Middlebury’s position 
in tolerating and even 
turning a blind eye to 
the excess, insular-
ity and intolerance that 
we see among Wall 
Street’s most powerful 
and privileged.
In One-Percent Jokes and Plutocrats 
in Drag: What I Saw When I Crashed a 
Wall Street Secret Society, journalist Kevin 
Roose provides an exposé of a Wall Street 
secret society dinner brimming with finan-
cial heavyweights. In his account, he de-
scribes a brief encounter with a prominent 
Middlebury alumnus (and donor of the 
recently constructed field house), who par-
ticipates in a routine of explicitly sexist and 
homophobic jokes. Consequently, I worry 
that students who participate in these secret 
societies are preparing to become like those 
in Roose’s description, through their ritual-
ized display and reproduction of power and 
wealth. 
Inclusion Beyond Tradition
Reader Op-Ed
Charles Griggs ’16 is from Chicago, 
IL
“Secret societies create 
a stratified social envi-
ronment that infiltrates 
and perpetuates sharp 
class and racial divides 
that undermine any real 
strides towards inclu-
sion.”
Reader Op-Ed
Charles Griggs ’16 is from Chicago, 
IL
Not Victims, Not Risks, Not Impressed
THE LO-DOWN
Lauren Alper ’16 
is from Mill Valley, CA
iMAGINING rADICAL aCCOUNTABILITY FOR sEXUAL vIOLENCE
This letter was co-authored by three 
Middlebury survivors. It is not our inten-
tion to speak for all survivors, but rather to 
speak from our own situated experiences. 
The identities inhabited within adjudicatory 
processes are not divorced from the world 
outside of them – race, class, ability, gender, 
immigration status, etc. continue to matter. 
We appreciate the full range of survivors’ 
experiences; the decision to speak out is an 
entirely personal one.
Dear Editor,
As a collective of Middlebury survivors, 
we wish to respond to last week’s article “Re-
examining Our Sexual Assault Investigative 
Process.” We intend to rebut many of the sen-
timents expressed in this article. Although 
the author claimed to abhor victim-blaming, 
we believe that they largely reproduced the 
violence of victim-blaming in their own writ-
ing.
The author’s primary concern surrounds 
the idea that some rapists are actually in-
nocent; we must be critical of survivor’s sto-
ries. “Skepticism is the defining trait of any 
good learner,” including skepticism of lying 
survivors. Such concerns surrounding false 
reporting are grossly overstated. The FBI Bu-
reau of Justice Statistics has collected data on 
false reporting for decades, consistently find-
ing that the rate of false reporting in instances 
of rape is somewhere between two and eight 
percent. This isn’t to say that false reporting 
does not exist, but that it is incredibly rare. 
The rate of false reporting for rape is signifi-
cantly less than the rates reported by the FBI 
for other serious crimes. Would we question 
a victim of robbery in the same way? The 
bottom line is that survivors of rape, as a cat-
egory, continue to be marked as suspect, and 
misconceptions about false reporting have 
direct, negative consequences on why many 
survivors don’t report their assaults (see Li-
sak et. al. 2010).
The author also raised concerns over the 
preponderance of evidence standard, mean-
ing the evidentiary standard used by colleges 
to adjudicate Title IX cases across the coun-
try (for more on the federal government’s 
justifications for the use of this standard, see 
the April 4, 2011 Dear Colleague Letter). It is 
worth noting that even under a preponder-
ance of evidence standard, a finding of “not 
responsible” does not necessarily mean “in-
nocent.” For a number of reasons, cases of 
interpersonal violence remain notoriously 
difficult to “prove,” and many methods of col-
lecting evidence — such as through rape kits 
— remain incredibly traumatic and invasive.
The author would lead readers to believe 
that the preponderance of evidence standard 
causes potentially innocent respondents, 
such as John Doe, to be routinely expelled 
from this institution. Yet in contrast to the 
sentiments expressed in last week’s op-ed, 
the Doe case signals the degree of agency and 
recourse that respondents actually have, both 
through Title IX claims as well as through 
civil law.
Here are some facts that last week’s au-
thor failed to disclose to The Campus: Clery 
data indicates that Campus Security Authori-
ties became aware 
of 17 possible alle-
gations of forcible 
sex offense during 
the 2013 reporting 
period. Of those 17, 
College Disciplin-
ary Actions data 
reveals that only 
five cases resulted 
in a sexual mis-
conduct proceed-
ing. Of those five, 
only three saw an 
end to their adju-
dication processes. 
Of the three that went through a complete 
proceeding, two cases resulted in a finding 
of “responsibility.” Of the two cases reaching 
“responsible” decisions, one respondent was 
suspended and one received “Official College 
Discipline.” To insinuate that the Middlebury 
system or society at large disfavor “alleged 
rapists” is nothing short of factually inaccu-
rate.
“You want justice? Don’t go to the admin-
istration, go to the police.” As if this decision 
was so easy, or was an alleged rapist’s deci-
sion to make. There are a number of reasons 
why a survivor may elect to forego a criminal 
proceeding. Some Middlebury survivors have 
taken their respondents to court. But at the 
end of the day, it is up to each survivor to de-
termine how they want to proceed — whether 
they elect to transfer, not report, report to the 
campus, confront their rapists themselves 
and/or pursue criminal or civil charges. Rape 
is often experienced as a site of great choice-
lessness, and who makes the decisions mat-
ters. It is not the job of society to tell survivors 
what justice should look like; it is up to the 
survivor to reassert their agency to best meet 
their own justice needs. For those of us who 
choose to co-exist on campus with our assail-
ants, that decision is extremely difficult. Yet 
that remains our decision to make.
The one thing that we’ll agree with the au-
thor on is that Middlebury’s SMDVS policy is 
a highly imperfect and adversarial process; 
“The College’s system for dealing with sexual 
assault does not give you what you deserve, 
regardless of whether you are an alleged vic-
tim or alleged perpetrator of violence.” This 
reality was echoed by a video made by Mid-
dlebury survivors a year ago entitled Middle-
bury Unmasked (go/unmasked). Each choice 
comes with unfortunate consequences, yet 
we stand firm in the belief that it remains a 
survivor’s task 
to analyze the 
array of op-
tions before 
them and de-
cide which 
option(s) they 
should pursue.
The author 
of last week’s 
op-ed empha-
sized their own 
feelings of iso-
lation as they 
u n d e r w e n t 
their campus 
judicial process. Does the author seriously 
think that their sense of isolation would have 
been lessened during a more visible proceed-
ing in a court of law? For survivors, we’d 
argue that such experiences of isolation in 
this community are likely amplified. Isola-
tion is pervasive in sentiments which reduce 
survivors’ lived experiences to nothing more 
than (a heteronormative) “he said, she said.” 
Our feelings of isolation are augmented by 
the enduring impacts of our trauma, includ-
ing PTSD. Our trauma is by no means neatly 
contained in one night; in terms of attaining 
“justice,” there is no silver bullet.
“If someone approaches you and asks “did 
you do it” it feels an awful lot like the “are you 
sure?” question we choose not to ask alleged 
victims.” We’d like to debunk the author’s 
notion of a “post-victim-blaming era” right 
now. It simply does not exist. Survivors are 
still asked “are you sure?” in a number of are-
nas — within sexual misconduct processes, 
within criminal court and within our friend 
groups and families. We are still asked “are 
you sure?” in op-eds which would call into 
question our capacity for truth or our ability 
to make decisions for ourselves.
The fact of the matter is that many Mid-
dlebury survivors often feel the need to reas-
sert our voices in this community, even in the 
smallest of ways. That’s exactly what we’re 
doing in this letter. We are deeply convinced 
that the judicial process at Middlebury leaves 
much to be desired, yet we also believe firmly 
in our rights to pursue our educations free 
of sexual violence. Unlike proceedings in 
criminal court, the heart of Title IX requires 
educational institutions to bear some respon-
sibility for our experiences within them. The 
irony of last week’s op-ed is that it replicated 
the violence that many survivors experience 
in the aftermath of their rapes; under a bar-
rage of disbelief, we were once more forced 
to take time out of our educations to defend 
ourselves from tired stereotypes.
We are multidimensional, and we are so 
much more than the passive “victim” repro-
duced in last week’s op-ed. Many of us have 
felt isolated and alone in our experiences, 
but we are complex human beings who are 
also full of joy, desire, empowerment and 
opinions. We need not be spoken for, and we 
reject the author’s notion of protection. We 
are an integral part of this community, and 
we have a right to be here and to continue to 
take up space. The resolution mechanisms 
for these sorts of cases remain imperfect 
and limited, yet it’s our job as claimants to 
pause and decide which resolution mecha-
nism seems like the lesser of several evils at 
the time. To insinuate that survivors’ don’t or 
can’t take into account the treatment of their 
perpetrators when selecting a resolution 
mechanism is insulting.  
Moving forward, many of us remain com-
mitted to reforming the judicial process and 
continuing to assert our right to a violence-
free education. Some of us remain interested 
in the possibility of using restorative justice 
to address campus claims through a more 
harm-centered discourse. Yet one thing must 
be made clear: if you truly support survivors, 
you will empower them with the agency to 
determine their unique path moving forward. 
You have not been in our shoes and you do 
not get to pretend to see with our eyes. This 
never has been — nor will it ever be — your 
decision to make.
Letter to the EDITOR
Anonymous ’15
Anonymous ’16
Anonymous ’16
We will not engage in a “debate” about 
the college judicial process. We are not 
here to attack college administrators who 
are working within the confines of Title IX 
legislation to create as supportive and fair a 
process as they can. Despite administrators’ 
best intentions, the judicial process can be 
an extremely difficult process for a person 
to go through, especially someone who has 
experienced theft of agency through power-
based interpersonal violence such as sexual 
assault. In addition, it is a process that 
seeks to clarify whether or not the incident 
in question “more likely than not” consti-
tuted a college policy violation. It does not 
determine whether or not someone was 
hurt, or whether or not the respondent used 
their privilege to create a power imbalance 
that harmed someone. Sometimes, those 
things occur at the same time as a policy vi-
olation. Sometimes they do not; sometimes 
they occur at the same time as a policy vio-
lation but there is not a preponderance of 
evidence to suggest it.
Power-based interpersonal violence 
like sexual assault occurs when one per-
son exploits the power differential between 
themselves and others. Due to differing 
relationships with power related to race, 
class, gender, etc., this exploitation could 
be unconscious, automatic or consciously 
intentional. In order to understand sexual 
assault, we have to understand power, and 
in order to understand power, we have to 
understand the systems of oppression that 
inform power differentials in relation-
ships. These systems include but are not 
limited to: racism, cis/hetero/sexism, able-
ism, classism and Islamophobia. This past 
year, the campus community as a whole has 
made stumbling vocal attempts to address 
and understand systems of power, and we 
have failed. We have failed because we re-
fuse to acknowledge our own individual and 
personal accountability as actors and ob-
servers. We have failed because dominant 
campus culture sees acts of violence such as 
sexual assault and racial micro/macroag-
gressions as something that “rapists” and 
“racists” do, as acts that we could never be 
responsible for because we — at Middlebury 
— are “good people.” We fail to recognize 
the ways that “good people” consistently re-
inforce structures of violence and contrib-
ute to violence.
Speaking or acting on sexist, racist, able-
ist or other such oppressive and problem-
atic assumptions is not always punishable 
by law or judicial processes. It is, however, 
always harmful. Does this mean we always 
need to resort to carceral or punitive mea-
sures to hold our community accountable? 
What if, instead of only framing sexual 
violence in terms of “crime” or “policy vio-
lation,” we recognize it as a failure of our 
community, our educations and our inter-
personal communication? So few of us are 
given the tools we need to engage in not 
only safe relationships but also honest and 
fulfilling ones. These missing tools include 
engaging with and questioning what consti-
tutes power, privilege and violence, and the 
way that these forces impact our relation-
ships. Maybe, recognizing that our commu-
nities have failed us will help us understand 
why taking responsibility for our actions 
when someone is hurt is not necessarily a 
concession of guilt, but rather an acknowl-
edgement of humanity.
Supporting survivors and being account-
able for the well-being of our community 
at large means expanding and reframing 
conversations about power-based violence 
to think outside of judicial processes and 
to focus on community responsibilities to 
one another instead. To begin, we must 
acknowledge the way current campus con-
versations about diversity and inclusion are 
connected to the work of combatting sexual 
violence and supporting survivors. We will 
not and cannot powerfully combat sexual 
violence — which lives at the intersection 
of various systems of power and oppres-
sion — if we are unable to have meaningful, 
empathic and/or productive conversations 
about racism (and ableism, transphobia, 
sexism, Islamophobia, etc), both interper-
sonal and institutional, as they operate at 
Middlebury. Trauma as a result of multi-
generational oppression and macro/micro-
aggressions is as real as the trauma of sexual 
violence, and — for many survivors — they 
are inextricably linked to one another.
We want to expand the potentialities 
for how we as a community understand 
sexual violence at Middlebury. First, we 
must take the conversations about oppres-
sion and violence outside of The Campus. 
It is a limited form of engagement for what 
should be serious and mindful conversa-
tions. Pieces like “Reexamining Our Sexual 
Assault Investigative Process” and other re-
cent op-eds rooted in privilege are trigger-
ing, derailing and exhausting for those who 
consistently have to deal with trauma or de-
fending and debating their worth and pres-
ence at Middlebury. These op-eds attempt 
to disengage from and avoid the conversa-
tions about power, privilege and oppression 
that our community desperately needs.
Next, we must think about violence in 
the context of its location and the way that 
harm manifests in power-based violence, 
rather than only defining actions by legal-
ity/illegality. Our community would then 
focus more on how people are affected by 
violence and less on whether a policy was 
violated or not. This concept is as relevant 
to conversations about sexual violence as it 
is to those about political correctness and 
freedom of speech. Some tactics for harm-
based interventions could borrow from 
restorative justice practices — informally 
or formally — in transformative or preven-
tion work. The College’s PRISM project (of 
which Middlebury is a member of the ad-
visory group) is beginning to research the 
possibilities for implementation on college 
campuses. Initiatives like Circles of Sup-
port and Accountability (support systems 
utilized by perpetrators returning to their 
communities after incarceration consisting 
of volunteers, trained staff and experts) are 
already used in Vermont’s criminal justice 
system, and — pending further research 
and activism — could be used for perpetra-
tors found responsible returning to campus 
after suspension, or — informally — in so-
cial or organizational circles on campus. 
Other tactics could include an everyday 
ethic of taking responsibility for ourselves, 
our community and our mistakes, and of 
making a commitment to social justice edu-
cation: individually, in friend groups and 
through initiatives like JusTalks and Green 
Dot.
We must lean into discomfort and rei-
magine a community that practices an ethic 
of radical accountability.  
“The irony of last week’s op-ed 
is that it replicated the violence 
that many survivors experience 
in the aftermath of their rapes; 
under a barrage of disbelief, we 
were once more forced to take 
time out of our educations to 
defend ourselves from tired ste-
reotypes.”
reader op-ed
Molly McShane ’16 is from Washington, 
DC
Rebecca Coates-Finke ’16.5 is from 
Northampton, Mass.
This article does not reflect the opinions of 
any organizations with which the authors 
are affiliated.
| March 17, 2016 7opinions
It’s Not Fair
Life’s not fair. Ever since we were little 
children, we’ve heard that phrase so many 
times, and while we never wanted to be-
lieve it, it’s true. Life isn’t fair. And it all 
starts at birth: we arrive into this world 
carrying different kinds of baggage already 
packed with genes that predetermine cer-
tain aspects of our identity. Then more gets 
stuffed in on top of those genes – things 
like our socioeconomic status, dialect, tal-
ents, sexual orientation or faith – and at a 
certain point, it may seem like some people 
are blessed with a lighter load while others 
struggle with baggage that holds them back 
in their journey through life.
Those born with baggage viewed as dis-
advantageous often choose to wrap them-
selves in the pitiful garments of victim-
hood, deeming the baggage they received 
at birth the reason why they cannot meet 
certain standards or why people treat them 
a certain way. When I was younger, I re-
member taking a 4-H trip to Cornell Uni-
versity with one of my friends. We both 
came from the poor, rural town of Cincin-
natus, NY, and I distinctly remember my 
friend saying, “I don’t think anyone from 
Cincinnatus could ever end up in a college 
like Cornell.” I hear a similar mentality 
even today, with people complaining about 
how unfair it is that others look down on 
them because of their gender or race. Now, 
I’m not denying the existence of discrimi-
nation. It definitely exists, and yeah, it is 
unfair. I just think that instead of letting 
other people determine what we can and 
can’t do, we should know ourselves and not 
let any discrimination define our value as 
human beings.
After all, we are who we are, and there 
are some things about our identities that 
we just cannot change. We can’t change 
our ethnicity. We can’t change the fam-
ily situation into which we were born. We 
can’t change our height or our skin color 
or our genes. Those are the cards we were 
dealt, and there’s nothing we can do about 
that. Of course there will be people out 
there who deny us opportunities because 
of those things, and of course there will be 
certain times when our situation puts us 
at a slight disadvantage in life. But should 
that stop us from pursuing our dreams? 
Personally, I want to do what people say I 
can’t do. As an introverted girl raised by a 
single mom from a poor family in a small 
town where many treated us as outsiders 
because of our Asian heritage, no one ex-
pected me to graduate with honors from 
a reputable private school or get accepted 
into a prestigious college like Middle-
bury. There were many things that people 
thought I couldn’t do and many times I was 
denied opportunities because of who I am. 
But instead of discouraging me, that just 
fueled my desire to prove them all wrong.
That’s why I can’t understand why so 
many people insist on being defined and 
limited by the baggage they carry through 
life. Instead of focusing on the negative and 
complaining about the unjust system or 
bigoted people in society, I think we should 
commit ourselves to striving for excellence, 
no matter what anyone tries to tell us. We 
know our own selves better than anyone 
else, so we should be able to determine 
when the criticisms actually hold merit or 
when they are just plain untrue. Besides, 
we have standards in place not to prevent 
people from success, but to encourage 
them to work harder to meet and surpass 
those standards. When you push yourself 
to work hard and achieve something others 
thought you couldn’t achieve, and actually 
succeed at doing so, the satisfaction and 
pride that you get are so immensely pleas-
ant and rewarding. Even if you don’t suc-
ceed, at least you tried and didn’t give up 
just because other people didn’t believe in 
you. And we are extremely fortunate to live 
in a country that gives us that opportunity. 
That’s why so many people flock to Amer-
ica – in America, everyone is guaranteed 
an equal opportunity to achieve whatever 
they want regardless of their race, religion, 
gender or anything else. The only things 
not guaranteed are results. But the in-
equality of results is not simply caused by 
some people having heavier baggage than 
others; it’s caused by the inequality of ef-
fort put in to compensate for that baggage. 
No matter how much of an advantage you 
have, if you don’t put in the effort to get 
something, why would you complain when 
you don’t get it?
In the end, it’s not about what others say 
or do to hold us back; it’s about what we ac-
tually do despite those obstacles. Sure, we 
may not all have the same backgrounds, the 
same things or the same skills, but that’s 
not what’s unfair. We all have the same op-
portunity to make the best of what we’re 
given, so we shouldn’t let anything prevent 
us from achieving success. We shouldn’t 
make excuses for ourselves or elicit pity so 
that we can reap the benefits without put-
ting in the work. Because that’s unfair. 
  8 | March 17, 2016 opinions
READER OP-ED
Katrina Drury ’19 is from Cincinnatus, 
NY
facing whiteness
Aliza Cohen ’17 is from Chattanooga, 
TN
Juliette Gobin ’16 is from Harrison, 
NY
Emma Ronai-Durning ’18 is from 
Salem, OR
Anna Iglitzin ’17.5 is from Seattle, WA
Annie Taylor ’16 is from San Carlos, 
CA
This article is not meant to be compre-
hensive as it neither discusses the depth and 
complexities of policing, prosecution and 
incarceration nor the intersections of iden-
tities. We encourage you to explore how 
trans and gender non-conforming people, 
queer people, people with disabilities and 
impoverished people might acutely bear the 
negative impacts of mass criminalization.
Nowhere is it more apparent that we do 
not live in a post-racial society than in the 
United States criminal justice system. At an 
incarceration rate of over 700 per 100,000 
people, the United States holds five percent 
of the world’s population, yet a staggering 
25 percent of the world’s incarcerated popu-
lation (and one third of the world’s incarcer-
ated women). This is not an easy statistic 
to grasp, considering that the incarceration 
rates of China and Russia combined are still 
less than that of the United States. In abso-
lute numbers of people under correctional 
control, the United States again takes the 
gold with over 2.3 million people incarcer-
ated and nearly five million more on proba-
tion. 
 Racial discrimination marks every stage 
of the criminal justice process, from arrest 
to sentencing to incarceration. While the 
Fourth Amendment in theory “guarantees 
[the] right of the people to be secure in their 
persons, houses, papers and effects” and 
guards “against unreasonable searches and 
seizures,” its protections have been largely 
undermined in recent decades. Beginning 
with the Supreme Court’s 1968 decision 
in Terry v. Ohio, legal restraints on police 
searches began to soften. As Michelle Al-
exander articulates in The New Jim Crow, 
so long as a police officer has “reasonable 
articulable suspicion” that a person may 
be involved in unlawful activity, “it is con-
stitutionally permissible to stop, question, 
and frisk [them]—even in the absence of 
probable cause.” Take New York City’s infa-
mous stop-and-frisk practices, for example. 
In 2012, 55 percent of the 500,000 people 
stopped and frisked were Black, despite 
the fact that the city’s Black population was 
only 25 percent of the whole population. 
Although the NYPD reports that rates of 
stop-and-frisk have dropped within the past 
three years, over 50 percent of stops target 
Black people, with a rate of innocence above 
80 percent (NYCLU).  In Arizona, indig-
enous peoples were 3.25 times more likely 
to be stopped and searched, despite no cor-
relation with illegal conduct. According to a 
database of civil rights complaints brought 
against law enforcement officers, U.S. at-
torneys have declined to prosecute cases 96 
percent of the time (Justice Department, 
National Caseload Data; Pittsburgh Tribune 
Review). 
The racial component of police violence 
can be difficult to track given that many law 
enforcement agencies do not report arrest-
related homicides by race. In 2011, the CDC 
reported that Black people were more than 
twice as likely as white people to be killed 
by law enforcement. Recent estimates from 
the Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS) indi-
cate that this racial disparity could be even 
greater. Notwithstanding the potential mar-
gin for error in these statistics, the numbers 
fail to expose the gruesome and violent ac-
tions that U.S. law 
enforcement in-
flicts on Black and 
Brown people. As 
just one example of 
such action, Tamir 
Rice, a 12-year-old 
holding an airsoft 
gun in a Cleveland 
park, was shot and 
killed by two police 
officers before their 
patrol car had even come to a stop. Rice 
received no first aid from the offending of-
ficers, and died the following day of gunshot 
wounds. The officer was not indicted. It is 
difficult to argue that the same fate would 
have befallen a white child in Rice’s shoes; 
in a recording released after the homicide, 
the 911 dispatcher asks twice whether the 
suspect was Black or white before sending 
officers. Rice’s 14-year-old sister arrived at 
the scene and was immobilized by the police 
officers, handcuffed and put in the police 
car, unable to bring final moments of com-
fort to her little brother. 
Incidents of police brutality that do not 
result in homicide are even more difficult to 
track. Emergency room records reveal that 
from 2001 to 2012, Black people suffered 
five times as many nonfatal injuries from 
law enforcement than white people. Fur-
thermore, a study conducted by the BJS in 
2008 found that “the percentage of Black 
people who reported experiencing the use 
or threat of force during their most recent 
contact with police was nearly three times 
that of white people.” These are the very 
people that U.S. police forces pledge “to 
protect and serve.” Marissa Alexander from 
Jacksonville, Florida, a survivor of domestic 
abuse, fired a warning shot through a wall, 
injuring or killing no one, after her husband 
threatened to kill her. She feared for her life 
since her husband had physically abused 
her. She was sentenced to 20 years in jail. 
Activism surrounding the case helped get 
her released after three years of serving her 
sentence. Florida’s “stand your ground” law 
didn’t seem to apply to her in the way that it 
applied to George Zimmerman. 
Incarceration and police practices in the 
U.S. reflect highly racialized criminalization 
patterns. The U.S. imprisons a larger per-
centage of its Black American population 
than South Africa did at the height of apart-
heid. Latino, Indigenous and Black men are 
incarcerated at three, four and five times the 
rate of white men, respectively. This dispar-
ity extends to women as well, with Black and 
Indigenous women incarcerated at a rate six 
times that of white women and Latina wom-
en incarcerated at over two times the rate of 
white women (Bureau of Justice Statistics).  
Like the racial overtones to police vio-
lence, racial disparities also plague sentenc-
ing practices. Though the War on Drugs 
may not be the primary driver of the mass 
incarceration boom, it is perhaps the most 
striking example 
of disproportion-
ate treatment of 
Black people under 
the criminal justice 
system. Despite 
evidence that the 
rates of drug use 
and sale do not 
vary significantly 
among Black and 
white people, Black 
people are disproportionately arrested, 
charged, convicted and imprisoned for drug 
crimes. Three-strike policies, mandatory 
minimums and overall harsher drug sen-
tencing laws mean that drug arrests that 
previously did not result in extensive time 
in prison are now four times more likely to 
result in prison sentences.  
According to the International Centre for 
Prison Studies, 21.2 percent of prisoners in 
the U.S. (roughly 465,000 people) are un-
sentenced at any given time, i.e. held in jail 
or prison on bail, usually awaiting trial or 
sentencing. If someone is unable to pay for 
bail, even though in the eye of the law they 
are “innocent until proven guilty,” they are 
still imprisoned, unable to go to work or take 
care of family members. To cite one case, 
16-year-old Kalief Browder, arrested on rob-
bery charges, spent three years in jail with-
out a trial. Two of those years were spent in 
solitary confinement. Browder committed 
suicide two years after being released. 
Incarceration’s detrimental effects are 
not isolated to the sentenced individual; 
consequences ripple within their family and 
community.  Not only do families of incar-
cerated people generally lose an income, 
they then have to pay, on average, about 
$13,000 in fines and court fees for their 
family member, as shown in the report 
“Who Pays: The True Cost of Incarceration 
on Families.” Costs continue throughout the 
sentence as families pay exorbitant phone 
rates and travel fees for visitation. These 
costs impose a tremendous burden. 
Once marked by the criminal justice sys-
tem, a person is also subject to an onslaught 
of legal discrimination. A person who has 
been arrested or incarcerated can be barred 
from jobs and schooling because of require-
ments to “check the box” on applications. 
They can also be excluded from SNAP (the 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Pro-
gram, commonly known as food stamps), 
denied public housing benefits and stripped 
of their voting rights. Moreover, conditions 
of probation and parole can dictate where a 
person may live or be at any given time, with 
whom they can associate and when they 
must be in certain places. All of this is to say 
that even despite the most earnest attempts 
to reintegrate into communities, legal and 
structural impediments make this extremely 
difficult, if not impossible. 
Hundreds of books on mass criminaliza-
tion and its racialized components have been 
published and we urge everyone to further 
their research on this topic. The implica-
tions of what we have highlighted, however, 
are this: while the majority of Middlebury 
students regularly break the law without 
fear of consequences, when Black, Latino 
and Indigenous people behave identically, 
their hyper-policed bodies and minds are 
more likely to be criminalized, disrupting 
the lives of individuals and communities 
they interact with. Mass incarceration is 
part of a chain of institutions designed to 
strip the constitutional rights of people of 
color. In other words, law enforcement is 
not one bad apple within an otherwise func-
tioning system; the entire tree is rotten from 
its core. These incarceration statistics are 
the synthesis of quota- and profit-driven po-
licing, over-policing in communities of color 
and systematic racial discrimination within 
a judicial system designed in many ways 
to disenfranchise Black, Latino and Native 
people. As white people, it is essential to 
keep asking, whom does law enforcement 
protect? And how do we maintain these sys-
tems of policing and pre-emptive criminal-
ization on the basis of race? 
What we are reading:
“Thanks to Republicans, Nearly a Quarter 
of Florida’s Black Citizens Can’t Vote,” (The 
Intercept).
“Kalief Browder, Held at Rikers Island for 
3 Years Without Trial, Commits Suicide,” 
(The New York Times).
“Native Americans are the Unseen Victims 
of a Broken US Justice System,” (Quartz).
“Obama Bans the Box,” (MSNBC).
Senghor, Shaka. (Writing My Wrongs: Life, 
Death, and Redemption in an American 
Prison).
White Privilege in the face of the Law
“The U.S. imprisons a 
larger percentage of its 
Black American popula-
tion than South Africa did 
at the height of apartheid.”
March 17, 2016 | 9opinions
Where’d the Authenticity Go?
Have you ever asked a friend to take down 
a picture on Facebook because you think it’s 
unflattering or embarrassing? Have you ever 
spent a lot of time crafting the perfect cap-
tion? Have you ever friended someone but 
then felt too awkward to say hi when you saw 
them in person?
Everyone has a different social media 
presence, but almost no one is completely 
genuine in creating a profile. Facebook has 
become a form of personal advertisement 
to boost social capital.  It is not about just 
creating connections with people: it’s about 
crafting an image. This might be stating the 
obvious, but it’s also stating a fact that is not 
openly acknowledged. In my opinion, this 
lack of authenticity is the core problem with 
our social media usage (and quite frankly 
with our real life relationships as well). 
People are afraid to be genuine on Facebook 
because it is so public. More often than not, 
people’s networks include “friends” that they 
barely even know. On top of that, we all have 
been warned of the ominous “colleges and 
companies look at your Facebook profile 
when they are deciding about whether or not 
to accept you.” This is what results in people 
deleting their Facebook accounts, or that 
feeling of anxiety you get after posting pic-
tures or comparing yourself to other people 
you find yourself stalking.
The issue with Facebook is that there is no 
universally accepted purpose for it. Linkedin 
is used to create professional connections 
with people. Email is used to keep in direct 
contact with individuals. With Facebook, 
the jury is still out. It may have started as a 
platform to connect with others, but it has 
strayed from that original purpose.
Columbia University did a study that af-
firmed what you may have already suspect-
ed: the way you use Facebook completely 
determines how it affects your mood.  If you 
are actively engaged and post frequently, 
you are more likely to get self-confidence 
and positivity from the responses and affir-
mation you receive. If you passively scroll 
through your newsfeed and lament that you 
are not doing as many cool things as that one 
acquaintance traveling abroad, you are going 
to be unhappier through Facebook usage. 
But here’s where it gets interesting: a study 
done by the University of California San Di-
ego showed that emotions can spread like 
wildfire through your social media network. 
The mood of your posts on Facebook has a 
ripple effect on the mood of all active people 
in your network. Your Facebook presence is 
influencing the happiness (or unhappiness) 
of other people you know. Clearly, social me-
dia can affect your happiness, and so we need 
to be more intentional about how we use it.
I see the lack of authenticity on Facebook 
as a problem that is hindering our ability to 
have meaningful relationships, and in the 
long run hindering our well-being. I have a 
challenge for you (and for myself): be more 
genuine on Facebook, and take the activity of 
others with a grain of salt. Don’t spend time 
crafting an image for yourself. Don’t worry 
about whether or not to post something. 
Find a way to be authentic in whatever way 
works best for you. 
The root
Maddie Hoar ‘17.5 is from Wellesley, 
Mass.
Vaasu TaneA
WIN HOMER
KAITLYND COLLINS
BOONE MCCOY-CRISP
Emily COx
10features 11featuresMARCH 17, 2016    | MARCH 17, 2016
How the College’s Public Art Policy
On the eve of Commencement 1985, a student crept into the meadow where Mc-
Cardell Bicentennial Hall stands today, took a blowtorch to a tall, boxy sculpture and 
burned it. 
The sculpture, a four-sided closet-sized metal building with panels of six playing 
cards on one side and an entrance door painted with flags of six countries on the other, 
was never meant to be so provocative. Vito Acconci, who was the Christian A. Johnson 
Distinguished Visiting Professor of Studio Art at the time, built the structure — titled 
Way Station I (Study Chamber) — with the help of students in his Winter Term class in 
1983. It was intended to “offer a quiet space for refuge and contemplation,” according to 
the Committee for Art in Public Places. 
Despite this placid intention, the structure sparked fierce objections from the stu-
dent body in 1983 and 1984.  
Angry students complained of both the structure’s aesthetic and its location. One 
student called it “a tool shed intended to withstand the apocalypse.” Another told The 
Campus that he was starting a petition to advocate for the removal of the sculpture 
because he found it “to be very poorly built and I see no aesthetic value in it whatsoever.” 
Four times the sculpture had to be repainted because of graffiti. 
And then, there was the burning.  
For Director of the Art Museum and current Chair of the Committee for Art in Public 
Places Richard Saunders, the destruction of Way Station I (Study Chamber), one of the 
College’s only pieces of public art at the time, was alarming.
“I thought it was shocking, personally, that at a liberal arts college that has one its 
underpinnings as a belief in free speech that a group of people could destroy something 
that had been commissioned by the College,” said Saunders. 
Saunders was charged by President of the College Olin Clyde Robison to clean up the 
controversy surrounding Way Station I (Study Chamber). Saunders’ subsequent work 
to bring the artist back to the College for discussions and restore the structure produced 
the idea behind the Committee for Art in Public Places (CAPP): Saunders, along with 
Middlebury sculptor Eric Nelson, decided that the best way to reintroduce Way Station I 
(Study Chamber) to the College was in the context of more public art. 
In 1994, after many years of informal efforts by Saunders and others to bring more 
public art to the College, the Committee for Art in Public Places was formally established 
and the College adopted a “One Percent for Art” policy. This policy set aside one percent 
of the cost of any renovation or new construction project at the College with a budget of 
one million dollars or more for the purchasing and maintenance of public art installa-
tions. 
As a result, Middlebury College is one of the few small colleges in the U.S. with such 
an extensive campus-wide sculpture collection and a formal commitment to the promo-
tion of public art. 
Today, CAPP has brought over twenty new pieces of public art to the College. The 
committee also refurbished Way Station I (Study Chamber) in 2013, relocating it to a 
more secluded spot east of the Mahaney Center for the Arts. 
CAPP is composed of a board of faculty, students, administrators and trustees of the 
College who evaluate proposed donated art works and purchases and prioritize prospec-
tive sites for future projects. Over time, CAPP hopes to make its collection more inclusive 
and diverse in terms of artists’ gender, ethnicity and nationality.
Just this fall, CAPP unveiled its newest addition to the collection, Chaos Xaxis, which 
was donated to the College by an anonymous donor. Chaos Xaxis stands 14 feet tall and 
is located between the Axinn Center for Starr Library and Route 7.
Despite these goals and developments, however, CAPP finds itself in a curious state 
of limbo. In 2009, the “One Percent for Art” policy was suspended by former president 
Ron Liebowitz due to financial struggles following the 2008 market recession. The Board 
of Trustees ordered CAPP to stop purchasing new works and to use their endowment 
only for the maintenance of current art or the installation of donated art. 
Saunders is hopeful that with a new president may come the return of the “One 
Percent for Art” policy. 
President Laurie L. Patton commended the unveiling of the Chaos Xaxis sculpture in 
September 2015.
“We are thrilled to have this prominent sculpture find a permanent home on the 
Middlebury campus,” she said. As of now, Patton has made no formal statements about 
her thoughts on reinstating the “One Percent for Art” policy. 
Saunders hopes the College’s commitment to public art continues because public art 
promotes thoughtful conversation on a college campus.
“What we need to do is to have this campus art collection be an opportunity for a 
dialogue and an exchange of ideas and just becoming aware,” said Saunders. “We need to 
be at least working in the direction of visual literacy.”
Shannon Hutteman ’16, an art history and economics double major who is one of the 
student members of CAPP, also believes that public art is part of the College’s education-
al experience.  
“The public art displayed in our buildings brings a depth to our everyday learning 
environment, whether it be for learning or simply the pleasure of viewing,” said Hutte-
man. “Art can command our attention in ways that allow us to pause and reflect on what 
we see, and perhaps on a deeper level, learn what our perceptions of said works tell us 
about ourselves.”
Rising from
Jedd Novatt (American, b. 1958)
2012
Bronze
14 × 13 × 13 feet
Located between Axinn Center at Starr Library and Route 7
Like other works in Novatt’s Chaos series, Chaos Xaxis consists of loosely stacked 
cube-like forms. The top-heavy composition appears to teeter on the verge of col-
lapse, seemingly defying gravity while also giving the work an implied dynamism. 
The mottled, uneven surface of the bronze emphasizes the materiality of the work 
itself. As a set of three-dimensional frames the sculpture assumes a calligraphic 
quality that recalls the artist’s two-dimensional work, providing his oeuvre as a 
whole with great conceptual as well as formal cohesion.
Sabra Field (American, b. 1935)
2010
Synthetic oil, based on 2009 suite of sixteen linocuts
35 × 35 feet
Located on the east wall of Wright Memorial Theatre
Field is a well-known printmaker and Middlebury College alumna. The catalyst for the 
project was Kate Lupo ’10, who suggested painting the blank façade of building. The 
mural is a suite of sixteen prints that depict an array of cellular, plant, animal and archi-
tectural patterns in a grid and grouped in themed quartets that depict spiraling, tiling, 
branching, and scaling. The images themselves represent subjects that range from the 
Duomo in Florence and the Pantheon in Rome to a spiral nebula and an electric spark.
herman de vries (Dutch, b. 1931)
2013
Dried grass, collected at random and mounted in frames
32 pieces, each 9⅞ × 13¾ inches.
Located in the lobby of Hillcrest
Trained as a botanist, herman de vries became active as an artist during the 1960s. By the early 1970s he increasingly sought 
aesthetic inspiration in nature, and the resulting body of work is situated poetically on the intersection of art and science. For 
Wintergräser, a work consisting of what de vries calls “vegetation-cuts,” the artist ventured into the fields near his home in 
Eshenau, Bavaria, during early spring, 2013. There he collected sheaves of vegetation that had been pressed down by the winter 
snow. Without any particular order or orientation he then cut, dried, framed, and arranged the various grasses in a grid. The 
species contained in the frames are purple moor-grass, bushgrass, reed canary grass, and at least one other unidentified species.
Henry Simonds (American, b. 1975)
2011-2013
Twenty-one cibachrome prints on metallic paper
7 x 3 feet
Mahaney Center for the Arts
Simonds is an alumnus and just became a trustee. 
The work is currently on display at the Mahaney 
Center for the Arts but will be dispersed all over the 
world, to places where Middlebury has a presence: 
Monterey, DC, Ripton, Paris, Oxford, Florence, 
Madrid, Latin America, China, Japan, India, Camer-
oon, the Davis Library, BiHall, Old Chapel and the 
Mahaney Center. It will, however, remain one work, 
hence the title.
J. Pindyck Miller ’60 (American, b. 1935)
1972–75, 1985
Corten steel
15½ × 15½ × 6 feet
Located between Coffin Hall and Le Château
This reminiscence of an early experience of childhood wonder lies at the heart of J. Pindyck 
Miller’s sculptural enterprise. Combining aesthetic perception and an appreciation for the sheer 
volume of information conveyed by a model of the solar system, the artist became a proponent 
of articulate formal organization at an early age. Seen face-on, in its broadest dimension, the 
sculpture resembles a gate. Foreshortened when viewed from its narrowest sides, it collapses into 
arcs and counter-arcs. Placed here, it serves as a dynamic entrance to the northern section of the 
campus.
Vito Acconci (American, b. 1940)
1983 (rebuilt 2013)
Concrete, painted steel, aluminum, and glass
81 × 72 × 64 inches
Located at the pond behind the Mahaney Center for the Arts
The structure included painted images of flags of various national entities—the United States, 
the Soviet Union, China, Cuba, and the Palestine Liberation Organization—as well as mirrored 
glass and painted two-sided sliding metal panels. On the inside of the structure the panels 
spelled “GOD.” “MAN,” and “DOG”; on the exterior they depicted playing cards. Debates and 
arguments about the sculpture’s artistic merits occurred regularly in the Middlebury Campus 
from the moment it was constructed. It was vandalized and burned, and eventually brought out 
of storage to be refurbished.
The title of the mural, as well as some of its imagery, comes from the influential 18th century Encyclo-
pédie of Denis Diderot, including references to language, geography, history, and the natural world. 
Among the recognizable images in this encyclopedic survey of world knowledge are alphabets of 
myriad languages, charts of the heavenly bodies, and some references to Middlebury itself. The mural 
is an ode to the concept of a library as a locus of knowledge, research, and information. Mullican used 
a transferring technique he prefers: he first makes a vinyl template for each image, which is articulated 
as a positive relief. The yellow canvas is then laid over the template and rubbed by hand, with black 
oilstick. The imagery of the template is thus transferred, via the rubbing, onto the canvas. The art-
ist’s process and its final character are akin to the popular activity of making chalk rubbings from old 
gravestones.
Dan Graham (American, b. 1942)
1996
Glass, steel, Arborvitae nigra
7½ feet high, radius of 15 feet
Located in the Mahaney Center for the Arts plaza
Graham’s pavilions invite active participation and challenge notions of public 
space. They do not have any apparent practical function and purposely obscure 
relationships between object and viewer. Industrial and commercial materials are 
purposely juxtaposed with living hedges. This pavilion was designed specifically 
for its site on the plaza of the Middlebury College Center for the Arts. Similar 
pavilions adorn the rooftops of the Dia Center in New York and the San Francisco 
Museum of Modern Art.
the Ashes: Emerged from a Violent Act of Vandalism
Photo by 
Michael Borenstein
Two-Way Mirror Curved Hedge Zig-Zag Labyrinth
Wintergräser
Way Station I (Study Chamber)
Global ImpactYoubie Obie
Chaos Xaxis
Mural of Cosmic Geometry
L’Art d’Écrire (The Art of Writing)
Written by Emilie Munson
Design by Emma Hatheway
Matt Mullican (American, b. 1951)
2004–2005
Oil stick and acrylic paint on 64 canvas panels
25 × 74 feet
Located in Davis Family Library
Photo by Michael Borenstein
Photo by Michael Borenstein
Photo by Michael Borenstein
Photo by Michael Borenstein
Photo by Michael Borenstein
Photo by Michael Borenstein
Photo by Rachel Frank
On Thursday, March 10, Dr. Cath-
erine Kerr of Brown University presented 
“Mindfulness: Body, Breath and the Self,” 
which included a brief history of secular 
mindfulness in the United States and its 
growing acceptance in academic culture. 
Jon Kabat-Zinn, the founder of secu-
lar mindfulness, defines it as “paying at-
tention in the present moment, on purpose 
and non-judgmentally.” Kerr presented 
Kabat-Zinn’s definition but said that that 
it “doesn’t tell me about the experience of 
mindfulness and what it actually is.” She 
said that the experience of mindfulness 
“helps practitioners discover a more spa-
cious and dynamic sense of self.” 
During the lecture, Kerr invited at-
tendees to close their eyes and “feel the 
space” they occupied. She then asked stu-
dents to lean toward each other and to 
notice when they felt themselves entering 
their space. “Right now, our brain knows 
that we’re all in here together,” Kerr said 
at the end of the exercise.
Reflecting on the talk, Eli Susman 
’18.5 said he has his own mindfulness 
practice. “For me, mindfulness is all about 
relationships,” he said. “That includes 
developing a relationship with the world 
around me. Most importantly, it involves 
relationships with other people. Being 
present for someone else is, I think, the 
greatest gift that I can give someone. I 
think we could benefit from slowing down 
and doing less, but what’s more important 
is finding a way to use these lessons in 
mindfulness to bring everyone together.”
Mindfulness practice such as that 
discussed in the lecture has been gain-
ing ground at the College, particularly 
as a response to stress-levels and mental 
health on campus. In December, a group 
of administrators presented solutions to 
student stress in a document they termed 
“the Grid,” identifying mindfulness as one 
area of focus.
In the fall term, students, faculty and 
staff started the Mindfulness at Middle-
bury Initiative to explore how the College 
can integrate mindfulness into campus 
life. The group has sponsored classes 
for faculty in qigong, a branch of mar-
tial arts focused on body posture and 
movement. It hosted a mindfulness 
workshop during the Class of 2019 ori-
entation and helped co-host Dr. Kerr’s 
lectures.
In addition to her role as speaker, 
Kerr is implementing a mindfulness 
program specifically tailored to the 
stresses of being a medical student 
at Brown University’s Warren Alpert 
Medical School. Medical students have 
unique stresses such as working with 
cadavers, long hours, dealing with ill-
ness and witnessing death.
Kerr estimates that only about 15 
percent of the students will be highly 
interested in mediation after the man-
datory introduction to mindfulness 
course has ended, but she highlights 
that students can still benefit from the 
practice even if they stop meditating. 
Students Meet, Talk Mindfulness 
with Brown’s Dr. Catherine Kerr
People paticipating in this year’s “Sleep-Out” will camp at Marbleworks, near the foot of the Otter Creek Falls in Middlebury. 
12 features |march 17, 2016   
Why Can’t We 
Be Friends?
In Kanye West’s song “Real Friends,” 
he raps, “We smile at each other, but 
how many honest?” 
Last Saturday night, I found myself 
preoccupied with that same question. I 
stood in a friend’s room on the fourth 
floor of Stewart and carefully folded a 
vomit-soaked comforter around itself 
to keep the mess from getting on my 
clothes while I walked down to the laun-
dry room. “Stew is a dry dorm” — yeah 
right.
Later in the night, I was talking to 
my friend Roger. We hadn’t seen much 
of each other lately, and the rare oppor-
tunity for a heart-to-heart was too good 
to pass up, even with the specter of day-
light saving time staring us down. 
It would implicate and possibly 
embarrass Roger to describe our con-
versation in full, but it involved his de 
facto exclusion from the larger group 
that most of his friends are a part of. 
We realized that each of his friends has 
their own image of how he fits into their 
social jigsaw puzzle — as the too-good-
for-us social climber or the introverted 
eccentric — and that these images keep 
them from truly letting him in. 
My perception that he’s just one of 
the guys was wrong, too. The gloomy 
look that filled his eyes as he outlined 
his experience on the outskirts of the 
group made that clear enough. 
So why does he pretend to be real 
friends with those who do nothing but 
pretend back?
Before I answer that, I have another 
question: Why do we pretend Stew is 
a dry dorm? If I told someone, “Don’t 
allow peanuts near me; I’m deathly al-
lergic,” and they did as good of a job of 
not allowing peanuts near me as Mid-
dlebury does at not allowing alcohol in 
dry dorms, I would be dead two times 
over. But this lie, as transparent as it is, 
has benefits — for appearances, to keep 
the amount of rule-breaking manage-
able. . . . It is an innocent lie.
In much the same way, Roger lies 
for others’ benefit.
“How are you?” someone asks him.
I could give you an answer that 
would actually give you some under-
standing of how I am, but I won’t, he 
thinks. “I’m good,” he says, “How’s [sin-
gle thing we have in common]?” This 
approach allows his audience to add one 
more positive social interaction, how-
ever insipid it may be, to their list, and 
feel comfortable that they may be each 
other’s 16th best friend. On the other 
side of the room, legitimate best friends 
are usually spilling their vulnerabilities 
and overflowing with stories. The dis-
honesty inherent in small talk becomes 
clear when contrasted with the interac-
tions of real friends.
But is this dishonesty a bad thing? 
It’s Monday, and I’m talking to Roger. 
He tells me he’s been thinking, and now 
realizes he’s content not fully integrat-
ing into the group. He could make an 
effort to get closer to the others, but he 
likes his number of friends. 
He’s a “quality over quantity” kind 
of guy, he says. “Being yourself is not 
something to be bummed about.” His 
eyes are bright and confident.
By Alex Forde
Contributing Writer
Across:
1 “Nice!”
6 Longest serving pres. 
9 Once more
14 Notquiet
15 Go/___ (Where one can 
find the answers to this week’s 
puzzle)
16 “Brick” singer Ben _____
17 Place for a dinner date on 
Friday night
18 Yiddish exclamations
19 Major key to Midd Basket-
ball’s success
20 Short foot race in the 
future?
22 Just ___ it! 
23 With 25-across, milestone 
event for seniors
25 See 23 across 
29 Locally supported farming 
org.
32 Phone __ ___ (Work half-
heartedly)
33 Place to find love on a Sat-
urday night
35 Cause for bagged flags
36 Number of weeks in an 
academic trimester
37 “Can I buy a ___?”
38 Sports team date-night 
event
39 _____tea
41 Lobbyist group for space 
traveling grandfathers?
42 Reason to give up beer, for 
awhile at least
44 Sound of disgust
45 Therefore, to Nero
46 Homeric units of money
51 Backwards way to address a 
man you respect
53 Event with less certain out-
comes than go/menu
57 Place to eat outside
60 Empty wallet payment
61 Last name of ’92 and ’96 
also-ran whose first name is a 
clue to 23, 25, and 53 across
62 Sought permission
63 Endowment conscious
student org.
64 First name of a math 
professor whose last name is a 
place to eat
65 Controversial section of The 
Campus
66 Dulceet decorum ____
67 Former girlfriend of a cer-
tain Texas senator or an event 
that happens at Midd
Down:
1 Goods, on opposite day
2 Our Lady of Peace, abbr.
3 __-__-la (“Howfancy!”)
4 Expression of disgust
5 Farewell, to Manuel V alls
6 Branch of a fern
7 Middlebury clothes
destroyers
8 How a poor speller might 
describe a low- cut dress
9 Like juice cleanses or Canada 
Goose jackets
10 Godfather to Thor
11 Butterfly-bee hybrid
12 Two Bros asks for two of 
them
13 Third-party on the line, for 
short
21 100m dash, eg.
24 Hotels in Ireland?
26 Where one gets a facial
27 Place to give your opinion 
anonymously
28 It might be seen running 
across Battell Beach on a 
Sunday
29 Group of bovines
30 Freshman in Brainerd or 
one who makes a soup
31 Doorway rain deflector 34 
Federal inmate
Blagojevich
35 Boston band that almost 
played at Midd in Fall ‘13
40 Famous
43 There are five of them
in Stew
47 Comeabout
48 Mixed-up Atwater living 
space
49 Brian Griffin or Scooby Doo
50 Note written at the top of a 
failed exam
52 Temporary housing, perma-
nent partying
54 Micro-_____ (Small scale 
electricity
network)
55 No, in the Aloha State
56 River which leads to Cer-
berus
57 Kung-_____ chicken
58 Snake, in crosswords
59 Fraternity founded at         
Illinois Wesleyan University 
Crossword of the Week: Midd Madness
By Sam Tauke
Contributing Writer
“Being present for some-
one else is, I think, the great-
est gift that I can give some-
one. I think we could benefit 
from slowing down and 
doing less, but what’s more 
important is finding a way 
to use these lessons in mind-
fulness to bring everyone 
together.”
Eli susman ’18.5
By Angie Walker
Contributing Writer
Catherine Kerr of Brown University talked mindfulness and mental health in Dana Auditorium.
michael o’Hara
Professors Share Stories of Hardship 
and Home for ‘It Happens Here’ Series 
While students learn countless les-
sons from their professors — often 
through hours absorbing lectures and 
taking notes of problem set solutions 
or discussion points — there are certain 
subjects that, over months and years 
of class, go unaddressed. Last Thurs-
day’s installment of “It’s Not What You 
Think,” a new storytelling series started 
this January by President Patton, strived 
to change that.
Assistant Pro-
fessor of Dance 
Christal Brown and 
Professor of Re-
ligion Larry Yar-
brough gathered 
with a couple dozen 
students and facul-
ty in the Abernethy 
Room in the Axinn 
Center to share 
their reflections on 
home and personal 
stories of hardship. 
The new “It’s Not 
What You Think” 
speaker series dis-
cussion is part of 
the College’s initiative to help build re-
silience and practice reflection on cam-
pus. 
Moderated by Gaby Fuentes ’16, 
Thursday’s storytelling session focused 
on the shaping power of home. Both from 
the American South, Brown and Yar-
brough discussed their feelings on grow-
ing up in their respective communities 
of Kinston, North Carolina, and Tusca-
loosa, Alabama. Although the professors 
were raised in small, religious commu-
nities with similar levels of wealth, their 
experiences with racism growing 
up differed. Each speaker’s sto-
ries on the particular topic com-
plemented the other’s in a way 
that made the audience wonder 
whether the pairing was chosen 
specifically because of this con-
text.
“I thought it was really in-
teresting that they picked Yar-
brough, who grew up in the Deep 
South during the civil rights 
movement, and to contrast his experi-
ences with Brown’s experiences,” said 
Richard Brach ’16.5. “It was interesting 
how they grew up in similar areas, but 
totally on the other side of the racial is-
sue.”
Lucy Grinnan ’19.5 agreed. “It was 
interesting to hear their discussion of 
race coming from a white man and a 
black woman because they’re such dif-
ferent experiences,” she said. “I think it’s 
really valuable to hear people talk about 
their vastly different experiences with 
that much respect.”
Grinnan, whose family recently left 
her longtime home in Virginia, also 
added, “My views 
on home have just 
shifted and it’s 
something that I 
have really struggled 
with lately. It was 
valuable for me to 
hear someone strug-
gling with the same 
kind of ideas about 
being a modern per-
son in a place that 
is obsessed with the 
past.”
Brown and Yar-
brough also shared 
the personal strug-
gles they overcame and triumphs they 
reached in their academic and, eventu-
ally, professional endeavors. 
Leila Faulstich-Hon ’19.5 left the 
hour feeling “... so joyful. I think part of 
that is just recognizing the plurality of 
narratives around us. It’s hard to step 
out of ourselves because you are your 
own world, but wwhen you just sit down 
to listen to someone — and listening is 
such a skill — it makes you so excited 
to learn more about the people around 
you.”
Erin Davis, an independent film-
maker in the town of Middlebury and a 
professor of the practice in the Film and 
Media Culture department, is developing 
a plan to turn the speaker series into an 
online podcast, available to students and 
faculty alike. Davis taught an interdisci-
plinary course in the fall titled Sounds of 
Childhood, which aimed to combine the 
academic study of childhood with the 
skills of sound production. Davis, the 
vocal host of the podcast, is currently 
producing and editing the audio content 
for the project. 
“I’m creating a short series of pilot 
episodes that should be ready for launch-
ing next fall,” Davis said. “I expect it will 
be available online. It would be great for 
the college radio station. I’d love that.”
Whether heard online, over the radio 
or in the flesh, the stories of this series 
will aim to foster reflection in the com-
munity, and will remind listeners to con-
sider each other’s personal experiences.
Brown reflected on the event’s sig-
nificance. 
“This is one of the rare occasions that 
students actually get to see their profes-
sors as people,” she said. “And I think 
that taking advantage of that should be 
a reciprocal process, because we often 
are in situations where one is in the po-
sition of giving knowledge and the other 
is in the position of taking knowledge. 
We need to make more opportunities to 
learn from one another.”
By Anastasia Capatina
Staff Writer
“It’s hard to step out of 
ourselves because you are 
your own world, but when 
you just sit down to listen 
to someone – and listening 
is such a skill – it makes 
you so excited to learn 
more about the people 
around you.”
Leila faulstich-hon ’19.5
Break Up the Routine 
Putting in multiple hours of work at a 
time? Break it up! Studies show that tak-
ing a break every 15-25 minutes can help 
you be more productive and efficient in 
the long run. Taking a short walk, chat-
ting with a friend, getting some tea, power 
napping or watching a few YouTube clips 
can actually mean better work. 
By Wellness Leaders
Contributing Columnists
|march 17, 2016   13features| march 17, 2016
Top: Assistant Professor of Dance Christal Brown spoke of  growing up in North Carolina. Bot-
tom: Professor of Religion Larry Yarborough described the civil rights movement in the South. 
By Will McDonald
Contributing Writer
While most students spent J-Term 
hitting the slopes or catching up on sleep, 
Maryam Mahboob ’18 was hard at work, 
albeit outside of the classroom. For Mah-
boob, J-Term marked a time for fundrais-
ing and for the first test of her food start-
up, Macaroni and Choose (M&C, formerly 
known as M.A.C.), among Middlebury stu-
dents.
Mahboob, who thought of the idea 
during a workshop at MiddCORE last 
summer, first sought to create a supermar-
ket brand of condiments for macaroni and 
cheese. Howerer, according to Mahboob, 
this quickly changed into a project she 
found more feasible.
“The idea became a late-night mac and 
cheese food truck on campus, called the 
M&C Truck, built around the idea that stu-
dents can choose condiments to enjoy with 
their mac and cheese, such as fresh thyme, 
blueberries and tuna,” Mahboob said. 
“M&C’s primary objective is to provide in-
expensive, wholesome, local and organic 
mac and cheese during a time when such 
a meal is most needed among students — 
late at night.”
In order to test the concept, Mahboob 
gathered some friends and ran one night of 
delivery over J-term as a test. Despite only 
advertising through a handful of posters 
and Facebook posts, the event was a huge 
success. Another 
test, this time 
with a few deliv-
ery kinks worked 
out, is planned for 
March 18. 
After the full 
launch, which 
Mahboob hopes 
to complete by 
mid-April, M&C 
will have two main 
components. One 
will be the M&C 
truck, parked in 
the Proctor park-
ing lot, where stu-
dents can walk up 
and order food themselves. The second 
will be a campus-wide delivery service to 
those willing to pay a small fee in exchange 
for macaroni and cheese delivered right to 
their door. Mahboob stressed that while 
the truck may not end up being an actual 
food truck due to logistical difficulties in 
obtaining a vehicle, M&C will still have a 
flagship location there in some form.
Through MiddSTART, the College’s 
crowdfunding site, Mahboob surpassed 
her goal of $2,000 from members of the 
Middlebury community. She ultimately 
raised $2,368 from 51 donors. While Mah-
boob’s current projec-
tion is that the truck 
will operate at a bit of 
a loss even if she takes 
no wages for her work, 
this is not the plan for 
long. 
“My long-term 
hope for M&C is that 
it one day takes the 
form of a social enter-
prise, where a portion 
of the profits goes back 
into the community,” 
Mahboob said. “At the 
moment, however, 
my hope is that M&C 
reaches a point of self-
sustainability.”
“M&C isn’t just another dining op-
tion,” she added. “The difference between 
M&C and other food ventures on campus is 
that M&C is built on a dream and is work-
ing towards a goal — serving inexpensive, 
wholesome, late-night mac and cheese to 
Middkids, while building students’ leader-
ship skills, fostering community relation-
ships and seeking to serve other parts of 
the community.” 
‘Macaroni & Choose’ Truck to Open in April
Wellness Tip 
of the Week
“The idea became a late-
night mac and cheese food 
truck on campus, called 
M&C Truck, built around 
the idea that students can 
choose condiments to enjoy 
with their mac and cheese, 
such as fresh thyme, blue-
berries, and tuna.”
Maryam Mahboob ’18
“It was valuable for me to 
hear someone struggling with 
the same kind of ideas about be-
ing a modern person in a place 
that it obsessed with the past.”
Lucy grinnan ’19.5
michael o’Hara
arts &  sciences
don’t
miss
this
Detroit ’67 Preformance
Detroit ’67 is the first play in the Detroit trilogy by 
award-winning playwright Dominique Morisseau. Set 
to the Motown music that originated right in Detroit, 
this play explores an explosive and decisive moment in 
a great American city using compelling characters who 
struggle with racial tension and economic instability.
3/17, 3/18, 3/19, 7 P.M., AND 3/18, 10 P.M., HEPBURN ZOO
Faculty Dance Concert
The Dance Program offers samples of faculty choreogra-
phy, featuring works by Christal Brown, Scotty Hardwig, 
Tzveta Kassabova and Katie Martin. This performance 
contains adult content and partial nudity. Tickets: $12 
Public/$10 middelbury ID holder/$6 Middlebury Stu-
dents
3/18, 8 P.M., MCA DANCE THEATER
Drug Discovery Chemistry Lecture
Rockefeller University Professor Sean Brady, 
PhD, is giving a lecture titled “Watch your step, 
there is new chemistry everywhere.” His lab iso-
lates useful natural products from soil microbes 
using sequencing-based screening and DNA 
cloning in model bacterial systems.
3/18, 1:45 P.M., MBH
Only in a show entitled Sexpecta-
tions would it make sense to utter the 
words “biddy,” “Atwater” and “Grindr” 
within mere minutes of each other. Last 
weekend (March 11-12), students flooded 
the Hepburn Zoo to watch the first ever 
play based on Middlebury hookup cul-
ture. Written and directed by Mary Bail-
lie ’18 and Roxy Adviento ’18, Sexpec-
tations was born from 57 anonymously 
submitted stories and brought to life 
by 10 students: Haroon Ashraf ’18, Sam 
Boudreau ’19, Stella Boye-Doe ’19, Emily 
Cipriani ’19.5, Ian Driscoll ’18.5, Lucie 
Heerman ’19, Ojaswi Pandey ’18, Mad-
elyn O’Kelley-Bangsberg ’19.5, Omar Va-
lencia ’19 and Elizabeth Warfel ’19. Fol-
lowing a mere two weeks of rehearsals, 
the cast danced, delivered monologues 
and occasionally donned scanty outfits in 
a humorous and at times uncomfortable 
reflection of life at the College.
Describing the show as “a series of 
depictions of the stupid stories that ev-
eryone has to go through every day at this 
place,” Baillie was intentional in portray-
ing as many experiences as possible.
“We wanted to represent a diverse 
range of people, because hooking up can 
mean so many different things to differ-
ent people,” she said. “We tried to use all 
the definitions.”
The play opens with a scene that is 
likely all too familiar (and cringe-wor-
thy) to many: A swarm of sweaty bodies 
moves to a pulsing beat in an Atwater 
suite. The room smells of cheap alco-
hol, and an eager male student, played 
by Valencia, is in search of a hookup for 
the night. His inner monologue blares 
through the speakers as he surveys the 
room: “Okay, Matty. This is it. This is the 
night when you finally finally get some 
legit, real-life pussy. Do not f*ck this up.” 
When he finally finds Lisa, played by 
Cipriani, on the dance floor, awkward-
ness immediately ensues – from the mo-
ment he utters the phrase “Yeah, baby” 
in a misguided attempt at sexiness to a 
run-in with Lisa’s roommate that pre-
vents the two of them from ever getting 
past first base.
The disastrous night ends with the 
roommate, portrayed by Boye-Doe, say-
ing to Matty, “Umm....can you get the 
f*ck out now?” Overwhelming sympathy 
seemed to be the sentiment in the room, 
as the scene likely prompted audience 
members to relive their own awkward 
hookup experiences, be it untimely bon-
ers or a “cock-blocking” roommate.
A sense of goofy self-awareness per-
vaded much of the show, particularly in 
scenes centered on Tinder, the popular 
dating app, and Grindr, its gay-male 
equivalent. Tia, played by O’Kelley-
Bangsberg, smiled and waved to the au-
dience while an invisible narrator read 
her profile out loud in a tone so exagger-
atedly serious, it could have fit right into 
a National Geographic documentary.
“Tia is a sex-positive gal looking to 
have fun. Sunglass emoji,” the narra-
tor stated. “Ergo, she wants to weed out 
the creepers. Her pictures consist of one 
mysterious selfie, one sexy group with 
her friends, one smiling and one full 
body pic. Tia doesn’t want to work on her 
profile much because she is not THAT 
desperate.”
In acknowledging the ridiculous 
amount of thought that goes behind any 
online dating profile, Sexpectations per-
haps validated many audience members’ 
own self-doubt.
Meanwhile, the Grindr skit featured 
a wide range of gay males, from an anon-
ymous lurker to a toned, 6’1 guy who likes 
long walks on the beach, to the boldly 
named user “BottomBoy248.” Portrayed 
hilariously by Driscoll, this final charac-
ter states with an unabashed eagerness 
that he enjoys “choking on cock, getting 
pounded hard, hands tied, rough stuff.” 
The crowd watched on curiously as the 
males attempted to navigate this provoc-
ative, complex and at times frustrating 
platform, where users may block other 
users upon receiving an unflattering face 
pic, have their boundaries pushed to un-
comfortable extremes or arrange for a 
sexual interaction within minutes of vir-
tually meeting one another.
Grindr can be a strange and scary 
place, but it can also lead to lighthearted 
fun between individuals who would not 
have otherwise connected. Sexpectations 
sought to shed light on both of these as-
pects. Baillie and Adviento consulted 
with members of the cast who were fa-
miliar with app to ensure that the scene 
was representative of Grindr culture. 
They explained that the characters they 
chose to spotlight did not stem from 
common stereotypes of gay males (al-
though that may have seemed to be the 
case), but rather from real-life accounts 
of stereotypical Grindr profiles.
Amid the silly reenactments, the 
show gave way to several moments of 
somber reflection concerning inequity 
within heterosexual relationships. In 
a tense interaction between a male and 
female student, played respectively by 
Boudreau and Warfel, the boy demands 
a blow job from the girl on the false as-
sumption that she will “want it again.” 
When she refuses, he responds, “What 
the f*ck?! Okay fine bitch, whatever.”
The emotional monologue that 
Warfel delivers in the next scene recog-
nizes the “strange barbed wire of careful 
sexuality” that females must walk if they 
want to participate in college hookup 
culture.
“I like to have sex, have fun and be 
liberated. But there can only be so much, 
ya know?” Warfel states. “They see my 
body, I see theirs. But when they don’t 
even know my f*cking name, I literally 
become just a f*ckable body.”
Another point of concern arises dur-
ing the Atwater scene, as bodies bump 
and shake against one another in the 
semi-darkness.
“Stop touching me!” one girl ex-
claims.
“Well, f*ck you then!” the random 
guy who is trying to grind on her re-
sponds.
In our world of structural gender 
inequality, women are simultaneously 
shamed for their sexuality and expected 
to go out of their way to please their male 
partners, regardless of their own desires. 
Meanwhile, consent exists as a blurry 
concept rather than as the bare minimum 
for all interactions. Sexism and double 
standards are not a problem of the past 
– and in refusing to shy away from the 
painful, lived experiences of individuals 
all around us, Sexpectations offered a 
powerful contribution to a dialogue that 
deserves far more attention than it cur-
rently receives on our campus.
Beyond the acknowledgement of 
harmful patriarchal norms, the show 
also brought to light subtle, but equally 
concerning, issues concerning race and 
gender. At one point, the characters all 
describe their “type.” Their answers in-
clude “smart athletes,” “Ben Wyatt,” “the 
slightly geeky but still coordinated mu-
sic enthusiast,” “high IQ” and “someone 
who stops when I say ‘no’” – but some 
mention racial and ethnic stereotypes, 
such as “half Asian, half white guys,” 
“Jewish guys,” “black guys,” “Hispanics,” 
“Scandinavians” and “girls from Rus-
sia.” The fact that these phrases came 
from real-life submissions is concern-
ing, as they reflect society’s tendency to 
fetishize members of different identity 
groups based on racist generalizations. 
Even worse, the problematic nature of 
these preferences often goes unchecked, 
since they are perceived as compliments 
rather than as objectification.
During the scene in which a girl 
makes out with her Atwater hookup, her 
“sexiled” roommate says angrily, “Wait, 
what?! I swear this is the third time!” to 
which she responds, “I’m no slut.” The 
culture of slut-shaming – that is, the 
sense of inferiority that society instills in 
young women whose sexual expression 
clashes with traditionally rigid, patriar-
chal norms – rings painfully clear in this 
exchange. Whether intentionally or not, 
Sexpectations brought this unfair double 
standard to light, and in doing so, hope-
fully pushed some audience members 
to think twice about their own choice of 
words.
It is unclear how aware the play-
wrights were of the implications behind 
these subtly problematic scenes. After 
all, the purpose of the show was to por-
tray hookup culture on campus as it cur-
rently exists, not as how it ought to be. In 
terms of entertainment value, Sexpecta-
tions was a success, bringing laughter to 
every corner of the room and reminding 
us just how endearingly awkward young 
love can be when it is not taking place 
on the Atwater dance floor. On a more 
uncomfortable note, it also revealed the 
ways in which we, as a campus commu-
nity and as products of large-scale media 
messaging, may not be nearly as progres-
sive as we consider ourselves to be. 
Sexpectations Discusses Hookup Culture
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
Anniie Tong
Two students make out in a freshman double, to the dismay of the girl’s roommate.
Annie Tong
A male student contemplates his next move in the middle of an Atwater dance party.
According to Nimrod Sadeh ’17.5, 
cellist and co-President of the Middle-
bury College Orchestra, “Attending a 
chamber recital is watching and listen-
ing to four people conjure a temporal 
realm, a celestial world where the cre-
ative energies of all members are under-
stood without words, a communicative 
work of art in real-time. Playing cham-
ber music is the closest thing we have 
to telepathy, and Jupiter’s magic is that 
they have mastered it. “
As we welcome Jupiter String Quar-
tet’s seventh Middlebury performance 
this Wednesday, March 23, we invite 
you to join the party. Performing with 
the dastardly duo of duos will be vio-
list Roger Tapping and cellist Natasha 
Brofsky. This will mark the eighteenth 
time Tapping has graced our halls. To-
gether, the group will perform works by 
Schubert and Brahms, as well as Schoen-
berg’s haunting and beautiful “Transfig-
ured Night.”
The Jupiter String Quartet is known 
around the world for its blazing, passion-
ate and energetic performances. What 
truly sets the group apart, however, is 
the unparalleled chemistry and commu-
nication visible in every piece. Chamber 
music is unique in that it vigorously di-
minishes the stodgy barriers that could 
keep new audiences from enjoying the 
genre. Equally important to hearing the 
music is watching the interplay between 
musicians as they form an organic com-
position that is built on sheet music but 
can tower as high as the group can take it. 
For Jupiter String Quartet, the stars are 
the limit.
The quartet’s strong sense of connec-
tion is partly due to their intense musical 
attention to one another, but it is also due 
to the fact that they are literally family. 
Within the quartet, violist Liz Freivogel 
and second violinist Megan Freivogel 
are sisters, and Megan is married to cel-
list Daniel McDonough. Violinist Nelson 
Lee rounds out the quartet.  Their guest 
artists — violist Roger Tapping and cel-
list Natasha Brofsky — are also a married 
couple. This level of intimacy between 
players adds a layer of dimension to their 
playing that unlocks pieces in a way that 
is rarely experienced.
Performing Arts Series Director Al-
lison Coyne Carroll writes, “It’s only into 
the hands of family that I would entrust a 
story as intimate as Schoenberg’s ‘Trans-
figured Night.’ This lush, dense and high-
ly chromatic work is inspired by a poem 
by German poet Richard Dehmel, de-
scribing a couple in love walking through 
the woods on a moonlit night. She reveals 
she’s pregnant with another man’s child, 
a man she never loved. The man lovingly 
accepts her, and the child as if his own; 
and the unborn child, man, woman and 
the night itself are transfigured from 
darkness into light.”
 Now in their thirteenth year of mak-
ing music together, the members of this 
tightly knit ensemble perform across 
the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia 
and South America. As winners of an 
Avery Fisher Career Grant and a Cleve-
land Quartet Award from Chamber Mu-
sic America, they have enjoyed playing 
in some of the world’s 
finest halls, includ-
ing New York’s Carn-
egie Hall and Lincoln 
Center, Kennedy Cen-
ter and the Library of 
Congress. From 2007 
to 2010, the Quartet 
was in residence at the 
Chamber Music Soci-
ety of Lincoln Center’s 
Chamber Music Two. 
Now, they are the String Quartet-in-
Residence at the University of Illinois in 
Champaign-Urbana, where they maintain 
private studios as well as responsibility 
for running the chamber music program.
Doors for the Jupiter String Quartet 
concert with Roger Tapping and Nata-
sha Brofsky will open 
on Wednesday, March 
23 at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Mahaney Center for the 
Arts.
Tickets are only $6 
for students. To find 
more information or 
purchase tickets, stop 
by either of the box of-
fices in McCullough 
or the MCA. Visit go/
freetickets to learn about the MCA’s 
various opportunities for complimentary 
tickets.
Performing Arts Sp    TLight
 
Brian Stauufer
Jupiter String Quartet has been together for thirteen years. They will be performing works by Shubert and Brahm on March 23.  
Chamber music is 
unique in that it vigor-
ously diminishes the 
stodgy barriers that 
could keep new audi-
ences from enjoying the 
genre.
By Connor Forrest
Senior Columnist
March 17, 2016 | 15arts & SCIENCES
What is the difference between col-
or-blind and color-conscious casting? 
Though both concepts allow for more di-
versity on stage, the distinction between 
them is an important one to make. In 
using color-blind casting, a director se-
lects an actor for a role, regardless of the 
actor’s race and ethnicity in relation to 
the role as written by the playwright. 
Color-blind casting sees no boundaries.
Let’s consider The Mountaintop by 
Katori Hall. The protagonist in this show 
is Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. A produc-
tion at Kent State University in Ohio cast 
a white actor in the role of MLK. The 
director claimed that it was an explo-
ration of character rather than race in 
order to deepen the teachings of MLK. 
Although the director’s intentions were 
good, we believe that this choice actually 
detracts from the power of seeing a black 
man tell a story of black struggle. The 
playwright openly opposed the choice, 
claiming that it diminished the role of an 
entire community behind the civil rights 
movement. We propose that this is where 
a choice must be made between color-
blind and color-conscious casting. When 
a play’s subject matter is so deeply tied to 
ethnicity, we must be aware of the ethnic 
identity in question.
Another problem arises, however: 
with actors of color still significantly 
underrepresented on stages across the 
world, how can we close the employment 
gap and still respect 
both the playwright’s 
intended vision and 
the perspectives of 
our nation’s myriad 
of cultural identi-
ties? Color-conscious 
casting may be the 
best answer to this 
dilemma. Unlike col-
or-blind casting, col-
or-conscious casting 
takes the race of per-
formers into account 
when planning a pro-
duction. This is not 
to say that parts that 
have been tradition-
ally played by white 
actors must continue 
to be so cast; in fact, 
it means just the opposite. In color-con-
scious casting, race is not ignored, but 
rather embraced; an actor’s race and eth-
nic background contribute to his or her 
unique portrayal of a role, and the pro-
duction benefits from the inclusion of a 
perspective not traditionally represented 
onstage.
Take, for instance, the Broadway 
hip-hop musical Hamilton, the story of 
white founding father Alexander Hamil-
ton and his white contemporaries, per-
formed almost entirely by actors of color. 
Lin Manuel-Miranda, 
the show’s creator and 
star, emphasizes that 
his musical is “the story 
of America then told by 
America now.” Here, 
the race of the perform-
ers and their cultural 
musical traditions are 
integral to the show’s 
concept. Color-con-
scious casting seeks to 
promote and increase 
the opportunities for 
performers of color by 
acknowledging and ap-
preciating the role that 
race and ethnicity play 
in an actor’s interpreta-
tion and presentation of 
a role, and understand-
ing that inclusion of different points of 
view can only enrich the experience of 
the play for the cast, crew and audience.
It is no easy task to balance the 
playwright’s vision, the perspectives of 
the nation and the potential effects of 
color-blind casting, but that is precisely 
why it is so important. We endorse color-
conscious casting because it centers on 
the awareness of race and not ignorance. 
What is the effect of a casting choice on 
the audience, the content of the play and 
the playwright’s vision? The more con-
scious one can be in casting, the more 
progress we can make toward encour-
aging the creation of plays with racially 
flexible characters, which provides great-
er and fairer acting opportunities. Color-
blind casting does not cut it, especially on 
the collegiate level. Many of the problems 
directors face in casting with respect to 
race can be solved by hand-picking shows 
that are, by nature, more diverse, fluid 
and flexible in terms of racial represen-
tation.
Furthermore, casting conscious-
ness is not solely limited to race; it also 
includes gender, sexual orientation, age 
and other such identifiers. While it is im-
portant to take all aspects of an actor’s 
identity into account, we cannot forget 
that stepping into a theater goes hand 
in hand with suspending one’s disbelief. 
Within the College’s theatre department, 
we strive to engage in critical discussions 
surrounding race, ethnicity and related 
issues. Just two years ago, the faculty 
gave a talk on how race plays into their 
casting choices. The very fact that this 
conversation took place is a sign that 
things are changing, even if the solution 
is not yet in sight.
By Aashna Aggarwal, 
Alex Herdman, Lana Meyer and 
Lisa Mordkovich 
Contributing Columnists
It is no easy task to bal-
ance the playwright’s 
vision, the perspectives 
of the nation and the po-
tential effects of a color-
bind casting, but that 
is precisely why it is so 
important. We endorse 
color-conscious casting 
because it centers on the 
awareness of race and 
not ignorance.
Playwrights on their plays 
16 arts & SCIENCES
By Cole Merrell
Contributing Writer
This season has followed 
Ben Higgins, described by 
some as “the most boring 
bachelor of all time” on his 
quest for love. Ben began 
the season six weeks ago 
with 25 beautiful women, 
roughly 13 of whom ap-
peared to be normal, gain-
fully employed and pub-
licly sane. 
| March 17, 2016
Once every year or so, ABC graces 
us with a season of television unlike any 
other; one lucky man (or woman) has 
the opportunity to date approximately 
25 mostly-white women (or mostly-
white men), all desperate for love. As 
the season goes on, the “bachelor” (or 
“bachelorette”) slowly eliminates people 
until they are left with two in the final 
episode. In the series finale, these final 
two contestants meet the parents of the 
bachelor, who then chooses one of them 
to propose to, and one to kick to the curb. 
As someone who has watched The Bach-
elor and all its offshoots religiously since 
2010 (Ali Fetodowsky’s season), I found 
myself uniquely qualified to synopsize 
and review this Bachelor finale in the 
context of the many superb finales that 
have come before it.
This season has followed Ben Hig-
gins, described by some as “the most 
boring bachelor of all time” on his quest 
for love. Ben began the season six weeks 
ago with 25 beautiful women, roughly 13 
of whom appeared to be normal, gain-
fully employed and publicly sane. Going 
into the finale on Monday night, Ben had 
eliminated all but two: Lauren B., a fake 
southerner from Portland who won Ben’s 
heart early on by quickly snagging the 
first one-on-one date, and JoJo, some-
thing of a dark horse in this competition, 
who really did not seem to make much 
of an impression on Ben until the second 
half of the season. Here is all you need to 
know to be caught up: against the rules 
of the show and his own better judgment, 
Ben has told both Lauren B. and JoJo 
that he is in love with them. Only one of 
them can win.
 The following are my live reactions 
from watching the finale on Monday 
night:
Looks like this episode is going to 
take place in Jamaica. I’m not even go-
ing to get into the socioeconomic impli-
cations of that. It looks like Lauren B. 
will meet Ben’s parents first – let’s see 
if she can use her fake southern charm 
to convince them that her son proposing 
to someone he’s known for six weeks is a 
good idea.
Lauren is able to immediately charm 
Ben’s parents with a witty anecdote 
about their first date but does seem a lit-
tle intimidated going into her conversa-
tion with Ben’s mom (rightly so, perhaps 
– Mrs. Higgins has the facial expressions 
and general demeanor of a wryly dis-
cerning dachshund). Ben’s mom doesn’t 
seem all too impressed by Lauren B.’s 
golly-shucks southern belle vibe, empha-
sizing the difficult realities of marriage 
and occasionally suggesting with an 
awkward laugh that, perhaps, this whole 
experience makes her want to die inside. 
Mr. Higgins is little more forgiving in his 
chat with Lauren B., seeming most con-
cerned by the length of his cargo shorts 
and occasionally gazing off into the dis-
tance, as if to wonder “I was young once, 
where did the years go?”
JoJo’s outfit choice for meeting 
Ben’s parents is a little more conserva-
tive than her usual apparel – definitely 
a smart play but potentially damaging in 
the long run, as wearing rompers have 
not boded well for women this season 
(we’re looking at you, Jubilee). Ben’s dad 
has little to say to JoJo, having seem-
ingly DGAF’d the entire process by this 
point. Ben’s mom seems touched by 
JoJo’s tears, seemingly a little drunker 
than she was for Lauren B.’s visit and 
thus a bit more forgiving. By the time 
JoJo emphasizes that her and Ben’s re-
lationship was founded on an ability to 
get through hardships (to the degree that 
hardships can happen on what is essen-
tially a three-month-long romantic vaca-
tion), Ben’s mom is firmly in Camp JoJo.
Ben has taken after his father ward-
robe-wise for both dates, opting to wear 
a simple blue polo that emphasizes the 
utter inoffensiveness of his personality, 
perhaps in a play to make us forget that 
he slept with three women last week only 
to send one of them home and immedi-
ately tell the other two that he loved both 
of them. His facial stubble, an interest-
ing variable to watch out for in an other-
wise bland season, has grown to the peak 
of its pathetic amplitude. After introduc-
ing both women to his parents, Ben re-
turns home to get their take on the situ-
ation, which is, basically: “Aww, honey, 
we really liked both of them, especially 
that JoJo. They were both great, but that 
JoJo really is a lovely gal.”
Ben walks off into what looks to be a 
Chrysler Town & Country (at what point 
in the season did they stop chartering li-
mos?), muttering to himself like a small 
child with an Adderall addiction. “What 
am I going to do?” he shivers dramati-
cally. “I’m in love with two women. And I 
love both of them.”  
When we return from commercial 
break, a freshly shaven Ben embarks on 
his (final?) date with Lauren B., empha-
sizing that he has prayed a lot for guid-
ance about what the right decision would 
be. You go Ben, never compromise those 
morals that got you this gig. Lauren B. 
and Ben’s date consists of riding around 
on a boat in Jamaica and kissing each 
other’s necks, but it’s not all fun and 
games. In her talking head about two 
minutes into the date, Lauren shrewdly 
notes that “[Ben] has a heavy head,” be-
ginning to worry about the state of his 
relationship with JoJo.
When she asks Ben if he has any 
doubts, he immediately replies, “No.” 
This is the man who has spent the entire 
episode telling us how conflicted he is be-
cause he is in love with two women. Ben 
goes on to say that Lauren B. is too per-
fect, ending his speech with a poignant 
thought (and this is an actual transcript 
that I rewinded multiple times to get 
right): “When things get too good to be 
true, I get v – really nervous. I mean, I, I, 
I knew I loved you f – in like, right away 
and I didn’t even know why. And it freaks 
me out and it’s weird and it’s crazy and 
it’s good and it’s life. What in the hell is 
hap – like, that’s where my mind’s at, is 
just…” That’s it. Never let it be said that 
men on The Bachelor aren’t perfectly ca-
pable of express-
ing their feelings.
Ben goes on 
to talk about how 
his relationship 
with Lauren is 
too perfect – as 
opposed to his 
relationship with 
JoJo, the other 
gorgeous wom-
en he has been 
traveling around 
the world with 
for the past six 
weeks, which is, 
apparently, not 
too perfect. But 
maybe better? At 
this point in the episode I’m unsure, con-
fused and ready to get off Ben Higgins’ 
wild ride.
The night portion of Ben and Lau-
ren B.’s date brings little in the way of 
clarity. Ben broods like a less interesting 
Bruce Wayne, staring at Lauren B. like 
he knows that she would never date him 
outside of this show. “Lauren, no matter 
what happens … you’ve made this whole 
thing better,” Ben says before leaving, 
not exactly providing the assurance she 
might expect of the man who is poten-
tially proposing to her in two days. The 
date ends with the haunting words of a 
red-eyed Lauren B., looking a bit like a 
wounded baby hawk whose mother has 
not brought it food for some time now: “I 
feel like tonight was the last time I heard 
Ben say that he loves me. I don’t really 
know … I don’t really know what I would 
do.” And so we enter commercial break, 
our hearts somber and Lauren B.’s ro-
mantic horizons looking dim.
We come back from commercial 
break to even more stock videos of the 
Jamaican countryside, but JoJo walks 
into frame before too long. Ben immedi-
ately begins kissing her neck and making 
“grr” noises. “I am confident I am going 
to be Ben’s wife,” says a steely JoJo in 
one of her talking heads, presenting a 
stark contrast to the constant fretting 
of Lauren B. this episode. Us longtime 
Bachelor watchers, though, will be quick 
to note that finale bait-and-switches are 
quite common, so perhaps JoJo should 
not be so confident after all.
Stuff happens, Ben and JoJo are kiss-
ing under a waterfall and eventually she 
begins pressing a newly defensive Ben for 
information about why he is being such a 
weirdo. “Let me guess, there’s two people 
… and you’re confused,” probes JoJo, to 
which Ben tactfully replies, “Yeah.” At 
this point, both girls are terrified that 
Ben loves the other one more and the 
show takes a noticeable uptick in quality. 
This is why we watch The Bachelor – to 
watch people terri-
fied of having their 
hearts broken have 
their hearts broken. 
When JoJo begs Ben 
to tell her one thing 
about their rela-
tionship that wor-
ries him, he replies 
that there isn’t one, 
to which she begins 
frenetically breath-
ing and twitching. 
This is the face of 
desperation, of a 
woman who has no 
power over her own 
happiness.
“I feel like I al-
ways have to compete with other people; 
I’m so tired of competing,” cries JoJo 
after accosting Ben on the floor of his 
hotel bathroom, seemingly unaware that 
she is currently a part of a reality dating 
competition, where competing is sort of 
the point. After some more bathroom-
floor crying by both parties, JoJo takes 
us into commercial break by powerful-
ly setting the stakes for the rest of the 
episode: “The next time I see [Ben, he] 
could make me the happiest person or … 
could make me heartbroken, you know?” 
Oh we know, JoJo. We know.
After roughly another seven min-
utes of Ben brooding in a resort wicker 
chair, in a hotel bed, and on a balcony 
to his own dramatic voiceover (at one 
point, he actually says, “I’m a lost man 
right now”). Ben gets a special visit from 
Neil Lane, famous jeweler and peren-
nial Bachelor finale visitor who gives the 
bachelor a free engagement ring, usually 
massive and gaudy, in exchange for gobs 
of free publicity. But alas! As Ben gazes 
at the ring he has chosen, he says with 
a sly grin, “I think I know who I’m go-
ing to pick.” Neil Lane doesn’t react – we 
all know he doesn’t give a s*** but, for 
how much they’re paying him, the least 
he could do is pretend to be interested.
Next, we’re treated to a montage of 
both women getting ready for Ben to ei-
ther propose or break up with them. This 
is the moment we have all been waiting 
for, the peak of any Bachelor season and, 
perhaps, the part of the show that reveals 
the cruel barbarism it is at heart. Each 
of the women will helicopter to a private 
island to find Ben standing alone, suited 
up and holding an engagement ring. The 
first girl, whoever she is, is the reject, 
and Ben will cast her aside like leftover 
copies of Chris Harrison’s failed romance 
novel. She will probably yell at him and 
cry a bunch, but will then be driven off in 
a discreet black SUV, never to be heard 
from again. Next will come the other girl, 
who Ben will propose to, hopefully with 
some kind of speech that makes up for 
the fact that he really only just made up 
his mind about all this yesterday. We cut 
to commercial break with baited breath.
First we see her feet stepping out 
of the helicopter, then the body of her 
dress. Soon, it becomes obvious. This 
is JoJo, first to the island, first runner 
up, the woman Ben will send home in 
a monumental display of exploitation 
porn. As JoJo approaches Ben we get a 
voiceover from her about how much she 
loves Ben and how she knows he would 
never blindside her. JoJo gives Ben a 
heartbreaking monologue about trusting 
him, about him being her best friend in 
the world, about how she’s never going to 
run from this. Ben responds, detached, 
avoiding eye contact. “I didn’t know if 
I could find love… Um, I found it with 
you… but, I found it with somebody else 
more.”
Pure spite from JoJo, who angrily 
looks into the distance and passive-ag-
gressively tells Ben “it’s fine” while on 
the verge of tears. “Can I walk you out?” 
Ben asks, to which JoJo replies, “If you 
want.” She is emotionally desolated, 
having just realized that her hugely em-
barrassing moment will be broadcast on 
national television. “I want to go home,” 
JoJo cries in the limo on the way home.
The rest of the episode is all kisses 
and roses. Lauren B. tells Ben that she 
didn’t know love like this existed before 
him and Ben tells her that he never wants 
to say goodbye to her, falling on one knee 
and pulling a massive rectangular ring 
out of a small black box. “Lauren, will 
you marry me?” Ben asks, to which she 
sputters like an animatronic owl. They 
kiss to some incredibly romantic stock 
music, and, as Ben offers Lauren his fi-
nal rose, the episode ends on a hopeful 
note, suggesting that love is available to 
all of us, even those who type reviews of 
reality television shows alone in their 
rooms late at night. Yes, if this season of 
The Bachelor has taught us anything, it’s 
that love is available to all of us. Except 
for JoJo.
The Bachelor Rundown: Final Rose Edition
Ben proposed to Lauren B., an early frontrunner, on Monday night’s Bachelor finale.
ABC
March 17, 2016| SPORTS 17
The 17 Middlebury athletes who travelled 
to Iowa last weekend (March 11-12) for the 
NCAA Division III Indoor Track Champion-
ships did more than hold their own against a 
highly competitive field.
The Panthers entered in six different 
events — including both the men and wom-
en in the 4x400 and distance medley relays, 
Adrian Walsh ’16 in the 5,000 meter and Alex 
Morris ’16 in the 400 meter — and secured 
All-American honors with top-eight finishes 
in all but one of these races.
Walsh, who crossed the line seventh in the 
5k with a time of 17:10.78, described an atmo-
sphere that likely intimidated even the most 
experienced runners.
“Overall, Nationals can be pretty over-
whelming,” Walsh said. “Spectators get row-
dy, and the whole corralling process before 
races can be nerve-racking. We were able to 
fly out on Wednesday afternoon and preview 
the track on Thursday, which tends to calm 
everyone’s nerves. I tried to stay as calm as 
possible throughout the whole travel process, 
and especially on race day, since I didn’t race 
until 5:50 Central Time.”
In fact, Walsh has been through the ordeal 
multiple times before; she drew upon her ex-
perience with a number of finishes just below 
the All-American cutoff to push herself past 
the threshold this time around. 
“This was my third time to Indoor Nation-
als,” she explained. “I qualified individually 
while I was at Hamilton, and then the past 
two years I’ve qualified with Middlebury. 
Last year I missed All-American by one place 
after the laps were miscounted for the wom-
en’s 5K, and the year prior I had also missed 
All-American by a small margin. In total I’ve 
earned four ninth-place finishes between In-
door and Outdoor Nationals, which has been 
difficult to say the least.”
But in the end, Walsh cited her teammates 
as providing her with the greatest motiva-
tion throughout her training. She mentioned 
Alison Maxwell ’15, who won the National 
Championship in the indoor mile last year, as 
being particularly influential. 
“Watching Alison finish out her senior 
track seasons with three All-American fin-
ishes and a national title was so incredible,” 
Walsh shared. “She has been such an inspi-
ration to me since — and many others I’m 
sure. I knew what I wanted and needed to do 
going into this past race, and did my best to 
execute.”
Helping to garner enough points to finish 
24th out of 77 teams, the rest of the women’s 
contingent finished eight or better in their 
respective races. In addition to Walsh’s race 
on Friday, March 11 the distance medley relay 
team of Nicole Schachman ’16, Kate McClus-
key ’18, Lauren Bougioukas ’16 and Abigail 
Nadler ’19 barely missed the podium, finish-
ing in fourth with a time of 11:50.96.
Finals on Saturday, March 12 saw Morris 
finish eighth in the 400-meter dash with a 
time of 58.05. Morris served double duty, as 
she anchored the 4x400 relay team of Jackie 
Kearney ’16, Lucy Lang ’19 and Paige Fernan-
dez ’17 to again cross the line in eighth with a 
time of 3:58.00.
The men’s efforts were paced by the dis-
tance medley relay team of Kevin Serrao ’18, 
Tyler Farrell ’18, Lucas Carpinello ’16 and 
Sam Cartwright ’16, who barely edged the 
squad past NESCAC rival Conn. College for 
eighth place. In a stunning finish, Cartwright 
found the extra gear needed to overtake the 
Camel anchor just before the line, diving 
across to secure a spot on the All-American 
team by one one-hundredth of a second for a 
time of 10:07.24.
But fate wasn’t so kind to the men’s 4x400 
team of Jimmy Martinez ’19, James Mulliken 
’18, Brandon Cushman ’16 and Alex Nichols 
’17, who missed qualifying for Saturday’s final 
race by one one-thousandth of a second be-
hind a squad from Wheaton.
The fact that this race was the quartet’s 
fastest of the season by almost three full sec-
onds made the result even harder to swallow. 
But with three quarters of the 4x400 return-
ing next season, as well as a good number of 
the athletes who posted impressive finishes 
in other events throughout the season, the 
Panthers will be poised to build on their in-
door success next winter.
With the spring outdoor season right 
around the corner, Walsh took a moment to 
reflect about where she and the rest of the 
seniors stand at the last juncture of their ca-
reers.
“This season has been phenomenal,” she 
reflected. “It’s been so exciting to train and 
race in the new facility this year, and I re-
ally think every athlete has benefitted from 
training on such a fresh, fast track. The team 
has so much to look forward to, and I think 
everyone will continue to excel from here 
on out. I’m so excited to see what will be ac-
complished in the years to come. The team is 
undoubtedly ready to hit the ground running 
with the outdoor season.”
The team will take this weekend off to 
train before traveling to California over spring 
break to compete in meets at Point Loma 
Nazarene University and UC San Diego.
16
5 
29
Points recorded (6 G, 10 A) by women’s 
lacrosse player Mary O’Connell ’17 in the 
team’s 3-0 week against RPI, Tufts and MIT.
More shots for the men’s lacrosse team 
(59-30) in a 12-10 loss to Tufts on 
Saturday, March 12.
Wins in 36 matches for the men’s and 
women’s tennis teams this weekend 
against Bates and Hamilton.
by the Numb3rs
36
0.01
Shutouts for women’s hockey goaltender 
Julia Neuburger ’18 this season, including 
one against UMass Boston in the NCAA 
The margin by which Kevin 
Serrao ’18, Tyler Farrell ’18, Lucas 
Carpinello ’16 and Sam Cartwright 
’16 earned All-American honors in 
the distance medley relay at Indoor 
Track NCAA Nationals.
Indoor Track Finishes NCAA’s with Record-
Breaking Number of All-American Athletes
By Robert Erickson
Senior Writer
As the sun shined bright and Main Street 
bustled with attendees of the 8th Annual 
Vermont Chili Festival, the seventh-ranked 
Middlebury men’s lacrosse team welcomed 
defending national champions and top-
seeded Tufts to Youngman Field at Alumni 
Stadium on Saturday, March 12. After going 
down by three goals early in the game, the 
Panthers battled back to eventually tie their 
NESCAC rival in the fourth quarter before 
ultimately falling to the Jumbos by a score of 
12-10. 
The Jumbos got on the board quickly with 
a Jake Gillespie goal just 22 seconds into 
the contest, followed shortly by a nice finish 
from Tim Giarrusso ’16 to tie the game at 
one apiece. Gillespie, along with the rest of 
the Tufts offense, maintained momentum 
and powered the Jumbos to a 3-0 run with 
his Gillespie’s second of the day, in addition 
to tallies from Ben Andreycak and Austin 
Carbone over a span of just 1:50 in the first 
quarter. The Panthers stopped the bleeding 
with a rally from senior leadership as co-
captain Jon Broome ’16 found midfielder 
Jack Cleary ’16 from behind the cage for a 
high shot to notch the score at 4-2 for the 
remainder of the first quarter.
The Panthers came out with a new level 
of intensity in the second quarter, peppering 
Tufts goaltender Alex Salazar with three 
shots in quick succession before Giarrusso 
found the net for his second goal of the day 
to bring the home team within one with 13:57 
remaining. However, the Jumbos offense 
picked up right where it left off in the first 
quarter and responded by scoring four of 
the next five, including two bouncers from 
Cam Irwin and Kyle Howard-Johnson  at 
10:12 and 9:15, respectively. Again, a Panther 
senior stepped up to keep Middlebury in 
the game as Sean Carroll ’16 converted a 
Broome feed with 6:46 remaining. After a 
pair of Tufts goals only 31 seconds apart from 
John Uppgren and Andreycak, the Panthers 
put together a quality extended possession 
that ultimately culminated in a Henry Riehl 
’18 goal and another Broome assist. Their 
efforts brought the score to 8-5 in favor of the 
Jumbos as the first half came to an end. 
The game settled down in the second half 
as the Middlebury defense locked in and 
prevented the extended scoring streaks that 
had defined much of the first half. Instead, 
the Panthers put together a streak of their 
own with goals from Kyle Soroka ’16 and 
Jack Gould ’19 at 10:51 and 9:29. Tufts’ 
Connor Bilby responded to Middlebury’s 
best offensive run of the day with a piece of 
individual talent in a nice dodge and finished 
with just 3:02 remaining in the third quarter. 
Momentum swung back to the home side, 
however, when solid play on both sides of 
the ball resulted in a Middlebury goal. After 
causing a turnover in the final minute, Parker 
Lawlor ’18 scooped the ball before firing a 
goal with just eight seconds left to bring the 
Panthers within one heading into the final 
quarter.
Although Andreycak’s third tally with 
12:13 remaining gave the visitors the 
10-8 advantage, Middlebury continued to 
demonstrate their defining grit and resolve 
throughout the final quarter. John Jackson 
’18 was a force from the faceoff, affording the 
Panthers valuable possession opportunities 
by going 15-25 in addition to scooping six 
ground balls. Gould got the offense rolling 
in the fourth, converting on a man-up 
opportunity just a minute before Lawlor 
scored his second unassisted goal of the day to 
level the score at 10-10 with 9:05 remaining. 
Only 20 seconds later, Gillespie dodged from 
the right side and found the back of the net 
for the eventual game-winning goal, while 
Andreycak added another at 7:38 to round-
out Tufts’ offensive effort. The Panthers fired 
four shots in the remaining minutes but could 
not pull any closer as Tufts took possession in 
the final minute and ran out the clock.
While ultimately unable to gain the 
advantage in scoring, the Panthers outplayed 
Tufts in many categories throughout the 
contest. Notably, Middlebury nearly doubled 
their opponent in shots, posting a 59-30 
advantage as well as a 32-27 edge in ground 
balls. The Jumbos relied on consistent 
goaltending in the win, with Salazar recording 
18 saves on the day while Will Ernst ’17 made 
nine stops for the Panthers.
Clearing was a strength for both teams, 
with the Panthers finding success on 13 of 
their 15 opportunities, while the Jumbos 
went 18-22. Middlebury was 2-3 while 
playing with an extra man, while Tufts posted 
a goal in four tries. 
“We just need to keep improving on a dai-
ly basis,” said Broome, one of Middlebury’s 
captains. “The game against Tufts showed 
that we can play with any team in the coun-
try, but it was also clear that we still have a 
lot of work on. Specifically, we need to be bet-
ter in unsettled situations on both ends of the 
field.”
The Middlebury men’s lacrosse team 
dropped their second straight game on Tues-
day, March 15 when St. Lawrence came to 
Youngman Field at Alumni Stadium. In nail-
biting double overtime fashion the Saints 
took a 14-13 victory from the Panthers at 
home, a place where victories traditionally 
do not come easily to opponents. As a result, 
Middlebury’s record drops to 2-2; a line they 
will look to improve this Saturday when they 
travel to Wesleyan to play an ever-important 
NESCAC matchup. St. Lawrence returns to 
action on Saturday as well when they travel 
to Davenport, Fla. to take on Western New 
England University. 
Both sides came out of the gate hot as the 
Saints’ Conor Healy opened the game only 
1:10 into the contest a little more than a min-
ute before Cedric Rhodes ’17 responded with 
an underhand strike from 10 yards away. 
The trend continued as Jordan Dow ’18 put 
the guests back in front at 9:36, only to bring 
on another Middlebury response as Michael 
McCormack ’19 ripped his first career goal 
with 9:12 remaining. St. Lawrence began to 
take the game over, however, as Healey and 
Dow led the Saints on a four goal run to put 
the visiting side up 6-2. After Jon Broome ’16 
finished a Jack Cleary ’16 feed with only half 
a second left in the first quarter, Middlebury 
started the second quarter with a Rhodes 
man-up goal to make it a 6-4 contest with 
13:49 left. Again, the Saints responded with 
a multiple goal run to give the visitors the 8-4 
advantage. To counter, Middlebury looked to 
its senior leadership and found some in the 
form of two straight goals from Broome, on 
scoop and dish assists from Kyle Soroka ’16 
and Harrison Goodkind ’16, respectively. An-
drew Jarret ’17 gave St. Lawrence the 9-6 ad-
vantage heading into the half when he scored 
with only 24 seconds remaining. 
After an offensively dominated first half 
which saw 15 goals, the third quarter had just 
three. Middlebury opened the final quarter 
by going on a four goal run of their own in-
cluding the final two from a Jack Gould ’19 
goaland the same connection culminating in 
a Soroka goal to give the Panthers a 12-10 ad-
vantage with 10:47 left. After a two goal coun-
ter by the Saints and Gould’s third of the day, 
an unassisted rip with only 2:11 left on the 
clock, Dow scored his fourth to equalize the 
contest at 13-13 and force overtime with just 
six seconds left. Sean Carroll ’16 had the best 
look in the first four-minute overtime period 
when he found space 10 yards out but ripped 
it just high. St. Lawrence’s Vautor then found 
space with just over a minute left in the sec-
ond period, only to be denied by goalie Will 
Ernst ’17, who had 10 saves on the day. After 
a Middlebury possession that yielded a pair 
of shots with a man-up chance, Dow ended 
the game in the closing seconds redirecting 
a pin-point pass by Alec Dietsch ’17 from the 
right side for the Saint victory.
| March 17, 2016 18 sports
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKING
TEAM
Plunkett’s Predictions 
2
women’s hockey
This team is on a roll in 
postseason play so far and 
I expect that to continue.
track & field
Both teams combined 
for 13 All-American 
honors at the National 
Championship meet. 
3
men’s LacrossE
Despite the loss, this team 
proved they can hang with 
the top competition. 
4 
skiing 
Panther skiers held their 
own on the national stage, 
finishing 11th. 
5
7
golf
I’m excited for our golfers 
as they prepare to hit the 
links this spring. 
6
women’s lacrosse
Undefeated on the road, 
not a bad way to start. 
tennis
It’s early, but things look 
good for both squads. 
baseball
Hoping for some 
improvement over last 
season. We’ll see...
Women’s Lacrosse Stays Undefeated 
Following Double Header on the Road 
By Trevor Schmitt
Senior Writer
The Middlebury women’s lacrosse 
team continued their success with two 
wins this past weekend.  Middlebury 
defeated Tufts 17-9 on Saturday, March 12 
looking for vengeance 
from last year’s loss, 
and then beat MIT 
19-7 the following day 
in a non-conference 
collision. The 
Panthers improved 
their overall record to 
4-0 and are currently 
ranked fourth in the 
nation.
“We had a big week 
this past week with 
three games over five 
days and are so excited 
about how we played,” 
Team Captain Laurel 
Pascal ’16 said. “What 
is so great about our 
team is that we have 
so much depth and 
talent, so it was truly a team effort.”
Said team effort began with Saturday’s 
conference matchup against Tufts. 
The Panthers dominated the first half, 
scoring the first six goals of the game, 
two each by Bridget Instrum ’16 and Bea 
Eppler ’17, to take a commanding lead 
just 11 minutes in.  Mary O’Connell ’17 
assisted on two of the scores.  
However, the Jumbos came roaring 
back, scoring four of the next five goals 
to pull within three, 7-4, with time left in 
the half.  The Panthers quickly pounced 
by scoring another three, concluding the 
opening half with a 10-4 lead. Instrum 
started the burst with back-to-back 
goals.
Again Tufts did not accept defeat 
and responded 
i m m e d i a t e l y 
in the second 
half, scoring the 
first two goals 
to make it 10-6. 
Once again, the 
Panthers fired 
back by scoring 
four of the next 
five goals in 
quick succession, 
bringing the game 
to 14-7. 
While Tufts 
retorted with two 
goals, this was not 
enough to beat the 
Panthers as they 
finished the game 
with three more 
goals, thrashing Tufts 17-9. Pascal and 
Eppler had three goals and O’Connell 
finished with four assists, earning her 
NESCAC Player of the Week honors.  Alli 
Sciarretta ’16 also netted five goals in the 
Panthers victory.
Riding high off revenge against Tufts, 
the Panthers returned to action the 
following day against MIT for a non-
conference game.  Similar to the Tufts 
game, the Panthers dominated on the 
way to a commanding 19-7 victory.
The game started with a spate of 
goals, with both teams combining for 
three goals in the span of 39 seconds. 
The match was closest with 9:07 in the 
first half at a score of 6-5. However, that 
was short lived.  The Panthers clenched 
down on the defensive end of the field by 
not allowing a goal the rest of the half, all 
the while scoring the final six goals.  Kate 
Hodgson ’16 scored twice, while Hollis 
Perticone ’18, Sciarretta and Hailey 
Cosseboom ’17 each netted one to finish 
the first half with a 12-5 score. 
Middlebury continued to dominate in 
the second half, scoring three more goals. 
Building on the scoring, the Panthers led 
15-5 with 17:45 left in the game.  MIT 
tried to respond but only mustered two 
more goals, and Middlebury won 19-7.
Defensively the Panthers once again 
gave an incredible performance lead by 
Maggie Caputi ’16 who scooped up four 
ground balls and Evie Keating ’18 who 
had three ground balls and caused a pair 
of turnovers.
“The team has been focusing on 
aggressive defense and dynamic attack, 
which has paid off . . . and has given [the 
Panthers] a big step up against [their] 
opponents” Pascal said.
After such a dominant start to the 
season (and on the road no less), it should 
be a near fever pitch environment when 
the Panthers host NESCAC opponent 
Wesleyan at noon on Saturday, March 
19th in their home opener.     
Middlebury junior defenseman, Quincy Nichols ’17, chases down a member of the 
the country’s top-ranked team and conference rival, Tufts, on Saturday, March 12.
Men’s Lacrosse Nearly Edges Top-Seeded Tufts 
By Christine Urquhart
Senior Writer
“I think a focus of ours has 
really been to dominate the 
other team in terms of pos-
session. We’ve been really 
successful in our defensive 
ride and our defense which 
has resulted in us just hav-
ing the ball in our sticks 
more.”
mary o’connell ’17
Ivan valladares
March 17, 2016| 19SPORTS
By some miracle, the men’s and wom-
en’s tennis teams played outdoors on 
the first weekend of the spring season, a 
rarity in Vermont,  and they dominated. 
Both teams shut out Bates and Hamilton 
9-0 on Saturday, March 12, to move to 
2-0 in the NESCAC and overall. Nine dif-
ferent players for the men’s side earned 
at least one victory, while all eight 
healthy members of the women’s team 
won on Saturday, March 12.
The men’s team, which is ranked third 
in the nation, opened their season in the 
Duke Nelson Recreation Center against 
no. 22 Bates on Saturday morning. In 
doubles, the pairs of Noah Farrell ’18 
and Ari Smolyar ’16, Palmer Campbell 
’16 and Hamid Derbani ’18 and Will de 
Quant ’18 and Timo van der Geest ’18 
won 8-5, 8-6 and 8-2 in first, second and 
third doubles, respectively.
In the only match where a Panther 
lost a set all day, no. 1 in the nation Noah 
Farrell ’18, competing in his first match 
since winning the singles national title in 
the fall, defeated no. 25 Josh Rosen 6-0, 
3-6, 13-11. In other singles action, no. 
24 Smolyar beat Chris Ellis 6-0, 6-4 in 
the second spot and Campbell, de Quant, 
Derbani and van der Geest also won in 
straight sets in third through sixth sin-
gles, in that order.
Later that morning, the Panthers 
moved outside to the Proctor tennis 
courts to face Hamilton, who had not 
won a match in the NESCAC since 2013. 
The same three doubles’ pairs defeated 
the Continentals. Farrell and Smolyar 
shut out their opponent 8-0 in first dou-
bles, while Campbell and Derbani won 
8-5 in the second slot and de Quant and 
van der Geest won 8-2 the third slot.
Head Coach Bob Hansen showcased 
his team’s depth, choosing to rest Far-
rell, Smolyar and de Quant and start 
Kyle Schlanger ’18, Peter Martin ’19 and 
Cole Sutton ’19. Schlanger, Martin and 
Sutton defeated their opponents, while 
Campbell, Derbani and van der Geest 
also took care of business in straight 
sets in the fourth, fifth and sixth spots 
respectively to cap off a perfect day and 
start to the season for Hansen’s squad.
“The team is gaining momemtum as 
we head out west for spring break,” said 
Campbell. “We look to avenge last year’s 
loss in the NCAA final and knock off de-
fending national champion Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps.”
The sixth-ranked women’s team 
played both of its matches outdoors on 
Saturday, winning all 18 of its matches 
without losing a set. In doubles play of 
its first match against Hamilton, Ria 
Gerger ’16 and Kaysee Orozco ’17 won 
8-3 in first doubles, Lily Bondy ’17 and 
Sadie Shackelford ’16 shut out their op-
ponent 8-0 in the second slot and Molly 
Paradies ’19 and Christina Puccinelli ’19 
conceded only one game in the third slot, 
winning their first collegiate doubles 
match together 8-1.
Singles play was even more one-sided 
as the Panthers outscored the Continen-
tals 72-3 in total games won. Gerger did 
not concede a game at the top of the lad-
der, and Paradies and Shackelford fol-
lowed suit, both winning 6-0, 6-0. On 
the second, third and fourth rungs of the 
ladder, Alexandra Fields ’17 (6-1, 6-0), 
Bondy (6-0, 6-1) and Puccinelli (6-1, 
6-0) all only lost one game.
Middlebury handled Bates in a simi-
lar fashion later in the day. The Pan-
thers only lost two games in all of their 
doubles matches combined, as the same 
pairings from the morning matches ver-
sus Hamilton brought in more victories. 
Bondy and Shackelford swept their op-
ponent for the second straight match in 
the second slot, while Gerger and Oro-
zsco won 8-1 in the first slot and Para-
dies and Puccinnelli did the same in the 
third slot.
All six Panthers won in straight sets 
in singles: Gerger (6-2, 6-0), Fields (6-3, 
6-1), Puccinelli (6-3, 6-1), Paradies (6-
1, 6-2), Lauren Amos ’16 (6-2, 6-3) and 
Orozco (6-0, 6-1).
“As a team, we have been putting in 
more hours than we ever have,” Gerger 
said. “If anything, our most noteworthy 
performance has been what has hap-
pened before match-day.
Both teams will host Wesleyan this 
upcoming Saturday, March 19. The Car-
dinals’ men’s team is ranked 23rd na-
tionally, while their women’s team is 
ranked 17th. 
Panther Tennis squads Unbeaten After Opening Weekend 
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor 
ivan valladares
YES 
I think this is the year for them to 
go all the way.
SIX
@mom0neymoconnell dishes 
apples all day long! 
YES 
36 is a lot of matches. Calling team 
wins for both squads, though. 
NO 
It’s called madness for a reason. 
editors’ picks
YES
This team is unstoppable.
FIVE
She’s had a great start to the season, 
and Wesleyan is currently 0-2.
NO
Statistically this doesn’t happen 
very often.
YES
It’d be great if they could keep that 
going, but this seems like a bit of 
a stretch.
Emily Bustard (65-68, .488)
Alex Morris (97-85, .532)
Andrew Rigas (39-28, .582)
Women’s hockey: Will Midd beat 
top-ranked Plattsburgh State in the 
NCAA Semifinals?
Men’s CBB: Will all four no. 1 
seeds (Kansas, North Carolina, 
Oregon, Virginia) reach the 
Sweet Sixteen?
Women’s lax: Closest to: Number 
of points scored by women’s 
lacrosse player Mary O’Connell 
’17 in the team’s home matchup 
vs. Wesleyan 
Tennis: Will either men’s or 
women’s tennis lose a match 
after winning all 36 last 
weekend?
NO
These are in my opinion the two 
best teams in the tournament, but 
I think Plattsburgh will come out 
on top.
TWELVE
She seems to be coming into her 
own this year.
NO
They have a habit of not losing.
NO
There’s bound to be an upset 
somewhere.
YES
And en route to a national title!
SIX
She’ll continue to build on a great 
start to the season.
NO
It will be tough as Wesleyan poses a 
bigger challenge than last week, but 
we are the class of the conference.
YES
The 8s and 9s don’t look too 
strong this year. 
 NO
Yes, Midd has looked dominant, 
but it hasn’t played Plattsburgh St. 
during this stretch, who has won its 
last six games 39-2.
FOUR
Laurel Pascal said it herself, the 
team just has so much depth.
NO
Wesleyan is legit, plus they have the 
top ranked women’s player in the 
nation.
YES
Although, I think Oregon could 
very well lose to St. Joe’s, the 
A-10 is criminally underrated.
REMO PLUNKETT (55-45, .550)
         Will Case (14-9, .608)
Women’s Hockey Advances to NCAA Semifinal
attempt and scoring her team-leading 
19th goal of the season.
The Panthers’ hopes at advancing be-
came more definite as the third period 
continued. With a power play at the 10:45 
mark, Wardwell passed the puck to Win-
slow, whose attempt the Beacon goalie 
blocked, but Elizabeth Wulf ’18 was there 
to put home the rebound. Wulf’s goal, her 
sixth of the year, brought Middlebury’s 
lead to 4-0 and sealed the deal on a ticket 
to the Final Four for the first time since 
2013.
With Saturday’s win, the team sur-
passed last year’s finish, when they lost 
to Vermont rival Norwich in the quar-
terfinals. The Panthers’ next opponent is 
top-ranked Plattsburgh State, whom they 
will play on Friday at 3:30 p.m. in Platts-
burgh, N.Y.
The Panthers last faced Plattsburgh 
State on Jan. 12, losing 3-0 in a game 
dominated by the Cardinals. They nearly 
doubled the Panthers in shots on goal, 31-
16. The Cardinals blanked Amherst 5-0 in 
the NCAA quarterfinals on Sunday, the 
same team the Panthers barely defeated 
4-3 to take the NESCAC trophy.
“I think one of the biggest takeaways 
from the NESCAC final was the fact that 
we scored three goals and then gave up 
four straight goals and Amherst took the 
lead,” Head Coach Bill Mandigo said. 
“The takeaway is that we scored two min-
utes after Amherst scored their fourth 
goal. It was a strength of character goal, 
a resilience goal. The team could have 
packed it in when Amherst took the lead, 
but they fought back.”
 The team will prepare for the Final 
Four “like we were preparing for any oth-
er game,” Mandigo said.
The Panthers began the year with a 
tough schedule, facing top-ranked op-
ponents like Elmira and Norwich. But as 
of late, their run to the tournament has 
been nonstop. A surprisingly versatile 
freshman squad stepped up to the plate 
— or, rather, to the puck — and Winslow’s 
impressive scoring skills and NESCAC 
accolades bolstered the Panthers to nine 
shutout victories.
For a team that lost the conference 
championship last year and still advanced 
one round in NCAAs, this season is one 
of redemption. Plattsburgh State will be 
a formidable opponent, but Winslow and 
her teammates may prove tougher.
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20
Middlebury sophomore Kyle Schlanger 
’18 returns a shot against his Hamilton 
opponent last Saturday, March 12, at 
the Proctor Tennis Courts.
sports 20
TENNIS TEAMS 
DOMINATE BATES 
AND HAMILTON ON 
OPENING WEEKEND
PAGE 19
MEN’S LACROSSE 
OUTSHOOTS TOP-
RANKED TUFTS, BUT 
FALLS 12-10
PAGE 18in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
The Alpine and Nordic ski teams 
combined for an 11th place finish at 
the NCAA Championships this past 
weekend. The Colorado Buffaloes 
hosted the Championship in 
Steamboat Springs, Colo. on March 
9-12. The Panthers finished in 11th 
out of the 21 teams total, with 133 
points. Meanwhile, Denver’s 567 
points blew away the field on its 
way to the school’s 23rd national 
title. Colorado (491) and Utah (485) 
joined Denver on the podium, 
while Montana State (406) was 
the first team off the podium. The 
University of Vermont finished 
in seventh-place with 310 points, 
which led all eastern squads.
The Alpine team kicked off 
the action with the giant slalom 
race on Wednesday, March 9. 34 
men faced off in the first day of 
racing, including Panther junior 
Rob Cone ’17, who was racing to 
defend his national title. While 
Cone was unfortunately unable to 
finish the race, sophomore Riley 
Plant ’18 and junior Colin Hayes ’17 
were both able to finish in the top 
15. Plant skied to 14th place, less 
than two seconds off the winning 
time, and Hayes finished just 0.17 
seconds behind Plant for 15th. 
First-year racers Caroline Bartlett 
’19 and Lexi Calcagni ’19 were the 
only two Panther representatives 
on the women’s side, competing 
against 32 other racers. Bartlett led 
the duo with a 19th-place effort, 
while Calcagni finished in 28th.
With the Panthers sitting in 
10th place after the first day of 
the competition, the Nordic teams 
took to the trails at Howelsen 
Hill. Annie Pokorny ’16 and 
Kelsey Phinney ’16 served as the 
two Panther representatives on 
the women’s side. Pokorny led 
the pack, finishing in 12th place 
overall and second among eastern 
skiers. Phinney took home 20th 
place overall among easterners. In 
the men’s competition, the lone 
Panther representative was Patrick 
McElravey ’17 who finished 28th 
overall and eighth among eastern 
skiers.
Heading into the third day of 
racing, the 11th-place Panthers 
were on the cusp of entering the top 
10. Under the lights on the evening 
of Friday, March 11, the slalom 
team took to Howelsen Hill. Hayes 
led the men’s squad, finishing in 
18th overall. Plant and Cone were 
not far behind, placing 28th and 
30th, respectively.
“As a whole, the team showed 
some strong moments and some 
weaker moments,” Plant said 
of the championship weekend 
performances. “Colin and I 
were really happy to hold down 
respectable finishes in the GS 
[Grand Slalom], especially after 
Rob’s fall. We are certainly left 
wanting more, but our team is 
young so the motivation will carry 
into the next season really well.”
On the women’s side, Bartlett 
managed to finish 26th, 11 spots 
better than her first run position. 
Calcagni finished 31st overall.
Nordic action completed the 
Championships on Saturday, 
March 12, with the women’s 15K 
and men’s 20K classical events. In 
her last collegiate race, Pokorny 
was once again the first Panther to 
cross the finish line, grabbing the 
19th position overall. Close behind 
was Phinney, who finished 21st. 
McElravey took 23rd in the men’s 
competition.
“While I would say [they] put in 
a great effort, they unfortunately 
did not have their best showing,” 
said Alpine Head Coach Stever 
Barlett. But even though last 
weekend’s performance did not 
meet the team’s high expectations, 
the team is optimistic about its 
future.
“On a positive note all five 
Alpine skiers and one Nordic are 
returning next year,” said Barlett. 
“Our goal is to win a [combined, 
Alpine and Nordic] National 
Championship and this team is 
already working on that for the 
future.”
By Nicole Roos
Staff Writer 
After winning the NESCAC 
title and advancing to the NCAA 
Tournament, the Middlebury 
women’s hockey team defeated 
the University of Massachusetts 
Boston 4-0 in the quarterfinal 
round. The win was the Pan-
thers’ 10th straight — nine of 
which were shutouts— and 21st 
on the season, one more than 
last year and the most since the 
2010-11 season when they won 
25 times. The Panthers move on 
to face top-ranked Plattsburgh 
State (27-1-0) for the Final Four 
in Plattsburgh, N.Y., on Friday, 
March 14.
Middlebury dominated the 
first period, outshooting UMass 
Boston 12-2, but could not get 
the puck across the goal line. NE-
SCAC player of the year Maddie 
Winslow ’18 had a good look at 
1:15 that went wide, and a strong 
attempt by Anna Van Kula ’16 
minutes later was broken up by 
Beacon goalie Rachel Myette. 
The Beacons had back-to-back 
attempts at the 6:40 mark, but 
Julia Neuburger ’18 saved both.
In the same period, Allie Ai-
ello ’17 nearly netted her first of 
the season, but Myette blocked 
the puck on a backhander. 
UMass Boston tried for another 
two opportunities, but the clock 
expired before either team could 
get on the scoreboard.
It was not until well into the 
second that the Panthers could 
translate their energy into a 
goal. Winslow, who has scored 
the game-winner in each of 
Middlebury’s four post-season 
games, skated up the left wing 
and took a sharp pass from Jen-
na Marotta ’19 before wristing a 
shot into the top-right corner of 
the net. The Panthers went on 
the power play at 18:59 in the 
second, but could not score and 
took their 1-0 lead into the final 
period.
A minute into the third, Win-
slow nearly struck again, but her 
shot was denied by the crossbar. 
Janka Hlinka ’18 came in clutch 
at 1:54 from the left circle, giv-
ing the Panthers a 2-0 lead with 
her fourth goal on the season. At 
3:42, Julia Wardwell ’16 nearly 
made that a 3-0 lead on a shot 
from the left that hit the post. 
Winslow skated in to tip the shot 
netward, finishing Wardwell’s 
women’s hockey set to 
appear in frozen four  
By Ethan Brady
Features Editor 
CONTINUED ON PAGE 19
Panther Skiers Combine For 
Eleventh Place at NCAA Race 
