On Feb. 19, a group of 10 dis-
gruntled students shook up a 
Community Council-sponsored 
“Community Conversation” event 
with loud allegations directed to-
wards the College’s Residential 
Life team. These ten students, all 
former or current varsity athletes, 
complained that they had been 
unfairly treated in the off-campus 
housing lottery on the basis of 
their identities as athletes. 
The off-campus housing lot-
tery is a random process through 
which rising seniors can apply to 
live in houses not owned by the 
College. Interested students can 
submit applications for groups of 
up to three people. These applica-
tions are then put into a pot and 
selected at a drawing event that is 
open to all students who applied. 
The applications are then drawn 
from the pot by a random student 
who applied for off-campus hous-
ing. According to the College’s 
website, the only criterion that 
may bar applicants from being ac-
College discipline. 
As the Campus reported on 
Feb. 25, 58 rising seniors were ap-
proved to live off campus in this 
year’s lottery, which took place 
on Feb. 17. Of these rising seniors, 
approved only eight varsity ath-
letes were chosen from the lottery, 
of the 37 varsity athletes who ap-
plied. Three others athletes were 
accepted just after the lottery 
because Residential Systems Co-
ordinator Karin Hall-Kolts, who 
organizes and conducts the lot-
tery, forgot to add their names to 
the pot.
It was the shockingly low ac-
ceptance rate among varsity ath-
letes that caused the Community 
Conversation outcry. How could 
the lottery be random if so few 
athletes were accepted, they chal-
lenged. 
“It just doesn’t seem random 
based on who got it,” said Riley 
Dickie ’16, a former men’s hockey 
player who was rejected from the 
lottery and spoke at the Commu-
nity Conversation event.  “It just 
“I would like to think that it 
is random because it is such an 
important thing for so many stu-
dents,” added Maggie Caputi ’16, 
a women’s lacrosse team member 
who was accepted in the lottery 
but also spoke out at the Commu-
nity Conversation. “At the same 
time, I think it’s really suspect that 
weren’t approved to live off cam-
pus. I think that’s really weird.”
“I don’t think that the people 
in the hat were chosen to be in the 
hat,” said Mary Claire Ecclesine 
member. “I just think that maybe 
some people were taken out. And 
there’s no way that anyone could 
know that.”  
Claiming that the administra-
tion may have rigged the lottery 
against varsity athletes that they 
believed were more likely to throw 
lacrosse players, these ten stu-
dents claimed there was foul play. 
The Campus Investigates
In the light of these claims, the 
Campus decided to investigate 
just how random the off-campus 
housing lottery was on Feb. 19. 
Based on calculations per-
formed by Paige-Wright Profes-
sor of Economics Paul Sommers 
and this reporter using hypergeo-
metric probability distribution, 
the probability that only these 
11 athletes, who applied in 6 ap-
plication groups, would be ac-
cepted in a random lottery—and 
so many others would be reject-
ed—is 35/10,000 chances. If we 
march 19, 2015 | Vol. 113 no. 19 | middleburycampus.com
CHILI FEST!!!
PAGE 4-5
MIDD’S OWN 
SOCIOLOGY 
PODCAST
PAGE 14
COLLEGE 
CELEBRATES 
IRISH TRADITIONS 
AND TUNES
PAGE 17
By Emilie Munson
Questions Surround Off-Campus Housing Lottery
Found Across Campus
Julia Alvarez ’71 to Deliver
May Commencement Address
By Joe Flaherty
Author, poet, writer-in-residence and Middlebury grad Julia 
Alvarez ’71 will be the commencement speaker on May 24.
College Communications
By Jason Zhang
Earlier last week, a series of 
anonymous graffiti paintings 
appeared across campus, spark-
ing debate and concern. The 
graffiti pieces were found at Bi-
Hall, Forest Lounge, the Center 
for the Arts, Virtue Field House, 
Warner, Hillcrest, Ross and 
Munroe, according to Facilities 
Services and student sources. 
At BiHall, one stencil spray-
painting depicted a riot police 
officer holding a baton, with 
the words “TOO MANY COPS, 
TOO LITTLE JUSTICE.” The 
stencil appeared next to a large 
sprayed security camera and the 
words “NO CAMERAS.” At the 
entrance of Ross dining hall, 
a graffiti work read “BLACK 
POWER MATTERS”. 
A stenciled rat in a suit ap-
peared in multiple locations: 
Warner, the Field House and a 
trashcan at the entrance of CFA. 
Another, on the exterior 
wall of the CFA entrance, read 
“THIEF,” which is stylistically 
different from the others. “It 
does not make any sense, un-
like the stencil ones, which are 
better done. I think they are try-
ing to say something but just 
not in the right way,” said Elyse 
Barnard ’15, who saw the iso-
lated one at the CFA and a few 
at Ross.
The appearance of the graffiti 
coincides with a wave of cam-
pus events focusing on street 
art. Most notably, the exhibi-
tion held at the College Museum 
of Art, “Outside In: Art of the 
Street,” which launched on Feb. 
13. Other events included the 
completion of a new Museum fa-
çade and a museum piece com-
menting on Andy Warhol both 
painted by British street art-
ist Ben Eine over Winter Break 
and a documentary screening of 
“Style Wars” by the co-producer 
and photographer Henry Chalf-
ant. 
The College exhibition con-
trasts with the black and white 
graffiti that appeared outside 
the CFA and on College build-
ings. The juxtaposition reveals 
not only the different level of 
artistic expression, but also the 
divergent destinies of the works 
by famous graffiti artists and the 
ones that appeared on campus. 
Many current social issues 
are at play in the messages in-
herent to the graffiti. Joanne 
Wu ’15 commented on the dis-
play outside of Ross Dining 
Hall, which read “BLACK POW-
ER MATTERS.” 
She said, “I think damaging 
public property in any form is 
irresponsible, in part because 
we are in this living space to-
gether. There are many non-
destructive ways to get out your 
message that are equally, if not 
less, impactful. I do not agree 
with it. But I do agree that it has 
a high impact factor because it 
gets people’s notice.” 
On the effectiveness of the 
message, Wu mentioned the in-
stallation in the Davis Family 
SEE STATISTICS, PAGE 3
Novelist, poet and College 
writer-in-residence Julia Alvarez 
’71 will deliver this year’s com-
mencement address. Alvarez, 
along with four others, will re-
ceive an honorary degree at the 
May 24 ceremony.
Alvarez is the acclaimed au-
thor of novels, essays and books, 
including In the Time of the 
 and How the García 
Girls Lost Their Accents. She was 
awarded the National Medal of 
Arts — the highest honor given 
to artists and arts patrons by the 
U.S. government — by President 
Obama in 2013. In addition to 
writing, Alvarez and her husband 
run a sustainable coffee farm and 
literacy center called Alta Gracia 
in the Dominican Republic.
President of the College Ron-
ald D. Liebowitz said in an inter-
view, “Julia has inspired genera-
tions. As a writer-in-residence, 
she has touched so many individ-
uals in the area of creative writ-
ing and expression of one’s own 
self.” 
-
bury graduate to do a creative 
writing thesis in poetry. She 
credits faculty members such as 
C. A. Dana Professor of English 
& American Literatures David 
Price and Robert Pack, the poet, 
faculty member and longtime di-
rector of the Bread Loaf Writer’s 
Conference, for supporting her 
early writing efforts.
Alvarez said in an interview 
that she relishes the opportunity 
to speak to a graduating class at 
an institution that means a great 
deal to her.
“It’s very touching to be there 
with a class that is about to set 
out on the journey that I am 
looking back on now,” Alvarez 
said. “They’re saying goodbye 
to a certain kind of connection 
to the College, but this place re-
mains under your skin and in 
your bloodstream, I think.”
Dominican Republic when she 
was 10 to escape the regime of 
Rafael Trujillo.
In addition to graduating 
from the College, Alvarez has 
taught at Middlebury since 1988 
and in 1998 transitioned from 
her tenured position to become 
writer-in-residence. She holds a 
master’s in creative writing from 
Syracuse University. Addition-
ally, Alvarez has frequented the 
Bread Loaf Writers’ Conference 
and the Bread Loaf School of 
English.
 “The Bread Loaf Writer’s Con-
ference, the Bread Loaf School of 
English — I had been trying to get 
back here ever since I graduat-
ed,” Alvarez explained. “So I took 
the job [in 1988] and here I am.”
Liebowitz also noted Alvarez’s 
-
lege. “She is an inspiration to 
a whole host of creative under-
graduates here at Middlebury,” 
he said.
Alvarez, who said she antici-
pates departing her writer-in-
residence position within the 
next year, sees her address as an 
opportunity to say goodbye to the 
By The Numbers
People who applied: 111 individuals 
approved: 58
Varsity athletes approved: 11
varsity athletes applied: 37
% of student body that is 
varsity athletes:
28%
groups: (students can apply in 
groups of three)
59 application groups
17 athlete groups applied
38 groups approved,
6 groups of athletes 
were approved
SEE FACILITIES, PAGE 2
Cassie Kent
SEE ALVAREZ, PAGE 3
in
sid
e
| march 19, 20152 NEWS
New Internship Funding for CSE
By Minori Fryer
Midd Alum Featured on reddit Front Page
By Claire Treesh
Sga Update
The photo of Ben Savard ’14 was taken by a California Two-Spot Octopus.
Courtesy Ben Savard
A new summer internship opportu-
nity has been launched by the Middle-
bury Center for Social Entrepreneurship 
(MCSE) in conjunction with the The 
Center for Social Impact Learning (CSIL) 
at the Middlebury Institute for Interna-
tional Studies at Monterey (MIIS) with 
the goal of supporting students as agents 
of social change. 
Introduced this academic year, the 
program known as Ambassador Corps 
was brought  to the College by Jeremy 
Hildebrand, founder of the Global Cen-
ter for Social Entrepreneurship at the 
University of the Pacific in California, 
who is now the director for CSIL at MIIS. 
Mustafa Babak, CSE program and 
outreach associate as well as the point-
person between the CSE at Middlebury 
and CSIL at MIIS, describes the program 
as an “extraordinary opportunity for 
Middlebury students,” for its unique and 
well-structured nature. 
Open to College students of all class 
years, applicants are chosen by the Cen-
ter for Social Impact Learning at MIIS 
through a rigorous selection process. 
Successful applicants are placed in one 
of MIIS’s partner organizations around 
the globe, at a location that matches the 
students’ skills and area of interest. Past 
students who have participated in the 
program at the University of the Pacific 
have interned in countries such as Ne-
pal, Paraguay, Uganda, Vietnam, China, 
Rwanda and Kenya, working on projects 
associated with public health, disaster 
relief and micro-finance. 
There is a program fee of $2,000 for 
the 8 to 12 week program; however, eli-
gible students (such as those receiving 
financial aid from the College) can apply 
for bulk-funding from the CSE to help 
cover the costs, as a result of a generous 
donation. 
Babak, who is familiar with the pro-
gram as a graduate of the University of 
the Pacific, said, “I have met all of the 
students who have participated in Am-
bassador Corps, and they all come back 
a completely different person.”
 As a result of the enriching experi-
ence, some students have developed long 
term relationships with the organiza-
tions, and often return to work for them 
upon graduating. 
“The program is not only enrich-
ing for American students, but it is also 
enriching for the local communities in 
which the students make an impact,” 
Babak said. “The program works on the 
ethic of ‘paying it forward’, and the great 
thing about the way it works is that there 
is definitely a fruitful and tangible out-
come for the students upon completion.” 
Although the deadline for the first 
round of applications already passed on 
March 10th, students who are interested 
can apply for the second round of ap-
plications that are due on April 10. Ac-
cording to Babak, avid and experienced 
entrepreneurs, as well as those who are 
beginners to social entrepreneurship are 
all encouraged to apply, as long as stu-
dents are able to demonstrate their pas-
sion for social change.
“The program is not only 
enriching for American 
students, but it is also 
enriching for the local 
communities in which the 
students make an impact.”
Mustafa Babak
CSE Program and outreach associate
At their meetings on March 8 and March 
15, the SGA passed notable acts and resolu-
tions. The Senate also voted to ratify Maddy 
Sanchez ’17 as the Director of Transporta-
and six new members of the Awards Com-
mittee. 
 
meeting was the Honor Code Biennial Ref-
erendum Resolution, sponsored by Presi-
dent Custer ’15. The committee drafted this 
resolution in Winter Term, after carefully 
considering the Honor Code’s merits and 
failings. As Custer described, the committee 
was set up to think about “how we can come 
together as a community to talk about the 
Honor Code”. The resolution, which details 
how a revision process of the Honor Code 
could take place, was discussed at length. 
After some concern surrounding the time-
line of the process, the resolution was put 
to a vote and passed nearly unanimously.
The next issue was the Senate Reform 
Act, sponsored by Custer. The act, which 
was created in the hopes of changing stu-
dent perception and understanding of the 
efforts of the SGA, met much contention.  
Many senators had issues with the po-
tential adjustment of types of senators, as 
outlined in the act. The act entailed elimi-
replacing them with eight “cluster board” 
senators, representing different groups 
on campus. The eight senators would be 
representatives from the cluster boards: 
academic and activists, cultural organiza-
tions, special interest and activities orga-
nizations, publications, religious organiza-
tions, athletics, and visual and performing 
arts. Some of the senators supported this 
change, saying that people’s actual inter-
ests would be better represented with this 
kind of system.  However, there was con-
cern from senators, such as from Senator 
Gogineni ’16, who said that an increase in 
the number of senators would greatly de-
While the bill also containted of other 
changes to the senate, the issue of cluster 
board senators seemed to be the biggest 
point of interest. Therefore Custer made a 
motion to split the bill, in order to only vote 
on the senators section at that meeting. The 
motion was passed and the act was put to 
a vote. The senators voted 9-6-2, and the 
act did not pass because it required a 2/3 
majority.
At the March 15 meeting, two acts were 
passed: The Coffee Hour Act, sponsored 
by Custer and the LaundryView Invest-
ment Act, sponsored by Senator Toy ’17. 
The Coffee Hour Act will entail one coffee 
hour a week provided by the SGA, available 
for students to meet with and talk to their 
senators. Each senator is required to attend 
at least three coffee hours a semester, likely 
Custer said that he envisioned these being 
easy, casual study breaks for students, with 
the added ability to get to know SGA mem-
bers or offer suggestions.
The LaundryView Investment Act is a 
project that has been a reoccurring discus-
sion for SGA  during the entire academic 
year. After extensive research, the adminis-
tration has told the SGA that the funding for 
LaundryView, a program which would tell 
students which machines were open/work-
ing, would have to come directly from the 
SGA’s budget. This act designated $8,500 
and $3,500 for the second year to be paid 
-
dent Life Survey, it was found that nearly 
72 percent of the student body thought they 
put to a vote and passed 10-6-1. 
College Digital Media Producer Ben 
Savard ’14 achieved Internet fame after a 
photo of himself taken by an octopus was 
featured on the front page of Reddit, a 
popular entertainment, news and social 
networking site. The photo of Savard 
dressed in a white lab coat rapidly 
circulated the Internet and credited 
its photographer, Middlebury’s female 
California Two-Spot Octopus.
Before the photo was taken, Savard was 
working on a video about the College’s 
science departments and decided to 
feature the neuroscience research of 
was observing whether octopi could be 
trained to open a puzzle box with food 
after firstly watching another octopus 
demonstrate. Savard prepared to record 
the experiment by inserting a GoPro 
camera with an automatic shutter inside 
the aquarium containing the octopus.
“[The octopi] grab everything we put 
According to her, octopi are naturally 
curious creatures. It therefore came 
as no surprise 
the octopus immediately reached for 
the camera when it was placed in the 
tank. In doing so, the octopus happened 
to direct the lens towards Savard and 
capture several photos.
“It was all very circumstantial,” 
Savard said.
The photos captured the progression 
from the moment the octopus grabbed 
the camera to when it directed the 
camera toward Savard. It was not until 
Savard was sifting through the footage 
the following day that he discovered 
the octopus’ photos and decided to post 
them on Reddit.
“Reddit is a website I’ve been on for 
a while. I know the format, I know how 
to make [posts] appealing to people. I 
wanted everyone to see [the photos], and 
it’s cool if people hopefully attract some 
attention to the sciences at Middlebury,” 
Savard said.
On March 10, the post garnered more 
than 2.2 million views on Reddit, and 
that number has since risen to over 
3.3 million. The image has reached 
popularity among the site’s users, with 
several comparing the image to a ’90s 
alternative rock album and a “promo 
shot for an educational TV show.”
The post has also been featured on 
news outlets such as The Washington 
Post, The Daily Mail and NBC News. 
To quell speculation from skeptics 
who believed the photos were fake, 
Savard created and shared a graphics 
entire photo series.
Despite his internet fame, Savard has 
research for the photos.
Savard said, “I am not the story, I am 
hopefully just there to tell a good story. I 
don’t want to be the researcher, I want to 
be the GoPro, I want to capture things in 
a cool way and make sure that research 
unappreciated...I was here for four years 
and I’m realizing now there’s so many 
different aspects of Middlebury that I 
didn’t appreciate, and most of that is 
based around the work the students are 
doing.”
By Tess Weitzner
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Library focusing on the issues of Mexican 
immigration and mistreatment of Mexi-
can labor. 
She points out the deficiency of con-
text of the campus graffiti and compares 
it to the more academic way of putting 
an installation in the library, which goes 
through the bureaucracy. “I think they 
have a very provocative display in the li-
brary. That also attracts attention,” she 
said.
“It’s egotistic vandalism that some-
body else has to clean up,” John D. Bern-
inghausen Professor of Chinese Thomas 
Moran wrote in an email response to the 
Campus.
However, not everyone knew as much 
about the graffiti pieces that appeared. 
Professor of American Studies Timothy 
Spears saw the graffiti at the Athletic 
Complex and heard about others, but 
could not speculate about their purpose 
’17, did not hear about it at all partly be-
in promptly to remove the graffiti works.
Moser explained the cleaning process in 
an email response to the Campus. He 
said, “A solvent is used to remove graf-
fiti on painted surfaces, then these sur-
faces will be repainted when weather al-
paste to extract the graffiti. Both of these 
methods are effective, and are labor in-
tensive.”
Moser, Spears and Moran, all con-
firmed that this is not the first time graf-
fiti has appeared on campus. According 
to the College archives, numerous inci-
dents of graffiti have occurred at the Col-
lege, from basic desk inscriptions in 1966 
to political messages on the cement can-
a studio and gallery for student graffiti, 
murals and stenciling until the room was 
painted over in 2012. At the same time, 
homophobic graffiti appeared in Ross 
and prompted the then Ross Commons 
Heads Steve and Katy Smith Abbott and 
the administration to resolutely step 
in. These incidents and the most recent 
all point to a long history of active and 
passionate students with a desire to be 
heard.
march 19, 2015 |  3        News
Statistics Prof. Calculates Probability of Foul Play
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
HAVE A
RELAXING SPRING 
BREAK!
CHECK BACK IN 
APRIL FOR NEW 
PROGRAMMING 
AND WARMER 
WEATHER
(HOPEFULLY).
excluded two application groups, whose 
names were not or were likely not in the 
lottery pot at the time of the drawing (the 
three athletes who were accepted just after 
44/10,000 chances. 
-
though slight, that 
this outcome would 
occur. It is not im-
result to occur in a 
random lottery pro-
cess. 
Sommers inter-
preted these low 
-
-
thing impeding the 
randomness of the 
lottery system. 
“Somewhere there is an element of non-
randomness,” Sommers said. “And it may 
lottery not thoroughly mixing the slips.”
Administrative Response
Campus last 
week, Associate Dean of Students for 
Residential and Student Life Doug Adams 
maintained that the lottery was 100 percent 
random. 
“The reason we do the draw is to address 
the concern that there is something other 
than random chance [happening],” Adams 
said. “It is completely random chance.”
off-campus attended the lottery drawing. 
with the drawing.
-
complaints of discrimination against a 
raised. 
He maintains that the off-campus hous-
ing lottery is one of the most transparent 
processes of any at the College.
can get, currently,” Adams said. 
claims. 
The Waitlist
In addition to the lottery itself, athletes 
with the waitlist process that follows it. 
After the initial lottery, students who ap-
-
form them whether they were accepted or 
not, and those students not accepted must 
-
spond to the email quickly as the order in 
which students respond determines their 
place on the waitlist. A higher spot on the 
are two-fold. 
 First, Hall-Kolts sent the emails inform-
students who applied in all-athlete groups 
-
ing them against 
non-athletes who 
-
spond right away 
and get a higher 
spot on the waitlist. 
Adams respond-
ed that this was 
not an issue he was 
the timing of the 
email was not inten-
tional. 
“[The email was sent] at the time that 
she [Karin] was done processing the infor-
mation,” Adams explained. “We certainly 
can adjust our times if it’s felt that that is a 
they were not informed of their position on 
the waitlist. This lead them to suspect that 
students were not getting off the waitlist 
other factors, such as pressure from par-
donors to the College. 
“The perception of a lot of kids is that 
Adams countered that these allegations 
are “completely not true.”
He said the reason that students’ posi-
tions on the waitlist are not shared with 
positions changing often when students 
campus instead.   
“We don’t take anything into consider-
around [on the waitlist].”
On Campus Housing Policies
housing policies and suspected discrimina-
unfairly in on-campus housing processes.
house application process, two groups of 
-
cause of their identities as athletes. 
 Campus on 
-
-
letes applied for Homestead House with 
one non-athlete. The group felt optimistic 
They were the only group that applied to 
-
-
tion of their group.
off campus and all were rejected in the ini-
tial lottery.  
organizer of the proposed Palmer social 
house “The Hall,” felt his social house ap-
plication was denied for the same reason: 
the spring. 
In an email to Adams sent after the 
group’s rejection, which Denious shared 
with the Campus, Stewart explained, “We 
-
as an athlete house asking us how many 
Finally, a student who wished to remain 
anonymous told the Campus that during 
his application process for a mod he was 
-
housing to all-male groups of athletes. This 
-
tually awarded a mod for next year, how-
Adams denies that applications for so-
According to Adams, this year an espe-
percent of the stu-
dents who were 
social houses next 
year are athletes. 
“We always 
look at athletic sta-
tus after we make 
the acceptances 
for the main rea-
son that we want 
to make sure that 
we are not discriminating against a group,” 
Adams said. “We look for the strongest pro-
gram, not [at] the group of students that are 
Thus, according to Adams, the applica-
the committee felt were the strongest; they 
athletes on their roster or the gender of 
those athletes. 
 Implications
The Campus -
-
 Campus say 
for certain whether athletic identity may 
others, consciously or unconsciously. The 
-
-
their own names in the lottery pot so that 
they know that the pot was not pre-select-
express desire to see the waitlist and know 
-
ing nature. 
-
-
-
with the Campus, Adams explained that the 
College plans on hosting a series of meeting 
with local property owners to try to address 
this issue. 
Finally, and most radically, some stu-
-
in the lottery. “A large group of my friends 
that fair.” 
Lastly, in the largest sense, the student 
at the College. 
As Denious sug-
gested in his email 
to Adams, some stu-
administrators draw 
on this one aspect of 
their identity.  
“This [Denious’s 
Palmer social house 
group] was a group 
-
in the country, social interests, and some 
of us happen to play sports,” Denious said. 
sweeping generalizations, and completely 
person in the house and completely goes 
-
letic community here without really know-
understanding the culture of each team,” 
-
gardless of whether or not the lottery was 
random, it is important to know that ath-
Alvarez and Four Others to Receive Honorary Degrees
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
College.  
-
-
ters degree. The other honorary degree 
-
-
an intentional theme for the ceremony.
“All of the honorary degree recipients 
-
itz said. 
-
an honorary Doctor of Science degree. 
-
undergraduate science education,” Li-
-
graduates, which is highly unusual for a 
-
countries. In addition to winning three 
Grammys, Hahn also attended the Mid-
-
man, French and Japanese.  
Christina Johnston, the principal of 
-
-
science, language instruction, and design-
the local school for the past 20 years.
-
-
-
eral Arts, a lecture titled “The Lord Alone 
-
-
day.”
The commencement ceremony will 
take place at 10 a.m. on May 24.
“The reason we do the draw 
is to address the concern 
that there is something other 
than random chance [hap-
pening]. It is completely 
random chance.”
Doug Adams
Associate dean of students 
“Somewhere there is an ele-
ment of non-randomness. 
And it may be as simple as 
someone who conducts the 
lottery not thoroughly mix-
ing the slips. ”
Paul Sommers
paige-wright professor of economics
This past Saturday, March 14, 
downtown Middlebury was transformed 
by thousands of people who gathered for 
the Seventh Annual Vermont Chili Fest-
val. Chili Fest has been ranked one of the 
Top 10 Winter Events by the Vermont 
Chamber of Commerce. The event went 
from 1p.m. to 4p.m. Proceeds from this 
event support Better Middlebury Part-
nership and the Vermont Food Bank. 
The chili was provided by over 50 res-
taurants and caterers from around Ver-
mont. To enter as a chili booth, teams 
had to make at least 15 gallons of chili.
Activities included chili tasting, bal-
loon animals, street performers, a bever-
age tent and live music provided by The 
Grift. 
Participants in the event paid $7 at 
the door ($5 in advance, children under 
eight were free) and received a voting to-
ken and a spoon. They then were able to 
walk down Main Street and sample chili 
from the many different booths there. 
After deciding which was their favorite, 
participants were able to vote with their 
token for the People’s Choice Award 
Winner. 
A panel of six chili judges were also 
at the event, and they voted on six dif-
ferent categories of chili which included: 
veggie, beef, chicken, game, kitchen sink 
and pork. Winners all received cash priz-
es and then competed for the Best Over-
all category, which received a cash prize 
of $1,000.
Judges for the event rated chilis on a 
score sheet that included criteria such as 
aroma, taste and texture. 
“It’s tough,” said chili festival judge 
Bill Snell, owner of Tourterelle. “There’s 
a lot of good ones.”
For Sarah Pollack, a judge from Bur-
lington, last Saturday was her first time 
judging the Vermont Chili Fest, howev-
er she had previously judged an indoor 
chili fest. 
“I do make chili at home,” said Pol-
lak. “My daughter tells me that…my epi-
taph is going to read, ‘Has never gotten 
chili right.’ That makes me quite the 
qualified judge.”
This year the Vermont Chili Festival 
was extremely popular, and noticeably 
crowded. “The event was too crowded 
for our liking this year,” said Peggy Sax, 
from Cornwall, VT. Sax has attended 
three chili festivals, and also comment-
ed that this year seemed like a younger 
crowd. Duncan Levear ’15, a three-time 
chili festival participant, also noticed a 
crowd increase. “I think there are more 
people here this year. It’s more popular. 
I think the lines are longer.”
Although teams needed 15 gallons 
of chili to enter in the festival, several 
ran out early on in the event. The Fire 
and Brimstone booth made close to 15 
gallons, and ran out by 2:30 p.m. G.W. 
Tatro Construction, Relay for Life, Con-
nor Homes, WhistlePig and the Bearded 
Frog all also made around 15 gallons 
and ran out before the event was over. 
Rosie’s made 30 gallons, 15 of both of 
their flavors, and also ran out. 
“I’ve never dished out 15 gallons of 
chili in an hour and a half,” said Cody 
March, who was working at the G.W. 
Tatro Construction booth. “I’ve never 
dished out 15 gallons of chili period.”
Some booths anticipated large 
crowds and made much more than 15 
gallons. Our House (Twisted Comfort 
Food), made 120 gallons (20 gallons for 
each of the six categories).
Todd Raymond, who was working at 
Pictured below are photos of various chili 
samples at the Vermont Chili Festival.
Local 
The 2015 Vermont Chili Festival attracted a crowd of thousands of connoisseurs.
isabelle dietz
By Annie Grayer, Alessandria Schumacher and Isabelle Dietz
Matt, chef and owner of Our House, cooking one of his multiple batches of chili.
isabelle dietz
  4 |March 19, 2015
the Two Brothers booth, said that it took 
the restaurant three days to make their 
chili, and that probably about six people 
were involved in the process.
Some organizations use the popularity 
of the Vermont Chili Festival for public-
ity. Casey Harlow, for example, passed out 
beads for Relay of Life. “I’m here to publi-
cize for our event on April 11 and help pass 
out the chili,” said Harlow. 
Kris Lawson, owner of Curve Appeal in 
Middlebury, had a sign up advertising free 
bathroom use during the Chili Festival to 
help publicize her store.
“I went to Costco and got tons of toilet 
paper,” said Lawson. “A lot of people will 
maybe come in and go, ‘Ooh, I didn’t know 
that this was here.’ Or my other hope is 
that the conservative people who are a little 
frightened and don’t know what it is and 
don’t want to walk down the big scary steps 
will come and go,‘This is nice.’”  
The Vermont Chili Festival had a large 
showing both from students and local fami-
lies. Activities such as balloon animals ap-
pealed to a younger crowd, while the beer 
tent was only open for those over the age 
of 21.    
“The beer was good,” said Arnav Ad-
hikari ’16. “They had Drop-In. I love Drop-
In.”
Middlebury College students also have 
a tradition of being involved in the Vermont 
Chili Festival. Last year the winning team 
was the men’s cross-country team. The fes-
tival also draws on students for volunteers.
Kyler Blodgett ’17 was a volunteer this 
year. “My job involved being at the check-
in table for tickets, marking people off 
the prepaid list and doing cash for tickets 
that are being bought right now, giving 
them their chips and their buttons, telling 
them how it’s laid out,” said Blodgett. He 
found out about the volunteer opportunity 
through a Middlebury Community Engage-
ment email.
The Vermont Chili Festival in 
Middlebury allows students from different 
regions than New England to sample Ver-
mont chili. 
“Coming from the West Coast, I’ve 
never really experienced a real chili like 
they have here at the chili fest,” said Henry 
Thompson ’17. “I like how it’s such a cel-
ebration of a folky, you know, agricultural, 
community based food.” Thompson has 
been to the Chili Festival for both of his two 
years at Middlebury, and says that he plans 
on making four out of four. “Honestly, chili 
fest is the highlight of Middlebury spring 
every year.”
From left to right in the top row, Caitlin Duffy ’15.5, Greg Swartz ’17.5, Joelle Men-
hart ’15, Jaime Huffnagle ’15 and Paul Donnelly ’15 enjoy chili samples. Pictured in 
the middle row are the chili fest judges. Chili booth servers (bottom left) pose for 
the camera. Max Goodfellow, age 6.5, and his balloon penguin (bottom right). 
isabelle dietz
March 19, 2015 |   5Local
Carol’s Hungry Mind Cafe has just been selected to be a distributor of marijuana.
Advertisements6  | march 19, 2015 1AdvertisementsJanuary 16, 2014 | 
Recently, a series of incidents of van-
dalism brought unrest to the College com-
munity. Messages such as “Black Power 
Matters” and “If you win the rat race, 
you’re still a rat” have 
appeared, spray-painted 
or etched, on the walls of 
Ross Dining Hall, War-
ner Hall and McCardell 
Bicentennial Hall. Many 
students and faculty 
feel that these messages 
are violations of College 
property and infringements on commu-
nity trust and accountability. 
Having said this, the Campus believes 
that incredibly important activist messag-
es underlie these incidences of vandalism. 
By marking College buildings, the activists 
are throwing the cold hard fact of racism 
right in our faces. On this predominantly 
white campus, many students are rarely 
forced to address issues of race and police 
brutality. This is not a luxury afforded to 
people of color, who have no choice but to 
deal with these issues in their daily lives. 
Thus, the medium of the artwork is inte-
gral to the content of the messages. The 
issues head-on and makes these often dis-
tant struggles highly personal. The van-
dalism undeniably starts a conversation, 
and we at the Campus recognize that the 
conversation it aims to start - about rac-
ism and privilege – is vitally important. 
We question, however whether this is the 
conversation the activists have actually 
created.
-
nitely contributes to the message, it also 
has started a polarizing conversation, 
which has been primarily about vandal-
ism, not race or privilege. Recently, Midd 
Unmasked was able to contribute to the 
sexual assault dialogue on campus through 
posters around campus and an accom-
panying video in which survivors share 
their experiences navigating the College’s 
sexual assault policies. This has been a 
very produc-
tive forum 
for open dia-
logue about a critical issue. Importantly, 
the video made waves without creating an 
unhelpful side conversation about the de-
struction of school property.  
The limitation of such forums, how-
ever, is that they only reach people who 
actively choose to involve themselves in 
the conversation. While learning from 
a forum dedicated to education on the 
topic, we can still learn a lot from these 
spray-painted messages. We are witness-
our student body with issues it might 
typically only think about in a classroom 
and gravity of the issues that affect mem-
bers of our community every day. It would 
more than an incident of vandalism, but it 
is a result of much deeper societal prob-
lems that we need to wrestle with as a 
community. 
That being said, an inexcusable side 
additional work for our facilities staff 
members. We are an incredibly privileged 
academic community, but must recognize 
the many hours our staff members spent 
cleaning and repainting vandalized ar-
eas. The intention of the vandalism may 
be to start an important conversation, 
but ultimately it was disrespectful to staff 
members. While it may not have been the 
artists’ 
intention to create more 
work for our staff, that has been the un-
fortunate consequence.
For this reason, we feel that the activ-
less destructive (though hopefully equally 
effective) means of communicating their 
painted sheet would be easier to clean 
up and less damaging than spray paint-
ing buildings. These means of spreading 
the message would also avoid distractions 
from the subject matter; we could talk 
about the messages themselves instead of 
the vandalism. 
We as a community might also want to 
consider creating a communal space that 
students could use in any artistic way they 
like and voice their opinions. Tufts has a 
statue of a cannon that community mem-
bers can draw on, paint or otherwise use 
to express themselves. Perhaps Middle-
bury needs a similar free-form space sole-
ly for this purpose. Currently, we have two 
chalk walls in BiHall and the mail center, 
but these spaces are primarily used for 
advertising and students have not histori-
cally taken ownership of these spaces for 
communicating activist messages. We 
recognize that these spaces also feel sani-
tized, and cannot facilitated as strong an 
effect had the activists placed it there. We 
need a student-owned space where we can 
start authentic and meaningful campus-
wide discussions.
While we agree with the importance 
call on artists and activists to be mind-
ful not to let their work 
come at the expense of 
other people’s time and 
hard work. Ultimately, 
a less destructive means 
of communicating the 
same ideas may steer 
the conversation away 
from the methods and 
more toward the subject 
matter. Furthermore, 
being at such an institu-
tion of higher learning, 
Middlebury students are 
well-equipped to initiate 
conversation in a more 
sophisticated fashion. While the Campus 
recognizes and appreciates the message 
the artists are trying to convey, we urge 
our peers to communicate the message in 
a way that better serves our community.
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful dia-
logue on substantive issues. With this in mind, The 
Campus reserves the right to deny publication of 
all or part of a submission for any reason.  This in-
cludes, but is not limited to: the making of assertions 
based on hearsay; the relation of private conversa-
the use of vulgar language or personal attacks. Any 
segment of a submitted article that contains any of 
the aforementioned will be removed before pub-
lication. Contributors will be allowed to reference 
prior articles published in the Opinions section or 
announcements for the public record. If a reference 
is made to prior articles, the submission will be con-
sidered a letter to the editor.  The Campus will not 
accept or print anonymous letters. The opinions ex-
pressed by contributors to the Opinions section, as 
well as reviews, columns, editorial comics and other 
commentary, are views of the individual contribu-
the newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submissions 
at 800 words or less. Submit works directly to the 
Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@middlebury.
edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.middlebury-
campus.com. To be considered for publications, 
submissions must be received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The 
Campus reserves the right to edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
-
located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury College. 
The Middlebury Campus is produced on Apple Ma-
cintosh computers using Adobe InDesign CS5 and is 
printed by the Press Republican in New York. The 
advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the following week’s 
issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury Campus, 
Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 
05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. Please ad-
dress distribution concerns to the Business Director. 
First class postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Time to Own the Honor Code 
Middlebury College tells anyone who 
will listen that the Honor Code is an es-
sential part of 
student life. 
We all heard 
about it in 
info sessions 
and tours 
when we were prospective students. 
We signed the Honor Code agreement 
when we submitted our applications. 
We sat through long, hot meetings with 
our Commons during orientation while 
our FYCs told us stories about why the 
Honor Code was important to them. 
But for most of us, it only takes a few 
weeks on campus to feel like we have 
been misled.
Most Middlebury students do not 
cheat, and surveys show that we like the 
idea of the Honor Code, but it is also 
clear that we do not have much faith 
that the Code works. We think that our 
peers cheat but we do not think that 
anybody reports the cheaters. The Eco-
nomics department has started proc-
toring tests because they do not believe 
that the Honor Code is working, and a 
number of students, faculty, and ad-
ministrators think that the rest of the 
school should follow suit. 
We on the SGA Honor Code Com-
mittee like the Code, but we think that 
a change needs to be made. We have 
proposed – and the Senate has passed 
a bill that will require – a biennial vote 
on whether to keep, amend, or elimi-
nate the Honor Code. Later this spring, 
there will be an all student referendum 
on this amendment to the Honor Code. 
If two-thirds of the student body votes, 
and two-thirds of those voters approve 
of the amendment, then next year we 
will hold a vote on whether to keep the 
honor code.
We want to make clear that we as a 
committee are in favor of keeping the 
Honor Code – we just want to make it 
more effective. The point of the vote is 
not to eliminate the Code, but rather 
to get the student body to engage with 
it. Currently, we sign the Honor Code 
during orientation week and then basi-
cally do nothing with it for the rest of 
our time at Midd.  Sure, we sign the 
pledge on papers and tests, but this 
becomes something that most of us do 
automatically without even thinking 
about it. That is not how Honor Codes 
are supposed to work, and we think that 
is why our Code is not working as well 
as we need it to. In order to succeed, the 
Honor Code needs to become deeply in-
grained in campus culture – it needs to 
be something that we really believe in.
Fifty years ago, it was the students 
who created the Honor Code at Middle-
bury because they wanted to live in a 
community that valued integrity and 
academic honesty.  Those values are not 
dead on Midd’s campus, but it’s hard to 
feel like the Honor Code belongs to us 
when it was our grandparents who cre-
ated it.  We think a vote will help stu-
dents take ownership of the Code, and 
give it a legitimacy that can only make 
it stronger.
Some people might be worried that 
this proposal might result in drastic 
changes or even the elimination of the 
Honor Code. We think it is worth the 
risk. We think that the conversations 
and debates that this bill will raise will 
be good for the Honor Code and for 
the school as a whole. It is true that we 
are putting the Code at risk. However, 
we are of the opinion that the status 
quo is our worst available option. It 
does no one any good to have an Hon-
or Code that no one believes in. If the 
student body is not willing to stand up 
and do what it takes to keep the Honor 
Code alive and well, then we are bet-
ter off scrapping it altogether.  We 
don’t want that to happen, and again, 
we really don’t think it’s going to hap-
pen. We hope and believe that we are 
just around the corner from a stronger 
Honor Code and a better Middlebury, 
but at this point it is out of our hands 
as a committee. It is up to all of us here 
in the community to support academic 
integrity at Middlebury by voting and 
by encouraging others to vote. It is time 
for all of us to own the Code.
 
Respectfully,
SGA Honor Code Committee
reader op-ed
SGA Honor Code 
Committee.
Rubi Saavedra
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Joe Flaherty
MANAGING EDITOR
Conor Grant
BUSINESS MANAGER
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Claire Abbadi, Phil Bohlman, Ellie Rein-
hardt, Christian Jambora, Eliza Teach
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Blackburn, Lawrence Dolan, Kate 
Hamilton, Edward O’Brien, Erin Van Gessel
SPORTS EDITORS 
Emily Bustard, Joe Macdonald, Alex Morris, 
Fritz Parker, Remo Plunkett
LOCAL EDITORS 
Isabelle Dietz, Annie Grayer
Alessandria Schumacher
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Hye-Jin Kim, 
Emilie Munson
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio, Leah Lavigne,
Elizabeth Zhou 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel Frank, Anahi Naranjo, Michael 
O’Hara, Ivan Valladares
DESIGN EDITORS
Evan Gallagher, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Jerrica Davy, Alex Herdman
COPY EDITOR
Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Jessica Cheung, Michelle Irei
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR
 Olivia Jurkowitz
In last week’s edition of the Campus, the editorial 
board wrote of a recent SGA bill: “The Campus com-
mends the SGA for taking 
initiative to create a more 
serious dialogue of change.” 
In a reply email, SGA Presi-
dent Taylor Custer wrote 
back: “I look forward to 
engaging in this important 
discussion.” In the midst of 
disagreement, we agree that it’s important that we’re talk-
ing about it. Doesn’t seem so productive, does it?
I am writing this week to suggest that there is a differ-
ence between talking about problems and doing things to 
solve them, and that we – the students, faculty and ad-
ministration of Middlebury – tend to do far too much of 
the former and not enough of the latter. So much so, in 
fact, that what we end up doing isn’t even talking about 
our problems, but talking about the importance of talking 
about them.
If you’re skeptical, think about the last time you 
heard somebody mention fostering dialogue or engag-
ing in conversations or starting discussions: these are the 
buzzwords that govern confrontational interactions here 
subjects, it seems, is to agree to talk about them some 
more. The insidious thing about this phenomenon is that 
talking-about-talking is really shorthand for putting off 
the responsibility of doing. It’s metadiscourse, linguistic 
apathy, and we should do everything in our power to op-
pose it.
I was disappointed at Sunday’s editorial meaning to 
hear my fellow editors using this tactic to write off the re-
activism – my co-editors suggested – is to spark conver-
sations about the issue at hand, and an anonymous act of 
but we cannot let it stand alone as a solution.
The thing about talking is that it’s easy to ignore. 
Groups on our campus have spent years trying to foster 
dialogue about issues of all kinds, and the tough reality is 
-
tions. Even if we allow ourselves to feel good about being 
the sort of people who are willing to talk about hard prob-
lems, we will fall into the mold of failing to do anything 
someone here breaking that mold. Creating a mess that 
someone else has to clean up is an imperfect solution, 
but I commend the person responsible for going outside 
for what they think is right. Language is a fragile, fragile 
thing; repeated abuse can break it.
  8 march 19, 2015| opinions
the floors at the U.S. Environmental 
P r o t e c t i o n 
Agency in 
Washington 
D.C., where I 
intern. Soles 
pat, digni-
fied, across them as agents flood in 
and out of the aisles office to office, a 
loose collared dance. My desk, flush 
with the copier, features an Escher 
print, a portrait of my parents and 
soft stones I collected on California’s 
coast. I doze watching swarms of foot 
traffic in the corridor, which evokes a 
Southwest terminal moments after de-
planing. One of the pebbles warms in 
my fist.
The internship started Monday, but 
two weeks. I do not have a badge for 
building clearance yet – they say two 
weeks, though the office v e t e r -
computer setup has 
been tortoise-
pace. I am the 
youngest in 
the build-
ing, prob-
ably on 
the whole 
block.
I am 
here in 
search of 
meaningful 
work. Two 
years into 
college and 
back from 
the honey-
moon, disenchantment set in. The 
outcomes for my Middlebury 60-hour 
work week were letters and numbers, 
not social reform or justice. In the age 
of the climate refugee and Black Lives 
Matter, thousands were sounding the 
alarm, and meanwhile, I was unre-
sponsive, a bovine bumming around 
greens under snow, spouting facts like 
broadsheet and nightly holed up in a 
Last fall, I met with Dean Hanson, 
asked for temporary leave 
and so started my gap 
semester, a season re-
leased from routine, 
h y p o t h e t i c a l 
c o u r s e w o r k 
and doused 
in rough-
and-tumble 
“real” life. 
I was inter-
ested in en-
h a n c -
ing lives, not proceeding with mine.
My time away did, however, start 
inward at a Buddhist monastery in the 
orchards north of Escondido, Califor-
nia. I lived under the rules and regimes 
of practicing monks of the olden Thai 
forest tradition. As a layman for one 
month, I attended morning and eve-
ning chants, prepared meals, swept 
paths and hiked to the groves down in 
the foothills to collect fruits – avoca-
does, oranges, kumquats – to trade in 
self. I read, wrote and meditated in-
satiably. I found sustentative calm, 
millennia-old wellsprings of wis-
dom, and more distilled notions 
of what I hope to accomplish this 
year, decade and century.
Days after leaving Metta For-
est, I was back East, attending 
the weekly roundtable brief for 
EPA’s Climate-Ready Water Utili-
ties (CRWU) Initiative, the office in 
which I now sit. CRWU is a program 
within the Water Securities Division 
that develops climate change risk 
assessment tools and strategies for 
water utility infrastructure opera-
remediation panel, though specific 
to the water sector, scaled nation-
wide and tailored by U.S. region. 
So far as glimpsed by the intern, 
there seems to be an overwhelm-
ing amount of impactful work 
conducted here. The CRWU Ini-
tiative’s efforts directly protect 
water treatment and transport 
infrastructure around the coun-
try, for decades and for millions.
In the thick of my semester away 
from Middlebury, I see clearer. Not 
in the sense of waning astigmatism 
or wearing prescription lenses, but 
in the sense of understanding. I can 
hear a procession of gridiron coming-
are our bounds today from college 
to employment that my generation’s 
youths – particularly, those of the na-
tion’s college elite – are losing sight 
of themselves. College-age millenni-
als are wearing blinders, and as I have 
come to discover, it has meant step-
ping away from schoolwork to lower 
them, take another look and gain finer 
resolution. That mental image we 
sustain of how we are supposed to go 
through our education should not, and 
cannot, blind us. College “condition-
ing” can wait. It is time to know – pre-
cisely and concisely – what we are do-
ing in college in the first place. As the 
globe gains weight, its temperature 
rises slowly and sprawl persists on the 
scale of continents, I cannot proceed 
listlessly, without genuine purpose or 
anchorage. In the light of the heat, this 
is my time to reassess. I welcome you 
to join me.
What our Connected Generation 
understands and a warmed world por-
tends do not agree. There is a mountain 
range of evidence without manifesto 
and we are complacent, afraid to ask 
fresh or difficult questions – to look 
diagnostically at the old – because we 
do not want to see what we will find. 
Do not trivialize the importance of in-
trospection. Evaluate and reevaluate. 
Critically review the armature of your 
plan. Consider time away, and take a 
closer look: it is the only way to create 
a climate tolerant of and furnished for 
reform. The view is not all bad.
The View From My Desk
Reader Op-Ed
Zane Anthony ’16.5 is 
from Annapolis, Md.
Let Us Never Fear To Negotiate
U.S. And Them
Jack Turnage ’17.5 is 
from Denver, Colo.
Have you seen the movie Boyhood? I watched it on my 
plane ride back to school this January — United had free 
movies for once, shocker! — 
-
sion on me.
For those who don’t 
know, it follows a boy, Ma-
son, over a twelve-year peri-
od as he grows to be an adult. Boyhood therefore doubles 
as a sort of societal documentary, spanning from 2002 to 
2013. That chronology aligns perfectly with my own grow-
ing up. I, and all other 90s babies from the year of the dog 
teen years during that period. 
movie brought back to life — 1990s Volvo station wagons, 
Soulja Boy songs, and the iPod Mini just to name a few 
empathetic response from me. 
Mason embodied a sentiment my generation seems all 
too familiar with: apathy. Whether it was seen through his 
low number of smiles and laughs or his lack of involve-
ment and interest in activities and people, Mason didn’t 
bring a whole lot to the table, and what’s more, he didn’t 
seem to care. 
I asked a few of my friends if they knew this type in real 
“LOL” back to a friend without actually cracking a smile. 
The sun beats into his bedroom, highlighting the dust on 
the TV screen that his mom asked him to clean a few days 
ago. 
Seem familiar? Seem sad? The image does not preview 
that generation of change-makers for which our prede-
cessors have stressed a need. Gone is the generation of 
dreamers, replaced instead with a level of contentedness 
and lethargy we have not yet earned for ourselves.  
Our planet’s temperature rises with each passing day, 
technology poses increasingly dangerous threats and our 
American government remains as called upon as ever, 
yet historically unproductive. These unsustainable trends 
make our generation the linchpin of progress; we just 
need to take on the challenge. 
Some events have recently demonstrated clear social 
objectives, like the climate march last fall. These social 
uprisings are reminiscent of past student protests — civil 
rights, anti-Vietnam War, etcetera, and they are one way 
to counteract the ambivalence that runs rampant in our 
generation. 
There is another even easier way to stay involved in 
public life, however: voting. 
For some reason that I cannot fathom young people 
-
cent of young people came out to vote. This is no small 
thing — the “Millennial generation” makes up a quarter of 
people could have. 
-
ting in his room. I can’t tell you the number of my peers 
who were that guy this past midterm election, too lazy or 
“busy” to vote. I myself came close to being that guy after 
involved with voting by mail. 
But then I remembered the outcome of voting. I re-
membered that I might not be deeply impassioned about 
that proposition on medical malpractice suits or even who 
the lieutenant governor of my state was (am I the only one 
who doesn’t know what they do?), but that doing a little 
research and casting my ballot kept me in the game of de-
mocracy. Voting on (sometimes seemingly unimportant) 
issues might not have changed my life, but it helped make 
sure that I lived a life that could one day incite change. 
Because it all comes down to this: when we do not vote, 
we disenfranchise ourselves; individuals lose their say in 
power. 
normally the nature of this column, but I felt it an impor-
tant enough issue to set the tone for this new year of writ-
ing. While I myself cannot claim to be above this youth 
apathy that I have laid out, I still want to highlight it. As 
Middlebury students, we all like to think of ourselves as 
being educated, involved world citizens, but I think we 
must also keep in mind the privilege and ease of living 
utopia. While it’s great to push the Real Food movement 
through campus, partner with Divest Middlebury and the 
like, let us not forget about an even more basic yet over-
looked way to stay involve: the civic duty of voting. 
The Things we say matter
notes from the 
desk
Fritz Parker ’15 is from 
Arlington, Va.
Let Us Never Fear To Negotiate
Gloria Breck
The prison system has recently been put in the 
spotlight with new statistics and stories revealing its 
flaws. But while racial dis-
parities have been widely 
publicized, and rightly so, 
there is another form of 
injustice manifesting itself 
within our carceral system: 
the treatment of those with mental health conditions. 
In 2006, a study conducted by the U.S. Department 
of Justice found that more than half of all prison and 
jail inmates have a mental health condition as com-
pared with only 11 percent of the general population. 
Although many of these people have been excused 
by the courts because of their illnesses, the lack of 
mental health resources alternatively resigns many 
to be locked up and shipped away. What’s worse is 
that within prisons, those with mental health condi-
tions face a host of difficulties. Neglect is rampant. 
According to that same survey, roughly 17 percent 
of inmates report a lack of available mental health 
treatment.
A whole host of social problems stem from this 
neglect. Prisoners, particularly psychotic prisoners, 
often have difficulties interacting with their fellow 
inmates. Guards, who are not especially trained to 
work with those with mental health conditions, then 
have difficulty interpreting and protecting all in-
mates humanely. More often than not, mentally ill 
prisoners are then forcibly put into solitary confine-
ment.
Signs of the dismal conditions mentally ill in-
mates face can be found even within Vermont pris-
ons. One horrifying example, as denoted by the Su-
pervising Attorney at Disability Rights Vermont, is 
that of an man from St. Johnsbury, Vermont diag-
nosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder, Asperger’s 
Type, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, as 
well as Antisocial Personality Disorder and Oppo-
sitional Defiant Disorder. He was arrested and in-
carcerated for parole violation. Due to his diagnosed 
mental health disorders, the patient was supposed 
to be located in the Vermont Psychiatric Care Hos-
pital. However, for lack of available space and at-
tention on the part of the Department of Correc-
tions, the patient was stuck in isolated segregation 
in Springfield, Vermont, and confined to a small 
cell with little human interaction for twenty two 
hours a day. During that time, the prisoner’s mental 
health condition severely worsened, leading to self-
harming behaviors, suicidal thoughts, and extended 
bouts of crying and screaming. When the prisoner 
was finally admitted to the psychiatric hospital, he 
was covered in bruises and abrasions attributed to 
his time in solitary confinement. Another example 
is that of a man from Winooski imprisoned in New-
port, Vermont, suffering from documented depres-
sion as well as post-traumatic stress disorder. On 
August 13th, 2013 at 12:15 this prisoner took his own 
life. His death can be attributed to the severe neglect 
and maltreatment of his diagnosed and documented 
mental health disabilities in conjunction with emo-
tionally traumatic life events.
But the kicker to all of this is that the current sys-
tem a waste of resources. The reason that many peo-
ple with mental health conditions are sent to prison 
in the first place is because of a lack of space at men-
tal hospitals. Currently, within the state of Vermont 
there are only roughly 40 long-term treatment spac-
es available, and with the way balancing the budget 
is looking, investing in more beds is at the bottom 
on the list of state priorities. So instead of a proac-
tive solution, investing in mental health resources, 
the state resorts to tossing these people in prison, 
costing tax payers the same, if not more, and in sev-
eral cases, costing those with mental health condi-
tions their lives.
It’s time for the state of Vermont, and our na-
tion in general, to rise above misunderstandings of 
mental illness and invest in the safety of our people. 
There should be alternative to prisons for those with 
mental illnesses—it just makes sense.
For more information about upcoming events on 
the carceral state, check out the Gensler Symposium 
schedule at go/gensler2015!
reader op-ed
Brenna Christensen ’17 is 
from Durango, Colo.
| march 19, 2015 9opinions
An Insane System
From our vantage point in rural 
Vermont, the border may seem so far 
away as to be 
i r r e l e v a n t . 
But in fact, 
our every day 
a c -
t i o n s 
and in-
actions, consciousness and lack 
of consciousness, impact the im-
migration system and the people 
who live within its grasp. 
For this reason, MAlt El 
Paso, working together  with 
Juntos: Farmworker Student 
Solidarity Network, con-
structed a symbolic border 
fence and “casa de cartón” 
(cardboard house) in the 
lobby of Davis library last 
week. The border, wheth-
er we acknowledge it or 
not, is a constant pres-
ence in our lives and one 
which--due to the injustice 
and exploitation embed-
ded in the immigration sys-
tem-- we should no longer 
ignore.
Though almost the en-
tire agricultural sector in 
the U.S. relies on immigrant labor, 
we often dehumanize the people upon 
whom our food and sustenance depend 
and subject them to inhumane work-
ing conditions. In Vermont, approxi-
mately 1200-1500 migrant workers 
sustain dairy farms large and small but 
have no access to work visas and are 
therefore considered undocumented, 
aka “illegal,” immigrants. Thus, when 
migrants experience labor violations, 
they have no way of protecting their 
rights without exposing themselves 
to authorities and putting themselves 
at risk of deportation. University of 
Southern California soci-
ologist and 
l a w 
school profes-
sor Em-
ily Ryo 
notes that 
m i g r a n t 
w o r k e r s 
view our 
refusal to 
grant them 
legal status 
as pretty 
hypocritical 
considering 
we are bene-
fiting from their labor at the same time 
we are saying, “We don’t want you.”
In some ways those who make it to 
Vermont are lucky. Many who cross 
the U.S.-Mexico border are detained 
shortly thereafter, tried in Federal 
Court, and deported. Some attempt to 
immigrate because their local agricul-
tural economies have been decimated 
as a consequence of policies such as 
the North American Free Trade Agree-
ment (NAFTA), which have allowed for 
U.S.-subsidized big agricultural cor-
porations to flood the Mexican market 
with their products. Since the reces-
sion of 2008, however, the border has 
seen an increase in refugees coming 
from Honduras, El Salvador and Gua-
temala to escape violence, and fewer 
immigrants coming from Mexico for 
economic reasons, though we could 
easily call countless Mexican immi-
grants “economic refugees,” if such 
a classification existed.
Street gangs have supplanted 
state governments in many Central 
A m e r i - can coun-
tries, four of which have 
m u r d e r rates among 
the top five w o r l d w i d e . 
Innocent 
c i t i z e n s 
are sub-
ject to 
e x t o r -
t i o n , 
kidnap-
p i n g 
and sex-
ual vio-
l e n c e . 
In the 
m e a n -
time, the 
U.S. is 
turning a 
blind eye 
to this 
great hu-
manitar-
ian disaster. Refugees are consistently 
denied asylum, in large part because 
the laws governing asylum were cre-
ated during the Cold War and have 
not been updated to accommodate for 
non-Soviet Union refugees who may 
be fleeing their home countries for dif-
ferent but equally valid, reasons.
Speaking of the Soviet Union, that 
country--though no longer in exis-
tence--placed sixth in 2013 in num-
ber of U.S. asylum grants by country 
of nationality, ahead of Guatemala, 
Honduras and El Salvador. Needless 
to say, our asylum system is devastat-
ingly inadequate. Across the country 
detention centers are being built to 
house refugees and other migrants 
for the months and sometimes years 
before their trials and likely deporta-
tions. Construction is under way in 
Di l ley , T e x a s 
f o r a new 
fam-
i l y 
deten-
tion center man-
aged by controversial 
prison giant Correc-
tions Corporation of 
America, who will 
be paid $108,000 
a year per detainee 
housed. 
The Borders of Our Lives
Reader op-ed
Shubha Ganesan ’17 is 
from Tuscon, Ariz.
Sophie Vaughan ’17 is 
from Oakland, Calif.
Jena Ritchey
The Middlebury Campus
Agree or disagree with this week’s Opinions? 
Write us an Op-Ed or a Letter to the Editor. 
The Campus accepts submissions weekly. 
Contact us at
campus@middlebury.edu. 
  10 march 19, 2015| opinions
Nonviolence: Then and Now
Reader op-ed
The Dramas of the Civil 
Rights Era class.
There is a perception amongst many people that 
the Civil Rights Movement was a wholly nonviolent 
effort. While there is in-
deed a rich history of non-
violence within the move-
ment, largely attributed to 
Martin Luther King, Jr., 
there is also legacy of self-
determination and armed resistance. This legacy is 
often forgotten, but must be acknowledged in order 
to understand the state of racial affairs in the United 
States today. This article will provide a brief history 
of both the non-violence and Black Power move-
ments within the larger Civil Rights Movement, 
before shifting to a discussion of the importance of 
both of these strategies in current affairs.
Nonviolence is a method of bringing about so-
cial or political change through peaceful means. In 
the U.S., Pacifist Quakers, William Lloyd Garrison, 
Henry David Thoreau, the Fellowship of Reconcilia-
tion (FOR), Women’s International League for Peace 
and Freedom (WILPF), the American Civil Liberties 
Union (ACLU), as well as those involved in the Civil 
Rights Movement have all implemented nonviolent 
tactics to accomplish their various goals. Morality 
is the foundation of nonviolence, as nonviolent pro-
testors believe that their moral strength gives them 
physical strength to resist their oppressors.
According to Martin Luther King, Jr., nonviolence 
provides a way to persons fight immoral systems 
without becoming immoral themselves. However, 
people and movements have historically struggled 
with nonviolence, as it lacks visible muscle. Despite 
this, the rise in support for integration in the during 
the Civil Rights Movement shows that nonviolence 
can nonetheless be effective.  
As the Civil Rights Movement gained popular-
ity in the early twentieth century, many leaders 
adopted nonviolence as their main weapon against 
discrimination. In 1941, James Farmer founded the 
Congress on Racial Equality (CORE) in Chicago with 
the intention of promoting better race relations and 
ending injustices. This group staged non-violent 
protests such as a sit-in in a Chicago coffee shop 
in 1943. CORE remained one of the first organized 
groups to practice nonviolence, and the strategy 
quickly expanded. In 1957, the Southern Christian 
Leadership Conference (SCLC) and Martin Luther 
King, Jr. advertised nonviolence to large audienc-
es, promoting its peaceful yet effective methods. In 
1960, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Commit-
tee (SNCC) continued the mission of the SCLC and 
CORE by founding its organization on the practice 
of nonviolence itself. Nonviolence quickly became 
a dominating feature of the Civil Rights Movement, 
guiding African-Americans on their fight for racial 
equality.
However, despite the popular draw towards non-
violence in the Civil Rights Movement, it became 
clear by the mid-1960s that within the black free-
dom struggle there were different visions for the 
future. Stokely Carmichael (now known as Kwame 
Ture) and Charles Hamilton, authors of the impact-
ful book Black Power, deemed the traditional Civil 
Rights Movement “integrationist,” and called for 
self-determination within the Black community. 
While the term self-determination embodied a num-
ber of directives, it was a notable departure from 
the values of nonviolence. Self-determination called 
for self-defense, more closely resembling an “an 
eye for an eye” policy. Other groups and individu-
als adopted similar approaches, such as Malcolm X, 
SNCC (somewhat ironically, given the group’s name 
and founding principles), and CORE. The SCLC and 
NAACP remained true to their nonviolent roots, and 
this created a rift between the once unified-in-mis-
sion civil rights advocacy groups.
Today, with the police shooting of Michael Brown 
in Ferguson and the death of Eric Garner in New 
York, racist and targeted police brutality in the Unit-
ed States has made headlines all around the world. 
This police brutality we see today is essentially a re-
flection of the systematized violence that took place 
against African Americans in the 1940s to 1960s. 
The question we need to ask ourselves is what role 
nonviolence will take in today’s fight to end racial 
bias in the police force. Malcolm X preached that 
“self-preservation is the first law of nature” and that 
“tactics based solely on morality can only succeed 
when you are dealing with basically moral people or 
a moral system.” The issue at the center of the fight 
today is that the United States legal system and the 
people in it are immoral. The fight is no longer one 
of religious values, but rather of moral actions. Is 
nonviolence the best way to fight police brutality? Is 
there a choice against such superior firepower?
Nonviolence has always existed alongside its 
darker twin. No matter what names the philosophies 
bear, they almost never operate alone. The history 
of the Civil Rights Movement can give some clues 
about how to deal with today’s racial struggles, but 
the past can yield no perfect solution for the future. 
Only time will tell if the American people can find 
the right balance.
Not So Newsworthy
Does anyone know how to disable 
the news column on your Facebook 
n e w s f e e d ? 
You know 
the little col-
umn that 
gives you 30-
word blurbs 
about vari-
ous nonsense 
happening in the world today? You 
know what I am talking about? It usu-
ally keeps me up to date on important 
things that qualify as “news” like, what 
Kanye West is up to, what no-name 
reporter is apologizing for a remark 
that most people did not even know 
about, or, my personal favorite, what 
Sarah Palin’s daughter is doing (This 
thing does not pull up results based on 
your interests, right?). I am glad I have 
this little column of “trending” news to 
keep me up to date. How else would I 
be able to stay knowledgeable on all 
these important current events?
Okay, I exaggerate and I realize 
many of you do not pay much atten-
tion to the various bits of attention-
seeking sound bites that breed in so-
cial media. The wider world clearly 
does pay attention though. While the 
current antics of musicians or politi-
cally irrelevant daughters aren’t par-
ticularly damaging bits of information, 
they don’t exactly provide the much-
needed context to the busy world of 
current events. We could hardly say 
they even qualify as news. The real 
problem is that whatever happens to 
be “trending,” (I guess that is to say 
“popular?”) is not necessarily what 
is important. Also when did hashtags 
become acceptable titles for news ar-
ticles? Maybe I’m just a curmudgeon.
Let’s be serious here: most reason-
able people can agree that any endem-
ic problem in our society is remark-
ably complex, be it racism, a Social 
Security system that will go broke in 
the foreseeable future, or the political 
complexities of the Middle East, pick 
nearly anything in the world and it 
cannot be summed 
up in a hashtag or 
a blurb. Yet, our 
news not only has 
become “Look what 
this outrageous 
thing this absurd 
person said,” but 
in many ways it 
has simply become 
irrelevant. The 
things that need 
reporting seem oddly absent. We are 
remarkably concerned with the po-
litical correctness of attention seek-
ing people and have comparatively 
less patience for, oh I don’t know, the 
number of people who die in car acci-
dents every year, which is somewhere 
north of 30,000.
So why, oh why, do we put up with 
this crap? Do we just not have the pa-
tience for the news anymore? Some-
thing could definitely be said for the 
shortening of our national attention 
span. We seem to have tragically be-
gun confusing our entertainment for 
the news. That is not to say people in 
other political camps have somehow 
avoided this problem either.  The rise 
of the Internet and its children — the 
tweet  and the status — have infected 
our perception of “staying up to date.” 
Not too long ago the only mediums for 
being attuned to the comings and go-
ings of the world were the newspaper 
and television. 
But who has the 
time to read the 
paper anymore? 
And who wants 
to watch a news 
program where 
you actually have 
to listen along? 
With the ram-
pancy of social 
media we have 
deputized any incompetent’s Buzzfeed 
article so that is carries the weight of 
a journalist’s work. How many of you 
remember the #CancelColbert wildfire 
that effectively started with a young 
woman misunderstanding a joke and 
the resulting witch-hunt to end the 
Colbert Report?  And that’s only one 
example, go take a look at your news-
feed, or YikYak or Twitter and see all 
the inane, nonsensical things that for 
some reason, we take seriously.
The “millennial” generation, which 
I guess we have been dubbed, has been 
quick to adopt and vigorously protect 
social media and Internet freedoms. 
It has become something that has de-
fined our generation. Yet we have been 
incredibly hesitant to see any flaws in 
this new, lightning quick, information 
typhoon. “Information” on its own 
we intrinsically see as good, but that 
does not mean we have to value it all 
equally. Nor does it mean more is al-
ways better. Something like ISIS takes 
more than a few articles to under-
stand, something like American poli-
tics demands vigorous, in-depth, de-
bate to function. Whether it is a global 
phenomenon or our own institutions, 
we lose something valuable when ar-
guments or “the news” can be summed 
up in a tweet. We should never silence 
voices, but we can discern which ones 
truly deserve our attention. Do I re-
ally care that Reddit thinks the rav-
ings of a delusional state senator are 
important? We can change the debate 
by simply not giving credence to the 
nonsense. The most constructive thing 
we can do is talk about the issues we 
know to be real and let the attention-
seeking, the nonsensical and the fool-
ish be shouted unnoticed.
The Unpopular 
Opinion
Andrew DeFalco ’15.5 is 
from Boston, Mass.
“‘Any endemic problem 
in our society is remark-
ably complex ... pick 
nearly anything in the 
world and it cannot be 
summed up in a hastag 
or a blurb.”
The Middlebury Campus
Do you have a knack for business? 
So does Steve Zatarain ’15, but he is graduating next year. 
The campus is seeking a new business manager for 2015-2016. 
Contact us at
campus@middlebury.edu. 
| march 19, 2015 11opinions
reader op-ed 
Jackson Adam ’17 is 
from Towson, Md.
If you are a Freshman or Sophomore, 
you likely attended a mandatory “Active 
Threat” sem-
inar put on 
by the school 
administra-
tion dur-
ing J-Term. 
Those of you fortunate enough to have 
missed it the first time were offered a 
second opportunity a few weeks ago.
The presentation included a vid-
eo produced by the Department of 
Homeland Security preaching the keys 
to surviving an Active Threat situa-
tion: “Run. Hide. Fight.” The video in 
all of its cheesy, 
overwrought, Die 
Hard-esque glory, 
harkens back to 
the 1951 U.S. Civil 
Defense film “Duck 
and Cover’’ which 
taught school chil-
dren to duck and cover to save them-
selves in the event of a nuclear attack. 
The cute turtle has been ditched in fa-
vor of a burly Jack Bauer clone dressed 
in black and wielding a shotgun, but the 
message is essentially the same.
The problem is that, while a nucle-
ar attack was a very real threat to the 
U.S. in the 50s, suggesting that active 
threat situations loom over us daily is 
inaccurate and defeatist. The reality is 
that active threat situations on college 
campuses are exceedingly rare. Making 
the video was a tacit admission of dis-
interest in addressing the root causes 
of campus related gun violence: a lack 
of gun control and the continuing fail-
ure of a mental healthcare system little 
changed from the one that existed dur-
ing the Cuban Missile Crisis.
Over the past 
50 years there has 
been an average of 
six people killed 
every year on col-
lege campuses by 
gun violence. That’s 
roughly equal to the 
number felled every year from trauma 
sustained playing football, according 
to the National Center for Catastroph-
ic Sports Industry Research. But that 
pales in comparison to the nearly 1,500 
college students killed every year in 
traffic accidents, 1,400 killed in alcohol 
related in-
c i d e n t s , 
and 1,300 
who com-
mit suicide 
every year. 
In fact, if 
you went to 
college for 
92 years straight, you would still only 
have a one in 100 chance of a shoot-
ing taking place on your campus. Even 
then, the odds of you being involved are 
miniscule.
The fear mongering of the national 
media that follows “major tragedies” 
overshadows the less sensational trag-
edies that occur every day, and as a re-
sult, time and resources are wasted on 
programs like the Active Threat semi-
nars. Instead of giving us a half hour on 
why our instincts to run and hide when 
faced with a gun are 100 percent cor-
rect, why not give a 30 minute seminar 
on the signs of alcohol poisoning, or 
what to do if you think your friend is 
suffering from depression. Even a short 
defensive driving seminar could save 
more lives than 
watching Goth 
Arnold Schwar-
zenegger shoot up 
an office building 
in a government 
funded video.
College shoot-
ings are national 
tragedies, but so are all preventable 
deaths. Sure, it’s time we take a critical 
look at how we can change gun control 
policy and the mental healthcare sys-
tem in the United States, but it’s also 
time we recognize the reality of the 
situation: a video and a talk on campus 
attacks will do nothing to prevent such 
attacks in the future. So by all means, 
continue the national discussion about 
the causes and consequences of “Active 
Threat” situations, but stop suggesting 
that people should live in fear by forc-
ing them to attend seminars. The real 
threats aren’t so sensational. 
Active Threat Training Overlooks Causes
Campus Cartoons
Boone Mccoy-crisp
“Over the past 50 years, 
there as been an average 
of six people killed every 
year on college 
campuses.”
“The fear mongering of the 
national media that follows ‘ma-
jor tragedies’ overshadows the 
less sensational tragedies that 
occur every day.”
Nolan Ellsworth
Win Homer
The Middlebury Campus| MARCH 19, 201512 13features
MAKING YOUR IDEA A REALITY
MiddCakes
MiddCakes, a small business on campus that focuses on baking cupcakes and 
 
  
 
PATH GRADUATES:
on the path:
Interview with Elizabeth Robinson
“This is really Ron’s legacy,” said Associate Dean of the College for Creativity, Engagement & Careers Elizabeth Robinson.
Midd Ventures
Club that supports students 
interested in new entrepre-
neurial ventures
Connects students and al-
ums for brainstorming and 
networking
Meetings
Midd Entrepreneurs
Winter term course for students with 
a business plan and serious making it a 
reality
Taught by advisors from the Vermont 
Center for Emerging Technologies 
VErmont 
Center for Emerging Technologies
Business advice, mentoring and seed capi-
tal for graduates working on start-ups
Provides collaborative workspaces for 
participants
Located in Burlington, VT
CCI 
Student Designed Internship
You design it, they fund it
Grants of $2,500
Applications due April 1
Tree House Fund
Awards grants for student projects designed to 
benefit students at the College, the environment 
or the community 
Up to $2,200 awarded 
Applications due October 18 of each year
Davis Projects for Peace
Funds summer projects dedicated to advancing 
world peace
Grant of $10,000
Applications accepted from over 90 undergradu-
ate colleges in US
MiddSTART
Microphilanthropy website to 
solicit funding for student 
projects and businesses
Post at any time
Get advice 
from CSE, PSI & CE 
advisors such as 
Elizabeth 
Robinson 
Midd Challenge
Funds student projects in four categories: busi-
ness, education outreach and policy, the arts or 
social entrepreneurship.
Summer grant of $3,000 
Old Stone Mill
Apply to have your own creative 
workspace to invent, design and 
develop
Located on the banks of Otter Creek 
Applications accepted on a rolling 
basis 
Ron and Jessica Liebowitz Fund foR 
Innovation
Funds projects and ideas that encourages new 
learning and partnerships
Students, faculty and staff eligible to apply
Grants for up to four years available
MiddCORE
Course to train students in lead-
ership, communication and entre-
preneurial skills
Available at the College as a Win-
ter term course, weekend acceler-
ated course or one Month program
Available at Sierra Nevada College 
in summer
Images have largely replaced sound in 
today’s media. In fact, we are so used to pic-
tures accompanying sound that it’s strange 
just to listen to a story and to let our imagi-
nations take over in creating mental pic-
tures. It’s even stranger when we consider 
this within an academic context. 
Yet, that is what the Sociology Depart-
ment is doing. Working with Erin Davis, a 
-
er, a group of senior sociology majors are 
translating their 80-page senior theses into 
Davis previously taught the J-term 
course “Sound and Story,” where students 
learned the techniques of radio production 
and produced their own stories through 
an alternative to academic writing. The 
class generated student interest in translat-
ing senior work into more accessible forms. 
After conversations between interested 
students, Davis, and the sociology depart-
ment, the project was conceived in the fall 
of this academic year. 
It’s the marrying of two seemingly dis-
parate concepts: mass journalism and aca-
demia, but a development that Sociology 
Department Chair Linus Owens sees to be 
important. Although a journalist and a so-
with the sociologist asking questions about 
the underlying socioeconomic structures at 
the root of events that the journalist may 
oversee, the relationship between the two 
is not too far removed. 
“Both sociology and journalism are 
getting at a similar question, which is how 
to explain the world and how to put it in a 
meaningful context that people can under-
stand and do something with,” Owens said. 
By putting sociological research into jour-
nalism, in-depth research on a social phe-
nomenon can be conveyed to a much wider 
audience. 
Unlike sociological research, journal-
ism is not comprised of pages of research, 
analysis, and graphs. Rather, journalism 
appeals to the short attention span of most 
readers. 
“When you do research, it only matters 
that you care,” Davis said. “When you’re 
working on the podcasts, you have to ask 
yourself why anyone else cares about it, or 
In a departure from the academic 
mindset, students have to think about 
translating their work into a story that 
listeners will be able to connect with on a 
much more personal level. 
“Because who’s going to read your 50-
page essay, right?” Owens chuckled. 
-
not cover the entirety of the research and 
writing that has gone into a student’s senior 
work, students have to think about smaller 
things to extract. 
These things 
might be a point of 
interest that came 
up at some point 
during research 
but that the stu-
dent didn’t have 
the time to pur-
sue. Or the stu-
dent might look 
for a smaller story 
that will point to 
the research as a 
larger whole. 
One of the 
students involved 
in the project, Ro-
salie Wright-Lapin ’15, is still looking for 
the perfect way to translate her research 
into a podcast. 
Wright-Lapin’s thesis is about how 
socioeconomic status, family background, 
and notions of academic achievement play 
into social groups and identities at Middle-
bury Union High School. In piecing togeth-
er her senior thesis, Wright-Lapin conduct-
ed and recorded one-on-one interviews 
with teachers, administrators, counselors, 
and students. In addition, she conducted 
semi-struc-
tured class 
d i s c u s s i o n 
that varied 
in academic 
level to look 
at student 
participation, 
which she 
noted with 
observations. 
 D u e 
to the type 
of research 
Wright-Lapin 
c o n d u c t e d 
and the na-
ture of her 
study, Davis 
recommended that she pursue the narra-
tive approach. 
“It would be a more vivid image rather 
than just analytical research,” Wright-
Lapin said of focusing on one story in her 
podcast. “It’s an opportunity to portray my 
Narrative is not the only approach to 
creating podcasts. According to Davis, an-
other common, more traditional approach 
is having the student act as the host and 
presents his or her story. However, she also 
stressed that there were more than these 
two options available to students. 
The students involved in this project 
are working closely with Davis to put their 
podcasts together. At this point in the se-
mester, the projects are still in early pro-
duction stages but scheduled to be com-
pleted in May.
Although the major aim of this proj-
ect is to make sociological research more 
accessible to the larger public, the depart-
ment hopes this pilot project will also open 
up fresh alternatives to traditional senior 
to have embarked on any such project at 
the College and has raised some important 
questions on the accessibility and applica-
bility of academic research to the general 
public. 
In the academic grindstone that is 
Middlebury, it could be worthwhile to take 
the time to stop and think about why oth-
ers should care about our work as much as 
we do.  
14features
By Charmaine Lam
Academia for the Masses: From 
Midd Sociology Podcast Launches
 | march 19, 2015
Podcast trend makes waves at the College in an emerging Sociology podcast. Above: 
Serial podcast, Freakonomics Radio and Alix Spiegel and Lulu Miller of Invisibilia.
courtesy
“When you do research, it only 
matters that you care. When 
you’re working on the podcasts, 
you have to ask yourself why 
anyone else cares about it, or 
care.”
erin davis
j-tERM INSTRUCTOR OF SOUND & STORY
PODCAST PROJECT INSTRUCTOR
To be very straightforward, we decided 
to do capoeira this week because we wanted 
to learn how to beat people up. As trendy girls 
living in a downtown world, it seemed like a 
necessary life skill  — or at least Maddie’s wor-
risome mom made it seem that way. **insert 
sweet, southern, high-pitched voice** “You 
two darlin’s need to learn to defend your-
selves!”
In order to set the scene for our capoeira 
outing, it is important to provide background 
on the 24 hours leading up to practice. Al-
though Izzy fasted all week in calculation for 
approximately 57 servings of chili at Chili Fest, 
she had not planned for the surprise appear-
ance of a hot dog stand. Along with the obvious 
pit-stops at Otter Creek Bakery and Sama’s on 
the way back to campus, let’s just say she felt 
sick Sunday morning. She now understands 
why athletes monitor their food and drink in-
take leading up to an important game. It must 
be hard to be you guys. 
When Izzy went to meet Maddie at ADK 
before capoeira practice, Maddie was no 
where to be found. After a few minutes, Mad-
die pulled up in an RV. Maddie’s long lost 
friend from Nebraska had come to visit, and 
they drove around drinking Kool-aid. Noth-
ing says a Midwestern reunion like a house 
on wheels and powdered soft drinks. In other 
words, driving sideways on a bouncing couch 
made Maddie dizzy even before the impend-
ing cartwheel drills.
As soon as we walked into the studio, we 
realized that this was not a typical kickboxing 
class. If we had managed to do our research, 
we would have known capoeira is a Brazilian 
martial arts game that incorporates dance, 
-
cally, four skills neither of us possess. Even 
world possesses together other than MAYBE 
Oprah. Maddie refused to let this news shake 
her. She stood up a little straighter and told 
Izzy, “Shawn Johnson is an Olympic gymnast 
from the state next to mine, I’m pretty sure I 
can do this.” Yeah. 
The class included one thing that we ac-
tively avoid when choosing our NARP activity: 
conditioning. Two minutes into the class, Izzy 
whispered “I should’ve worn a sports bra!” 
Three minutes into the class, we were asking 
for the nearest water fountain. Four minutes 
into the class, we were standing by the propped 
door trying to eliminate our sweat stains. Five 
minutes into class, the warm-up was over. 
describe what capoeira is. In terms of its re-
lationship to martial arts we came up with a 
questionably accurate SAT-style analogy — 
capoeira is to martial arts as tantric sex is to 
regular sex. Our instructor, Brennan Delat-
tre ’16 practiced traditional capoeira when 
she studied abroad in Brazil. She described 
capoeira as a physical conversation between 
bodies. It is not about hurting one another 
(sorry Mom!), instead it is acting and react-
ing to your partner’s movements.  After vari-
ous kicking, ducking, crawling, pivoting, and 
squatting combinations, we were asked if we 
knew how to cartwheel. Apparently, living in a 
state next to Shawn Johnson does NOT mean 
Halfway through the class, we stopped 
learning new moves, and Brennan taught all 
of us Brazilian songs that are sung during tra-
ditional capoeira sessions. In addition to the 
singing, our classmates played several Brazil-
ian instruments in order to keep the rhythm 
alive. We formed a circle and two people 
would “play” with each other and have a con-
versation using the moves we had just learned. 
At one point, we both got into the circle with a 
more experienced player, and although it was 
far from graceful, it was incredibly therapeu-
tic. Discovering the limits of our bodies with 
the meditative music completely surrounding 
us was honestly one of the coolest things either 
of us have ever done. 
Although we wrote this column from our 
respective beds due to muscle soreness, we 
urge all of you to try out capoeira. If you are 
curious to see what experienced capoeira play-
ers can do, they will have a performance that is 
open to the Middlebury community on April 
19th!     
By Izzy Fleming and Maddie Webb
Last summer, Abby Woolf ’17.5 came 
across a book about winemaking and 
decided to buy it on a whim, thinking it 
might be a new hobby to invest in when 
she returned to Vermont in the fall. Al-
though instead she ended up making 
cider and, most recently, beer, the pro-
cess of brewing stretched from October 
to January and left her with about 40 
bottles of cider and a possible business 
opportunity.
Woolf, a double biology and film 
major from California, had no previous 
experience of brewing and taught her-
self according to what she had read. She 
began by driving to the Vermont Home 
Brew Supply Store in Winooski, Ver-
mont, to buy the necessary equipment, 
and then went to Happy Valley Farm in 
Middlebury to buy five gallons of plain 
apple cider.
“At first I said I was making wine be-
cause at the time I thought it wouldn’t 
be that hard, but it’s so much harder 
than cider or beer. There’s more equip-
ment and it takes more time,” Woolf ex-
plained. “So then I decided to do cider 
instead, because the apples were in sea-
son.”
The brewing process began with 
pouring the five gallons of cider into a 
bucket and adding yeast, which then ate 
the sugar to produce carbon dioxide and 
alcohol. The cider-yeast mix then sat in 
the bucket fermenting for two and a half 
months, with an airlock on top of the 
bucket to let the carbon dioxide out. 
Once it was done fermenting, Woolf 
siphoned it into a different container 
called a carboy. 
It sat there for another few weeks, 
allowing the yeast and other particles 
to settle out in the bottom. This product 
was then siphoned again into another 
bucket, before finally being bottled for 
consumption.
“That will produce still cider, be-
cause the way you measure how much 
alcohol is in the cider is with a hydrome-
ter, which measures the specific gravity,” 
Woolf said. “When it’s done fermenting 
it will say 0% potential alcohol, which 
means all the sugar is gone. If you want 
to have carbonated cider, you have to 
add priming sugar to the bottle, so that 
whatever yeast is left will ferment that 
little bit of sugar.”
Woolf bottled all the cider, but found 
that it tasted very intense at first. 
“Two weeks after I bottled it, it was 
very intense and bitter. So I let it sit a 
little more and 
it started tast-
ing better and 
better,” Woolf 
said. 
Woolf also 
exper imented 
with adding dif-
ferent flavors to her cider through tinc-
tures, a method in which she took laven-
der, ginger, and cinnamon sticks and put 
them separately in three different jars 
filled with vodka, which sucked up the 
nutrients from the sticks. 
She then added the flavorings to her 
bottles and found that the lavender tinc-
ture was the most popular.
The hardest part of brewing for 
Woolf was waiting for fermentation to 
take place and planning when to go down 
to the Old Stone Mill to check on it. 
In the past month, she switched to 
brewing beer. While she was waiting for 
it to ferment, it exploded in the carboy. 
“What happens with beer is that once 
it’s in the carboy it bubbles up and you 
need to watch it. But I didn’t get a chance 
to go check on 
it enough, so 
it overflowed,” 
Woolf said. 
Despite the 
mishaps, Woolf 
has been success-
ful in her brewing 
endeavors to create a final bottled prod-
uct. 
The bottling is actually her favorite 
part of the process. 
“Just because you’re winding it [the 
process] up.  You still have to wait after 
that for it to taste good, but the act of 
bottling is fun,” Woolf said. 
Woolf, however, is not the only one 
in her family who is interested in brew-
ing. Her brother, who recently graduated 
from college in Australia, is also experi-
menting with brewing beer. He called 
her out of the blue one day to tell her 
that he and his friend were organizing 
a brewing company in California called 
The Fringe, which would specialize in 
flavored beer. They plan to promote lo-
cal artists with advertisements under-
neath the label, giving a unique local de-
sign to each bottle.
“They are tapping into an untapped 
market in America, which is flavored 
beer. It’s really big in Australia. They 
have made a lavender beer, fennel beers, 
those are the good ones,” Woolf said. 
“Right now all they have is a label and 
a name and some flavors that they’re 
working on.”
“I definitely will keep [brewing] and 
it would be really cool to start a brewery. 
I actually am kind of working with my 
brother and his friend, so if that takes 
off that would be awesome,” Woolf said. 
“My career path isn’t along the lines of 
business, but I’ll always brew.”
By Erin Winseman
Woolf gets Crafty with Beer and Cider 
Sexscapades with Abstinence and Poop
greatsexpectations@aol.com 
“My career path isn’t along 
the line of businness, but I’ll 
always brew.”
Abby woolf ‘17.5 
COURTESY OF  mansfind.com
From apples to bottles, Biology and Film major Abby Woolf ’17.5 gives us a crash course on cider and beer brewing. 
The discussion of abstinence in 
church youth group filled my mind with 
scenes from “Footloose,” with conserva-
tive pastors and teachers telling me that 
sex is the devil’s playground and invok-
ing city council meetings to preserve my 
generation’s sexual purity. 
As a Christian, I’ve chosen absti-
nence until if or when I get married. 
When I arrived as a freshman, I was 
aware of the stereotypes around social 
life and sex on campus and wondered if, 
being in a new place of vulnerability and 
freedom, my view on abstinence would 
change. 
My choice is not motivated by the 
fear of upsetting my spiritual family, the 
worry of negative sex experiences or reli-
gious conservatism. 
I do not think that such motivations 
for abstinence are bad, but they aren’t 
primary. Rather, I’ve chosen abstinence 
out of God’s love for me.
When and if I do have sex, I want 
it to be with someone who fully knows, 
sees and loves me. Someone who won’t 
value me just for what my body can offer 
or how I can satisfy him; someone whose 
affections for me won’t change based on 
my performance or attitude. 
Christianity describes our relation-
ship with God like this. In scandalous 
terms, the Bible depicts God as a lover 
– one who really sees, understands, and 
desires to know us intimately – not for 
what we can offer or how we can please 
Him, but simply because He loves us. 
Sex, a naturally good desire and act, is 
a representation of this intimacy with 
God. 
For these reasons, my choice for ab-
stinence is motivated by the faith that 
God’s love alone can completely satisfy 
me. It’s not easy and it certainly isn’t 
popular, but for now I am content to 
know that my worth or identity is not de-
fined by sex.
I was pet sitting. The first time S 
came over to the house, we talked for 
hours. We had great chemistry, but no 
one made a move. I decided to cut to the 
chase.
 “It’s late, and you’re welcome to 
spend the night. There’s a spare room 
upstairs, or you can sleep with me. The 
choice is yours, S. Zero pressure.”
“Your room, if that’s okay.”
We climbed under the covers, each 
plastered to opposite edges of the bed. 
I was so confused and frustrated. And 
horny. Uncharacteristically bold, I made 
another, not-so-subtle move.
“S, can I give you a kiss before we go 
to bed?”
“THANK GOD. I thought you’d never 
say anything.”
At some point in that long night, I 
realized that I had forgotten what I was 
really in this house for… pet sitting. I 
snuck my way out of S’s arms and headed 
out in the dark to let the dogs out.
SQUISH.
I stepped in a pile of dog shit. I let 
out a frustrated groan. I could hear S 
waking up and rustling in the sheets. 
“You okay?”
“Please don’t come out here. I just 
stepped in dog shit. This is so embar-
rassing.”
“Can I help you?”
“No thanks. Please just go back to 
bed.”
I cleaned up the mess and decided to 
hop in the shower. A couple of minutes 
in, the door knob turned. This time, S 
made the first move.
“Mind if I join you?”
S and I hooked up for several weeks, 
and it was always casual. In retrospect, 
we were both making sense of profound 
pain elsewhere in our lives. 
For me, stepping in dog shit was a 
metaphorical beginning: S and I took 
the shit that life had dealt us, and in that 
little old house, one shower at a time, 
we outgrew our sorrow, and eventually, 
each other. I regret nothing. 
Here are two selections for this 
week. Published bi-weekly in The Cam-
pus, Great Sexpectations hopes to in-
crease sex positive dialogue through 
storytelling.
Please keep sending your embarras-
ing, funny, positive stories about sex to 
greatsexpectations@aol.com. Submis-
sions are published on a rolling basis.
Stories Curated 
by Maddie Orcutt
15featuresmarch 19, 2015   
16 features
Allison Carroll Brings Talent from Far and Away
For 95 years, the Middlebury Per-
forming Arts Series has brought world-
class performers inside the “Middle-
bury bubble.” The series has showcased 
Yo-Yo Ma, Louis Armstrong, the Von 
Trapp family, Pablo Casals, and Lady-
smith Black Mambazo (just to name a 
few). As the director of the Performing 
Arts Series, Allison Coyne Carroll is now 
largely responsible for the logistics be-
hind bringing these talented performers 
to this remote pocket of Vermont.  
There’s a lot that goes into the prepa-
ration of each performance, as well as the 
execution of the performance itself. Car-
roll described to me the preliminary ar-
rangements that she had to make for the 
arrival of the Elias String Quartet, who 
performed here last Saturday.
“We first chose the performers 
and their program. I, then, issued their 
contract. Because they’re foreign per-
formers, we also had to be concerned 
with their visas. There are also taxation 
concerns with foreign artists, so I’m in-
volved with that as well. Once the con-
tracts have all been signed, we then get 
out the word about the artist. We make 
sure that they’re in our arts calendar. [As 
we get] closer to the performance, there 
are posters around campus and things of 
that nature.”
Carroll is also responsible for ensur-
ing that the artists feel comfortable and 
can adequately prepare for their perfor-
mance.  
“We make sure they have hotel rooms 
and taxis from the airport, and then here 
in the Center for the Arts, we make sure 
they have rehearsal spaces. The perform-
ers send me the bare bones of their pro-
gram, but we also try to flesh it out with 
some program notes and biographical 
information.”
The performance itself, though, is 
produced by the efforts of the many staff 
members who make all events at the Cen-
ter for the Arts possible.  
Carroll said, “We have a great staff 
here at the center for the arts — our box 
office and the rest of the administrative 
staff, the technical director for the con-
cert hall – we all work in concert [pun 
intended] to make sure the event goes 
smoothly when the patrons are here.”
The process of selecting the perform-
ers involves a lot of communication and 
planning. Ideas for new performers can 
come from the artists themselves, from 
their agents, or from the music depart-
ment’s faculty members who attend con-
ferences and concerts.  
“When these artists are in town, we’ll 
often take them out after the concert. 
They can be a great source of inspiration; 
oftentimes they’re coaching up-and-com-
ing artists or they’ve had the opportuni-
ty to work with another artist that they 
think would be a good fit for us. I’ve also 
been meeting with the music faculty and 
planning for next year to make sure that 
we’re bringing musicians that are going 
to help compliment the curriculum.”
One performance that stood out to 
Carroll in her time at Middlebury (and 
one that still brings a smile to her face) 
was that of Dubravka Tomsic, who is per-
forming again at the College in April of 
this year.  
“Her last recital here, she’d had ex-
tensive travel and she was tired, but 
she gave this tremendous recital and 
got such a response from the audience. 
The mood when she came off-stage, you 
could see it, she had completely shifted 
and was just elated from the response 
she got from our audience.”
There are some upcoming perform-
ers this spring that music-lovers (and 
everyone else) won’t want to miss.  An 
example of coordination between Carroll 
and curricula of academic departments, 
the Nile River Project concert will kick 
off a week of discussing the cultural, so-
cioeconomic, and environmental issues 
surrounding the Nile river basin. Later 
on this semester, pianist Paulis, “one of 
most lauded pianists in the world” ac-
cording to Carroll, will perform to close 
this year’s series.
Carroll suggested that the positive 
response to music she is able to experi-
ence on a regular basis is something in-
herent in the Vermont lifestyle. 
“For being such a small, rural, inti-
mate atmosphere, Vermont has a pretty 
lively arts scene. The arts have a very 
important place in the daily lives of Ver-
monters and in the cultural life of Ver-
mont, and I think that’s part of the qual-
ity of life that draws people to live here. 
It’s part of why I came back here and re-
main here with my family.”
By Josie Trichka
 | march 19, 2015
Culture and performance in the remote college is brought to you by our very own Carroll.
josie trichka
A Very American Enterprise Takes on Divided Government 
Last Saturday, the American Enter-
prise Institute (AEI) of Middlebury held 
a policy conference on divided govern-
ment. 
AEI is a new club at Middlebury 
based on a public policy think tank in 
Washington D.C. Thanks to this new 
voice on campus, students can now tune 
in to a national network of free political 
enterprise. 
An employee of AEI’s D.C. office, 
Stan Veuger said, “The company is com-
mitted to ideals of freedom and opportu-
nity. We focus 
on a range of 
issues: domes-
tic policy and 
a lot of eco-
nomic policy.” 
AEI has come 
to Middle-
bury through 
their campus 
outreach pro-
gram, to “bring 
some more in-
tellectual and 
political diver-
sity to a lot of debates on campuses that 
are often more dominated by more ag-
gressive political voices.” 
The conference began with a lecture 
by Professor Shep Melnick of Boston 
College examining the constitution and 
divided government, and then featured 
two panels: one discussing the legisla-
tive process and another the legislative 
agenda of the 114th Congress. 
There were appearances by former 
governor of Vermont Jim Douglass, 
Political Science department chair Ber-
tram Johnson, Murray Dry and Mat-
thew Dickinson, as well as Veuger of the 
American Enterprise Institute.
Phil Hoxie ’17.5 and Alexander Khan 
’17 organized the event with the help of 
Dry, who was the faculty sponsor. 
Hoxie and Khan “had a desire to or-
ganize a club to bring people together; 
scholars and people who study public 
policy, to talk about issues of American 
government,” Dry said. 
He mentioned how hard they’d 
worked to pick panelists and speakers 
to create an academic and bi-partisan 
presentation, and was satisfied with the 
passionate discussion that followed. 
When asked what he’d like to see 
come out of this new club, Hoxie said 
he saw AEI as a place for the balanced 
discussion of political issues. 
“A real 
d i s c u s s i o n , ” 
he said, “lib-
eral, conserva-
tive, doesn’t 
matter. We 
want to have 
a thoughtful, 
real, articu-
late, academic 
discussion on 
all issues. We 
picked divided 
g o v e r n m e n t 
today because 
we want to show that our club is non-
partisan,” Hoxie said.
“At Middlebury, every political dis-
cussion that I’ve experienced has always 
been very partisan and very politically 
charged,” Khan said. “I’d rather see a 
healthy political discussion that allows 
people to maybe come to realizations 
about things they hadn’t thought of be-
fore.”
Students were particularly im-
pressed with how stimulating the 
speaker was.
“[The speech by Shep Melnick] was 
really interesting, it was provocative,” 
Harry Zieve Cohen ’15 said. “It’s good 
to hear a different take; someone who 
doesn’t just reiterate what has become 
common wisdom and accepted doctrine: 
that American government doesn’t work 
and gets nothing done. Its good to have 
these conversations. We don’t talk in 
big ways outside of the classroom about 
our government very often.” 
Commenting on the importance of 
this conference to Middlebury students, 
Zieve Cohen said, “We care a lot about 
certain kinds of issues. Environmental 
issues are an obvious one, and race and 
poverty have been talked about a lot in 
the past couple of years.”
“Students don’t quite seem to get 
that there is a governmental response 
to these things that they can actually 
influence, particularly in Vermont,” he 
continued. “Students should get more 
involved in the College Democrats, Col-
lege Republicans and AEI. In America, a 
lot of politics is local, and here there’s a 
real opportunity to make a difference.”
Other students thought Melnick 
raised some interesting points in his 
speech.
“I really liked his point that divided 
government is actually a sign that our 
democracy is working as intended in 
the Madisonian construct of it,” Peter 
Dykeman-Birmingham ’18.,5 who at-
tended the event, said. 
Some attendees lamented that the 
panel competed with so many other 
events and voiced hope that, next time, 
there would be a better turnout. 
There was also some criticism 
that the panels lacked racial and eth-
nic diversity, though people were very 
pleased with the variety of viewpoints 
represented.
AEI is only just beginning. Their 
next event is coming up on April 1, fea-
turing Congressman Pallone of New 
Jersey and Barbara Comstock of Vir-
ginia. Mark your calendars and prepare 
for some invigorating and controversial 
political conversation. 
By Larkin Barron
“I really liked his point that 
divided government is actu-
ally a sign that our democracy 
is working as intended in the 
Madisonian construct of it.”
pETER DYKEMAN-BIRMINGHAM ‘18.5
student
ivan valladares
On Saturday, the American Enterprise Institute held a conference on divided government.
For over a decade, the College has 
annually celebrated Irish music and 
dance in honor of St. Patrick’s Day.  This 
year saw a continuation of this tradition 
with some notable changes. Affiliate Art-
ists Timothy Cummings, Pete Suther-
land and Dominique Dodge joined with 
alumnus Caleb Elder ’04 and an array of 
current students to lead this year’s pro-
ceedings.  
Unlike in years past, the event was a 
hybrid of a conventional concert experi-
ence and an interactive traditional dance. 
To accommodate 
this new structure, 
the event was held 
in Wilson Hall, 
a move from the 
Kevin P. Mahaney 
’84 Center for the 
Arts (MCA) Con-
cert Hall, where it 
has been held in 
the past.  Similar 
to last year’s event, 
which married 
Irish and Scottish 
music, this year’s 
event incorporated 
both Irish and Ap-
palachian music, which share a cultural 
history and significant musical links.
Cummings offered some insight into 
these changes while speaking to the core 
spirit of the event, which has remained 
rooted in its origins. 
“We’re definitely changing things, in 
large part because I am not an operatic 
tenor [as previous event organizer Fran-
cois Clemmons was], I’m an instrumen-
talist,” Cummings said.  “It’s more tra-
dition-focused and more dance-focused, 
but there’s still an element of inviting 
the audience to participate in some of 
the songs, which Francois had done as 
well.”  
The desire to offer audiences the 
ability to participate in Irish and Appa-
lachian dance seems to be borne of a de-
sire to offer a more authentic and natural 
experience.  
“It’s really weird to be playing highly 
rhythmic dance tunes on stage and to see 
people just sit politely and very still,” 
Cummings said.  
This impulse was immediately ap-
parent in the first half of the event, 
which was organized as a more conven-
tional concert.  The performers were 
seated on stage, Cummings on various 
bagpipes, smallpipes and Border pipes, 
Dominique Dodge on harp, Pete Suther-
land primarily on fiddle and banjo and 
Elder on fiddle and mandolin while the 
audience filled in the rows of seats.  
Yet the rhythmic, infectious nature 
of Irish dance music seemed to fully en-
gage the audience 
from the start. 
Patrons seated 
near the stage 
would tap a foot 
or bob a head here 
and there while 
a mother swayed 
with her child, at 
times falling into 
c h o r e o g r a p h e d 
hand games.  By 
the time the chairs 
were cleared and 
audience mem-
bers were invited 
to dance, they rel-
ished the opportunity, and it became 
clear that this music demanded physical 
expression. 
Before this moment of release came, 
the concert prelude featured myriad mu-
sical styles, instruments and artists.  Per-
formers moved seamlessly from sprightly 
dance tunes to heart-wrenching ballads, 
drawing out the subtle distinctions in-
herent in Irish and Appalachian cultural 
contexts while often uniting them in ar-
rangement or in emphasizing particular 
musical features.
At times student performers were in-
vited on stage, including Scott Collins ’15 
on Scottish smallpipes, Laura Harris ’17 
on accordion and Milo Stanley ’17.5 and 
Ellen Taylor ’15 on fiddle.  One number 
was even accompanied by Appalachian 
clogging performed by local talent Kris-
tin Bolton.  In this way, the audience was 
exposed to a wide range of traditional 
music, drawn from different styles, dif-
ferent continents and different points 
in time.  Yet a consistent feature of this 
music was its endearingly participatory 
quality.  
Whether sunny or grim in mood, 
each piece was structured to allow an 
audience completely unfamiliar with the 
music to jump in at the next refrain of 
the chorus, or to simply bask in the in-
tricately interwoven harmonies of the 
unique traditional instruments with the 
security of knowing the piece would soon 
return to a familiar key or phrase.  
Cummings also noted this particular 
feature of the Irish and Appalachian mu-
sic that he chose to feature.  
“It’s very casual and free-spirited – 
nothing formal about it,” he said.  “It’s 
the music and the dance of the people in 
that way – it’s not necessarily ‘high art.’ 
It’s designed not to be virtuosic, but in-
stead to include everybody.”  
When the chairs were finally cleared 
away and Mary Wesley assumed the 
stage as dance caller, the casual and free-
spirited nature of Irish and Appalachian 
music was fully realized.  Large numbers 
of students, families, children and older 
couples took to the dance floor, eagerly 
embracing the music in a way that sug-
gests – despite its antiquated, unfamiliar 
flavor – that it continues to resonate and 
engage modern audiences.  That after-
noon succeeded in using the peripheral 
niche of traditional music as an avenue 
for audience members to celebrate and 
participate in an engaging communal 
musical experience.  
In this way, Cummings seems to 
have accomplished his goal. 
“I hoped to give people an oppor-
tunity to hear live music and to move 
their bodies, to experience the ‘rapture 
of being,’” he said. “Tied to all of that, 
of course, is to involve students in that 
experience and pass along the torch of 
tradition.”
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Gloria
Gloria is a “woman of a certain age” who makes the best 
of her loneliness by seeking love at social dance clubs for 
singles. When she meets Rodolfo, their intense passion 
leaves her vacillating between hope and despair. Present-
4/4, 3 AND 8 PM, DANA AUDITORIUM
The Fairytale Lives of Russian Girls
Once upon a time — in 2005 — a 20-year-old girl 
named Annie returned to her native Russia to brush 
up on the language and lose her American accent. 
While there, she encounters dangerously high heels, 
evil stepmothers, wicked witches and ravenous bears.
4/2-4, 7:30 PM EACH EVENING; 4/4, 2:30 PM, SEELER STUDIO
Seeing the Unspeakable 
Trebien Pollard will present a new solo perfor-
mance that chronicles issues of race, gender 
and sexual identity. At the core of this work is 
the growing pace of “identity politics” and the 
lingering presence of “political correctness.”
4/2, 7:00 P.M., MCA DANCE THEATRE
Cummings Charms with Irish Traditions
courtesy pete sutherland
By Luke Linden
Courtesy Finn yarbrough
“I hoped to give people an 
opportunity to hear live 
music and to move their 
bodies, to experience the 
‘rapture of being.’”
Timmoty cummings
affiliate artist
 
Over the past couple weeks, the 
brutal conditions of the slowly receding 
winter have caused leaks to occur at the 
Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 Center for the Arts 
(MCA), which has played an integral 
role on campus since its construction in 
1992. The affected area is located above 
the Middlebury College Museum of Art, 
where ice has pierced holes in the roof, 
allowing melted snow to leak into the 
building. Additionally, snow has blown 
into the ventilation ducts and melted, 
further contributing to the structural is-
sues.
The timing of the leaks is not en-
tirely unexpected. Generally, most roof 
leaks occur as springtime approaches, 
when rising temperatures cause heavy 
snow loads on top of buildings to melt. 
Meanwhile, the prolonged period of icy 
cold weather in January and February 
was accompanied by very few leaks.
The Facilities Services staff works 
strategically to combat the uniquely dif-
ficult conditions that Vermont winters 
present.
“Much of our attention focused on 
snow removal and thawing frozen drain 
lines. To the extent possible, we proac-
tively remove snow from roofs that are 
more problematic,” Luther Tenny, Assis-
tant Director of Maintenance & Opera-
tions at Facilities Services Office, said. 
“Let’s just say we’re all happy to be done 
with February.”
The inconvenient nature of the leak-
age, which has not gone unnoticed by 
students and faculty who frequent the 
MCA, is further exacerbated by the lin-
gering winter conditions.
“Trying to find a pinhole leak under 
four feet of drifted snow and ice can be a 
frustrating task,” Tenny said.
Unfortunately, the complicated roof 
system of the MCA – composed largely 
of a protruding wigwam pattern, a patch-
work style and sloping angles – is prone 
to trap large amounts of snow. This is 
similar to Le Chateau, which also faces 
obstacles due to the complexity of its 
roof design. Both buildings tend to pose 
more problems for the facilities staff 
than other structures on campus.
Structural problems vary according 
to the architecture of each building. Flat 
roofs with drains can freeze up and cause 
water to back up, namely at Freeman In-
ternational Center and McCardell Bicen-
tennial Hall. Additionally, ice dams are 
apt to form atop roofs with poor insula-
tion, creating further leaks.
Due to the harsh, frigid conditions 
of each winter, facilities services have 
enacted numerous repairs and upgrades 
to the College’s roofing systems over the 
years – though admittedly, some prob-
lems are simpler to correct than others.
MCA is not the only building that 
has been internally affected by structural 
issues. The roof of Coffrin Annex, which 
connects the Annex to the main part 
of the Coffrin dorms, also experienced 
leakage at the onset of spring, as pipes 
on the roof failed to drain melting snow. 
As soon as facilities removed the snow, 
however, the problem disappeared.
While prolonged leakage issues may 
manifest themselves at times, as in the 
recent case at MCA, the facilities staff 
works to maintain a high level of effi-
ciency toward the unpredictable brutal-
ity of Vermont weather, and its inconve-
nient aftermaths. As spring creeps ever 
closer and the College continues to mod-
ernize its building structures, such mi-
nor issues as the MCA leakage are likely 
to arise less frequently.
By Elizabeth Zhou
courtesy mca
The Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 Center for the Arts (MCA) experienced leakage on the roof above the College Museum of Art due to severe weather conditions this past February.
Extreme Weather Takes Toll on MCA
march 19, 2015 | 18 arts SCIENCES
It opens with a view of sand. Dark 
tan and flashing in the sun’s rays — this 
is clearly the desert. The camera pulls up 
and shows heatwaves emanating from 
the sparkling sand, and behind a hill the 
large sun beats down on the land. The 
yellow sky is striped with clouds. The 
camera then pans over the landscape 
and comes to rest on a small figure in a 
brown robe, face hidden in shadow. This 
mysterious creature stands up from his 
rest in the sand, and you take control, 
moving him over the sand that crunches 
and slips under his feet. You climb a hill 
and on top of that hill is a view of a mas-
sive expanse of scorched land. Rising in 
the distance, breaking through the layer 
of clouds, a mountain stands imposing 
with a light shining out of the top. No 
words are said, no text or instructions 
are given. This is Journey. Your only 
goal is to reach the mountaintop. 
When I first bought this game in ear-
ly 2013, it was already a year old. It had 
received critical acclaim and had won 
several Game of the Year awards from 
different websites. But I never thought to 
give this small game a chance. It doesn’t 
have intense gameplay or a huge, breath-
taking story. It doesn’t have explosions 
or guns. It doesn’t even have a score, 
or anything that could be called a “tra-
ditional” gameplay loop. It has puzzles, 
but even calling it a puzzle game is a lit-
tle too restrictive for what Journey is. It 
relies on being open-ended, presenting 
a world to the player without context or 
barriers. It wants you to explore the des-
ert, to find the hidden secrets through-
out it and to forge your own path toward 
the mountain. 
But I didn’t think I wanted that. My 
exposure to gaming had been almost ex-
clusively made up of well-defined games 
with traditional gameplay loops. The 
idea of an “art game” sounded foreign 
and unenjoyable to me. But I gave Jour-
ney a try anyway.
And what I found was not so much 
a game as a canvas. Journey’s world is 
unbelievably beautiful, especially for a 
game now three years old. It is, in a lot 
of ways, the PlayStation 3’s crowning 
jewel in art. Its desert feels alive in a way 
that I never expected, 
with the wind peri-
odically whipping up 
sand and the desert 
ruins feeling appro-
priately weathered and ancient. Each 
area you go to has a different puzzle, and 
as you progress, you acquire runes that 
grow your scarf, permitting you to jump 
higher and reach even more interesting 
places. 
But there is no backstory here. You 
never do learn who this little creature is, 
or why he wishes to travel to the moun-
tain so badly. Everything is learned from 
small hints in the world. Perhaps you 
find a painting on a wall in a ruin, and 
you decide that the figure is a citizen of 
a past civilization, left behind after a ca-
lamitous event. Or perhaps you see the 
flying creatures and believe that your 
creature and these flying animals are 
partners in a nomadic lifestyle, search-
ing the desert for sustenance and pur-
pose. 
The point is that there is no limit to 
the number of stories Journey can tell. 
Its storytelling is so effective because 
there is no one correct plot. This game 
succeeds because it gives the player the 
tool to make the world his own, to fill it 
with his imagination.
Of course, the game wouldn’t have a 
fraction of its impact without having at 
least competent gameplay, and Journey 
goes above and beyond here as well. Its 
puzzles are simple but striking, and its 
set piece moments create awe or even 
fear as you guide the 
creature through 
dangerous confron-
tations and environ-
ments. And after you 
complete each puzzle, you know you are 
moving ever closer to your goal. The 
mountain, invariably visible in the dis-
tance, stands as a constant reminder of 
your journey.
Sometimes, when you are in the 
midst of a puzzle, you will hear the tell-
tale sound of one of the creatures jump-
ing or activating a switch. It took me 
completely by surprise when it happened 
the first time, because there is no other 
indication that Journey is a multiplayer 
game. But indeed, when I looked around 
the world, I found another little figure 
bounding along and trying to solve the 
same puzzle I was working on. There is 
no way to communicate with another 
player except by emitting one single 
sound, and you never see the other play-
er’s name. But this player and I decided 
to solve this puzzle together, and soon 
we became makeshift friends. It was a 
relationship that took us all the way to 
the end of the game, where it enhanced 
one of the most moving moments I have 
ever experienced in video games. In a 
game that empowers you to fashion your 
own story and fill out the world with 
your own thoughts, this sort of relation-
ship becomes entirely your own, and not 
a tool of the game. It is unique in that 
way, something that few other games 
had attempted at that time. It makes you 
care about your partner in a way that 
games rarely do. That friend isn’t just a 
colleague of the creature in game — he is 
my friend, as well.
This is a game about life and death. 
It’s a game about finding your own 
path and about defining your own way 
through life even when the destination 
seems clear. This game is about the lit-
tle moments in life when you discover 
something incredibly special just a few 
steps off the beaten path. It’s a story 
about rebirth and coming to terms with 
the fact that sometimes, in spite of all 
your efforts, you will fail. But Journey 
shows you that even in failure there is 
success. When you walk through the des-
erts of Journey, looking upon the ruins 
and the golden hills, you realize that the 
mountain really doesn’t matter all that 
much, after all.
journey
one life left
go/obomcab spring concert: t-pain4/18, kenyon arena, 9 pmtickets on sale at new time: 12 p.m. on monday, 3/30$15 for students
By Alex Newhouse
science sp   tlight: nobel laureate carol greider
brothers
Nobel Laureate Carol Greider gave a 
lecture last week on how she helped solve 
one of molecular biology’s fundamental 
mysteries: why are germ cell lines im-
mortal? 
In the 1960s, biologist Leonard Hay-
flick noticed that adult human cells in a 
Petri dish can only divide 40 to 60 times 
until they stop growing. This discovery 
uncovered a paradox: we are all prod-
ucts of cell lineages that go back millions 
of years and cell divisions, but our adult 
cells can only divide a limited number of 
times. How do germ cells, which are the 
reproductive cells passed on by parents, 
reset this ticking biological clock?
Carol Greider discovered the answer 
in graduate school at the University of 
California, Berkeley while working in the 
lab of Elizabeth Blackburn, who shares 
her
 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medi-
cine. Just before Greider’s arrival, Eliza-
beth Blackburn had discovered an impor-
tant genetic element called telomeres.
Telomeres are protective sequences 
of DNA at the end of our chromosomes. 
Due to the peculiarities of DNA replica-
tion, the ends of chromosomes shorten 
every time they are replicated. Telo-
meres are a non-coding buffer zone; 
when chromosomes shorten, telomeres 
are whittled away instead of important 
genes. Telomeres also attract important 
binding proteins that prevent the ends 
of different chromosomes from joining, 
and stop harmful DNA enzymes from di-
gesting DNA. Just as shoelaces begin to 
fray when their plastic tips fall off, chro-
mosomes begin to decay when their telo-
meres shorten.
Elizabeth Blackburn’s observation 
explained why adult cells have a limited 
number of cell divisions: their chromo-
somes shorten and their telomeres dis-
appear. But how are germ cells able to 
regenerate their telomeres and pass on 
healthy telomere fortified DNA to their 
offspring?
Greider hypothesized that there was 
an enzyme capable of elongating telo-
meres in germ cells. She investigated the 
elongation mechanism with the model 
organism Tetrahymena, a single-celled 
animal from the protazoa kingdom. To 
search for the enzyme she collected ex-
tracts from the cells, and added them to 
artificial telomere sequences (repeating 
TTGGGG nucleotide bases) to see if they 
were elongated.
“After about nine months of trying 
variations on experiments, we found our 
first strong evidence for telomere elon-
gation,” Greider said. “An 18 nucleotide 
telomere ‘seed’ was elongated with a re-
peated sequence that was six bases long 
– precisely the length of the TTGGGG 
telomere repeat in Tetrahymena. Now we 
had a biochemical assay that we could use 
to determine if this was a new telomere 
elongation mechanism.”
Next Greider hunted for the telo-
mere elongating protein’s gene and for its 
mechanism. She suspected it used DNA’s 
relative, RNA, as a template to extend the 
telomere ends. She added RNA degrad-
ing enzymes to the protein extract and 
tried her experiment again: the telomeres 
didn’t extend.
“The RNA experiments indicated that 
activity was eliminated when RNA was 
degraded, implything there was an RNA 
component,” Greider said. “Liz and I felt 
that the best way to really show that an 
RNA was involved was to find the actual 
RNA. So I went into the cold room to try 
and purify the enzyme.”
After several years of work at UC 
Berkeley and at a fellowship at the Cold 
Spring Harbor Laboratory in Long Is-
land, NY, Greider discovered the struc-
ture of the telomere enzyme, its gene and 
its mechanism. For this she was awarded 
the Noble Prize in Physiology or Medi-
cine in 2009.
Greider named the telomere elongat-
ing enzyme telomerase, an unusual name 
for an enzyme.
“We first called the activity we iden-
tified ‘telomere terminal transferase’ 
because it was transferred telomere se-
quences into termini, but later shortened 
it to ‘Telomerase,’” wrote Greider in her 
biography on the official Nobel Prize web-
site. “My friend and fellow student Clair 
Wyman and I would joke around in the 
lab a lot. Claire pointed out the name was 
too long and suggested various humorous 
names as alternatives. Names were fur-
ther discussed later that night over a few 
beers and telomerase was one Claire had 
proposed initially as a joke. She thought 
it was funny, but Liz and I both liked it.”
Greider verified her discovery of telo-
meres and telomerase through experi-
ments with telomerase deficient mice. 
She created a telomerase “knock-out” 
version of mice in which they lacked the 
enzyme telomerase. The mice were able 
to develop and have offspring normally 
for the first four generations, but the fifth 
and sixth generations of mice had growth 
defects. The sixth generation was com-
pletely sterile. The results aligned with 
her theory. The telomeres of the mouse 
reproductive cells diminished in each 
passing generation, until they were too 
short and their genetic information was 
damaged. When she mated the fifth gen-
eration mice with control mice so that 
their offspring would have a version of 
the telomerase gene, the sixth generation 
of mice was able to regenerate their telo-
meres. The experiment neatly summa-
rized her decades-long and Noble Prize-
winning work on telomerase.
 The College is fortunate to have 
hosted several excellent lecturers this 
year, including two noble laureates. It is 
incredible not only to learn about their 
discoveries, but also to see the people be-
hind the science and hear the stories that 
courtesy nobelprize.org
Nobel Laureate Carol Greider, who discovered telomeres and telomerase, spoke about her research at the College on March 9.
March 19, 2015 | 19arts SCIENCES
By Toby Aicher
Joel Potrykus’ Buzzard is a comedy 
about the kind of adults who have toy 
lightsaber battles in their parents’ base-
ments, and it is surely the most unset-
tling movie ever made to feature such 
a scene. Its hero is a man named Marty 
who appreciates the comforts of frozen-
pizza sandwiches stuffed with Doritos 
and mayo, and whose main hobbies are 
heavy metal, video games and getting free 
things by using obscure coupons.  He’s 
a slacker with vaguely anti-corporate 
ideas. You almost certainly know some-
one like Marty, and you might not want 
to be stuck in conversation with him. 
Buzzard looks more closely at a Marty-
character than we do in our daily lives, 
and the more we see of Marty, the more 
we understand the extent to which he is 
emotionally damaged.  His life and the 
movie around it are both horribly funny 
and horribly sad at once, tinged with a 
constant sense of something dreadful ap-
proaching.
I must say that I’ve done Marty a dis-
service by naming him a typical slacker. 
He’s always occupied and plotting some-
thing, but he does so with the logic and 
ambition of an adolescent. He whines 
that his menial temp-job is bogus and 
that he could make more money any-
where, but even he can’t really believe 
this. Shortly after he finishes his pizza 
sandwich, he blasts heavy metal and sets 
out to turn his video-gaming glove into 
a weapon. He cuts his hand while put-
ting knives on the 
glove’s fingers, which 
seems accidental at 
the time, but he cuts 
himself again, re-
opening his wound with scissors multiple 
times throughout the movie. Whatever 
has been ailing Marty is clearly getting 
worse. Still, life makes room for small 
joys like clipping a hot pocket box for 
coupons or a potato-chip throwing con-
test with a friend (a “work friend” only, 
Marty announces). 
Marty’s obsession with petty scams 
inevitably goes too far. He begins to cash 
some checks he has stolen from his temp 
job, and paranoid as he is, Marty decides 
to go into hiding from the police.  He 
stylizes this drama into an escapist fan-
tasy equivalent to his Super Nintendo. 
Marty clearly finds pleasure in the grav-
ity of his situation, but can’t comprehend 
the consequences of his actions. His first 
stop on the run is his friend’s basement 
where the lightsaber battle occurs. These 
two men dueling is a funny spectacle, 
but Marty is taking it too seriously. He 
starts to use his vid-
eo-game claw with 
real knives – the 
tone of the film re-
mains the same, but 
we understand how wrong this could go. 
It makes us reconsider our laughter. How 
did Marty end up like this, and shouldn’t 
we really be more worried about the guy?
Buzzard understands the balance 
between using characters as vehicles for 
jokes and making characters into jokes 
themselves. This is a ridiculously funny 
movie, but none of the people in Buz-
zard are laughing at themselves or each 
other. Potrykus presents his characters 
without judgement and often without 
thematic intentions towards comedy or 
tragedy in a given scene.  In a similar 
vein, it’s easy to see Buzzard as a warped 
social-commentary, but these notions 
never come by way of gratuitous symbols 
or overt narrative devices. Marty some-
times wears zombie masks in public, for 
example — we can say something about 
Marty’s identity from this, certainly. But 
rather than existing solely as a symbol, 
the mask feels simply like a piece of Mar-
ty’s personality. 
Even without considering the spe-
cific content of Marty’s life, you feel like 
you’re learning something about human 
nature from the way Buzzard observes 
him and his habits — this is true of all 
great character studies. Buzzard may 
have a thesis that addresses the state 
of modern adulthood, but Marty isn’t 
bothered by any of this. Perhaps he rep-
resents a philosophy, but he certainly 
doesn’t have a philosophy himself  — he’s 
just doing the best he can to get by, steal-
ing checks from his company and hot 
pockets from his friends.  
BY OAKLEY HAIGHT
the reel critiC          
BUzzard
A musical collabora-
tive of East African artists drawn from 
eleven countries touching the world’s 
longest river will visit the College Mar. 30 
through Apr. 3. The Nile Project uses mu-
sic to raise awareness for the Nile Basin’s 
sustainability challenges.
 During four days of residency activi-
ties including participatory workshops, 
keynote talks and class visits, the Nile 
Project artists will explore a variety of 
cultural, political and environmental is-
sues, culminating in a high-energy pub-
lic concert on Thursday, April 2 at 8:00 
p.m. in Wilson Hall of the College’s Mc-
Cullough Student Center.
For many of us, hydropolitics is an 
abstract intellectual concept we might 
discuss briefly in our course  fulfilling 
the AAL requirement. Along the Nile, 
however, it affects millions of lives ev-
ery day. In the United States, we have 
so much water that even the contents of 
your toilet bowl are potable. But for one 
of the fastest growing population areas 
in the world, conflict over river access 
began thousands of years ago and has 
only grown more impassioned with the 
passage of time. Since 2011, project par-
ticipants have worked to transform the 
Nile conflict by inspiring, educating and 
empowering an international network 
of students to cultivate sustainability in 
their ecosystem.
Inspired by Yo-Yo Ma’s Silk Road 
Project, Egyptian ethnomusicologist 
Mina Girgis and Ethiopian-American 
singer Meklit Hadero conceived the Nile 
Project in 2011. Their mission was to edu-
cate, inspire and empower the citizens of 
the Nile Basin to foster the sustainability 
of the river’s ecosystem through musical 
collaboration. 
The project’s model integrates pro-
grams in music, education, dialogue, 
leadership and innovation to engage 
citizens and students across disciplines 
and geographies. The concert experience, 
brings together an international group of 
musicians from Burundi, Egypt, Ethio-
pia, Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan, Uganda 
and the U.S. to inspire cultural curiosity, 
highlight regional connections and show-
case the potential of trans-boundary co-
operation.
 Participatory workshops and cross-
cultural dialogues will provide students 
with unique intellectual experiences to 
deepen their understanding of the Nile 
ecosystem. The Nile Fellowship and Nile 
Prize programs incentivize students to 
apply their education and training toward 
mobilizing their peers and pioneering 
innovative solutions to the Nile Basin’s 
complex and interrelated challenges.
The Nile Project has garnered sig-
nificant media attention along its journey 
toward this tour. The group’s first record-
ing, Aswan, was named one of National 
Public Radio (NPR)’s Top Must-Hear 
International Albums of 2013. NPR said, 
“the results are joyous and even raucous 
…  You can hear just how much fun the 
crowd is having — and how tight the band 
is, even as their instrumental multitudes 
adeptly combine everything from indige-
nous instruments like the Ugandan adun-
gu lyre to saxophone and bass.” 
NPR followed up on that review with 
a broadcast story “Producing Harmony 
in a Divided Region” in September 2014. 
When the Nile Project made its January 
2015 premiere at New York City’s Glo-
balfest, The New York Times hailed the 
group as “a committed, euphoric interna-
tional coalition.”
The Nile Project residency consists 
of five major events between Tuesday, 
March 31 and Friday, April 3.
 Tuesday, March 31st, musicians from 
the project will present a lively master 
class surveying music and dance tradi-
tions from several of the eleven countries 
bordering the basin at 4:30 p.m. in room 
221 of the Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 Center 
for the Arts (MCA).
Wednesday, April 1st, the Nile Proj-
ect founder, Mina Girgis, will give the 
keynote address, breaking down her cre-
ative process and exploring the ingredi-
ents necessary for successful cross-cul-
tural collaboration at 7 p.m. in the MCA 
Concert Hall.
Thursday, April 2, a panel of speakers 
will lecture on civic engagement and the 
management of water resources at 12:30 
p.m. in the Franklin Environmental Cen-
ter at Hillcrest. 
Friday, April 3rd, project’s female 
musicians with visit and talk with Assis-
tant Professor of Environmental Studies 
Merrill Baker-Medard’s Gender, Health 
and the Environment class at 9:05 a.m. 
in Axinn 109. This event is open only to 
students.
All of the Nile Project activities, in-
cluding earlier introductory events by 
African music star Herbert Kinobe and 
ethnomusicologist Sylvia Nannyonga-
Tamusuza, are supported by the Expedi-
tions program of the New England Foun-
dation for the Arts, made possible with 
funding from the National Endowment 
for the Arts with additional support from 
the six New England state arts agencies. 
The Nile Project concert will take 
place on Thursday, April 2 at 8:00 p.m. in 
Wilson Hall. Audience members are en-
couraged to come ready to dance, though 
seating will also be available. 
Tickets are $25 for the general pub-
lic; $20 for Middlebury College faculty, 
staff, alumni, emeriti and other ID card 
holders; and $6 for  students. Go/boxof-
fice for tickets.
BY CONNOR FORREST
The Nile Project is an international coalition artists 
using music to change the world. 
It brings together artists from all 11 countries 
along the  Nile River Basin who represent the 435 
million people who live in the area.
Today, only 10% of those people have electricity. 
Today, half of the Nile countries experience serious 
water shortages on a large scale. 
Today, 7 of the 11 countries suffer from over 30% 
malnutrition.
By 2055, the region’s population is predicted to 
reach roughly 900 million.
Unless common ground can be found, and agreements 
made, those numbers will only continue to grow. 
 “For many projects, music is the end result. But for us, it is just the begin-
ning. The integration of music with your leadership and innovation, we hope, 
will create a driving force that will change the way Nile Citizens relate to each 
other and their shared ecosystem.”
            - Mina Girgis
20 arts SCIENCES march 19, 2015 | 
The Middlebury men’s lacrosse team 
following goals from Joel Blockowicz ’15, a 
beautifully bounced shot off a Tim Giarrusso 
three days earlier, as Cardinal Lyle Mitchell 
Though Murray continued his strong 
culminating in a goal to start the third, 
year Cardinal attackman Harry Stanton 
in garbage time when the game was far 
answered right back with four straight goals 
The team returns to action this Saturday 
march 19, 2015 | 21SPORTS
By Trevor Schmitt
Women’s Lacrosse Picks up Road Victory 
The Middlebury women’s lacrosse team 
fought back and answered with a goal of 
Panthers’ scoring streak, but Middlebury 
team member Perticone also contributed two 
allowing only three goals in her time on the 
to focus on highlighting our teammates’ 
the Panthers are going to “come out in 
By Christine Urquhart
Tennis Opens Season with Success
Both the Middlebury men’s and women’s 
team also reeled in two wins on Saturday, 
Middlebury courts on Sunday, March 15 to 
In the men’s doubles matches at home in 
rounded out the Panthers’ doubles success 
the Panthers, earning the team’s fourth 
addition to these wins, Palmer, Jackson and 
Later in the day against Brandeis the men 
on the season, will return to action during its 
Meanwhile, the women’s tennis team, 
their winning streak on Sunday with a home 
In singles, the match continued to turn 
Later in the day the Panthers took on 
In addition, the Panthers further silenced 
the women’s team returned to their home 
the team cruised to wins in all three doubles 
addition, the weekend allowed the team to 
By Remo Plunkett
racist chanting by members of the Sigma 
The easy thing to do is to crucify 
the dismantling of all fraternities across 
the country and a cultural reconstruction 
Before we slam all fraternities and 
of thinking needs to be done about 
these thoughts, I come to a worrisome 
conclusion; we are not that different from 
If one starts to turn the mirror inwards 
Judgment is a mainstay of daily life 
together and look down on anyone who 
unfair discrimination — against blacks, 
younger students, older students, townies, 
Joe MacDonald ’16 is a sports editor 
from Pepperell, MA.
OU SAE: We’re not 
that different
8th
3-0
4:56.17
13
Middlebury took eighth place in the NCAA 
Skiing Championships in Lake Placid, NY
 women’s tennis’ record so far in the spring 
season after the openning weekend.
Alison Maxwell ’15’s national 
championship-winning mile 
time.
Number of ground balls for John Jackson ’18 
as the Panthers held off Wesleyan 11-9.
The cumulative score of the 
women’s Ice Hockey 2014-2015 
season, where the team went 20-
5-3.
by the Numb3rs
94-48 
Middlebury skied its way to an eighth 
place finish at the NCAA Championships 
last weekend. Middlebury posted their 
best result since 2009, highlighted by a 
team win in the men’s giant slalom and 
Rob Cone’s ’17 national championship 
in the same event. Cone, Christopher 
McKenna ’17 and Mary Sackbauer ’15 all 
recorded All-American finishes on the 
weekend.
The nordic events took place on the 
first day of action on Wednesday, March 
11 with the skate events at Mount Van 
Hoevenberg in Lake Placid. In the wom-
en’s 5K skate, the western schools swept 
the top-10 spots, and Kelsey Phinney 
’16 was the first Panther across the line 
in 15:35, 70 seconds behind the winner, 
good for 20th. Stella Holt ’15 was next 
for the Panthers in 34th, coming in with 
a time of 15:56. Heather Mooney ’15 was 
behind her in 39th, with a time of 16:10. 
Overall, the women came in 10th in the 
event with 11 points. Utah won the race 
with 91 points, followed by Colorado and 
New Mexico.
In the men’s 10K skate, the lone Pan-
ther Patrick McElravey ’17 finished 27th 
in 27:16, two minutes back of the winner. 
A mix of eastern and western skiers fin-
ished among the leaders, with Colorado, 
Dartmouth and Vermont taking the top 
three places.
On Thursday, Whiteface played host 
to the giant slalom events. The women 
placed eighth in the team event after 
Sackbauer placed 12th with a time of 
2:26.75. She finished four seconds be-
hind the winner from New Mexico. Elle 
Gilbert ’16 was 17th after clocking a time 
of 2:27.54. Katelyn Barclay ’15 fell during 
her second run and was disqualified.
On the men’s side, McKenna and 
Cone turned in nearly identical first run 
times to sit in fifth and fourth, respec-
tively. Cone then won the second run, 
and McKenna turned in the third fastest 
time to leap up the podium to finish first 
and third, both claiming First Team All-
American honors. Riley Plant ’18 fell on 
the first run as he neared the finish line. 
The team won by six points over Denver, 
who had racers in second and fourth but, 
like Middlebury, had their third racer fall 
on his first run.
“The program has really been build-
ing and we have a great group of GS guys. 
We’ve got them for a couple more years,” 
Cone said after the race.
Friday saw the nordic teams return to 
the competition for the classic races. On 
the men’s side, McElravey fared slightly 
better, finishing 23rd with a time of 59:04 
in the 20K classic. The western schools 
swept the top-eight individual spots, and 
Colorado, New Mexico and Dartmouth 
took the top-three team spots.
The women’s team finished tied for 
fourth place in the 15K classic race. They 
tied Vermont to finish behind Utah, Colo-
rado, and New Mexico. Phinney led the 
Panthers with a time of 49:39, two min-
utes behind the winners, but just five sec-
onds out of the top 10 as she finished 11th.
“I skied with the leaders for the first 
of three laps during Friday’s race,” Phin-
ney said. “While I was upset that my fall 
in the last 1km left me one spot out of the 
top 10, I’m happy to know that I can ski 
with the best women in the country.”
Mooney and Holt, who had both been 
battling sickness all week, improved on 
their first outing. Mooney, who won the 
classic title on the EISA circuit, finished 
16th with a time of 49:49. Holt grabbed 
a point for the team in 30th place with a 
time of 52:32.
“I think we did a great job of keeping 
the morale high,” Phinney said. “Heather 
and Stella are incredible athletes, team-
mates, and competitors, and they showed 
that with the way they raced in the face of 
being sick.”
On Saturday, the championships con-
cluded with the slalom events at White-
face. Sackbauer again led the women with 
a ninth place finish that earned her Sec-
ond Team All-American honors. She sat 
tied for 13th after finishing the first run 
in one minute flat. Her impressive second 
run moved her into the top 10 with a time 
of 1:58.74. Teammates Barclay and Gil-
bert came in 23rd and 25th, respectively, 
with consistent runs. Barclay had a com-
bined time of 2:02.25 and Gilbert took 
2:03.07 to finish both runs. Overall, the 
women took seventh in the event.
Cone led the men in the slalom, placing 
10th with a time of 1:58.22 after sliding 
down from a fifth-place first run. Plant 
turned in a solid second run to move up 
to 24th overall with a time of 2:01.76, 
while McKenna had to hike after missing 
a gate in his first run. He turned in a solid 
second run but finished the event 30th 
in 2:23.99. The men matched the women 
and placed eighth in the event.
The eighth place overall finish by 
the combined teams placed them third 
amongst teams from the east, and first 
among teams comprised only of Ameri-
cans. Colorado won the championship 
for the 20th time, edging out Denver 
and Utah who finished second and third. 
UVM was the top eastern school in fourth, 
while Dartmouth finished sixth. 
The high NCAA finish rounds out a 
strong year for the teams overall. The 
women’s nordic team, despite having sev-
eral key racers fall ill late in the season, 
scored more overall points this year than 
in any previous season. On the slopes, the 
men’s overall championship in giant sla-
lom marks the third event championship 
for the men’s Alpine squad in the past 
four years.
| march 19, 201522 sports
Cone Takes NCAA Giant Slalom Title
By Colin McIntyre
The Middlebury women’s hockey 
team saw its season come to an end this 
past weekend when the fifth-ranked 
Panthers fell to in-state rival and fourth-
ranked Norwich in an NCAA quarterfinal 
matchup on Saturday, March 14 in 
Kenyon Arena.
Despite falling to Trinity in the 
NESCAC tournament final on March 8, 
the Panthers were awarded an at-large 
birth to the 12-team national tournament. 
After missing the tournament last year, 
the Middlebury team had its eyes set on 
returning to the national title game after 
last doing so in 2013.
During their lone regular-season 
meeting in early February, Middlebury 
triumphed over Norwich 2-1 in overtime. 
On Saturday, Middlebury got on the 
board first when Katie Sullivan ’15 scored 
10 minutes in with assists from Anna 
Van Kula ’16 and Mackenzie Martin ’15. 
That lead was short-lived, however, 
as Norwich’s Liz Gemmiti fired back, 
beating Middlebury goalkeeper Maddie 
Marsh ’15 to even the game at one goal 
apiece midway through the first period. 
After Gemmiti went to the box for 
tripping, Hannah Bielawski ’15 rocketed 
a slapshot from near the blue line past 
Norwich goalie Celeste Robert to retake 
the lead. Bielawski’s goal was assisted by 
Carly Watson ’17 and Emily Fluke ’15.
Middlebury continued to push the 
offensive advantage in the second period. 
Several times in the period’s opening 
minutes, Panther players had clean looks 
at Robert, but each time the Norwich 
keeper was able to corral the puck. On the 
other end of the ice, Marsh was having 
a tougher time making stops. Norwich 
managed just six shots on goal during the 
period, but two of them found their way 
into the Middlebury net, and Norwich 
was able to tie the game and then take the 
lead despite being outplayed for much of 
the period’s 20 minutes.
The Panther skaters headed into 
the third period needing a goal to force 
overtime, or two to advance to the 
national semifinals. The way that Robert 
was playing in the net, a fourth Norwich 
goal likely would have been a nail in the 
coffin for Middlebury.
Marsh stepped up to the test, 
overcoming her previous errors to play 20 
minutes of solid hockey as time expired. 
In the offensive zone, the Panthers had 
several more opportunities as Norwich 
players went to the box three times 
during the third period. After Panther 
Coach Bill Mandigo pulled Marsh with 
two minutes left to play, an apparent 
tying goal for Middlebury was waved off 
by the officials — to the vocal disapproval 
of the Panthers’ home crowd. Several 
hard shots as time expired did not find 
their mark, and Norwich took the game 
3-2.
The Panthers lost despite leading 
in nearly every statistical category. 
Middlebury outshot Norwich 32-17 in 
the game, going on six power plays while 
taking only one penalty. As has been 
the case for the Panthers throughout 
the postseason, a combination of strong 
opponents’ goalkeeping and an inability 
to score goals down the stretch doomed 
the team to a final score that was not 
indicative of the overall competitive 
balance of the game.
For the Middlebury seniors, the loss 
means an end to their careers in blue and 
white. Fluke capped off her career with 
an outstanding senior campaign, leading 
the team and the conference in goals 
(20) and points (44) en route to NESCAC 
Player of the Year laurels. Marsh — who 
stepped in to play in goal this year after 
playing sparsely during the previous 
three seasons — was a regular-season 
stalwart for the Panthers, finishing near 
the top of all of the goalkeeping stats 
during the season and earning a spot on 
the All-NESCAC Second Team.
Bielawski — who tied for fourth on 
the squad with 20 points this season — 
was a 2013 All-NESCAC Second Team 
selection, while goalkeeper Annabelle 
Jones ’15 earned Second Team honors 
in 2014 before splitting time with Marsh 
this season.
Middlebury finishes the 2014-2015 
season with a record of 20-5-3, their 
fourth 20-win season in the past five 
years. The Panthers climbed as high as 
third in the national poll after beating 
Norwich in early February, and appeared 
poised for a long postseason run before 
falling in both of their last two games to 
Trinity and Norwich.
Next year’s squad will lean heavily 
upon the play of Watson and NESCAC 
Rookie of the Year Jessica Young ’18 as 
they look to improve upon this year’s 
success.
Women’s Hockey Heartbroken by Norwich
By Fritz Parker
the middlebury
great  eight
8
Midterms
Sorry professors, but my mind 
is already on the beach in San 
Diego. 
1
RANKING TEAM
Alex’s Assertions
2
Track and Field
I might be biased, but damn, it 
was a proud weekend to be a 
Panther. #IwannabeAlison
Tennis
Starting the season strong 
with straight wins.
3 Women’s hockey
These ladies have heart. 
4
5
Skiing
A national victory over the 
‘West’ is quite simply, epic.
7
Grass
Feeling blessed that I can 
actually see the ground and not 
just white tundra.
6
Women’s Lacrosse
Taking care of business in the 
‘CAC.
Men’s Lacrosse
Holding on to a win against 
Wesleyan is vital in the team’s 
NESCAC standing.
Fritz parker
The Panthers had a goal disallowed after the referee lost sight of the puck with 
two minutes left of play to potentially tie the game 3-2 against Norwich.
Courtesy Middlebury Athletics
classic at the NCAA championships, hosted by St. Lawrence on March 11-14.
Alison Maxwell ’15 sprinted past M.I.T.’s 
Maryann Gong with 100 meters to go in the 
NCAA Division-III Championship women’s 
-
-
-
-
-
the shot at a national title.
-
-
-
spots.
-
-
-
-
-
-
hind the leading pair.
-
-
on the straightaway with the lead. Chappell-
-
-
 march 19, 2015 | 23SPORTS
Maxwell’s Win Paces Trio of Panthers in NCAA Mile
By Fritz Parker
I’m with ya Joe.
Pick ’Em: women’s lacrosse vs. 
Amherst on the last Saturday of 
spring break.
Pick a team (other than Kentucky) 
who will advance to the NCAA DI 
men’s basketball Final Four.
Closest to: How many wins for 
men’s lacrosse before classes 
resume after spring break?
Closest to: How will Jamie Hillas 
at NCAAs?
 
This team has lethal shooting 
No time to even be witty.
editors’ picks
REMO PLUNKETT (35-23, .603)
Fritz Parker (77-71, .520)
The Amherst game might give them 
Emily Bustard (29-29, .500)
Joe macdonald (48-57, .457)
term.
Alex...
Alex Morris (52-49, .514)
panther sc0reboard
field hockey vs. Ursinus  
men’s basketball vs. U.N.E. 
men’s hockey vs. Colby
women’s Basketball vs. Smith
women’s hockey vs. Colby
Field hockey heads down to 
Lexington, Virginia  to face the 
A strong Middlebury goaltending 
effort prevented the Mules from 
converting in the overtime period. 
The Panthers closely defeated the 
hosting Nor’easters off a last-second 
conversion by Connor Huff ’16. 
The team went 2-0 on the road at 
the Tyler Tip-Off Tournament to 
begin their season. 
Clean sweep of the Mules for 
Middlebury. They beat Colby twice 
over the weekend to begin their 
season at  2-0.
5-1 W 
69-67 w
2-2 T
W
w
individual ncaa championships at middlebury
BRINGING HOME THE HARDWARE
2001 
year of Middlebury’s last individual
 champion in women’s track
2 years since Middlebury’s last individual NCAA championship before winning two this weekend
11Combined All-American honors earned by skiing and track athletes this weekend
3 Number of middlebury women’s runners who reached the podium in the mile
2005
the last time that two Middlebury athletes 
won individual NCAA 
championships in the same year
1989
year of Middlebury’s last 
individual champion in 
men’s Alpine skiing
201020o01990
sports March 19, 2015 | 24
WOMEN’S LAX 
GETS BACK ON THE 
WINNING TRACK
PAGE 21
WOMEN’S HOCKEY 
FALLS TO NORWICH 
IN NCAA QUARTERS 
PAGE 22
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
NATIONAL 
CHAMPS!
After Rob Cone ’17 (below) captured the NCAA title in the men’s 
giant slalom on Thursday, March 12, Alison Maxwell ’15 (top 
-
-
pionships on Saturday, March 14. Both Maxwell — pictured with 
fellow All-American milers Sarah Guth ’15 and Summer Spillane 
’15 — and Cone — alongside giant slalom All-American Chris 
rage.
Photos Courtesy Middlebury 
Athletics, Paige Fernandez
