march 22, 2012 | Vol. 110 no. 19 | middleburycampus.com
JUMP INTO THE 
GREEN MOUNTAIN 
STATE
PAGE 5
GET THE ELECTION 
LOWDOWN WITH THE 
PROFESSOR PUNDITS
PAGE 12
MEET THE 
SCHIZOPHRENIC 
RATS FROM BIHALL
PAGE 16
in
sid
e
Clockwise from left: Bill Strickland, CEO of the Manchester Bidwell Corporation, will give this year’s 
commencement address; honorary degree recipients include David Wolk ’75, Christopher Wolff, Mar-
tha Siegfried Fritz and Frederick M. Fritz ’68. Not pictured: degree recipient Sarah Bright Alturki.
clockwise From left, courtesy: manchester bidwell corporation; Middlebury  College; middlebury college; adeeva fritz; adeeva fritz
Bill Strickland to give 
commencement speech
By Kyle Finck
By Kara Shurmantine
Spring arrived early to Vermont last week, as temperatures topped 80 
degrees in some parts of the Champlain Valley on Sunday. Taking ad-
vantage of the warm weather, Earl Atte-Flynn ’13 and Connor Fitzsim-
mons ’12 practiced capoeira on Battell Beach Tuesday afternoon.
andrew podrygula
STUDENTS TAKE ADVANTAGE OF EARLY SPRING
Forum continues alcohol debate
SEE TRUSTEE, PAGE 2
SEE WITHOUT, PAGE 4
SEE FORUM, PAGE 3
By Danny Zhang and
Jeremy Kallan
The blank walls of Lower For-
est (LoFo) were hit with a bar-
Term and February in what Col-
-
ism, but what some  students see 
as much-needed art. 
Prior to the renovation of 
Forest Hall in the summer of 
2011, Lower Forest, or LoFo, 
was home to numerous murals 
and other art. 
-
dlebury, LoFo … was a changing 
art space,” wrote Alex Benepe 
’09 in an email. While at the 
College, Benepe led many of the 
art projects that adorned the 
walls of the space. “There were 
three or four murals spread out 
through the space at various 
times.” 
Benepe praised the renova-
tions, but said he missed the 
“grittiness” and the “organic 
feeling of it [LoFo],” arguing 
that the clean, renovated space 
“feels like a mental asylum [and] 
needs a coating of paint.”
When Forest was renovated, 
Cook Commons Coordinator 
Linda Schiffer, Project Manager 
Tom McGinn and Assistant Di-
rector of Facilities Services Lin-
da Ross met to decide the fate of 
LoFo. 
“We decided that it would 
primarily be used for parties, 
and that everything would be 
painted over for a fresh start and 
that it would be kept neutral so 
that everybody would be com-
fortable,” Schiffer said. 
It is unclear whether admin-
istrators and the students who 
painted the space met before the 
building was renovated. 
“The reason behind spray 
painting LoFo was to reclaim 
the space for student use,” wrote 
a junior, who participated in the 
spray painting and wished to 
remain anonymous for fear of 
disciplinary action from the Col-
lege in an email. “I believe that 
the number of student spaces 
on campus is diminishing and 
that administrative acts such 
as painting over the artwork in 
LoFo do not allow for the neces-
sary outlet students need within 
an oppressive institution.” 
-
stances occurring between late 
January and Feb. 23, according 
to Ross. 
“It was treated as dorm dam-
age,” wrote Ross in an email. 
“We were with the understand-
ing that this space was not to 
have the same type of artwork 
it had had in the past after the 
renovations were completed this 
summer.” 
The junior said that if stu-
President and CEO of the non-
-
tion and 1996 MacArthur “Genius” 
award recipient Bill Strickland will 
deliver the 2012 commencement 
address on Sunday, May 27.
Strickland will also receive an 
honorary Doctor of Humane Let-
ters degree. Other honorary degree 
recipients include educator and 
philanthropist Sarah Bright Altur-
ki, Harvard musicologist Christoph 
Wolff, Castleton State College pres-
ident David Wolk ’75, chair of the 
Board of Trustees Frederick Fritz 
’68 and his wife Martha Fritz.
Strickland grew up in the Man-
chester neighborhood of Pitts-
burgh and attended the University 
of Pittsburgh, where as an under-
graduate he founded the Manches-
ter Craftmen’s guild, a subsidiary 
of the Manchester Bidwell Cor-
poration. The Corporation and 
its subsidiaries are committed to 
mentoring and educating at-risk 
youth through vocational train-
ing and multi-disciplinary, arts-
focused programs and workshops. 
In 2010, President Barack Obama 
named Strickland to the White 
House Council for Community So-
lutions, and in 2011, he received 
the Goi Peace Award.
“His work is very inspiring and 
his personal story itself is very 
compelling,” said President of the 
College Ronald D. Liebowitz. “He 
uses a very innovative way that is a 
model now for inner cities to reach 
kids through the arts in creative 
ways.”
Alturki, whose husband Khalid 
Ali served as a trustee at the Col-
lege from 1977-1987, has lived for 
over 40 years in Saudi Arabia and 
is the founder of a dual-language, 
publishing company specializing in 
books in Arabic; and an education-
University Professor at Harvard 
University, where he has taught 
music since 1976. Wolk, Middle-
bury alumnus and president of 
Castleton State College in Castle-
ton, Vt., has served in Vermont as 
a state senator, education commis-
sioner and policy chief under for-
mer governor Howard Dean.
Frederick Fritz has been a 
trustee at the College since 1999 
and board chair since 2004. Mar-
tha, a former senior associate at 
the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, 
is a board member at the Henry 
Sheldon Museum and a member of 
Friends of the Middlebury College 
Museum of Art and of the Middle-
bury Arts Council.
Fritz’s recognition accompanies 
On the evening of Monday, 
March 19, the Task Force on Al-
cohol and Social Life hosted an 
open forum in McCullough Social 
Space to continue an ongoing dia-
logue among students, faculty and 
staff about the impact of alcohol 
on the greater community and the 
overall social scene on campus.
The panel consisted of Ser-
geant Michael Christopher of the 
Middlebury Police Department, 
Director of Public Safety Lisa Bur-
Chris Thompson. While the task 
force had hoped to bring in the 
Vermont Liquor Inspector and a 
staff member at Porter Hospital, 
neither was available to attend 
the forum. 
The impact of alcohol on community
Christopher and Burchard 
opened the forum, speaking on 
the harmful impacts of alcohol 
they have seen, ranging from 
highway accidents to personal 
violence to property damage. 
Thompson also acknowledged the 
students to blow off steam and be 
safe,” and praised the sober friend 
program.
Addressing trends in alcohol-
years, Christopher noted a slight 
increase in two areas: underage 
-
cation for alcohol purchases. The 
overall number of alcohol-related 
incidents, however, held relatively 
steady and the number of DUIs 
given to college students have 
dropped.
This forum was intended to 
“give the students a different per-
spective on drinking other than 
coming from within the College,” 
said Head football coach Bob Rit-
ter, a co-chair of the task force, 
after the forum. “To give a face to 
the real impact that it does have 
on the greater community.” He 
said the event was moderately 
successful in this regard.
Public safety
Since two of the three panel 
members were staff from Pub-
lic Safety, many of the student 
questions focused on the depart-
ment’s role on campus. Students 
raised the widely held sentiment 
that Public Safety’s actions force 
students, especially those un-
der 21, to drink behind closed 
doors. Public Safety did not spe-
-
rectly, though Burchard said that 
a whole bottle of hard alcohol is 
simply not meant to be consumed 
in a short period of time, regard-
less of a person’s age.
“There is an inherent tension 
between what Public Safety views 
His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama will 
visit the College on Oct. 12-13 to give two 
talks surrounding the theme, “Cultivat-
ing Hope, Wisdom and Compassion.” 
The visit will be His Holiness the Dalai 
Lama’s third to the Middlebury campus, 
following visits in 1984 and 1990. 
-
cating the Heart,” will take place on 
Friday, Oct. 12 at 1:45 p.m. and will be 
catered only to the College. The second 
for a Whole World,” will be open to the 
public and take place on Saturday, Oct. 
13 at 9:30 a.m. 
The visit was made possible through 
the work of a steering committee at the 
College, which worked with the Vener-
able Lama Tenzin Dhonden, personal 
peace emissary for His Holiness the 
Dalai Lama. The process began in 2009 
when Venerable Lama Tenzin gave a talk 
at the College on Buddhism and spoke 
with Chaplain Laurie Jordan. Although 
the school had previously tried to invite 
his Holiness the Dalai Lama to campus, 
it wasn’t until the venerable Lama aided 
the College that the Chaplain and Presi-
dent Ronald D. Liebowitz were success-
ful. 
In August 2010, Jordan and Liebow-
itz sent an invitation under the guidance 
of Venerable Lama Tenzin which was 
hand-delivered to the Tibetan spiritual 
that His Holiness the Dalai Lama had ac-
cepted the invitation for the date of Oct. 
13, which fell on Fall Break weekend. Af-
ter some negotiations and the school’s 
willingness to provide quick transporta-
tion for His Holiness and the group of 
monks with whom he will be traveling, it 
was agreed that His Holiness would also 
speak on Friday, Oct. 12, in order to give 
more students the opportunity to attend 
the talk. 
Detailed ticket information will be re-
leased by April 30, once the College and 
the Venerable Lama Tenzin coordinate a 
fair way to distribute the limited number 
of tickets available.
“There is no venue that is large enough 
to hold as many people as might be in-
terested,” said Jordan. “It is also really 
important that it is not only students but 
also faculty, staff members.”
His Holiness the Dalai Lama previ-
ously visited Middlebury in 1984 for a 
talk entitled “Christ and the Bodhisat-
tva,” and then six years later in 1990 for 
 
“I don’t know how many schools have 
had His Holiness the Dalai Lama for 
three visits,” said Liebowitz. “I am very 
excited by it and I think it is great that 
our students will have this opportunity.”
Twenty-two years have elapsed since 
the last visit, though, and with a new 
generation of students come a new set of 
issues facing the College and the larger 
community. Students’ relationships with 
religion — many shaped by the terror-
ism of the last decade — have changed as 
well, Jordan noted.
“In [students’] minds, the standard 
thinking about religion is, ‘Oh, religion 
causes war and fanaticism,’” she said. 
“When I was growing up, religion was in 
the forefront of the civil rights movement 
and the anti-Vietnam movement, so it 
was a completely different way of think-
ing,” she said.
The events of our day, though, need 
not color our views of religion, Jordan 
added.
“It is still the case that there are a lot 
of interesting things going on that are 
motivated by Muslims and Jews and 
Christians and Buddhists doing the work 
that is needed to solve global problems, 
which was part of our thinking.”
Throughout history members of vari-
ous religious groups, including Bud-
dhists, have dealt with and overcome 
challenges that come with the problems 
that plague society today, Jordan ob-
served. From simple long-term projects 
such as building a cathedral to more 
overarching goals such as non-violence, 
Jordan believes that religious leaders can 
bring this experience to all members of 
society. 
The theme “Cultivating Hope, Wis-
dom and Compassion” is designed to 
give students a chance to learn how to 
approach the problems in the world to-
day, and in particular the ways in which 
people can approach solving long-term 
problems when they themselves may not 
Jordan cited global climate change, 
as a particularly salient issue for Middle-
bury students that will require the type 
of long-term behavioral changes His Ho-
liness’s talk will explore. Religion, she 
added, has “specialized” in the ability to 
organize people to “make [the] necessary 
changes in their lives, even [when those 
changes] may not seem to be in their self-
interest in the short term.”
Liebowitz echoed Jordan’s thoughts, 
describing how the talk might teach stu-
dents not only how to deal with these 
issues individually, but also how to ap-
proach them as a society.
-
tered and really valued a global spirit and 
outlook, his message certainly is global 
in how it forces us to think beyond our-
selves,” said Liebowitz. “Not only on a 
micro level of each individual, how we 
makes or could make, not for immediate 
-
term interest of society and for mankind.”
As the foremost leader on Buddhist 
thought in the world, His Holiness the 
Dalai Lama consistently leads the dis-
courcse in these ideas, and the hope is 
that he will be able to spread his wisdom 
to the student body, faculty, staff and the 
greater Vermont community.
“As someone who was at his last two 
visits to the campus, [His Holiness the 
Dalai Lama] is a compelling individual 
with a great presence,” said Liebowitz. 
“Hopefully that will inspire people to 
think about these issues that he has been 
thinking about, speaking about and shar-
ing for a long time.”
The French presidential campaign 
has been temporarily suspended and the 
country has been placed on a “scarlet 
alert” after an armed gunman killed three 
children and one rabbi outside of a Jewish 
school in Toulouse on Monday. 
The attack was committed around 
noon on Monday, March 19, as parents 
were bringing their children to school. 
The gunman arrived on a scooter and 
shot and killed 30-year old Rabbi Jona-
than Sandler and his two young daugh-
ters. The suspect then dismounted, shoot-
ing and wounding a 17–year–old boy. 
He then chased an eight–year–old girl, 
before shooting her in the head at close 
range.
According to The New York Times lo-
cal prosecutor Michel Valet said that the 
killer “shot at everything he could see, 
children and adults, and some children 
were chased into the school.”
Authorities are tracking the murderer 
and believe he may be responsible for two 
other incidents that occurred in France 
last week. In the earlier incidents, three 
French soldiers of North African and 
West Indian decent were targeted, result-
ing in three deaths. In each of the three 
incidents, the same .45-caliber automatic 
pistol was used, and the suspect traveled 
to and from the crime scenes on a scooter.
In an interview with the Times -
beth Allannic, a spokeswoman for the 
the attacks have all been motivated by 
ethnic hatred. 
“We are faced with an individual who 
his victims for what they represent,” she 
said. 
Some have speculated that the shooter 
might have been a part of a group of neo-
Nazi soldiers from the 17th Parachute 
Transport Regiment who were court-mar-
tialed several years ago after participating 
in a ritual involving the Hitler salute. Po-
soldiers killed in the attacks last week 
were former members of the regiment.
Others suspect that the shooter may 
be a part of a domestic Islamic terror cell 
that holds anti-Semitic leanings. 
The recent incidents prompted French 
President Nicolas Sarkozy to call for a 
moment of silence at 11 a.m. on Tuesday 
morning, calling the event a “national 
tragedy.”
so the killer can be arrested and made to 
account for his crimes,” Sarkozy said. “It 
is not just the Jewish community that is 
concerned. It is the whole national com-
munity. On the territory of the republic, 
one does not assassinate children like 
this.”
Both the French president and his 
main opposition rivals in the upcom-
ing presidential election have suspended 
their campaigns for several days, vowing 
not to use the attack as a political tool. 
Nonetheless, analysts have been quick 
-
tions of the murders. Globe and Mail 
columnist Doug Sanders explained that 
Sarkozy will “almost certainly have to 
drop his ‘too many foreigners’ rhetoric 
— a stance employed by the UMP leader 
throughout the campaign.” Sanders ex-
plained that if the killer turns out to be a 
far-right activist, many voters might be 
encouraged to shift away from Sarkozy, 
supporting instead the pro-immigrant 
policies of socialist leader Francois Hol-
lande.
If however, the killer turns out to be a 
member of an Islamic militant group, vot-
-
wards the xenophobic policies of National 
Front leader, Marine Le Pen. 
Until the killer is found, French au-
thorities will be present in higher num-
bers outside of religious schools, airports 
and train stations, in order to protect citi-
zens.  
BY BRONWYN OATLEY
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| march 22, 20122 NEWS
A correction 
to the SGA 
budget article
Tibetan leader visits 
College in October
By Alex Edel
His Holiness the Dalai Lama will make his third appearance at the College this October.
courtesy: middlebury college
On Thursday, March 15, The Middlebury 
Campus published an article on the Student 
Government Association (SGA) budget pro-
cess. The information in it had several factual 
errors and misleading statements.  With the 
cooperation of the SGA, below we hope to 
clarify where the article was either incorrect 
or misleading. The Campus regrets the errors
“SGA debates use of $400k surplus,” which 
implies the organization took in more money 
-
cit, and the extra funds are best conceived of 
as a “reserve.” 
holds over $400,000 in reserves. That num-
2011; the current reserve is roughly $150,000. 
is expected to be roughly $325,000 once stu-
dent organizations return unused funds.
-
cal year 2011-2012 were roughly $1.3 million. 
The number cited — $1.085 million — was the 
total operating budget. 
allocating all necessary funding in the spring 
budgeting season, and organizations were be-
holden to the line-items that were approved 
by the Committee. The Committee’s “new sys-
tem” relies on under-allocation during spring 
budgeting with greater opportunities to re-
quest funding throughout the year as well as 
less regulation and oversight. This is intended 
to give member organizations the freedom 
and discretion to hold events, make purchases 
and start new initiatives as they arise.
Trustee 
honored
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
the March 15 announcement, via an all-faculty, 
all-staff email from Liebowitz, of Fritz’s stepping 
down from his position as chair of the Board of 
Trustees. Marna Whittington, currently a vice 
chair, has been nominated by the Trustees and 
Governance Council of the Board to succeed 
him as chair.
In his memo, Liebowitz pointed to several 
major accomplishments distinguishing Fritz’s 
eight-year tenure as chair, including the acquisi-
tion of the Monterey Institute, the construction 
of the biomass plant and the expansion of the 
C.V. Starr-Middlebury Schools Abroad. Liebow-
itz also observed Fritz’s “steady handling of the 
discipline.”
“Middlebury will be forever grateful to [Fritz] 
for his extraordinary contributions as chair and 
his steady hand during challenging times for the 
College,” Liebowitz wrote. “I know he will con-
tinue to provide wise counsel to the Board and 
the administration. I look forward to working 
with [Whittington] as the next Board chair and 
drawing upon her great experience in higher 
education, in business, and as a long-time Col-
lege trustee.”
Fritz will remain on both the Monterey and 
Middlebury boards.
average tenure at Middlebury, and governance 
changes are healthy,” wrote Fritz in an email. 
“Overall, my most rewarding takeaway as Chair 
was the professionalism, collegiality and team-
work of board members with the College ad-
ministration under [Liebowitz] as we worked 
on large challenges and opportunities. Our 
-
cial meltdown, focusing on the goals set in our 
Strategic Plan, Monterey and adding a fourth 
leg to future revenue sources like Middlebury 
Interactive Languages always drew on rigorous 
analysis, diverse points of view and a 25- to 50- 
year perspective.”
Fritz also expects to enjoy some increased 
personal time.
“During that period I was also blessed with 
seven new grandchildren with not always 
enough time to spend with them and their fami-
lies,” wrote Fritz. “I can also spend a bit more 
time gardening in Cornwall.”
Winners of the prestigious Thomas J. 
Watson Fellowship were announced on 
Thursday, March 15. Rhiya Trivedi ’12 
and Zaheena Rasheed ’12 were among the 
40 people selected from a pool of over 
700 candidates nationwide.
The Watson Fellowship is a one-year 
grant awarded to graduating seniors for 
independent study to be conducted out-
side the United States. Fellows must re-
main abroad for a full 365 days to pur-
sue their proposed projects. Recipients 
receive a stipend for the fellowship year 
of $25,000. 
“In an extremely competitive pro-
cess, we’re delighted that two of our four 
nominees received Watson Fellowships,” 
said Associate Director for Civic Engage-
ment and Internships Peggy Burns. “All 
four proposals were so very strong and 
truly reflected the diversity of interests 
and passions on the Middlebury campus, 
ranging from gender identity to democ-
racy movements to the impact of stove 
technology to reality-based tourism.”
Rasheed will be spending her fellow-
ship year in Chile, South Africa, Serbia 
and Egypt to study successful nonviolent 
movements with the hope of understand-
ing the skills needed to organize such 
campaigns so that they will have higher 
rates of success than their violent coun-
terparts. Rasheed did not respond to mul-
tiple requests for comments on her grant.
Trivedi plans to spend her year explor-
ing the potential for efficient stove dis-
tribution in Malawi, Mozambique, India, 
Bolivia and Guatemala and its potential 
to influence local climates. Her project 
will explore “the potential for historically 
disempowered communities to take back 
their climate and their self-determina-
tion.”
“Stoves have been distributed for 30 
years, but not until now has it had a cli-
mate dimension to it,” said Trivedi. “I 
think could really scale up what people 
are doing and that will make the private 
and public sectors want to distribute 
stoves more and make it more likely that 
people will want to use them.” 
Trivedi said that while other fellow-
ships focus primarily on formal research, 
the Watson Fellowship encourages obser-
vation, exploration and travel in interna-
tional settings.
“What I have learned through the ap-
plication process is that they want you to 
be 150 percent committed to whatever it 
is you are doing and that you demonstrate 
that this is an integral part of who you 
are,” said Trivedi.
Watson Fellows must remain unaf-
filiated with any academic institution or 
volunteer program while conducting re-
search, allowing fellows to seek answers 
to the questions that they believe are 
most pertinent, encouraging complete in-
dependence in the process.
“I’m in a position to listen to people 
and not have them associate me with any 
foreign agency or effort other than my 
own,” said Trivedi. 
An information session will be held 
in late April for all juniors interested in 
the application process for the 2013-2014 
Watson Fellowship.
As the 2012 presidential election nears, 
the College Republicans and the College 
Democrats are both taking measures to 
spike student interest in the election and get 
students involved in politics. 
On March 8, both the Democrats and Re-
publicans helped with MiddVote by provid-
ing students with the necessary information 
to register to vote either in Vermont or their 
home state with an absentee ballot. 
According to President of the College 
Democrats Hillary Aidun ’12, 140 students 
participated in MiddVote, up from about 60 
students in last semester’s drive.
The College Democrats have also been 
spreading political awareness by regularly 
contributing op-eds for the Campus. Aid-
un states that these op-eds are designed to 
“raise awareness about the Obama Adminis-
tration’s platform and achievements.” 
When the general election season begins 
next fall, the College Democrats will also or-
ganize a phone bank to urge voters to vote 
for the Obama and for the other Democratic 
candidates. 
The College Republicans have also been 
spreading awareness on campus. In addi-
tion to writing an Op-Ed for the Campus 
every week, on March 15 they brought Fox 
News Correspondent Andrea Tantaros to 
the 2012 Republican primaries, and how a 
-
tion campaign. 
“At a dominantly liberal school, it is ex-
citing to have somebody come in and shed 
some light on the Republican viewpoint,” 
said President of the College Republicans 
Katie Earle ’12. “It is also a great way to learn 
more about who the candidates are.” 
The College Republicans also use their 
meetings, which are open to the school, in 
order to spread the conservative viewpoint 
around campus. Professors and students 
with more liberal views often attend the 
meetings as well. 
“It is important for students to learn 
the other viewpoint, and our meetings help 
bring the conservative viewpoint to a domi-
nantly liberal campus,” said Earle.
The College Republicans are also plan-
ning to make posters listing the main ideas 
behind the platforms of the presidential can-
didates in order to raise general awareness 
on campus. The College Republicans are 
also trying to involve prospective students 
in politics on campus, as they will hold a 
meeting for prospective students during this 
spring’s prospective student preview days
Both Earle and Aidun state that a main 
object of their efforts is to get students in-
volved in politics regardless of their views. 
“Although I clearly have my own political 
views and priorities, it is most important to 
me that students vote  for any party,” said 
Aidun. “We live in a robust democracy where 
people have fought and died so that we could 
vote, and we should participate as loudly as 
we can. … At the end of the day, people elect 
politicians. I know that if a higher percent-
age of Americans voted, our leaders would 
respond, and we could change the political 
landscape.” 
Similarly, Earle said, “The election is 
such a great opportunity to learn. … It is a 
citizen’s duty to vote, and every voice mat-
ters.”
The place looked pretty harmless from 
the outside, just a typical Soviet-era one-
story concrete building painted pink. Af-
choices: the “men’s side” or the “women’s 
side”— kind of what I imagine it would 
be like to enter a prison. I entered the 
small men’s salon where two women were 
standing giving some old guys haircuts.
The middle chair was free. After stand-
ing and looking at myself dumbly in the 
central mirror for a couple minutes, one 
of the ladies standing sighed and called, 
“Natasha!” into a clearly visible side room 
where one lady sat texting and the other 
looking at the calculator in her hand. 
“What do you want?” Natasha asked me. 
In Siberia, there are three types of hair-
cuts: “Simple,” “Canadian” and “Stylish.” 
I thought about going for the “Stylish,” 
but opted against if for fear of looking like 
a Gulag victim. I went for “The Canadian, 
but not too short, please.” “Come again?” 
she answered. “But not too short,” I said. 
No answer.
Anyway, taking a look at my curly 
head as if it had committed some crime, 
she grabbed the largest shears out of that 
strangely disconcerting blue disinfecting 
liquid. I should note that only about 0.1 
percent of Russians have curly hair and 
they are usually Romanian, Latvian, Jew-
ish or come from other ethnic groups that 
have been marginalized at one point or 
another.
After a minute of attacking my head 
with shears, she said angrily, pushing my 
skull to the left, “Hold your head stron-
ger,” as if I were a statue that came to life 
and needed to be put back into my mold-
ing. Between bouts of removing enor-
mous chunks of my hair, she would zero 
in on an area for a minute as if trying to 
annihilate all life there.
Then came the ears. Most hair-cutters 
in the free world would delicately snip 
and buzz around these parts, but Nata-
sha approached my head with the belief 
that my ears had somehow been placed 
on the wrong part of my head, or should 
not be there at all. At one point I almost 
had to duck to avoid her lopping off the 
top half of my right ear. She then brought 
my head back forward with the force of a 
former USSR weight-lifter before doping 
control laws spread east. It serves to be 
noted that Russia invented the kettle-bell.
“Straight?” she said. Tempted to say, 
“Why, yes, I am,” I instead replied, “Yes, 
please,” with reference to my sideburns. 
She had already begun buzzing when I 
looked up and saw that I still had over-
grown hair that mimicked bangs hanging 
down in front of my face. I asked if she 
could make the cut shorter in the front, 
to which she snapped, “I am not done 
cutting your hair,” adding a one-syllable 
word for emphasis at the end which can 
essentially be translated to “damnit.”
those ridiculous, childish bangs that all 
Russian boys under 20 wear, she came to 
the realization that her artwork (or shear-
job) was a failure. I could tell by looking 
at her in the mirror that we would have 
both been better off if I had not even 
bothered coming in today. Needless to 
say, it was the worst six-dollar haircut 
track coach here, who, after asking me 
what happened, recommended me to a 
friend of hers, “so that you don’t have to 
walk around looking like this.” Needless 
to say, the “Canadian” haircut is a misno-
mer and a general disgrace to my Cana-
dian culture. 
overseas
briefing
BY BEN KINGSTONE’13
Irkutsk, Russia
 march 22, 2012 |  3        News
Partisans gear up for elections
By Katie Theiss
Two students win Watson Fellowship
By Lauren Davidson
Forum discusses Midd community, culture
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
as a successful party and what the students 
see as a successful party,” said Ritter.  “And 
what students want to have the freedom to 
do and what is legal.”
Ritter and Smith Abbott acknowledged 
said desire for more trust and freedom with 
Public Safety policies has potential, but re-
quires a “leap of faith because there is not a 
lot of evidence for that.”
-
ishing the citation system,” wrote Nathan 
LaBarba ’14, a member of the SGA and the 
Task Force, in an email. “Our J-term fo-
rums and focus groups, though, revealed 
that students generally approve of this sys-
tem and wouldn’t want to see it abolished. 
We do, however, need to be more clear with 
students from the outset about the precise 
nature of this system, the severity of certain 
violations, etc.”
Resources and party registration
Other contentious points of discussion 
were party registration policies and current 
resources available for students.
“From looking at data on party registra-
tion forms,” Burchard said, “the number of 
large parties has decreased over the years.”
MCAB President Nadia Schreiber ’12 
said that the current registration proce-
dures are not as onerous as students per-
ceive them to be.
 “There is a sense of paralysis here [re-
garding social life resources] that should 
not be the case at a small college,” Smith 
Abbott said, “there’s a lack of clarity about 
access to funds and spaces.”
  
Building community
In the second half of the forum, the 
discussion also shifted to broad themes of 
community and culture. Ross Commons 
Head Maria Hatjigeorgiou challenged stu-
dents to question why they feel the need to 
drink.
Task Force member Nathan LaBarba ’14 
noted, in an email, a few possible reasons 
for excessive drinking: “peer pressure, lack 
of knowledge of limits, and a desire to es-
cape from other troubles in life.”  
“We have a community problem, not an 
alcohol problem,” said SGA Treasurer and 
Tavern member Scott Klenet ’12. “When 
you’re in an environment where you’re try-
ing to make friends fast, alcohol is an easy 
tool to lean on.” 
“When I went to school here, I don’t 
remember feeling the pressure of taking 
shots behind closed doors,” said Ross Com-
mons CRA Rachel Ochako ’11. “There was 
so much happening.”
Ochako also spoke about the pressures 
of dangerous drinking on residential life 
staff and the need for more education for 
-
tation would be the appropriate venue for 
that education.
Smith Abbott suggested the idea of a 
“social honor code” to help set a standard of 
appropriate behavior for students. She said 
the Task Force has examined policies at 
other schools with and without such a code. 
“We want to be careful that we don’t let 
ourselves off the hook too easily when it 
comes to these things … [by saying] ‘we are 
so unlike a place where something like this 
works,’” said Smith Abbott. 
Ritter mentioned creating personal con-
nections with Public Safety and custodial 
build trust and partnership. He added that 
the disconnect has also extended to include 
students themselves. 
One of the main goals of the Task Force 
is to build a greater sense of community, 
Ritter said, by “connecting the Monday 
through Friday students with the Saturday 
night students, trying to deal with the prob-
lem behaviors of alcohol and trying to get 
people to understand that it does impact us 
all.”
Compiling recommendations
After the forum, Smith Abbott and Rit-
ter said that although they wished the turn-
out was greater, they thought quality and 
diversity of insight was helpful.  
Ritter said he estimates 90 percent of 
the ideas being discussed in the Task Force 
now are student-generated, “from our dis-
cussions, the forums and students outside 
the committee.”  Although they have exam-
ined national studies and other resources, 
any recommendations will be “home-
grown.”
As the Task Force moves forward, Smith 
Abbott said they will focus on a few key cat-
egories for improvement. These include ed-
ucation and support systems, party moni-
tors, partnerships among student group for 
diverse programming, the role of residen-
tial life, creative disciplinary outcomes ad-
dressing natural consequences for actions 
and improved education about resources 
available to students.
dents were not given alternative avenues 
for their art, the College would continue 
to see such vandalism. 
“I would not be surprised if we see an 
increase in ‘vandalism’ in other places 
around campus now that the student art 
space in LoFo has been repeatedly paint-
ed over,” the source wrote.
The most recent incident occurred on 
March 9, when 12,000 Post-It notes were 
stuck to the LoFo walls and drawn on by 
a number of students. The Post-It notes 
as vandalism.
A letter was found taped to a wall after 
the Post-Its were removed. It read: “This 
used to be a student space. We would like 
it back, please. We would like students to 
have the freedom to use this space as they 
please, without administrative supervi-
sion. We are responsible adults and we 
demand to be listened to, treated with re-
spect, and trusted. Blank walls make for 
empty minds.”
The note was signed Free Skool, an 
organization with which Barrett Smith 
’13 is involved with. Smith said that the 
project was intended to serve as a “visual 
stimulus,” a means of inciting conversa-
tion about bringing the student art space 
back. He added that the note only repre-
sented the views of a few members and 
not the entire Free Skool group. 
“It [the Post-It incident] was to put 
color back into that space, because the 
walls are very grey-washed, empty and 
uninviting,” Smith said. “I miss that 
space [LoFo prior to renovations]; it’s a 
shame that it’s gone. We need to work to 
re-establish it going forward.”  
In response to the Free Skool note, 
Schiffer said she is willing to open a dia-
logue about the use of LoFo, but that the 
“guerilla artwork” must stop. 
“I understand guerilla tactics,” she 
said. “I did it in the ’60s and ’70s when I 
I guarantee you’ll accomplish more if you 
come in and we open a dialogue. Every 
guerilla soldier at some point must come 
to the bargaining table after making their 
point.” 
Schiffer said that the 
dorm damage has been 
charged to the all-campus 
fund. She acknowledged 
that if a person came for-
ward, he or she would 
have to pay for some of 
the damage. 
“In the past, when a 
student comes forward 
and says, ‘I was horsing 
around and I put a base-
ball through a window,’ 
nine out of 10 times, 
that student doesn’t get 
charged for the full dam-
age,” Schiffer said. “I 
much prefer if a student 
comes forward. It saves 
me a lot of time and I recognize that stu-
dent’s honesty.” 
Benepe said LoFo represented more 
than just an art space in his time at the 
College. 
“Middlebury is such a whitewashed, 
clean-trimmed place, and while there is a 
rhyme and reason for that and everyone 
can certainly appreciate the immaculate, 
white marble feel of the place, I think its 
important to have special places where 
young people can loosen up a little bit, 
get weird and make a mess,” he wrote. 
He said that the space created lasting 
memories for many students, which the 
College should value. 
“We may have done some damage to a 
crappy room but the amount of fun and 
novelty we contributed to the lives of the 
people who enjoyed that space and came 
to our parties is invaluable to the Col-
lege,” he said
Benepe also offered a possible solu-
students’ thirst for art in LoFo and the 
administration’s need for a certain level 
of control over the space. 
create murals again,” wrote Benepe. “It 
-
ally cool and unique mural could be done 
in there, and should be done in there.” 
Schiffer called Benepe’s idea a “viable 
option,” but said that the 
students living in Forest 
Hall would have to sign off 
on any large mural paint-
ing. 
Student artists said 
that Schiffer’s demand for 
the “guerilla art” to end 
was heeded. 
“I believe that no per-
manent ‘guerilla’ artwork 
has graced the walls of 
LoFo since the admin-
istration repainted the 
walls approximately three 
weeks ago,” the anony-
mous source wrote. “As 
such, I believe Linda 
Schiffer’s request has 
announcement about a forum to discuss 
the use of the space.” 
in Lower Forest, see http://www.middle-
burycampus.com/ or go/thecampus.
4 NEWS
college 
shorts
COMPILED BY THE EDITORS
CU Boulder offers new 
conservative programming
To counter criticism that speakers 
hosted by the University of Colorado at 
Boulder (CU-Boulder) are too left-lean-
ing, the school will be hosting a series of 
conservative scholars over the next three 
years thanks to $1 million in donations to 
fund the guests, according to local Boulder 
newspaper, The Daily Camera.
Early plans hoped to establish a more 
permanent position for a “Visiting Chair in 
Conservative Thought and Policy,” but eco-
nomic restrictions have led CU-Boulder to 
create a temporary three-year position as a 
planned to join the school in spring 2013.
CU-Boulder administrators plan for 
the scholar to teach political science topics 
such as the Federalist papers, theories of 
small government, conservative economic 
theories and historical political ideologies 
— The Daily Camera
UVM seeks to cut ties to radio 
broadcasting Limbaugh
Faculty members at the University of Ver-
mont (UVM) have called for the state univer-
sity to cut its ties with the local radio station, 
WVMT, for broadcasting a nationally-syndi-
cated talk show hosted by Rush Limbaugh.
The request that UVM end its contractual 
relationship with WVMT, which will bring in 
$80,000 over the next four years, was prompt-
ed by Limbaugh’s use of derogatory remarks 
Congress about the right of women to receive 
insurance coverage for contraceptives. Amid 
mass criticism, Limbaugh later apologized for 
the comments.
The UVM Faculty Senate noted that WVMT 
broadcasts Limbaugh and also “advertises it-
self as the voice of the Catamounts,” approved 
a resolution Monday declaring that Lim-
community standards.”
However, Paul S. Goldman, owner and gen-
eral manager of WVMT, said that Limbaugh’s 
-
tion, saying “you cannot connect the dots be-
tween UVM and Rush Limbaugh.”
— Burlington Free Press
Obama chooses Barnard over 
Columbia for commencement
President Obama announced on March 3 
that he will give the commencement speech at 
Barnard College in New York City this spring, 
spurning his alma mater, Columbia Univer-
sity. The decision created an uproar among 
Columbia students, many of whom took to the 
internet to vent their frustrations. 
Though it maintains some curricular ties 
to the Ivy League school, Barnard is an inde-
pendent women’s college with its own trustees 
and president separate from Columbia. Many 
people say that Obama’s decision is political, 
as gaining women’s votes are crucial to his re-
election bid in 2012. 
The New 
York Times, was the planned Barnard speaker, 
but agreed to step down in favor of the Presi-
dent. Rejected by the President, Columbia will 
-
lisher of Harper’s Magazine as their gradua-
tion speaker. 
Obama follows in a long line of notable Bar-
nard speakers, including New York City Mayor 
Michael Bloomberg and Secretary of State 
Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
— The New York Times
3/17/12
3/17/12
3/17/12
3/17/12
3/18/12
3/18/12
3/18/12
DATE TIME INCIDENT DESCRIPTION LOCATION DISPOSITION
8:59 a.m.
1:45 a.m
11:00 p.m.
2:55 p.m.
10:03 a.m.
7:06 p.m.
1:06 a.m.
Vandalism
Disturbance  
Vandalism
Agency Assist-MPD  
Fire
Assault/Battery  
Ceiling tile broken
Noise 
  Providing misinformation
Intoxicated student  
Failure to attain permit
No details provided
Hepburn  
Atwater B  
Pearsons  
Palmer  
St. Mary’s Cemetery
Meeker House  
FIC Freeman
REFERRED TO DOC AND COMMONS DEAN
REFERRED TO DOC AND COMMONS DEAN
REFERRED TO DOC AND COMMONS DEAN
REFERRED TO DOC AND COMMONS DEAN
REFERRED TO DOC AND COMMONS DEAN
REFERRED TO DOC AND COMMONS DEAN
REFERRED TO DOC AND COMMONS DEAN
PUBLIC SAFETY LOG March 12-18, 2012
The Department of Public Safety reported giving 10 alcohol citations between 3/12/2012 and 3/18/2012.
Without LoFo, artist 
“Guerilla artwork” has taken over the 
walls in Lower Forest, sparking a debate 
over the role of art in student spaces.
courtesy: linda ross
| march 22, 2012
“I understand 
guerilla tactics. I 
did it in the ’60s 
and ’70s when I was 
in school, but for 
I guarantee you’ll 
accomplish more if 
you come in and we 
open a dialogue.”
linda schiffer
cook commons coordinator
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
JusTalks gets 
initial Old 
Chapel nod
By Emily Singer
On Thursday, March 15, a group of stu-
dents met with some members of the ad-
-
tiative. Old Chapel has agreed to continue 
to develop a more concrete proposal for the 
program.
Created by a group of approximately 20 
-
to free communication, to thoughtful dis-
course, to supportive self-analysis, to lean-
ing into discomfort and to dynamic commu-
nity building.” Over 50 student groups have 
letter on the group’s website.
“We had a great discussion, basically just 
-
tions, bring up issues that would need to 
be explored throughout the process,” said 
Dean of the College and Chief Diversity Of-
Rhiya Trivedi ’12, one of the leaders of 
-
tate conversations that are necessary on the 
College’s campus.
“For too long students, for whatever rea-
sons, have been denied the opportunity to 
and empathy,” wrote Trivedi in an email.
us to share this discomfort and be sure that 
all Middlebury students … are given the 
language and the skills necessary to achieve 
greater inclusion, and to speak out against 
exclusion for the sake of our own communi-
ty and the world we are inevitably to occupy, 
-
nagh ’14 is both optimistic and enthusiastic 
about developing the proposal further, say-
ing that the pitch to Old Chapel could not 
have gone better.
“Moving forward, there are still a lot of 
-
izing funding and institutionalizing the 
project so it doesn’t disappear when we 
graduate, because we hope this initiative be-
comes a piece of what Middlebury students 
think about when they think about [Winter 
Term],” Cavanagh wrote in an email.
be meeting with Dean of Students Katy 
Smith Abbott, Associate Dean of Students 
Boggs, Dean of Curriculum Bob Cluss and 
Collado in the week after Spring Break to 
“look at the proposal a little more closely,” 
according to Collado.
“The questions [asked], I think, pushed 
the group, and also allowed us as adminis-
tration to really think more carefully about, 
‘Could we use [Winter Term] in this way?’” 
Collado said. “Using resources and oppor-
tunities we have here already, like [Winter 
Term], I thought it was a really creative way 
to think about establishing the kind of space 
that these students think we need.”
hosting open community forums after 
Spring Break to garner feedback from fel-
low students.
Visit middleburycampus.com 
for this week’s 
SGA update M
local
Paul Rosenfeld 
interviews people 
along Route 100
Page 6
For many, the thought of jumping 
out of a moving airplane at 12,000 feet 
seems like a scene from a nightmare, an 
anxiety dream of the worst sort.  But one 
mid-October afternoon as Sara Arno ’14 
walked across Battell Beach, she noticed 
that the sky was exceptionally blue. 
“Today’s the day,” she said to herself. 
And indeed it was.  Arno, along with two 
of her suitemates, Sarah Marcus ’14 and 
Adam Schreiber ’14, hopped in their car 
and made their way to Vermont Skydiv-
ing Adventures, located just thirty min-
utes from campus.  
“The signs weren’t very clear,” said 
Schreiber, “so we ended up pulling into 
a donkey farm.”  
After admiring the donkeys for a few 
minutes, the group continued another 
-
nal destination, Vermont Skydiving Ad-
ventures. 
Ole Thomsen and his wife started the 
company in 1992, almost 20 years ago 
today.  They were originally located in 
Shelburne and moved to Vergennes in 
1994.
it would be more of a hobby,” explained 
Thomsen, but he now works full-time in 
the summer to keep up with the demand 
for skydiving in Vermont.  On a busy day, 
they can get up to 20 jumpers, especially 
in their busiest months, August and Sep-
tember.  Although it may seem like col-
lege students would make up much of 
their demographic, the people skydiving 
in Vermont are from all walks of life.
“We get couples, families, friends,” 
said Thomsen.  
They even set a Vermont state record 
for oldest skydiver with a 92-year-old. 
The only requirement is that you must be 
18 to fall. Other than that, anything goes. 
While it might not seem super-likely for 
a small mom and pop skydiving company 
like Vermont Skydiving to 
be successful, they do some 
serious business in the name 
of some serious fun.
When asked if any of 
them were nervous to sky-
dive, Arno, Marcus and Sch-
reiber all shook their heads.  
-
vous,” explained Schreiber, 
“I was more excited, super 
excited, giddy excited.”  
All three spoke of the surreal feeling 
you have being at 12,000 feet in a plane 
and knowing you’re suddenly going to be 
freefalling toward that distant ground.  
The scariest part was watching one an-
other go out the plane window.  As Sch-
reiber was hurdled out of the plane, Arno 
had to crawl toward the window and wait 
her own turn.  
“My tandem was chewing on a match-
stick the whole time,” she said, “but he 
kept assuring me that he had done this 
about 10,000 times.”  
Clearly, he knew what he was doing.    
Arno described how they jumped at 
the perfect time of day (and year), just as 
the sun was setting over the Adirondacks. 
From where they jumped they also had 
the illusion that they were jumping into 
Lake Champlain.  
“It was peak fall foliage and after he 
pulled the parachute my dude started 
naming all the mountains in the Adiron-
dacks we could see,” said Arno, describing 
a seemingly perfect fall.  
Once the parachute is pulled, the ex-
perience quickly changes from mind-
boggling to serene, the second 
half of the fall providing a 
premium view of the Vermont 
landscape.  Schreiber spoke of 
his tandem was all for it, but he 
10 seconds of the fall.  
“So much happens so fast, I 
couldn’t even process it; it was 
he said.  
The question of whether or not they 
pulled their own parachutes elicited 
some blank stares.  They all describe that 
it happened so fast you’re not even sure 
what happened.  
“My guy told me I pulled it, but I’m not 
sure that I did, ” said Schreiber.   
When asked if they would do it again, 
all three immediately nod their heads. 
 Marcus exclaimed, “I want to so bad-
ly.”  
All three express a desire to skydive 
again, and as soon as possible.  Schreiber 
said it was one of the most fun experienc-
es he has ever had and recommends it to 
anyone even remotely interested.  
“If you’re planning on going anytime in 
your life you should just go now,” he said. 
Vermont Skydiving will be open on 
weekends starting in April, going into 
full-operation sometime in May.  It costs 
tandem and Marcus assured me that it is 
completely worth it.  Arno says that part 
of the reason why Middlebury students 
should consider skydiving is because you 
can see Middlebury College from the air.  
All three agree that it was an experi-
ence they’ll never forget and that there 
might be no place better than Vermont to 
do it.        
By Stephanie Rousch
COURTESY
Marcus, Schreiber and Arno prepare for their skydiving adventure.
“So much 
happens 
so fast, I 
couldn’t even 
process it.”
Adam Schreiber ’14
S k y d i v i n g 
o v e r
v e r m o n t
Vermont Skydiving Adventure customers recieve a certificate of achievement after their first skydive.
COURTESY
local
Local 
lowdown
FIDDLER ON THE ROOF
The senior class at Middlebury Union 
High School presents “Fiddler on the 
Roof.” -
and his daughters as he tries to protect 
MAR. 23, 7 P.M. - 9 P.M.
ANNIE
present Annie
-
MAR. 22, 7 P.M. - 10 P.M.
MAPLE MAGIC IN BRISTOL
-
-
MAR. 24, 10 A.M. - 4 P.M.
VERMONT MAPLE OPEN HOUSE
-
-
-
-
MAR. 24-25
HUNGER GAMES RELEASE PARTY
-
MAR. 23, 4 P.M. - 6 P.M.
WOODS TEA CO. FAREWELL CONCERT
 
MAR. 30, 8 P.M.-10 P.M. 
6
24Journeys on Route 100
  | March 22, 2012
It’s like clockwork. Every autumn, 
tourists make the annual pilgrimage to 
view Vermont’s fall foliage. They drive 
through, buy maple syrup, admire the 
“quaint” villages and head back wher-
ever they came from. While tourism is 
an integral part of the state’s economy, it 
is unfortunately becoming its only form 
of it. 
This past January I traveled down 
Vermont’s longest highway — route 100. 
Along the way, I stopped to interview 
dairy farmers, maple sugar producers 
and small business owners, hoping to 
understand what is happening to the 
state’s economy and its people.
 Years ago, Vermont used to be all 
subsistent farming, but in recent de-
cades, tourism has taken over as the ma-
jor source of income. According to the 
Vermont Agency of Agriculture, in 1954 
there were 10,527 dairy farms but, by 
2010, that number had dropped to 1,055, 
and it continues to fall.  As a result, Ver-
monters must look for work elsewhere. 
Dennis Vadnais, the owner of D’s 
Doghouse and Tavern, has been living in 
the Rochester/Granville area since 1971 
and has witnessed firsthand the change 
in the landscape of the economy. 
“The jobs are rough to come by, if 
you’re not a logger or a carpenter you’ve 
gotta go out of town,” he said.
These problems are only intensified 
with the increase in second home own-
ership. While tourism brings revenue to 
certain sectors of the state, the increase 
in second home ownership has forced 
many Vermonters out of their homes. 
According to Dennis, “40 years ago the 
area was all small farms, but through the 
years they just keep getting bought out, 
developed and broken up. You can’t af-
ford them.”
The effects of fading industry can 
be felt throughout the state.  Newport, 
located five miles from the Canadian 
Border in Orleans County, has one of 
Vermont’s highest unemployment rates. 
Through the 1950s, Newport was a thriv-
ing town with industry and a railroad. 
But in 1965 the last passenger train left 
Newport, and the town’s economy seems 
to have gone with it. Tourism associ-
ated with Jay Peak remains one of the 
only forms of employment. While the 
state and several businesses have made 
attempts to revive the city, the majority 
of ventures have failed.  Two companies 
(Vermont Teddy Bear, Columbia Forest 
Products) representing nearly 150 jobs 
closed in the last two years. The state 
also hoped that the extension of Inter-
state 91 would boost industry, but more 
than 30 years after its completion the 
project has spawned little growth.
Just outside of Newport, I stopped 
at a sign reading Carl and Pam’s Coun-
try Emporium. The store was shuttered 
but the owner still lives in the adjacent 
building.
“Years ago, all of these were farms, 
all up and down here.  They’re all closed, 
they’re all gone,” Carl said.
He then told me that at one point the 
store was quite large since it served as 
a supply source for small farms in the 
area. But the switch to large commercial 
dairy farming hit Orleans County hard, 
especially the younger generation. Only 
seven percent of the county is between 
the ages 18-24.
“Unless you have something, a busi-
ness that carries you out of the area, 
there’s really not much here for young 
families,” said Carl. “There’s nothing for 
the kids to do when they graduate, so 
they’ve left. We had five children, they’re 
all gone.”
Unfortunately, there doesn’t ap-
pear to be any quick fix to the state’s 
economic woes. Its residents continue 
to age, tourism continues to be the larg-
est source of revenue, and Vermont re-
mains a destination for second home 
ownership and retirement. While towns 
like Stowe, Killington, Waterbury, and 
Middlebury maintain a façade of small 
town perfection, they hide the state’s en-
demic issues. They mask the harsh real-
ity of Vermont’s economy, serving visi-
tors a distraction from the rural poverty 
that plagues the state.
By Paul Rosenfeld
PHOTOS BY PAUL ROSENFELD
TOP LEFT: Wet 
roads and mist 
on the southern 
entrance of 
Route 100 near 
Stamford, Vt.
TOP RIGHT: 
Dennis Vadnais, 
owner of D’s 
Doghouse and 
Tavern, near 
Rochester/
Granville.
RIGHT: The 
milking pen at 
Lamphear’s farm, 
which expanded to 
500 cows in 1999.
-
-
Campus
The
editorial
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus
Notes from 
the desk
Emily Singer ’14 is 
a news editor from 
Harrison, N.Y.
editorial board
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Finding a space for student art
 Campus, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kara Shurmantine
MANAGING EDITOR
Dana Walters
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Ethan Schmertzler
NEWS EDITORS 
Kyle Finck, Adam Schaffer, Emily Singer, 
Allison Forrest
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Carina Guiterman, Isabel Shaw, 
Ian Trombulak
SPORTS EDITORS 
Alex Edel, Damon Hatheway, Dillon Hupp, 
Katie Siegner, Owen Teach
LOCAL EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Molly Talbert 
FEATURES EDITORS 
Michelle Smoler, Leah Pickett
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Amanda Pertierra, Deirdre Sackett, Emily 
Scarisbrick
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anna Clements, Paul Gerard, 
Andrew Podrygula, Jiayi Zhu
DESIGN MANAGER
Ian Stewart
DESIGN EDITORS
Olivia Allen, Kiara Cobb
ONLINE MANAGER 
Greg Woolston
ONLINE EDITORS
Saadiah Schmidt,  Zhenyu Li
AD MANAGER
Quinn Proffer
By Dylan levy
opinions
Apply 
Liberally
Zach Dallmeyer-
Drennen ’13.5 is from 
Canandaigua, N.Y. 
Of mouths and money
Last week, I attended the Chellis House-sponsored 
panel discussion of the current state of reproductive 
rights in the U.S. Andy Hyatt ’12 discussed the issues in 
light of his conservative beliefs. To be honest, I did not 
agree with most of what Andy was saying, nor did his 
points serve to change my view that women, and not the 
state, are entitled to make fundamental choices about 
their own bodies. However, I was struck by the way in 
which Andy argued his points. He seemed willing to 
have a levelheaded conversation in which he effectively 
explained his beliefs while also 
accepting the validity of counter-
arguments.
I think many Middlebury 
students can learn a lesson from 
Andy. When I see the passion that 
students here have for issues such 
as the Affordable Care Act and, on 
a smaller scale, for Middlebury’s 
endowment and the need for a student art space, I realize 
how proud I am to be here. Middlebury students show 
that we are clearly not the “apathetic” generation we are 
so often labeled.  
Many progressive students on campus often call 
for “more conversation.” However, these students 
must realize that a conversation must be a respectful 
dialogue.  Simply agreeing with one “right” view while 
showing intolerance for the opinions of others is not 
a conversation; it is an echo chamber. Last week’s 
well-attended endowment meeting provided an 
excellent opportunity for genuine conversation. The 
Investure representative’s failure to disclose where 
the endowment money is going severely hindered 
constructive conversation; yet some students might 
have been at fault as well. Many students went into the 
meeting with no plans of truly engaging in a dialogue, 
but went instead to share their pre-formed views and 
obstruct the conversation. To be activists who actually 
effect change, students must engage with others and 
must be able to articulate their beliefs carefully and 
thoughtfully. In my opinion, this would be a more 
effective tactic than throwing cookies at people. 
Most Middlebury students have liberal views that are 
shared with the majority of students that they interact 
with here. For this reason, many students don’t feel the 
need to explain their rationales or argue their views; 
there is rarely a need to, as the majority of students 
fundamentally agree on basic issues. 
But Middlebury is hardly indicative of the U.S. 
population as a whole. In the “real world,” we will 
undoubtedly face people with opposing views, and we 
will need to be able to both explain why we hold our 
opinions and listen to those with different beliefs. As 
college is supposed to prepare us for the “real world,” 
it is important that Middlebury students start fostering 
these skills now. We go to one of the best schools in the 
country, but this does not  mean that we are all-knowing 
or that people with whom we disagree know nothing. 
While I agree with many of the progressive values 
espoused by passionate students, it must be clear that 
being progressive entails tolerance and openness to the 
possibility that one’s views may be wrong.
I’m not trying to say that activism should only be 
carried out through institutional channels. If we didn’t 
embrace the power of protest and radical activism, than 
the U.S. would be in a decidedly more grim place than it 
is today. Middlebury students should embrace activism 
but must also see the merits of institutionally-channeled 
activism. Many members of the administration hold 
such as the endowment meeting and alcohol task force 
forums provide students with opportunities to share 
their beliefs. If these institutionalized channels of 
student involvement fail, then, by all means, students 
asking convoluted and somewhat rhetorical questions — 
or throwing cookies — is neither serious nor effective.
Andy’s argument also impressed me because it was 
refreshingly void of empty rhetoric and attempts at 
sensationalism. Too often I hear Middlebury students 
complain about “the Institution” or “the Administration.” 
These students make general statements such as 
“Middlebury doesn’t foster community” or “Middlebury 
is hetero-normative, homophobic, hegemonic, classist, 
racist, etc.” 
I applaud these students for speaking up, and I 
believe that much of what they say is true. Yet instead 
of merely using Middlebury’s problems as a venue in 
which to use Middlebury-learned rhetorical labels, 
students should argue their beliefs logically and with 
Conversations may serve as practical solutions, 
but only if students foster constructive dialogue. 
I am truly proud of the activists among the Middlebury 
population. Martin Luther King, Jr. said, “Our lives 
begin to end the day we become silent about things that 
matter.” A Middlebury without these passionate students 
would not be an institution I would be proud to attend. 
But we should neither be silent nor try to silence others. 
Conversation without silencing others
8opinions
The informational meeting about 
Middlebury’s endowment last week 
might have been more at home in a 
government intelligence agency than 
a liberal arts institution; non-answers 
and obfuscation ruled the afternoon. At 
one point, Investure “client relations” 
Oliver Platts-Mills, clearly frustrated 
by the unexpected hostility sweeping 
through the packed auditorium assured 
the group of concerned students that 
“if there’s a 
company out 
there right 
now that you 
think is a good 
company, we 
own it.” Later, 
he defended 
himself by 
informing the 
bemused crowd that we’d all be super 
impressed with the companies in the 
endowment, if only he could tell us 
what they were. Next time I’m in a job 
interview or on a date, I think I’ll try 
a similar line and see how well it goes 
over. 
Platts-Mills’s intransigence certainly 
made our endowment sound mysterious, 
and that’s clearly unacceptable to 
the students who chose to attend 
Middlebury, pay tuition to Middlebury, 
and hope to one day donate ridiculous 
sums of money to Middlebury. I don’t 
suggest that we move our endowment or 
abandon the relationship with Investure 
that netted an 18 percent return on our 
money last year; Middlebury is clearly 
quite well-endowed. 
The idea that we could switch 
all of our $800 million to “Socially 
Responsible” investments raises a 
number of practical concerns. I’m sure 
most students here would support 
investment in a corporation that devotes 
over a billion dollars a year to developing 
solar and wind technology, or to a 
company spending over $600 million 
developing algae as a replacement for 
fossil fuels, or to the corporation that 
runs a government lab that researches 
alternative energy, global warming and 
hydrogen power. The problem is that 
would consider the height of corporate 
“Socially Responsible” company? Most 
successful corporations, from these 
examples to Apple or Google, have 
their plusses and minuses. But the 
intricacies of the market do not mean 
we don’t deserve more information. A 
Middlebury education is an extremely 
expensive product. Just like the food we 
eat and the textbooks we study from, we 
deserve to know the ingredients of our 
wealth. 
I’m not sure why exactly the 
administration or Investure agreed to the 
meeting, since they seemed determined 
to provide little to no information 
about these ingredients. Perhaps at 
the next such meeting they’ll trot out 
an actual dog and pony in service of 
their agenda. Investure claims that they 
can’t give Middlebury students more 
and danger to their bottom line. Both of 
these concerns are understandable, but 
there needs to be a way to give students 
of this institution. At the end of the 
meeting, I stood up to ask Platts-Mills a 
question. I wanted to know if there was 
any possible compromise; if we could, 
for example, see a list of Middlebury’s 
holdings from three years ago. It’s hard 
to imagine that this could jeopardize 
Investure’s business. In typical fashion 
for the meeting, the analyst demurred: 
“I just don’t know what you’d do with 
such a list.” 
I’d love to read that list, Oliver. I’d 
like to see the name of every company 
and every fund that Middlebury’s 
money supported in the past, even if 
the law and markets prevent us from 
releasing our current holdings. And I 
know that I am not the only one. Maybe 
that list wouldn’t tell us anything we 
didn’t already know. Maybe the list 
would make us proud of Middlebury 
and proud of where our money has 
gone. But maybe there would be some 
companies that Middlebury students 
would broadly agree are not acceptable. 
We have that right. And if you don’t 
agree, then we have the right to demand 
that the company that manages our 
money respects our shareholder rights 
we need more information to begin a 
deeper conversation about what we value 
more as a community — a high return 
to investment, responsible sources of 
income — or whether those two goals 
must remain mutually exclusive. 
“The Campus Cruiser”
I can see quite a lot from my energy 
efficient, ivory road bike. I can see 
lights left on, I can see dishes left out 
and thrown away and I can see doors 
and windows left open in the winter. 
This is a ridiculous, abject waste. 
Why don’t we just burn the money? 
Or better yet, why don’t we conserve 
and give the money we would have 
spent to financial aid or the concerts 
naïve.) While I know it’s hard to expect 
students to be thrifty about collective, 
vague expenses like power, heat, 
dishes and printer paper, I imagined 
that students might be thrifty about 
consumption when paying directly, 
either from their shallow pockets of 
hard-earned cash — maybe considering 
12 dollars as an hour of work — or from 
future inheritance. Well, that is until I 
saw a Range Rover drive 200 meters.
There are a lot of “Campus Cruisers” 
around Middlebury these days, riding 
dirty with the caps tipped low, blastin’ 
the beatz loud, looking like bullies 
from a ’90s high school movie. Well, 
maybe I’ve imagined part of that, but 
certainly there are quite a lot of intra-
campus jaunts in the car. This makes 
no sense to me. Parking is annoying, 
gas costs a gajillion dollars and Public 
Safety loves to make it rain tickets. On 
my high bicycle-horse I don’t have to 
park in a parking lot, I take short cuts, 
I don’t slow down for speed bumps and 
I usually beat cars to the destination, 
door to door. I also get killer thighs. 
But what I especially don’t 
understand is why the Range Rover 
drove those 200 meters to the athletic 
center, ostensibly to engage in 
athletic activity. While as a “varsity 
athlete” (did I just really say that?) I 
am sensitive of the energy it takes to 
participate in practice, I have a gut 
feeling that one could conceivably 
make it back to Proctor or Ross 
without any automotive assistance. 
And something just baffles me about 
driving over to spin or run, like taking 
an elevator to use the Stairmaster. 
Rumor even has it that when alumnus 
and mountaineer Britton Keeshan 
’04– who was, at one point, the 
youngest person to climb the highest 
peak in every continent – matriculated 
here, he asked permission to get a Van 
Wilder-style golf cart. Gotta love the 
kid’s audacity.
Sometimes I see a Campus Cruiser 
in a Prius. And when I do, I am often 
treated to fantastic internal discussions 
on topics like the etymology of the word 
hypocrite or when it got fashionable 
green Priuses or just forest green? That 
is, unless it happens to be raining or 
snowing or really 
cold, in which 
case instead 
of a fantastic 
discussion, I am 
instead treated 
to a fantastic 
warm and dry 
ride in one of 
humankind’s finest inventions, which 
enlarged our world and made our lives 
efficient.
Here perhaps is the “Obama 
(read: teaching) moment” which I’ve 
stumbled upon, aside from the “don’ts” 
of conservation. We are all hypocrites, 
because we all keep two sets of books 
but there is a point apparently where 
theory and practice diverge, when I 
hitch a ride to the dining hall or turn 
up the heat. I also love hip-hop, but at 
the same time I condemn misogyny. 
But people can get very annoyed 
when someone preaches Prius from a 
McMansion. 
At Middlebury, we have many 
students biting the hands that feed 
them, calling for social justice and 
ethical investing when perhaps 
the money keeping them fed and 
clothed may have a few stains from 
an unscrupulous past. Apparently, 
it’s impossible to walk the walk and 
talk the talk to the hilt. But I’m glad 
we at least sort of try. I think it is 
good and noble that we say we value 
environmentalism here, even if we do 
drive around and leave lights on more 
than we should, because using “tu 
quoque” as an argument is fallacious. 
Any inconvenient truths in Al Gore’s 
documentary were not rendered void 
because he has a giant house.
  | March 22, 2012
The 
middlebury
mint
Ethan Mann ’12 is 
from Norwich, Vt.
Notes from 
the desk
Carina Guiterman’13 
is an opinions editor 
from Bethesda, Md.
Simply agreeing with one 
“right” view while showing 
intolerance for the opinions of 
others is not a conversation; it 
is an echo chamber. 
reader
Op-ed
Will Peckham ’14 is 
from Vero Beach, Fla. 
College’s endowment as a private investment
march 22, 2012 | 9opinions
 Last week I was the victim of a sudden 
and violent attack that I characterize as a 
well-intentioned but severely misguided 
cookie assault. Concerned students in the 
Socially Responsible Investment Club 
stood outside Atwater, hocking cookies 
in exchange for “real information” 
responsible for investing Middlebury’s 
endowment, has stashed our 
approximately $850 
million. Supposed 
locations included 
“Big Oil” and the 
“Military-Industrial 
Complex,” with 
apparently dire 
consequences for 
our image and collective conscience. 
While their intentions were probably 
with their presentation twofold. 
  To honestly improve a social situation 
deemed imperfect, concerned students 
should have a deep knowledge of the 
alternative avenues to pursue; these 
alternatives should be carried out until 
a better solution exists. Too often, 
intensify, only to disappear when the 
next travesty comes around the bend. My 
from the pattern at Middlebury where 
inspired student involvement is carried 
out in surprisingly naïve demonstrations 
members of a national community very 
well.
my viewpoint that the investment of a 
given college or university’s endowment, 
the college (and the longevity of the 
institution) the most, cannot be treated 
any differently than a private investment, 
despite Middlebury’s attempts at 
social responsibility in other College 
interests. In other words, there is no 
stopgap investment solution to placate a 
minority of students who take offense at 
a suboptimal social situation.
My second issue with the events of 
the past week regarding the endowment 
investment is the subject matter which 
these students attack. The SRIC, in the 
words of member Nathan Arnosti ’13, fear 
that the endowment could be invested in 
large oil companies as well as defense 
contracted by the government. Students 
interviewed by the SRI proposed that 
the endowment should instead seek 
companies in the green technology 
social goals such as those that boast 
female leadership. We admittedly don’t 
know what Investure primarily targets in 
their investments, but let’s assume the 
“worst” for argument’s sake.
The term “military-industrial 
complex” arose as a representation of 
Cold War fear as described by President 
Eisenhower in his farewell address. 
hardly alone in that respect. Despite its 
negative image among some students, 
makes great sense. On a practical level, 
investing in an innovative sector heavily 
stimulated by government spending 
while the country wages a unique war 
presents relatively easy pickings to savvy 
investors (See Northrop Grumman’s 
2001-2008 performance). More 
abstractly, while government historically 
does not innovate as well as the private 
and NASA have been credited with the 
proprietary technologies that precede 
the eventual arrival of commercial 
products such as satellite television, GPS 
navigation systems and even commercial 
airliners. Freed from the chains of short 
R&D that spills over into the private 
whole by increasing our national wealth.
Investing in the budding-yet-booming 
green technology and clean energy sector 
sounds ideal, but its practical execution 
proves problematic. Barring world-
changing developments in the location 
or extraction of oil reserves, the clean 
energy sector will prove to be stable and 
run, however, this industry is hard to 
predict and extraordinarily volatile. 
magnitude of government subsidies 
directed at cleantech domestically and 
abroad introduces political uncertainty 
over and above the intrinsic uncertainty 
of the market, occasionally causing 
well-publicized upheavals. In the 
projects funded heavily by the Obama 
administration have gone belly up due 
to inabilities to price competitively on 
the world market once subsidies dry 
up, swallowing private funding and 
government grants alike. As an aside, 
in the event of an oil supply shock 
(vaguely likely in our lifetimes), “Big Oil” 
suppressed but price-competitive and 
scaleable clean energy technologies, 
not the gleaming start-ups commonly 
pointed at as reasonable alternatives. 
   The takeaway from this argument is 
positive social externalities like clean 
energy or innovative leadership. 
However, it would be a terrible error to 
because of these attributes. In fact, 
$4 million (the amount in Investure’s 
Sustainable Investments Initiative) 
invested in “sustainable companies” 
out of approximately $850 million is a 
great start if students truly care about 
making responsible investments while 
and its future generations of students. 
  For Middlebury College to sustain 
its present level of educational and 
institutional innovation and provision for 
its students, the endowment must indeed 
be sustainably invested.  However, 
sustainability in this sense means that the 
of the professionals at Investure as 
reasonably accurate predictions of 
the macroeconomy. Any satisfaction 
students gain from the endowment’s 
positive interest being earned through 
respectable means should be viewed as 
reap from attending a school that is able 
to improve because of a continuously 
At the end of the day, students 
must be willing to accept that market 
valuation and social valuation are 
two completely different things; 
economy. These valuations are in 
disagreement more often than not, but 
when they do simultaneously occur, an 
opportunity for responsible investment 
should never be overlooked, by Investure 
or anybody else. So until the magnitude 
should happily accept the choices made 
by those that know the industry the best.
This past week, Middlebury’s 
College Republicans invited Fox News 
correspondent Andrea Tantaros to 
speak on campus. Her purported aim 
was to discuss the role of the media 
in the 2012 elections. In reality, she 
spent the majority of her lecture citing 
anecdotal, narrow stories as evidence, 
resulting in the reverse of her intended 
effect. Rather than revealing liberal 
media bias, she exposed her own slant by 
ignoring and misrepresenting facts. Her 
quality as a speaker notwithstanding, it 
was actually her less cogent asides that 
I found infuriating. And judging by the 
slack jaws of some of my peers, I knew 
my frustration was shared.
Ms. Tantaros said a few things that 
effectively rendered her credibility, in 
my eyes at least, null and void. I won’t 
bother to further discuss her assertion 
that we live in a post-racial America, 
with President Obama as evidence, 
considering that almost one in five 
voters in the Republican Party’s primary 
polled last week think that interracial 
marriage should be illegal, according to 
Public Policy Polling. 
Rather, it was her discussion of 
women’s equality and birth control that 
angered and offended me along with 
other feminists in the room, male and 
female. After telling us that men and 
women were simply not equal and that 
“all the men in the room [knew] it,” 
she then proceeded to discuss women’s 
health issues in deceptive terms. At best, 
she was misinformed. But I suspect she 
was rather distorting the facts to back 
up her conservative politics. 
The three most salient facts she 
seemed to have forgotten in her diatribe 
revolved around responsibility and use 
of contraception. She seemed to have 
forgotten that most insurance plans in 
this country are, indeed, private. So no, 
as a taxpayer, she would not be funding 
my birth control. It appeared as though 
she also neglected the fact that men 
are indeed half the equation of baby-
making (heterosexual) sex. While I don’t 
understand the instinct to tell women 
that you better be willing to cough up 
nine dollars a month (many co-pays 
are far more expensive by the way, if 
covered at all) if you want to have sex, 
such a statement puts the responsibility 
of sex wholly on the woman. 
She also seemed to have forgotten 
that many women take birth control 
for non-sex related reasons. It is often 
prescribed for women with Polycystic 
Ovary Syndrome (PCOS), for women 
whose menstrual 
cycles are irregular 
or for those who 
experience such 
painful menstrual 
periods that they are 
unable to go to class 
or work. But yes, many 
women take birth 
control pills for, well, birth control. 
But even more women probably take 
it for the combination of medical and 
reproductive benefits. 
I would like to think that Andrea 
Tantaros is special in her views, that 
she holds individually terrible ideas and 
espouses them to her wide audience. 
However, this is simply not the case, and 
the hijacking of women’s health by the 
right has become so commonplace that 
this op-ed isn’t even special anymore. I 
can point to Joanna Rothkopf’s excellent 
weekly column and two other op-eds 
in our paper just last week discussing 
birth control and the legislative battle 
surrounding it. It’s getting ridiculous. 
It’s getting disgustingly distorted and 
dangerous for women’s health. I want to 
know when we returned to the 1950s. 
Birth control, no matter its form, is 
preventative care. Preventative care is 
cheaper — and better — for everyone. 
And until sex is illegal, it should not be 
reserved for the rich. By not considering 
birth control preventative care, we are 
simply sustaining a status quo, one that 
neither stems the rate of unintended 
pregnancies by those women who 
cannot afford birth control, nor works 
to alleviate an already overburdened 
healthcare system. 
A response to Andrea Tantaros
pretty sure my crush didn’t text me back because he 
than i did this weekend
WHERE CAN I FIND THE INEVITABLE JUNIOR 
week in tweets
Reader
op-ed
Samantha 
Kaufman ’12.5 is 
from Boston, Mass.
pretty sure my crush didn’t text me back because his 
S
mall classes, engaged profes-
sors and a close-knit commu-
nity — these are some of the 
reasons that students come 
to a small liberal arts college. 
On this list of educational 
mechanisms and institutions 
that foster an intimate and 
interconnected environment 
is faculty advising. 
Among colleges and 
universities the style of the 
advising institution varies. 
Some divide students by 
year and assign them to cer-
tain advisers or hire profes-
sional advisers, in the similar 
vein of high school guidance 
counselors, who advise stu-
dents based on an alpha-
betical breakdown of names. 
While these are effective in 
their own right, Middlebury’s 
faculty, staff and administra-
tors believe that in a liberal 
arts environment, teaching 
and learning are perpetual 
and should not end outside 
of class. 
“I like the spirit of this 
[system],” said Director of 
the Center for Teaching, 
Learning and Research Kathy 
Skubikowski. “I like that as 
faculty part of our teaching 
is advising — we’re teaching 
in the classroom, outside the 
classroom. It’s a residential 
liberal arts environment. 
I’ve had editing sessions in 
Shaw’s over the tomatoes.”
In many ways Middle-
bury’s advising system is 
innovative and success-
ful, evolving throughout 
the years with the College’s 
changing environment. 
“I was here in 1963 and 
I had a [first-year] adviser 
who was just a name on a 
page — he was not in a de-
partment I had any interest 
in taking a course in,” said 
Emeritus Dean of Advising 
Karl Lindholm. 
This system of randomly 
assigning advisers continued 
into the 1970s and, in the in-
terest of lowering the num-
ber of advisees assigned to a 
g i v -
en faculty member, even 
expanded to include staff 
members — sports coaches, 
admissions officers, etc. 
Eventually this inef-
fective program was disas-
sembled in favor of what 
Lindholm deemed the 
“overwhelmingly success-
ful” First-Year Seminar Pro-
gram. This program, now 
in its 24th year, embodies a 
portion of Middlebury’s ad-
vising institution intended 
to help introduce new stu-
dents to the opportunities 
and rigors of college life. It is 
considered by most to be the 
best in what Middlebury of-
fers in terms of advising. The 
program’s methodology, in 
terms of hands-on guidance, 
is relatively structured, with 
a clear goal on the part of 
the administration: to make 
successful high school stu-
dents into successful college 
students. The process con-
sists of introducing new stu-
dents to the ample resources 
Middlebury has to offer — 
which Skubikowski refers to 
as “almost embarrassing” in 
their richness — and teach-
ing them how to approach 
life at college in a balanced 
manner. 
The adviser-advisee re-
lationship is never more 
integrated with the teacher-
student relationship than 
through first-year seminar 
advising. 
“[It is a] very clear con-
sistent relationship … you 
were meeting with that per-
son if not one-on-one at least 
three hours a week,” said 
Lindholm, a strong propo-
nent of the First-Year Semi-
nar program. “In terms of 
having meaningful contact 
with your academic adviser 
in an area of significant con-
nection.”
However, this system of 
instruction and guidance, 
characterized by effective 
and active faculty and ad-
ministrative involvement, 
morphs into something en-
tirely different in students’ 
sophomore and junior years. 
Whereas first-year stu-
dents experience relatively 
con-
s i s -
tent and 
r e g u l a t e d 
advising, Lind-
holm describes 
major academic advising 
simply as, “students get the 
advising they deserve.” This 
notion characterizes a shift 
in goals from the admin-
istrative standpoint as 
well as an understand-
ing of what it means 
to be an adviser. 
“I think a great 
system of advising 
involves assertive-
ness on the part of fac-
ulty and students,” said 
Dean of Faculty Jim 
Ralph. “Students need 
to take ownership of their 
academic education — it’s 
important for them to be 
informed and reach out to 
the faculty. Faculty need to 
be informed and receptive 
to seeing students.”
Where first-year semi-
nar advising focuses on 
preparing students for 
their next four years, 
academic advising from 
sophomore year on is 
about providing a safety 
net, a sounding board, an 
opportunity for students to 
access information and ex-
pertise should they need it. 
In terms of serving the 
College’s interests, the spe-
cific purpose of academic 
advising is to ensure that 
a student is able to gradu-
ate on time. By requiring an 
academic adviser, the Col-
lege provides students with 
a faculty member in their 
given major department who 
is responsible for completing 
an audit sheet that affirms a 
student’s ability to complete 
their major and graduate 
on time. Lindholm less than 
subtly expressed his belief in 
the necessity of this process 
when he asked rhetorically 
“Do you think it would work 
if nobody had to have an ad-
viser? Do you think students 
would complete their majors 
in a responsible way?” 
Lindholm has good rea-
son for taking this stance. In 
the past some students failed 
to complete their major re-
quirements on time due to a 
lack of academic supervision 
of class selection, an over-
sight that arose several times 
during Lindholm’s tenure as 
Dean of Advising. However, 
these oc-
c u r r e n c e s 
have decreased 
since the implementa-
tion of the audit sheet. 
One method for en-
couraging greater frequen-
cy of interaction has been 
through requiring students 
to get PIN numbers from 
their advisers to register for 
classes, the hope being that a 
certain level of forced inter-
action will stimulate the kinds 
of important conversations 
that develop the basis for a 
r e l a t i o n -
ship. 
Skubikowski acknowl-
edged that this is not a fool-
proof method, emphasizing 
that regardless of the Col-
lege’s stance on perpetuating 
a relaxed system of advising, 
any kind of required structure 
is near impossible to enforce. 
“If you have to [see your 
adviser] for a PIN, of course 
you can circumvent it but 
you can circumvent any sys-
tem. There are stories where 
people put the PINs on their 
door and students can just get 
them — that’s going against 
the spirit of that.” 
The College has discussed 
the possibility of expanding 
the PIN numbers to juniors 
and seniors so as to perpetu-
ate these semi-regular con-
versations — “coming through 
the door,” as Skubikowski de-
scribes it — throughout a stu-
dent’s college career. Ralph 
however explained how many 
have historically been less en-
thusiastic about this method.
“We went away from that 
because it was felt [to be] 
somewhat laborious and [as] 
a response in part to students 
thinking this was just one 
more step and [asking] is it 
necessary.”
Despite the Col-
lege’s policy of encourage-
ment over enforcement, Sku-
bikowski and Ralph do not 
seek to undermine the impor-
tance of these required meet-
ings in their capacity as both 
check-ins to verify that stu-
dents are taking responsibil-
ity for their education and as 
a basis for creating adviser-
advisee relationships distinct 
from registration. Ralph indi-
cated that many faculty mem-
bers choose to engage more 
deeply in the latter aspect of 
the advising relationship by 
acting as “mentors.”
“It’s very nice if that re-
lationship turns into [some-
thing] broader — advisers 
asking advisees ‘what are 
you hoping to accomplish, 
what are you going to do with 
this education?’” said Ralph. 
“Those are big questions. 
not discreet, but 
I think they are 
helpful in shaping 
the greater con-
s c i o u s n e s s 
on the part 
of stu-
d e n t s , 
t h e 
pur-
pose-
fulness in 
the education 
they are pursuing.”
However, Ralph stated 
that due to faculty members’ 
different views on the role of 
advising he was unwilling to 
urge any such “mentoring” as 
a necessary aspect of a faculty 
member’s position as adviser.
“Some people think that 
it would be great for that ad-
vising role to move toward a 
mentoring role,” said Ralph, 
citing a recent faculty forum 
on advising. “Some others 
said, ‘I don’t necessarily feel 
comfortable in that role.’”
Lindholm too was less 
than concerned with the idea 
of the College instituting any 
sort of overly personal “men-
toring” relationship.
“‘I’m not 
that close with my faculty ad-
viser.’ Well c’est-la-vie,” he 
said. 
Ralph expressed equal 
unease with the College play-
ing a part in imposing per-
sonal conversations that stu-
dents may not be interested 
in having. 
“I do get concerned about 
compelling or coercing peo-
ple into conversations they 
aren’t wanting to have,” said 
Ralph. “Should the institu-
tion be forcing the student to 
have that kind of conversa-
tion?” 
With this perspective, 
the administration has 
shied away from relating 
issues of advising inad-
equacy to lack of faculty 
participation, asserting, 
“Students who need ad-
vising get it,” Lindholm 
said. Skubikowski and 
Ralph expressed that 
while some choose to 
do so, it is not necessar-
ily the responsibility of the 
faculty to “reach out,” citing 
designated office hours as an 
example of faculty participa-
tion in the advising relation-
ship. Lindholm in particular 
expressed great skepticism 
in assigning blame to faculty 
members in the occasion of 
complaints of poor academic 
advising.
“I always bristled when 
advising got low ranks across 
the board. I always wanted to 
say to the students who gave 
their adviser a low rank — 
how much of an opportunity 
did you give your adviser to 
be a good adviser?” he said. 
Faculty members too do 
not necessarily see it as their 
responsibility to initiate the 
conversation with their aca-
demic advisees after fresh-
man year.
“With the exception of 
first-year students, who need 
additional guidance, it really 
should be the responsibil-
ity of the student to make 
good use of their advisers,” 
wrote Leng Professor of In-
ternational Politics Allison 
Stanger in an email. 
However, placing a 
greater emphasis on person-
al accountability over com-
pulsory oversight is not with-
out its relative drawbacks. 
“At the moment our 
weakness is the sophomore 
year, which is something we 
want to do more with,” said 
Ralph. “We have individual 
students moving to new ma-
jors; their first-year semi-
nar advisers are still their 
advisers but they may 
have migrated already 
intellectually to another 
place.”  
In addition, the Col-
lege acknowledges the 
“inevitable” structural 
issues relating to de-
partment size that can 
serve to limit students’ 
uniform access to high-
quality advising. Un-
avoidably, professors 
in larger departments 
such as Economics, 
English and American 
Literatures and Po-
litical Science have far 
more advisees per pro-
fessor than the smaller 
departments. This ex-
plains a not uncom-
mon grievance among 
students in these de-
partments who have 
experienced greater dif-
ficulty accessing profes-
sors. Stanger alone, for 
example, at any given 
time has 15 to 30 advi-
sees whereas the Classics 
department, comprising five 
professors, has in its entirety 
a total of five majors. 
However, the College 
does not see a reason that 
these structural inequalities 
should inhibit successful ad-
vising. Lindholm stated that 
faculty should be realistic 
about their number of advi-
sees rather than take on stu-
dents when they are not ca-
pable of dedicating the time. 
Once again, students are by 
and large ascribed the re-
sponsibility of utilizing fac-
ulty resources. Stressing the 
value of a small liberal arts 
community, Lindholm stated 
that students have access to 
many faculty and staff mem-
bers that can serve as infor-
mal advisers in the event 
that a student is dissatisfied 
or unable to get in touch with 
their current adviser.
“You’re a free agent … 
don’t tell me your adviser is 
no good if you never go to see 
him,” said Lindholm. “I could 
answer my own question by 
saying ‘the adviser didn’t 
show me enough warmth to 
make me want to see him.’ 
And then I’[d] say, ‘did you 
have other faculty members 
that serve that role?’ It’s a 
circular argument.”
Ralph took a slightly dif-
ferent stance, acknowledging 
the value of informal advis-
ers but not seeming to think 
that they should ever act as 
a substitute for academic 
advising or that students 
should be placed in a situa-
tion where that is their only 
outlet.
“I think that’s great [that] 
we have a lot of faculty that 
like interacting with students 
— offering perspectives, act-
ing as sounding boards,” said 
Ralph, “but there seems to be 
the need for a kind of basis 
along the lines of academic 
advising … I don’t want to 
just restrict advising to the 
academic faculty but recog-
nize that they have an impor-
tant role to play.” 
However, Ralph did ex-
press the necessity for stu-
dents to take advantage of 
the CTLR resources to facili-
tate effective conversations 
in the case that a professor 
has only a limited amount of 
available time for discussion.
While the College has ex-
pressed overall satisfaction 
with advising, discussions of 
improvement are not entire-
ly unwarranted. According to 
Vice President of Planning 
and Assessment and Pro-
fessor of Psychology Susan 
Campbell Baldridge, while 
student feedback on advising 
is generally good, it does not 
compare to Middlebury’s re-
sults in other sectors. 
“The National Survey of 
Student Engagement (NSSE) 
asks students to evaluate ‘the 
quality of academic advising 
you have received at your 
institution.’  For both first 
year and senior students at 
Middlebury, between 81 and 
85 percent of students have 
rated the advising they have 
received as either good or 
excellent the last two times 
we participated in the sur-
vey,” said Baldridge. “While 
these numbers are generally 
quite positive, Middlebury 
students’ ratings of their 
“entire educational experi-
ence at this institution” are 
even more positive:  98 per-
cent of first- years and se-
niors rated their experience 
at Middlebury as good or ex-
cellent.
1110 features
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 23, 2012   
 
 
DARTY DAYS 
... have just begun.
PROCTOR PARTIES
Citations with your salad.
SUN, SUN, SUN
Vitamin D!
GLOBAL WARMING
It’s not always 80 degrees
 in March in Vermont?!
ST. PATRICK’S DAY
Good luck studying for 
your midterms.
ST. PALMER’S DAY
Don’t forget your IDs, kids.
WINNERS&losers
taste cheese     
     chopsticks
BY JIAYI ZHU
+
wi
th
The summer before I came to 
Middlebury and started college, I was 
visiting some elders in my family around 
China. When they knew that I would 
leave for the U.S. to attend college, they 
all seriously gave me the same piece of 
advice: “Please remember the best Chi-
nese virtue of filial piety and never lose 
it, because we’ve heard that U.S. people 
just throw their parents into nursing 
homes. It’s horrible and conscienceless!” 
I’d also heard of another rumor that col-
lege students have to pay their own tu-
ition through part time jobs and debt. I 
thought, “No wonder they don’t like their 
parents.” My perception of the U.S. so-
ciety at that point was like a place full of 
selfish and unthankful people: parents 
don’t support their children for college 
and children will abandon their parents 
when they grow older. 
Indeed, filial piety is not a concept 
that is stressed in U.S. culture: there is 
not even a single specific vocabulary, but 
only the combined phrase “filial piety,” 
to describe this virtue in English. On the 
contrary, the Chinese greatly emphasize 
this. We have a whole series of 24 stories 
of ancient exemplars practicing filial pi-
ety, including a little child warming up 
the quilt for his father in winter, endur-
ing the mosquito bites for the parents 
and giving up a position in the govern-
ment to find his mother. 
After I came here, I realized that the 
situation is not as bad as I had imagined. 
We have parents’ weekend and students 
do return back home to stay with their 
family when it’s break. Most of the Amer-
ican students do need to work hard dur-
ing the summer and save money to pay 
for their own tuition, maybe sometimes 
even in debt. But if they really need the 
help from their parents, the parents will 
assist them. On parents’ weekend, I al-
ways hear my friends saying, “I’m invit-
ing my parents to dinner in town.” This 
must be one of the proud-of-myself mo-
ments that Chinese students won’t ex-
perience in college. In China we don’t 
have a part-time job on campus. Not like 
American students who started working 
and earning money as early as in their 
high school, Chinese students most com-
monly start their first job after college. 
The nature of American society is to 
be independent. If parents support their 
children like the way Chinese parents do 
and the children don’t pay back when 
their parents get older, it can be called 
selfish and unthankful. But since inde-
pendence is more valued than filial piety, 
parents in America probably will prefer 
to live away from their children and see 
them on holidays than sticking to them 
every day. 
This reminds me of the concept of 
reciprocity in my Human Ecology class. 
Chinese society still depends on a lot on 
kinship. There may not be an instant pay-
back in Chinese society between parents 
and children but as time goes on, the role 
of obligation and benefit will switch. 
In America, the responsibility people 
take on is mainly for themselves and the 
burden starts at a younger age. While 
in China, people may take on their duty 
later, but the responsibility will become 
heavier when they grow older. Anyway, 
there is no way that we can escape our 
responsibility.
Dr. Felicia Moore Mensah is dedi-
cated to making connections between 
students and science.  
The professor at Teachers College 
at Columbia University spoke Friday at 
the invitation of the Center for the Com-
parative Study of Race and Ethnicity. Dr. 
Mensah also led workshops Friday and 
Saturday for faculty in the sciences.  
Her scholarly foci include urban and 
multicultural education, teacher edu-
cation and professional development, 
qualitative research methods, critical 
theory and feminist post-structuralist 
theory. Mensah completed a postdoc-
toral fellowship with the Center for Cur-
riculum Materials in Science at Michigan 
State University where she researched 
how diversity can factor into science cur-
riculum teaching and planning. Her lec-
ture covered culturally relevant teaching 
as it applies to curriculum development 
and reform in science teaching. 
Mensah spoke about her work teach-
ing aspiring elementary and middle 
school teachers. Their frame of mind 
about science when they enter her class-
room can be a challenge for Mensah. 
“When I get them in the classroom, 
they may not have had any science back-
ground, they may have only taken one or 
two science classes as high school learn-
ers and they may not have had anything 
in their undergraduate teaching unless 
it was a requirement,” said Mensah. “So 
their background in science is not there 
at all. I’m moving them from the idea 
that science is not really important and 
not really relevant to the idea that diver-
sity and science do come together in a 
particular way.”  
Mensah explained a common mis-
conception her students have. “They 
come into education classes saying, 
‘I’m going to teach these elementary 
students,’ but they themselves, as I see 
it, are also learning,” she said. Using 
various activities and projects, Mensah 
prepares her pre-service teachers to be 
“learners in the classroom.”  
Interviewing students is required for 
Mensah’s pre-service teachers during 
their micro-teaching experience. 
“I place them in urban classrooms 
and they have an assignment where 
they do a pre-assessment interview with 
young learners, because they have to 
know what their ideas are,” said Mensah. 
In her experience, a tenet of multicul-
tural curriculum reform is understand-
ing the students you are teaching. “They 
can’t just walk in blindly and say, ‘Ok, 
I’m going to teach a lesson.’ They have 
to find out what the students are inter-
ested in.”
Elaborating on several projects, 
Mensah spoke of the importance of mak-
ing science accessible to teachers who, as 
she said, may not have had an education 
focused on science. One of these projects 
is “Science in the City,” where Mensah’s 
students have to take photographs of ex-
amples of science in the city and bring 
them to class the next day.  
“They’re like, ‘Just take pictures?’ 
Yeah, just take pictures, I tell them, but 
you have to be able to explain the science 
behind it,” Mensah said.
Mensah showed photos her students 
had taken of ivy crawling up a building, 
light passing through the lens of a pair 
of sunglasses and a handful of popcorn 
kernels.  
“So I use this assignment to intro-
duce them to the science standards, but 
also at the same time connect the con-
tent that they have to teach to the young 
learners,” Mensah said.  
“This is just one way they are able 
to make that connection between sci-
ence being out in the world versus what 
we have to do within school science,” 
said Mensah. She read comments from 
her pre-service teachers where they ex-
pressed amazement that science was in-
deed everywhere. They also were proud 
of their new familiarity with the state 
and national standards as a result of the 
project.
Culturally relevant teaching is an-
other avenue Mensah believes can forge 
connections between students and the 
science curriculum. “Culturally relevant 
teaching looks at the idea of being able to 
think about students’ past experiences, 
their cultural understandings and what 
that looks like when we think about di-
versity in culture and science at the same 
time,” said Mensah. She spoke of her 
work as combining culturally responsive 
teaching and culturally relevant peda-
gogy. “With the teachers in their foun-
dations classes or in their diversity class 
they probably would have read a little 
about culturally relevant teaching or 
culturally responsive teaching, but they 
probably haven’t thought about it in the 
context of science,” Mensah said.  
Mensah’s research helps her stu-
dents think about the skills, knowledge 
and dispositions they need to have to 
broaden their understanding of what sci-
ence is but also to think about the diver-
sity of the students in their classrooms 
and what relevance that has for science 
teaching.  
The framework used by Mensah has 
several options for introducing diversity. 
Rather than using an additive approach 
—simply adding to the curriculum read-
ings on scientists of different cultural or 
ethnic backgrounds, e.g., reading about 
woman scientists during Women’s His-
tory Month or black scientists during 
Black History Month — Mensah advo-
cates a transformative approach and a 
social action approach. 
“The transformative approach con-
siders the personality of the researcher 
— you want to be able to think about 
what their contribution to science was 
and how did they make their contribu-
tion. What were some of the obstacles? 
And so we really get to know about how 
knowledge is constructed and about how 
it is set in this social context.”  
As for how to introduce socio-histor-
ical aspects when learning and teaching 
science, Mensah believes the important 
context is the personal history of the sci-
entist. 
“We don’t give our students the his-
tory of the science and so for them it’s 
just a big thick book of facts that they 
don’t know where they came from, so 
we try to embed into our curriculum 
where [the science] came from. What 
were the challenges scientists faced in 
making their discoveries or even to be 
accepted in the scientific world?” Men-
sah used the examples of George Wash-
ington Carver and Barbara McClintock 
as narratives students can relate to that 
are often not told in science classrooms. 
“Carver changed the way we think about 
science and he grew up in a time where 
people did not believe he could do the 
things he could do,” said Mensah.
The second step to culturally rel-
evant teaching reform is the social ac-
tion approach. Mensah described the 
key question as, “What are you going 
to do with the knowledge you’ve gained 
in science?” For Mensah, teaching this 
way helps connect the pre-service teach-
ers with the science by bringing in real-
world relevancy. She mentioned a for-
mer student who helped his elementary 
school students implement a recycling 
program at their school while learning 
about recycling and scientific inquiry 
in the process. “This is exactly what we 
want to have happen in the classroom: 
they learn the science, they internalize 
it to the point that they want to go out 
and do something about it and they act 
on the decisions because they’ve learned 
the science,” said Mensah.
For Mensah, culturally relevant sci-
ence education can have long-term im-
plications.  “It’s not so hard to engage 
them at the elementary level but as they 
get older we [need to find] that continu-
ous engagement so they want to become 
science majors and go into the fields of 
science, because we need that.” 
Associate Professor of Biology Jer-
emy Ward thought Mensah conveyed as-
pects of teaching essential to facilitating 
a connection between the educator and 
student.
“Dr. Mensah’s lecture and visit really 
brought home some simple principles in 
teaching and learning that are applica-
ble from kindergarten through college,” 
Ward wrote in an email. “These include 
understanding and respecting students’ 
and teachers’ differing cultural back-
grounds, building lessons that engage 
learning by providing contextual sup-
port for the student, and realizing that 
effective teaching is a dynamic process 
and requires continual introspection and 
renewal.”  
Faculty educator Moore promotes 
curriculum innovation in sciences
Courtesy: teacher’s College at Columbia 
Dr. Felicia Moore Mensah encourages 
the effective and interactive teaching of 
science.
12features | march 22, 2012
By Joe Flaherty
I remember every detail of that fate-
ful recess … the smell of woodchips, how 
the sun reflected off of the aluminum 
slide. It was the first warm day of spring 
during my fifth grade year. I sat sunning 
myself beside the sand box in a pair of 
red short-shorts. Suddenly, a presence 
beside me shattered my serenity. Four 
fateful words slipped between the slimy 
lips of the prepubescent boy above — 
“You are SO hairy!” This stinging sen-
timent sent embarrassment slithering 
down my spine, and I stood up abruptly, 
promptly smacking him across the face, 
before running into the apple orchard to 
sob. 
So began my battle with body hair. 
This remark was the first of many, and 
as the insecurities of my peers grew, so 
did the number of comments. People 
routinely critiqued my dark arm hair, 
the thickness of my eyebrows and my 
heavily forested legs. At first, I found 
these invasions of privacy acceptable. I 
internalized their messages and utilized 
the advice to better myself. By my first 
year of high school, I shaved my legs ev-
ery day, I over-plucked my eyebrows to 
the point of apparent, perpetual surprise 
and I battled with my bikini line before 
any beach adventure.  When summer 
rolled around, I spent the first few weeks 
trying to discover what new removal reg-
imen would leave my legs smooth and 
silky all day long. When boys asked me 
to shave “down there,” I complied to sat-
isfy them. As I grew more comfortable in 
relationships, I spoke frankly about how 
much time, money and pain the process 
required. Some offered compassion for 
my plight, but none accepted my body. I 
never questioned the legitimacy of these 
desires, nor why I accepted the expecta-
tion of hairlessness. 
By the end of high school, I fatigued 
of the pressure to eradicate my body 
hair. I began to do a little research. Hair 
removal originated in ancient times as a 
way to reveal the marvel of the human 
form. Marble statues of gods and god-
desses evidence the chicness of follicle-
free flesh. The hairless look lost popular-
ity during the Dark Ages, but returned 
with fervor during the Renaissance. 
Muscular, smooth paintings of men and 
women glorified the beauty of the human 
body, as they flew across the ceilings of 
chapels and lounged against the walls of 
banquet halls. In America’s early years, 
Puritanism prohibited the practice of 
hair removal. Not until the 20th cen-
tury, as hemlines shortened, swimsuits 
shrunk and nylons became more com-
mon, did women begin shaving their legs 
again. Originally, the practice of pubic 
hair removal was seen as a method to 
attract pedophiles. The porn industry, 
however, normalized the procedure, and 
today, hairless vulvas seem to be the 
norm. 
After discovering that hair remov-
al in this country was relatively new, I 
felt even more cheated. This was a fad! 
Suddenly, all the shaving, waxing and 
plucking felt very juvenile. I wanted to 
embrace my post-pubescent body. Body 
hair happens to come in the value pack 
of breasts, hips and a curvaceous ca-
boose. Sometimes, we have to accept the 
package deal. 
When I arrived at Middlebury, I met 
my dark-haired beauty of a roommate, 
and shed my insecurities for good. To-
gether, we cultivate our leg, armpit and 
pubic hair, utilizing our God-given gift 
to stay warm during Vermont’s sub-
zero nights. No Midd Kid has asked me 
to remove any body hair, so far. I shave 
as often (rarely) as I want. My hygien-
ic habits make me feel comfortable in 
my body, and therefore sexy.  I’m not 
preaching that everyone should follow 
my example. Your body and your sexual-
ity should make you feel happy. If hair-
lessness gives you the confidence to talk 
to that cute guy in your geography class, 
or to ask for what you really want in bed, 
go for it. My point is beauty, desirabil-
ity and sexiness stem from comfort with 
your body. Personally, I would rather 
worry less about follicles and more 
about fellatio. Sex offers the opportunity 
of genuine expression. But to begin, one 
must find the genuine aspects of oneself. 
Smooth as a baby’s bottom, or thick and 
forested as the Green Mountains, figure 
out who you are, and share the love. 
Kiss &tell
13featuresMarch 22, 2012   
Club sp  tlight: Youthful Alliance for merrymaking globe med
update
JOANNE WU
GlobeMed member
By Leah Pickett
BY RACHEL LIDDELL
What do blanket forts, Nerf gun 
games and homemade obstacle courses 
have in common? At Middlebury, the 
common denominator is that the Youth-
ful Alliance for Merrymaking (YAM), one 
of Middlebury’s newest student organiza-
tions, has organized events for students 
to enjoy them all. 
 “I think it’s the most unique club at 
Middlebury,” said YAMs vice president 
Kwaku Acheampong ’14. “Not very many 
clubs combine hanging out and delving 
into your past like this one does.”
The club aims to provide a social 
space for students to, very simply, “play.” 
Born out of unofficial meetings last 
March that involved friends playing party 
games like charades in Pearson’s, current 
president Luke Greenway ’14.5 and Ache-
ampong saw the opportunity to expand 
the group to include more students.
They hoped an official club would 
“provide a social scene that this school 
really needs,” said Kendall Wyckoff ’14.5, 
the group’s treasurer.
Greenway found that when he started 
asking his friends about the possibility of 
making this group a real club he “got a 
pretty unanimous response: ‘this sounds 
awesome, make it happen,’” he said.
The success, Greenway said, might 
have simply come from the fact that “it 
was something that sounded really fun,” 
as well as the fact that there wasn’t any-
thing like it.
“I was surprised it wasn’t already be-
ing done,” said Wyckoff.
Among a slew of 
undertakings, the club 
can list a blanket fort 
that 40 members built 
in Pearsons, an obsta-
cle course constructed 
in Axinn that included 
string, chairs, hula 
hoops and a segment 
where participants 
had to continue with 
a box over their head 
and a game of sardines 
in Bicentennial Hall 
that drew around 60 
students,  many wear-
ing pajamas. After the 
game, participants 
made paper airplanes 
to throw off the top 
floor of the building 
and dropped bouncy 
balls, watching them 
bounce two — some-
times three — floors 
on the rebound. The 
group once baked 
pumpkin chocolate 
chip cookies together, 
often plays games (like 
charades) in Pearsons, 
and held an art night 
in McCullough.
“I don’t know who 
wouldn’t want to take 
a study break and go play ninja or go 
color,” said Wyckoff. “It’s all very nostal-
gic, and thinking up ideas is so much fun. 
Running the club is a joy.”
The group has seen particular suc-
cess in its booming membership. At the 
last two activities fairs, Greenway esti-
mates the club had more sign-ups than 
almost any other club; at the most recent 
one, over 80 students signed up for the 
group’s email list, a number that repre-
sented 40 percent of the incoming Feb 
class. Right now, there are over 250 peo-
ple on the email list.
What brought, and continues to bring 
the group together, Wyckoff says, is a 
“shared … interest [in] being children and 
not wanting to give that up — just yet.”
Now that the club is official, they have 
even more options, especially in terms 
of receiving SGA funding. The group re-
cently presented a proposal for 60 Nerf 
guns to the SGA Finance Committee — 
and won it. The “Nerf blasters” will ar-
rive over Spring Recess, and YAM hopes 
to first put them to use in a campus-wide 
game of “humans and zombies.”
“We have a lot of ideas involving Nerf 
blasters, which is why we thought it was a 
good investment,” said Wyckoff.
YAM is also interested in acquiring a 
large amount of Legos, and they are con-
sidering kites as well.
Greenway, Acheampong and Wyck-
off generally plan all the activities, but 
the agenda is always open to suggestions 
from members. A member recently vol-
unteered the idea of flashlight tag, Green-
way said, and they’re working on organiz-
ing that. In the end, they aim to make it 
enjoyable for as many people as possible.
“I think there’s a lot of value for 
people in taking some time to just play 
in the most basic and most fun sense of 
the term,” said Greenway. “I think that 
everyone has a desire to play in a childish 
way on some level, and I think that’s an 
important desire.”
“I really like meeting all these peo-
ple who share a common interest; we’re 
in college, but no one’s afraid to indulge 
their inner child,” said Wyckoff. “It’s just 
really — I can’t really think of a better 
word — fun.“
Courtesy
For the members of the Youthful Alliance for Merrymaking, 
the Middlebury campus is a playground.
The Kony 2012 video, in the sparse few 
weeks since it has been released, has hit the 
covers of magazines and newspapers alike 
worldwide, bringing with it much attention 
and discussion over the Ugandan warlord, 
Joseph Kony. While it will no doubt become 
one of the most widely watched YouTube 
videos of the year and has already mobi-
lized several organizations for its cause, the 
Kony 2012 initiative remains as heated and 
as controversial — 
politically, morally 
and socially — as 
it was since the 
day Jason Russell 
Focusing on the life of Jacob, a Ugan-
dan whose brother was killed by the Lord’s 
Resistance Army (LRA), and the attempts 
of the organization, Invisible Children, to 
thwart Kony’s use of guerilla warfare in 
Uganda, South Sudan and the Democratic 
much more than simply raise awareness 
about the issue of Kony and his army of 
child soldiers. It is a call to mass action, be-
ginning with the story of Jacob and ending 
in a plea for the capture of the infamously 
brutal LRA leader and the restoration of 
peace of the populations affected by the 
man’s actions. This plea has so far been a 
wide success; the group has sold out its sup-
port kits, composed of stickers, posters and 
badges in an attempt to raise money and 
push the movement toward the capturing 
and imprisonment of Kony, and has thus far 
acquired more than 83 million views world-
wide on YouTube.
There is no doubt that this course of 
action, endorsed or not by the rest of the 
world population, remains one that will be 
hard to achieve and even harder to imple-
ment. But the sheer amount of media cov-
erage afforded to the cause seems to grant 
it some sort of legitimacy — Invisible Chil-
dren has made the initiative to involve sev-
“cultural leaders,” including former Presi-
dent George Bush, Bill Gates and actress 
Angelina Jolie in its cause. So far the actions 
have been a success; increasing amounts of 
international exposure has led a trend to-
ward supporting this cause.
Yet there are also innumerable amounts 
of criticism aimed not only at Jason Russell 
for his overtly sentimental and grossly un-
derstated depiction of the Uganda situation, 
but also at the lack of transparency regard-
ing the daily functions of the organization 
itself. To some, the intentions of Invisible 
Children remain unclear; little to no factual 
information is disclosed in the Kony 2012 
video concerning the actual acts of violence 
in Uganda, “manipulat[ing] facts for stra-
tegic purposes, exaggerating the scale of 
LRA abductions and murders” as stated in 
a recent article released online by Foreign 
Affairs. That fear is not entirely unfounded, 
as the increasing popularity of the video 
has left many other important issues disre-
garded or slighted; for instance, the 30 civil-
ians killed in an armed attack in South Kivu 
received very little media attention, if any 
— eclipsed entirely by the heat of the Kony 
2012 discussion.
More than ever, many Ugandans them-
selves have expressed their discontent with 
the simplicity in which the issue is ad-
dressed. The fact that the LRA had been 
created in opposition to the brutal oppres-
army passes unnoticed under the general 
knowledge of the public, and to many that 
-
vention; may we perhaps be removing one 
leader of violence, only to replace it with 
another? And will this rise of awareness fol-
lowing this greatly sentimental ordeal sub-
act of violence?
Perhaps with the Kony 2012 video, only 
time will tell. 
14 features | March 22, 2012
In December, Professor of 
Political Science Matt Dickin-
son and Associate Professor of 
Political Science Bert Johnson 
first recorded a commentary on 
the current presidential cam-
paign for the Middlebury Mag-
azine website. Now the two, 
dubbed the “Professor Pundits,” 
have quite a presence and fol-
lowing online with a series of 
seven videos, a blog and recent 
prolific tweeting. 
In their videos, such as, 
“Who’s got the Iowa Momen-
tum? (And Does it Really Mat-
ter?)” and “Sorting Out Super 
Tuesday,” Johnson and Dickin-
son sit across from each other 
and hash out updates on the 
race. The two hope to provide 
a neutral source of news on an 
often-polarized media topic us-
ing their political science back-
ground to contextualize current 
events. Though their presence 
on the Internet is a departure 
from their regular professorial 
roles in the classroom, they see 
this new format as providing 
a kind of synergy to their aca-
demic research and teaching on 
campus. 
The idea for the short video 
commentaries came out of the 
Office of Public Affairs, inspired 
by past political updates from 
Dickinson and Johnson in other 
formats. During the race lead-
ing up to the 2008 presiden-
tial election, Dickinson started 
an email chain for his students 
to keep them up to date on the 
presidential campaigns. His up-
dates were so popular with his 
students that his email recipient 
list soon expanded to include 
friends, parents, other profes-
sors and community members. 
Dickinson then started a 
blog in August of 2008 called 
Presidential Power: A Non-
Partisan Analysis of Presiden-
tial Politics, to better distrib-
ute his running commentary to 
a broadening audience. Even 
when the election ended in No-
vember, his commentary did 
not. Dickinson has continued to 
post regularly on Presidential 
Power and, with the 2012 cam-
paign, now tries to post daily.
In addition, Dickinson and 
Johnson hosted Election Night 
Out in the Grille in 2008. They 
followed the election results 
posted online and interpreted 
their progression. 
“We talked about the candi-
dates and where the media has 
gotten it wrong. We called the 
election for Obama before CNN 
did which was exciting for us,” 
said Johnson. “We’re used to 
working as a team.”
This winter, when the de-
mand for political updates 
heightened as the caucuses be-
gan for the 2012 presidential 
election, the Office of Public 
Affairs thought the two should 
expand into video. 
Johnson explained that it 
was not a far stretch from how 
he and Professor Dickinson in-
teract daily. 
“We talk about current pol-
itics all the time. I’ll just walk 
into his office or he into mine 
and we’ll discuss what’s going 
on,” said Johnson. The two have 
their offices right next to each 
other in Warner Hall.
“It requires little effort be-
yond our regular schedule,” 
said Johnson. “We usually plan 
for a few minutes ahead of time. 
We’ll each have a few talk-
ing points so that when we’re 
filming Matt can say, ‘Bert, I 
understand you’ve been think-
ing about campaign funding … 
’ and I can go into what I want 
to say about that.” Though there 
is little involved in preparation 
for these commentaries, they 
still flow without hitch — a tes-
tament to their comfort as pro-
fessors, and with each other, in 
conversing on politics. 
Though the material is fa-
miliar to them, they have to ad-
just from their professorial hab-
its to accommodate the short 
commentary. “As professors 
we’re used to having about an 
hour to get around to our point. 
Here we have only a few min-
utes to provide useful informa-
tion,” said Johnson.
While Dickinson and John-
son are used to lecturing to 
a group of twenty-odd young 
people facing them in a class-
room, their audience has be-
come an amorphous and mostly 
anonymous group of internet-
users. Neither of them have a 
sense of who they’re talking to. 
though they ”imagine it’s most-
ly Middlebury alumni, parents 
and students, but I don’t really 
know,” said Johnson.
From comments and re-
sponses to his blog, Dickinson 
gets the sense that his reader-
ship is an “eclectic group.” “You 
get a lot of responses from the 
left and from the right. People 
want you to take a side. You 
don’t hear from the middle of 
the road people but the very 
opinionated ones.” 
One of the risks involved 
in their expanded audience is 
a more critical audience. “I try 
to be as careful as I can, but of 
course I make mistakes. The 
thing about current events is 
that you don’t have all the time 
you want to craft a blog post,” 
said Dickinson.
“It’s humbling. I know now 
why so many celebrities have to 
retract their statements. If what 
you’re saying is constantly be-
ing recorded then you’re bound 
to say something wrong,” said 
Johnson.
“But in some ways, having 
your views out on the Internet 
isn’t that different from being a 
professor. I felt strange when I 
first started teaching because I 
would walk around campus and 
students would know me but I 
didn’t know them,” he added.
“Sometimes you’ll write on 
a hot topic. One time I wrote 
a post on why Hilary Clinton 
might want to challenge Obama 
for the Democratic candidacy. 
The blog got cross-posted on 
another blog and a lot of Demo-
crats were hugely insulted. I got 
a lot of responses calling me un-
publishable names. People can 
comment on my blog and can 
hide behind anonymity,” ex-
plained Dickinson.
“I’ve found that mostly peo-
ple are very forgiving, though,” 
added Johnson.
Both Dickinson and John-
son appear in the media occa-
sionally, quoted by journalists 
as an expert in their field or 
in writing their own articles. 
When asked how he got to be a 
resource for journalists, Dick-
inson responded, “That’s the 
power of the Internet.” Journal-
ists find him through references 
and links to his blog. “They’re 
looking for someone with ex-
pertise in the field. They use my 
blog as a reason to quote me.”
Dickinson was cited in an 
NPR article, “Super Tuesday: 
4 Things to Watch” on March 
6, saying “Georgia actually is a 
bigger deal than Ohio.” 
When he has time, he is also 
a journalist himself, with a few 
articles in U.S. News and World 
Report and one published in the 
Washington Post. “Sometimes I 
will also repost something from 
my blog to another page when 
someone asked,” he said. In 
February, a Washington corre-
spondent for The New Yorker, 
Ryan Lizza, tweeted that follow-
ing Dickinson’s tweets, among 
a couple others, “will make you 
smarter about the pres[idential] 
race.”
Johnson has been quoted 
by journalists from several news 
organizations ranging from 
USA Today to Vermont Public 
Radio (VPR). Most recently he 
was cited as an expert refer-
ence for a VPR piece on the pros 
and cons of citizen lawmaking 
in February. He equates infor-
mation-packed interviews with 
journalist to his and Dickinson’s 
three-minute-long video com-
mentaries saying, “You have 
get to the point quickly because 
there is a lot of information to 
get across in few words.” 
What Johnson and Dickin-
son hope to provide that they 
feel the media lacks is a neutral, 
well-informed and contextual-
ized point of view. “The me-
dia has a tendency to focus on 
what’s happening right now. 
They won’t think about, say, 
how the 2012 primaries in New 
Hampshire went with respect 
to the 2008 primaries in New 
Hampshire,” said Johnson. 
“The media also has a ten-
dency to focus too much on 
personalities. They’re talking 
about: is Bachmann strange? 
Is Santorum petulant? Is Newt 
erratic? As political scientists, 
personalities don’t concern us 
this much. We talk about things 
like GDP and war in the context 
of elections, not personalities.”
Dickinson sees the media 
as often being problematically 
controversial. “One way that 
blogs attract readers is by being 
controversial. This contributes 
to polarization in the media.” 
As political scientists, Dickin-
son and Johnson hope to be a 
neutral source of information 
that draws upon historical and 
social context to explain current 
events. 
They are not sure what the 
future of their video commen-
tary will be, but Johnson said 
that where there is demand, 
they will supply it. “If people 
keep watching them, we’ll keep 
making them,” he said.
Dickinson explained the 
benefits of their online endeav-
ors to their future academic 
research. “There’s a synergy 
between my academic work and 
blogging,” he said. “I can test 
out research ideas there and get 
feedback. Academic research 
just takes so long, so in that 
sense they are very different 
endeavors. But I think it’s ben-
efitting the College. I hope it’s 
benefitting the College.”
‘Professor Pundits’ duo takes on the 2012 election
By Ali Andrews
Aaron Kelly
Matthew Dickinson 
@MattDickinson44
Don’t look now, but Mitt is 
closing gap with Newt in Ala-
bama for second-will it affect 
district level delegates?
13 Mar
The Fix
@TheFix
Alabama and Mississippi 
wins give Santorum what he’s 
always wanted: A 1 on 1 with 
Romney. Ow.ly/9DP6Q
13 Mar
Matthew Dickinson 
@MattDickinson44
@TheFix Dream on, Teen 
Queen.
13 Mar
Fmr Gov Jim Douglas
@JimDouglasVT
Who am I? And why am I 
here?
11 Mar
Matthew Dickinson 
@MattDickinson44
@JimDouglasVT You are an 
imposter, and you are imper-
sonating the real Governor!
11 Mar
Matthew Dickinson 
@MattDickinson44
Santorum up 12% in ND 
with 60% vote counted. 
Paul=bridesmaid again?
6 Mar
Bert Johnson
@bnjohns
WI legis. Adjours w/ chaos, 
try to be brief because I don’t 
even saying.” Bit.ly/FPbEEh
17 Mar
Bert Johnson
@bnjohns
VT Gov Shumlin supports bill 
to give driver’s licenses to 
undocumented migrant farm 
workers. Bit.ly/A3vrhd
15 Mar
Bert Johnson
@bnjohns
*Less* campaign spending 
this year than usual, even 
counting SuperPACs. Stunner 
for everyone but political 
scientists.
13 Mar
Bert Johnson
@bnjohns
After he makes several weird 
gaffes, CO Gov. Hickenloop-
dork.” Bit.ly/wHLSVO
7 Mar
Bert Johnson
@bnjohns
Middlebury, VT town meeting 
began at 7pm and ended at 
11:19 last night. Real  
democracy takes time!
6 Mar
arts sciences
Meet the students who 
study schizophrenia!
Page 16
don’t
miss
this
Theatre Auditions
Calling all College students! This April, there will be 
auditions for roles in the two fall 2012 faculty-directed 
productions. Directors Cheryl Faraone and Alex Drap-
er ’88 will supervise. Contact the Theater Program for 
more info.
4/4, 4:15 TO 7 P.M., CENTER FOR THE ARTS, RM 232
The Global Assault on Africa’s Resources
Michael T. Klare of Amherst College presents an illus-
trated lecture about how the world’s relentless demand 
for oil, minerals, timber and other raw materials is pro-
ducing war, poverty and environmental devastation in 
Africa.
4/5, 4:30 P.M., ROBERT A. JONES ’59 HOUSE, CONFERENCE ROOM 
Artist Talk: Michael Jordan
The Studio Art Program presents an artist talk 
by German printmaker Michael Jordan. In a 
three-week residency at the College, he will par-
ticipate in a drawing marathon with students, 
working with text and imagery. 
3/22, 4:30 P.M., JOHNSON MEMORIAL BUILDING, RM 304
The Radio Show, an abstract, autobiographical 
exploration by Bessie Award-winning dancer and 
choreographer Kyle Abraham and his dance compa-
ny Abraham in Motion, drew engaged audiences on 
the evenings of March 16 and 17. First premiering in 
Pittsburgh, Penn. in January 2010, and going on to 
premiere in New York City, this performance, part of 
the College’s Performing Arts Series, offers an excit-
ing and touching experience for just about anyone. 
The piece is based on Abraham’s personal his-
tory, specifically dealing with 106.7 FM and AM 
860 WAMO, two urban radio stations in Pittsburgh, 
which went off the air in 2009. The performance also 
delves into his father’s diagnosis with Alzheimer’s 10 
years ago. Abraham poses such questions as, “With-
out black radio, where is the audible voice of the black 
community? Radio was so prevalent during times of 
strife in the past. Where is its place today? Is radio 
fading away? Are we still listening?” He weaves re-
sponses into a wide range of musical and dance styles.
As the piece began, Abraham emerged silently 
from a side curtain, just subtly interrupting the funky 
radio tunes filling the house. Moments later, he found 
himself in the audience, breaking his hypnotic, lost 
stare to sit down and introduce himself to strangers. 
All heads turned, probably wondering how this artist 
can break his focus in the first moments of a show. 
However, he soon chose a new, isolated seat and com-
posed himself in silence. The audience, a pool of ex-
tremely tense onlookers, watched as he slowly stood, 
clearly exhibiting physical signs of his father’s illness, 
and made his way toward the stage.
His 15 to 20 minute solo introduction then burst 
into a high energy twist, with long periods of stillness 
juxtaposed with a continuing raucous soundtrack. 
The performance was filled with these sorts of evoca-
tive moments. Audience member Rachel Nunez ’14 
responded to this choice to “not do what’s expected 
from the music.” Some of Abraham’s company’s wild-
est phrases burst out of complete silence, and used a 
broad range of styles at a high level.
“Really talented dancers defaulting to classical 
dance moves is not the most interesting,” Nunez said. 
The Radio Show’s cast of seven dancers certainly 
avoided that sort of cliché. Hip-hop dance met soulful 
Aretha Franklin tunes, while beautiful contemporary 
interactions played out over radio show interviews 
and the frequent static of changing of a tuning radio. 
Comic turns with a hairspray bottle turned into in-
tense, almost violent phrases that evoked nostalgia 
in an audience engulfed in an age where the radio is 
almost obsolete. 
Penny Campbell, director of the College’s dance 
program, discussed how Abraham used improvisa-
tion and everyday gestures in his creative work. 
“He is working with material that includes 
what he calls ‘found’ gesture — gestures that any of 
us might do whether we are dancers or not. He also 
seems to collaborate with his dancers in making sec-
tions of his pieces,” Campbell said.
Signs of collaboration within the company were 
easy to spot in the performance. A number of artists 
drew from the slightest gesture of touching a knee, 
and transformed that with their own individual atti-
tude. This technique of “making a phrase from a ges-
ture,” as described by Hannah Pierce ’13, “humanized 
[the dancers] on stage.” 
The impressive sense of adventure, fun and own-
ership that each duet, trio or group communicated in 
their movement (made even more impressive know-
ing that almost the entire cast has changed since its 
2010 premiere) brought both Friday and Saturday 
nights’ audiences to their feet.
The company’s time at the College extended be-
yond their two evening performances with a master 
class and lecture demonstration on March 15. These 
residency activities allowed students, faculty and 
community members to gain a sense of the company’s 
skill level and Abraham’s creative techniques. 
Campbell pointed out the importance of having 
professional dance companies on campus. She said 
that “seeing the work of professional artists gives 
[students] a sense of what is possible and, perhaps, 
how their own interests coincide or diverge. Kyle is 
articulate verbally as well as physically and models 
the kind of dedication to movement art and experi-
mentation that I believe is inspirational for our stu-
dents.”
“Being exposed to as much dance as possible 
helps you as a dancer. It gives you a range of starting 
points,” said Pierce, continuing on to say that bring-
ing technically difficult and creative works like The 
Radio Show “is the most important thing that can be 
done with [the Performing Arts Series] funds,” espe-
cially when supporting younger artists like Kyle Abra-
ham.
Many audience members expressed their satis-
faction after each show, and Abraham himself com-
mented on a number of people who came back after 
Friday’s show to see it again. 
“Everyone on campus should have gone to see it,” 
said Jill Moshman ’14. Given the show’s vivid connec-
tion to issues of personal history, race, community 
and mental health, and the many moments of teary 
eyes in the audience, it is hard to disagree with this 
sort of sentiment.
By Alan Sutton
An Autobiographical Dance
Award-winning dancer and choreographer Kyle Abraham faces off in a scene from his autobiographical piece The Radio Show, which came to cam-
pus March 16 and 17. Abraham also gave a master class and lecture during his stay in Middlebury.
Courtesy
arts SCIENCES16    | march 22, 2012
Assistant Professor of Psychology 
Mark Stefani has spent much of his aca-
demic career studying schizophrenia, es-
pecially using rat-tested models to learn 
more about the disease and how it affects 
the brain. Of the many students who have 
worked in his lab, Amy Johnson ’12 and 
Nina Wright ’12 have spent a lot of time 
with Stefani and his rats, learning more 
about schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia is a mental disorder 
characterized by the breakdown of mental 
function and inhibited emotional respon-
siveness. Often, the disease manifests 
itself as hallucinations (audio, visual or 
otherwise), delusions and disorganized 
thoughts. The disorder affects approxi-
mately one percent of the country’s popu-
lation. The most common treatment of 
schizophrenia involves intensive therapy 
and prescription anti-psychotics. 
Wright, a neuroscience major, is 
working on an independent project in 
Stefani’s lab. Her research has less to do 
with schizophrenia specifically, but is 
instead looking at declarative memory 
function and how it may be related to the 
disorder.
One of the many neurotransmitters 
in the hippocampus — the region of the 
brain that deals with memory and spatial 
navigation — is orexin. When it was origi-
nally discovered in the past decade or so, 
orexin was linked with sleep and wake 
cycles and hunger satiation. There has 
been substantial evidence that indicates 
orexin may also be linked to declarative 
memory function, though little research 
has been done to prove the link. Wright 
hopes to study the connection between 
this neurotransmitter and memory func-
tion in the brain.  
“There is a test called the Novel 
Object Recognition Test,” said Wright. 
“[We] place the rat in an arena with two 
identical objects, letting the rat explore 
these objects for fifteen minutes, record-
ing how much time they spend exploring 
each object. Then, you wait four hours 
and place them back in the arena with 
a new object. If they spend less time ex-
ploring the original object and more time 
on the new one, it indicates they’ve de-
veloped a memory for the object.” After 
this process, researchers can analyze the 
memory processes in the rats and study 
the role of orexin in the function.
Orexin is one of the three neurotrans-
mitters that Stefani has looked at in his 
research on schizophrenia. The others are 
cannabinoids and neurosteroids. 
“We’ve found that orexin is impli-
cated in memory function,” Wright said, 
“and if our research is published, other 
groups with better resources could use 
what we find as a jumping off point in 
continuing research into orexin and 
memory issues.”
Where Wright’s research is more gen-
eral, analyzing the role of neurotransmit-
ters, Stefani’s lab also looks more closely 
at schizophrenia as a disorder. With this 
research, Stefani and his students hope to 
make progress towards improving schizo-
phrenia treatment methods.
In her research, Johnson is trying 
to build models of schizophrenia in rats. 
The symptom of the disorder Johnson is 
looking at is cognitive deficit, currently 
one of the most widely researched as-
pects of schizophrenia. In humans, re-
searchers use a test called the Wisconsin 
Card Sorting Test. In this test, a group of 
cards with shapes of various sorts, color 
and number is placed before the subject. 
The researcher then asks the patient to 
sort the cards into groups with a specific 
rule in mind not revealed to the patient. 
The patient is told whether or not his ar-
rangement is correct and through this 
feedback, must figure out the pattern. 
After a certain number of correct perfor-
mances, the rule is changed without tell-
ing the patient, who must again figure out 
the new rule.
Research has shown that schizo-
phrenics tend to perseverate; that is, they 
have trouble adapting to the new rule, 
even after the old rule is no longer cor-
rect. This demonstrates serious cognitive 
deficit on the part of the patient. 
Following this model, Johnson uses 
a similar test adapted for the rats. John-
son places the rats in a maze divided into 
quarters with different color and texture. 
One quarter is closed off and the rats come 
to a fork in the road, with the “correct” 
path leading to a reward pellet. This pat-
tern is repeated and eventually changed, 
similar to the Wisconsin Card Test. If this 
model proves to be successful, it can then 
be used in the development of treatment 
for cognitive deficit. 
When asked why she was drawn to 
this research, Johnson cited her time 
studying abroad in Kenya and Zanzibar 
during her junior year. 
“In Zanzibar, I worked in a mental 
hospital for a month and many of the 
patients had been diagnosed with schizo-
phrenia,” she said. “This got me really 
interested in continuing psychiatric re-
search.”
Sufferers of schizophrenia lose most 
of their quality of life and many need to be 
institutionalized for their disorder. Cur-
rently, treatment methods are very basic: 
they address only some of the symptoms 
and can’t actually cure the disorder, so 
most patients are confined to treatment 
for the rest of their life. Furthermore, 
research like what Johnson and Wright 
have done in Stefani’s lab has proved vital 
in both our understanding and treatment 
of a debilitating mental disorder.
By Ben Anderson
The Hepburn Zoo was full of whispers and 
excitement as the audience awaited the last 
performance of a three-day series of shows of 
the new Maria Irene Fornés production, The 
Summer in Gossensass, which showed March 
15-17. 
This senior theater work of Lucy Van Atta 
’12 and independent directing project of Sa-
sha Rivera ’12 did not disappoint; it kept the 
audience on their toes and laughing the entire 
time. People smiled, giggled and leaned for-
ward throughout the performance, eager to 
know what would happen next or what other 
thoughts would occur to characters Elizabeth 
Robins (Van Atta) and Marion Lea (Christina 
Fox ’13.5). 
Rivera was attracted to the production be-
cause of its surprising humor. “I was drawn to 
this play because I thought it was funny,” Ri-
vera said, “and I was intrigued by how the play-
wright, Maria Irene Fornés, was able to cre-
ate humor out of a situation that seems like it 
should be inherently boring.”
The play tells the story of two actresses 
eagerly anticipating the English translation of 
the new Henrik Ibsen play, Hedda Gabler. In 
a way, this play shows the process that all ac-
tors take when trying to interpret the truth be-
tween the lines and the reality of the character 
in question. 
As the character of Vernon (Will Ford 
-
acter in a play has no past, but it has a destiny.” 
This certainly describes the play as Eliza-
beth and the rest of the characters try to dis-
cover Gabler’s intentions as well as imagine 
her past in order to understand her future. 
Elizabeth in particular tries to understand and 
play around with different scenarios that could 
explain Gabler’s  personality, as she wishes to 
play her in the new English theatre production. 
The Summer in Gossensass
be summarized as a “play within a play,” yet it 
leaves the viewer with so much more: it is not 
only about a play, but also the process of au-
thentically bringing a play to life and the actors’ 
journey to fully capturing the essence of their 
roles. 
After closing night, there was no doubt 
that all of the hard work paid off and that this 
student-run production was able to get past the 
and thoughts as authentically as possible, leav-
ing the audience amazed and wanting more.
Now that the production is over, Rivera 
expressed joy at the accomplishment. “I feel 
challenging thing I have ever had to do. We 
were making changes the same day that we 
turned out.” 
science sp   tlight: STEFANI LAB
Gossensass vividly interprets characters
By Greta Olivares
   all photos Andrew podrygula
CLOCKWISE FROM LEFT: Elizabeth (Lucy Van Atta ’12) and Marion 
(Will Ford ’12.5) poses with Van Atta, Fox and Lady Bell (Adrienne Losch 
’12); the four main characters discuss the Ibsen play. 
FROM THE TOP: Nina Wright ’12, Amy 
Johnson ’12 and Florence DiBiase ’13 are 
all involved in Professor Mark Stefani’s 
neuroscience lab researching aspects of 
schizophrenia. 
Courtesy
march 22, 2012 | 17arts SCIENCES
The name “Intersection” is more 
than fitting for the new ensemble that 
performed at the Mahaney Center for the 
Arts on March 17.  Blending traditional 
Chinese music with Western art music, 
the group brought an extremely unique 
sound that is worth hearing if for no 
other reason than to broaden your views 
of what music can be. Although the per-
formance featured some fairly accessible 
works bearing a traditional Chinese aes-
thetic, the majority of the pieces tested 
the audience’s conditioned ideas of har-
mony and structure.  
The ensemble’s members include 
Gao Hong (pipa), Nicola Melville (piano), 
David Hagedorn (percussion) and Jun 
Qian (clarinet).  Hong, a music faculty 
member along with Melville at Carleton 
College, is a musical prodigy from China 
who became a professional musician at 
the age of twelve. This was clear in the 
way her instrument, a pear-shaped lute 
known as the pipa, seemed like an ex-
tension of her body as she wove together 
musical lines in the way only a virtuoso 
can.
Indeed, the musicianship of all the 
performers represented an echelon not 
commonly encountered. Hagedorn, an 
artist in residence at St. Olaf College, has 
extensively performed jazz and classical 
percussion, having also studied drum-
ming styles from Brazil and Cuba, among 
others. Qian, who is assistant professor 
of music at St. Olaf College, previously 
performed as the principal clarinetist in 
the Shanghai Philharmonic Orchestra, 
while pianist Melville of New Zealand 
has performed internationally and won 
the National Concerto Competition in her 
native country.
Together, the musicians executed 
complex pieces that played with atonal-
ity, including works by Middlebury’s own 
Christian A. Johnson Professor of Mu-
sic Peter Hamlin.  Hamlin’s new piece 
Spring, River, and Auto Junkyard on 
a Moonlit Night debuted that evening. 
The performers, who seemed to thrive 
on sharp contrasts and quick changes in 
dynamics, were well suited for the piece 
whose dreamlike mood at the beginning 
gives way suddenly to an aggressive, al-
most jazzy cacophony. After throwing 
in a few tone clusters, it was almost like 
hearing a different piece until earlier 
themes returned.  
For all the emotion and virtuosity in 
the performance, it was not for everyone. 
The musicians mostly performed con-
temporary art music rooted in the classi-
cal tradition with an experimental quality 
stemming in part from the instrumenta-
tion, which included the traditional Chi-
nese pipa.  In a way, this is the kind of 
music for musicians and music lovers 
familiar with historical trends in music 
and the evolution of form.  Anyone can 
appreciate the talent that goes into per-
forming and writing this music, but it’s 
easier to understand that the composer 
and performers aren’t angry with you, 
punishing you with non sequitur chords 
and passages, when you’ve been primed 
with Schoenberg and Minimalism. Un-
like Beethoven’s symphonies in which it 
is easier to understand what the compos-
er was feeling, this kind of music gives 
you less to grasp onto. 
However, just as in literature, not all 
music is meant to be easy to understand. 
It is not as though these composers are 
necessarily trying to express some lofty 
intellectual statement, either. Rather, 
this type of music cannot be put into a 
box, understood as some cohesive whole, 
because its amorphousness is its very 
strength.  If you can suspend judgment 
long enough, the music often resonates 
on an emotional level that you do not en-
tirely understand, but nevertheless com-
mands the full attention of all sensory 
faculties. Pure human experience is be-
yond ideas of continuity and form, and it 
was the poet Joseph Campbell who once 
said that people aren’t seeking mean-
ing in life so much as the feeling of be-
ing alive. If the sole criterion for a great 
performance is whether or not it gives the 
audience this opportunity, then the “In-
tersection” ensemble succeeded.
Visiting ensemble blends music from East and West
By Grady Trela
By Emily Scarisbrick
Orchestra showcases competition winner
    The Middlebury College Orchestra 
performed a program of theatrical music in 
the Mahaney Center for the Arts Concert Hall 
last Sunday, March 18. In addition to works 
by Weber, Delius and Berlioz, the concert 
showcased this year’s winner of the Alan 
and Joyce Beucher Concerto Competition, 
Suzanne Calhoun ’14. Calhoun treated the 
audience to the rich, underappreciated tone 
of the French horn in her performance of the 
Concerto No. 2. The award is given annually 
to a student instrumentalist, offering 
them a cash prize and the opportunity to 
play selections from a concerto with the 
Middlebury College Orchestra. Calhoun, 
a sophomore from Jerico, Vt., has been 
playing the French horn for eleven years. 
     Before Calhoun’s performance, the 
evening began with Weber’s Overture to 
Der Freishutz, which draws on motifs from 
the opera of the same title. It’s said to have 
inspired Wagner to be a composer when 
he heard it as a child.  The piece begins 
incredibly softly; the strings trickled gently 
up and down until the entrance of the horn 
quartet drew out the melody. 
       Some of the most memorable moments 
of this piece were the individual wind 
motifs passed around between different 
instruments; Amanda Kaminsky ’13 started 
the sequence with a deliciously mellow 
tone of the clarinet’s often neglected lower 
register that spilled out into the audience 
instrument.  Though some of the crispness 
of individual notes was lost in the body of 
the orchestra when the tempo changed, once 
the instrumentalists had reached the refrain, 
the sound captured the concert space with 
its energy. The invigorating and up-tempo 
forte ending concluded the Overture with a 
high. 
     Following the evening’s theme of “A Walk 
in Paradise Garden,” all but the strings 
cleared the stage to provide a small chamber 
accompaniment for Calhoun’s concerto. We 
refer to the piece she performed as “Haydn’s 
Horn Concerto No.2,” although truthfully 
its origins are ambiguous. Regardless of its 
actual composer, the symmetry of the early 
classical structure offered a nice counterpart 
to the heavy German Romanticism of the 
Weber.  
  Given the extraordinary number of notes 
Calhoun had to play in this piece, her 
performance was of the highest standard. The 
strings were always well balanced beneath 
her, and she was clearly in charge of the 
group as a soloist should be: neither dashing 
away from nor totally overshadowing 
her formal classical accompaniment. The 
performance had everything that could be 
asked of a concerto performance, and both 
cadenzas were particularly memorable. 
They revealed a sliver of the glory of the horn 
as a virtuosic solo instrument. 
   Putting together a concerto performance 
in such a short space of time is no mean 
feat, either. “The competition was in late 
January,” Calhoun described, “so I started 
preparing at the end of fall semester, and 
practiced during Christmas break and 
whenever I could through. With horn, it is 
important to play every day in order to get in 
shape to able to play well. For the last several 
weeks, I have been practicing for about an 
hour a day, often in addition to rehearsals 
for other ensembles.”
classical, structured feel of the Haydn to 
the full orchestra returned on stage, Delius’s 
“The Walk to Paradise Garden” utilized each 
instrument fully to create a rich layering 
of sound that came into it’s own with the 
entrance of the brass section alongside 
vibrato strings. The piece is characterized 
by dense texture, setting the scene of two 
doomed lovers on a summer evening, 
and capturing the thick and complicated 
emotions of the couple. 
     Again, the wind section really shone in 
the performance, especially Owen Tatum’s 
and Dan Frostman’s delicate solo passages 
on the oboe and cor anglais above swaying 
strings. The tonality of the piece was luscious 
as well, chords blending interestingly into 
each other through chromatic steps to create 
an almost jazz-like effect. 
    The low tones of Emma Stanford’s ’12 
of this piece; the control of the orchestra as 
they faded into a barley audible piano was 
entrancing. 
    Berlioz’s Roman Carnival quickly moved 
away from this contemplative mood with 
its frantic opening and offbeat strings. The 
short piece burst with contrast and built its 
pace up to a raucous ending for the evening. 
Suzanne Calhoun ’14 performed Haydn’s Horn Concert No. 2 with the College Or-
chestra last Sunday, March 18 under conductor Andrew Massey.
jiajyi  zhu
“Intersection” blended traditional Chinese music with Western art music in 
their performance on the pipa, piano and clarinet last Saturday, March 17.
jiajyi  zhu
Otter Creek 
Used Books
has moved down 
creek from Main 
. to Marble Works.      
 Check it out. Windows!  Books!             
      Look for the blue awnings.
Always buying used textbooks.
99 Maple Street, Marble Works
802-388-3241
| march 22, 201218 sports
Alex Edel (62-70, .470)
LESS
7 of 13 games is a lot. They will do 
well though. 
FIVE
It is still the beginnning of the 
season and I think that three games 
on the road will be tough.
Owen Teach (15-14, .517)
katie siegner (79-91 .465)
Damon Hatheway (46-38, .548)
Dillon Hupp (106-90, .541)
Will the men’s baseball team win 
more or less than seven games 
over spring break?
How many NESCAC wins will 
the men’s lacrosse team have 
after spring break?
Who will lead the softball team 
in Runs Batted In when we 
return from spring break?
Who will win the Division I 
men’s basketball national 
championship?
LESS
Katie, playing the role of Vegas 
hoping for the push, gutsy. Team 
comes back at .500.
FIVE
I’ll guarantee a win over Wesleyan 
this year. 
MORE
And I’m looking for three of those 
wins to come at Williams’ expense.
FOUR
It’ll be tough to win three straight 
on the road.
MORE
Why not? I need to make up some 
ground after I got shafted last week. 
Damon, the concert was great ...
FIVE
Their play in the 4th last week 
against Conn. Coll. was fantastic. 
Put it on the board.
JESSICA PORACKY ’13
The Coffrin connection!
KENTUCKY
It’s such a gross pick, but the 
tournament is proceeding 
perfectly for Coach Cal (vomit).
JESSA HOFFMAN ’13
She was a force in the lineup last 
year. Look for more of the same this 
season.
KENTUCKY
All the SEC does is win national 
championships.
JESSICA PORACKY ’13
Make me proud, Jessica!
KENTUCKY
Looking for my Washington 
Wizards to get one of these guys 
come draft time.
JESSICA PORACKY ’13
She was one of the leaders in RBI 
last year and will be a star again 
this year. 
UNC
Ya. I’m original. And sticking with 
my pick despite the injury. 
EXACTLY SEVEN
I hope you’re right about this Kyle.
FIVE
NESCAC championship let’s go!
ALY DOWNING ’12
The only senior and one of the 
captains — this girl’s gonna have a 
big year.
KENTUCKY
My bracket’s already screwed, but 
here’s to hoping.
editors’ picks
AVOID 
BRAIN FREEZE
 
 
Heat things up  
this summer at McGill
www.mcgill.ca/summer
 summer.studies@mcgill.ca 
A new American play, title tba 
Directed by Alex Draper 
Love’s Labour’s Lost 
by William Shakespeare 
Directed by Cheryl Faraone 
HAVE AN OPINION? 
VOICE YOUR OPINION @ MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM
OR SEND AN OP-ED OR LETTER TO THE EDITOR TO CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
WEIGH IN TODAY
in the third quarter, we just kept playing 
our game and eventually we made our 
run.”
The run began four minutes after the 
Camels’ quick goals, when Alex Englert ’12 
won a ground ball in the defensive half, 
carried it into the offensive zone and after 
several passes converted a lefty shot from 
an extreme angle to bring his team within 
two. The Panthers then lined up, won the 
face-off and celebrated their fourth goal 
of the game a mere 10 seconds later when 
Mike Giordano ’13 scored off a fast break 
pass from Darric White ’14. 
the day off a bounce shot to put them up 
6-4 before John Duvnjak ’13 cashed in on 
an individual long stick effort, sprinting 
goaltender Rob Moccia. Then, with 38 
seconds left in the third quarter Eric 
Pfeffer ’13 added another unassisted goal 
when he backed down the defense and 
slotted it home to tie the game at six to end 
the third quarter.
the Panthers buried the Camels with 
six goals in just under four minutes. 
Sustained offensive pressure around the 
6:30 mark led to Kerr putting away his 
second of the game on a second chance 
effort. Andrew Metros ’13 then scored 30 
seconds later, followed by Tim Cahill ’12 
and Giordano. White and Cal Williams ’15 
capped the scoring for the Panthers with 
2:31 remaining, giving Middlebury a 12-6 
win. The second half barrage featured 
eight consecutive goals in just under 17 
minutes of game time.
“Lacrosse can be a very back and forth 
game,” Cronan said. “Teams go on runs 
just like in basketball and we just started 
clicking in the second half. We began 
doing the necessary things to win the 
game: our transition game got going, we 
started sticking our shots and our defense 
stepped up and stopped them when they 
needed to.”
Over the break, the Panthers travel to 
Wesleyan, Hamilton and Bowdoin, before 
coming home to face Tufts April 5.
The legacy of 
baseball
march 22, 2012| 19SPORTS
Scott Redmond ’13 tests the Camels’ goalkeeper as part of an eight-goal run in the  
andrew podrygula
The 70- and 80-degree weather that has 
swept through Middlebury, Vt., over the 
past few days has some of you daydreaming 
about your latest plans for an excursion up 
Snake Mountain or dazed by the return of 
miniskirts and muscles, which had — until 
recently — been forgotten in the bottom 
drawer or layered beneath piles of winter 
clothes. Yes, spring has returned, and 
are widespread, the temperature spike 
means just one thing to me: the return of 
baseball. 
Though America’s past pastime has 
been demoted to a distant third behind 
the NFL and the NBA in the hearts of 
Americans, baseball has left a legacy 
unlike the other major sports. The history 
of baseball and its fanfare has connected 
generations of people. Baseball of 1950 or 
even 1920 resonates with us still today. 
More people on campus can tell you who 
Babe Ruth is than Albert Pujols or Barry 
Bonds and the average fan would have 
less trouble naming the team that won the 
1918 World Series than the 2004 or 2007 
Series.  The same thing cannot be said of 
any other sport. 
The success of modern-day baseball 
is based in the success of baseball of the 
past. As a result, many kids are introduced 
to baseball by listening to stories their 
parents or grandparents attending day-
night doubleheaders at Yankee stadium 
or watching players like Willie Mays or 
Roberto Clemente play. My dad sold me 
on baseball this way and his mom sold him 
before that.
My grandmother, Merilyn Damon 
Hatheway — who was an avid baseball fan 
and inspired my dad’s lifelong love of the 
sport — succumbed to ovarian cancer more 
than 15 years ago. While I have almost no 
living memory of the woman who is both 
my namesake and largely responsible for 
my love of baseball, over the winter break 
I stumbled across a scrapbook that she 
made when she was a young girl.
brittle, yellowed pages with everything 
from pictures of Ted Williams — for 
whom she carried a considerable crush 
— to scorecards she kept from the 1941 
season and the notes she scribbled on the 
memorable events she witnessed. 
“Mother, Shirley and I saw Lefty Grove 
win [his 300th game,]” she wrote in one 
entry. “It was the most thrilling game that 
I had ever seen or heard. I yelled myself 
hoarse.”
On another page, she clipped 
a typewritten note she received, 
congratulating her on a question she 
submitted to Baseball Fan Interviews 
on July 3, 1941, for which she received 
a $1 prize. Undoubtedly assuming that 
a man had submitted the question, the 
response was addressed to Mr. Damon, 
my grandmother’s maiden name. With 
pride, I’m sure, my soon-to-be 15-year 
old grandmother, crossed out the Mr. and 
scribbled Miss in its place.
The faded green book is the tangible 
link that I have to my late grandmother, 
but her passion for the game of baseball 
has been passed down through my dad 
and, quite clearly, to me. 
While our team allegiances over the 
years have changed — my grandmother 
was a raging Red Sox fan and my dad 
was pulled by the Pirates before he and I 
settled with Seattle — sports fans speak a 
universal language. 
In 1941, my grandmother used a gift 
she got from her mother to document her 
love for the game of baseball. More than 
70 years later, springtime means the same 
thing to me that it did to her: the return of 
baseball. 
— Damon Hatheway ’13.5 is a sports 
editor from London, England.
Panthers defeat Conn. College by six
by the Numb3rs
3
5
2
Number of matches that men’s tennis has 
lost in the past 45 matches played. The team 
is 5-0 this season with two shutouts. 
Number of unanswered goals that 
men’s lacrosse scored in the second half 
of the game against Conn. College. 
Number of goals Emma Kramer ’13 scored in 
the team’s 18-10 win over Conn. College. The 
junior also had three assists in the game. 
The number of times that a 15th-seeded 
team beaten a two seed in the 2012 NCAA 
Tournament and only the sixth time ever.
The number of teams from the satte 
of Ohio that have advanced to the 
Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament.
8
panther sc0reboard
Men’s lacrosse vs. Conn. College  
women’s lacrosse  vs. Conn. College 
men’s Tennis vs. Tufts
Lehigh vs. Duke (Men’s basketball)
Arkansas vs. Dayton (Women’s basketball)
12-6 w 
18-10 w
9-0 W
75-70 W
72-55 W
The Panthers came back from a three-
points and advance their record to 2-0. 
The Panthers advance to 5-0 on the 
season with their third shutout of the 
season. 
The eighth-ranked Panthers improve to 
2-0 while the Camels drop to 0-3 for the 
season. 
15th-seeded Lehigh defeated second 
seed Duke in a shocking upset. 
appearance since 2003, the Ladybacks 
game.4
All-American honors given to 
several winter season athletes 
Several Middlebury athletes received 
post-season honors following the 
conclusion of the winter sports season, 
which saw playoff success come to 
numerous Panthers teams. Ryan Sharry 
’12 and Lauren Greer ’13 were named 
All-Americans for men’s basketball and 
women’s hockey, respectively, and Margo 
Cramer ’12 was named the New-England 
athlete of the year for track and field.
In addition to being an All-American, 
Sharry was named the NESCAC player 
of the year, D3Hoops.com Northeast 
District player of the year and the M.V.P 
of the Senior All-Star game in Salem, Va. 
Sharry, who was also an All-American 
last season, is only the second Panther 
in the history of the program to earn 
such honors (Ben Rudin ’09 was an All-
American in 2009). He led the NESCAC 
in scoring and blocked shots this season 
and was eighth nationally in shooting 
percentage, making a scintillating 61.4 
percent of his field goal attempts on the 
year. In the all-star game, Sharry scored 
20 points to go along with 18 rebounds 
in just 18 minutes of play. He finishes his 
career fifth all-time in career points at 
Middlebury, and second in rebounds and 
blocks.
“Winning POY is a great honor, but 
it definitely wouldn’t be possible without 
my teammates, said Sharry. “Our guards 
can get to the rim on anyone and gave me 
a lot of open looks this season. Peter and 
our other big men made it so other teams 
couldn’t double team in the post.”
After leading Middlebury women’s 
hockey in scoring and to a NESCAC 
championship, Greer found herself on the 
All-American team and a first-team All-
NESCAC selection. With this honor, Greer 
becomes a two-time All-American for the 
2011-12 school year, as she was also named 
an All-American for her performance as a 
member of the field hockey team in the 
fall. On the ice, Greer scored 13 goals and 
notched 16 assists, which was good for 
second in the conference in total points at 
1.21 ppg. Greer was named the NESCAC 
player of the week on Feb. 13, and now 
has 71 points in 73 career games for the 
Panthers.
Cramer earned the title of New 
England region athlete of the year by virtue 
of her status as a member of Middlebury’s 
NCAA championship distance medley 
relay team and an All-American in the 
mile. Cramer also won the mile and 
800 meter event at this season’s New 
England Division III championships and 
the ECAC Division III mile.  In addition 
to these accomplishments, Cramer was 
named the sole NESCAC recipient of 
an NCAA Postgraduate Scholarship, 
which are awarded to student-athletes 
who excel both academically and 
athletically and represent grants of 
$7,500. Cramer earned the scholarship 
based on her performance as a member 
of Middlebury’s women’s cross country 
team last fall, which finished second 
at the NCAA championships. Only 58 
such scholarships were awarded for fall 
student-athletes this year, and Cramer is 
the first Panther to receive a Postgraduate 
scholarship since 2006.
“The New England award was a 
huge honor and one that I would not 
have been able to earn alone,” said 
Cramer. “My races at the New England 
DIII Championship were entirely for the 
team — it was a long day with plenty of 
laps around the 200-meter indoor track 
at Smith, but at the end of the meet I 
was happy that I contributed as much as 
possible to our team standing.”
Middlebury also had eight student-
athletes named to this year’s Winter 
NESCAC sportsmanship team. These 
Panthers were honored for what the 
NESCAC recognizes as “outstanding 
dedication to sportsmanship,” and 
represent each of Middlebury’s winter 
sports teams. 
This year’s honorees were Nolan 
Thompson ’12 from men’s basketball, 
Brittany Perfetti ’12 from women’s 
basketball, Charlie Strauss ’12 from 
men’s hockey, Mackenzie Stevens ’12 
from women’s hockey, Valentin Quan 
’12 from men’s squash, Abby Jenkins ’14 
from women’s squash, Mike Oster ’14 
from men’s swimming and diving and 
Nora Daly ’13 from women’s swimming 
and diving.
By Dillon Hupp
CONTINUED FROM 20
With the season just two games 
old, the Panthers women’s lacrosse 
team has proven ready to live up 
to their preseason top-10 national 
ranking, netting their most recent 
victory at Conn. College this past 
weekend, March 17. Eighth-ranked 
Middlebury cruised to an 18-
10 victory over the host Camels, 
three games. Despite losing the 
ground-ball battle, the Panthers 
outshot their opponents 38-23 en 
route to the win, with offensive 
contributions coming from 
Kramer ’13 led the team in scoring, 
Margaret Souther ’13 followed close 
behind with three of her own.
Middlebury opened the game 
with a 3-0 lead over the home 
team, and didn’t look back from 
half, they extended their lead to 
10-5 advantage. Kramer, who has 
emerged as a skilled attacker this 
season, netted three to lead the 
Ritter ’15 contributed a goal off a 
free position shot, demonstrating 
a successful changing of the guard 
as new players emerge to take the 
place of last year’s leading scorers. 
Going into the second half, 
Middlebury continued to control 
goals to make it 14-5. Tri-captain 
Liz Garry ’12 capped the rally with 
a free position shot with 20:53 
remaining, converting one of the 
the Panthers on the day, out of 10 
opportunities.
“The offense was really 
successful off of our set plays,” said 
Garry. “It pleased everyone to know 
that we could run them with some 
pretty high pressure.”
Conn. College struggled to keep 
pace with the Panthers’ consistent 
the end of the game. Starting goalie 
and tri-captain Lily Nguyen ’12 
made four saves for the visitors, 
while Alyssa Palomba ’14 came off 
Panthers in the last seven minutes 
of play.
“Palomba stopped some huge 
point blank shots at the end of the 
game to make sure that we kept 
our lead,” said Garry, adding, “our 
defense has been playing very well, 
especially Neile Weeks ’13, who was 
an all-star getting the ball out of our 
defensive end [on Saturday].” 
The Panthers played effective 
noted, “We were able to force them 
to make errors trying to transition 
the ball a bunch of times, with great 
ball back.” 
This preseason has been the 
longest and warmest in recent 
memory for Middlebury, and the 
team has taken advantage of these 
auspicious conditions to prepare 
themselves for a NESCAC title 
run. The Panthers have put in 
extensive work in their practices 
to ensure that they can compete in 
an extremely competitive division, 
with three NESCAC opponents 
currently also ranked in the top ten 
of the national poll.
“We are much further ahead 
than we have ever been, both 
in how we are playing and our 
conditioning,” said Garry. “We 
know that this year the NESCAC 
is anyone’s for the taking, and 
everyone is just pumped to play 
the next game. We know that if we 
want to keep winning games, we 
can, we just need to buckle down 
and do the little things right.”
Over spring break, the Panthers 
face several big games against 
NESCAC foes, and will also travel to 
Colorado to face Colorado College 
This intense week of competition 
will go a long way in determining 
the Panthers’ conference standing 
going into the heart of the season.
The men’s tennis team 
improved its record to an 
unblemished 5-0 last Friday 
March 16th at home, by sweeping 
six singles and three doubles 
matches against NESCAC 
opponent Tufts University.
Each of the singles victories 
came in straight-sets fashion. 
Most notably, Branter Jones ’14, 
one of two Middlebury players 
on last year’s NESCAC All-
Conference First Team, scored 
a double bagel win 
over his opponent 
Andrew Lutz.
“Brantner Jones 
is playing at a very 
high level,” said 
assistant coach Adam 
Kent. “He’s come a 
long way in a short 
amount of time.”
Alec Parower 
’13, the other ranked 
player who played 
in the Tufts match, 
beat his opponent 
6-3, 6-1. Teddy 
Fitzgibbons ’14 
also scored a bagel set over his 
opponent, eventually prevailing 
with a score of 6-0, 6-2. 
The three doubles teams 
of Andrew Lebovitz ’14/Jones, 
Parower/Derrick Angle ’12 
and Spencer Lunghino ‘13/
Eric Vehovec ’12 all won with 
identical scores over their Tufts 
opponents, coming out on top in 
supersets 8-4. 
“The No. 1 singles match 
was competitive in the first 
set,” said Kent. “Our No. 2 guy 
(Angle) caught food poisoning 
so everyone shifted up a notch.”
“We stepped up early in 
doubles play,” he added. “They 
all won with relative ease.” 
When asked how the team 
is performing compared to the 
fall, Kent responded, “We’re 
progressing nicely. [The team] 
is volleying better, they’re more 
comfortable on the tennis court.”
The undefeated men’s team 
will take off for a week-long trip 
to California where they will 
play ranked Division III schools 
like Pomona-Pitzer (13)  and 
Claremont (18), as well as four 
other colleges. 
The Panthers 
are currently 
ranked seventh 
in the nation 
among DIII 
schools, and are 
looking to unseat 
rivals Amherst 
and Williams, 
currently one 
and three, 
respectively. 
“We’ll play 
against some of 
the best Division 
III opponents 
nationally whereas we’ve had 
sort of an easy go of it right 
now,” Kent said. “It’s going to be 
a nice litmus test for where we 
are. We’re really excited for the 
level of competition we’re going 
to see.”
In an earlier interview, 
head coach Bob Hansen noted 
that he will have a better sense 
of the overall dynamics and 
performance of each individual 
player after this West Coast trip.
After the break, the Panthers 
are slated to face off against 
Connecticut College in an away 
match on Friday, April 6.
After opening the season with 
a home thrashing of Bates on 
March 10 by a score of 7-1, the 
Middlebury men’s lacrosse team 
came crashing back down to earth 
on Wednesday, March 14, with a 
falling 14-5. The Panthers did 
not stay down for long, however. 
The team rallied before its home 
crowd Saturday, March 17, 
to remain undefeated (2-0) in the 
NESCAC, defeating the Camels of 
Connecticut College 12-6. While 
it may seem that the team was 
caught off guard in its encounter 
Cronan ’14 was quick to point out 
that the team was as focused as 
ever.
“There wasn’t an excess of 
came out of the Bates game feeling 
good but we knew we had a lot 
to work on. We try to enter each 
game with the same approach 
and never underestimate our 
opponent.”
That being said, the Panthers 
certainly struggled to match 
as the home team put nine 
straight goals in the back of the 
second quarters. The run started 
and concluded at the 3:21 mark 
of the following period, as Mike 
Donoghue gave the 
Spirit a 10-2 lead. 
score was lopsided, 
the game was 
even statistically, 
especially given 
that shots on goal 
The difference, 
according to 
Cronan, was a 
lack of execution 
on behalf of the 
Panthers.
“No one aspect of our game 
loss,” he said. “We simply didn’t 
It was a team effort in which 
our whole team didn’t do what 
it needed to do to win, both 
offensively and defensively.”
While the win over Connecticut 
College showcased a much more 
balanced performance by the 
Panthers, it took a dynamic third 
quarter to bring the Middlebury 
offense alive. Middlebury 
as Stew Kerr ’13 and Cronan 
found the back of the net in the 
found themselves down 
3-2 at the break. 
The Camels opened 
the second half with 
a bounce shot goal off 
a lefty dodge just 53 
seconds in and another 
quick goal 30 seconds 
later to take a 5-2 
lead at the start of the 
second half. Looking to 
avoid another crippling 
run, the Panthers 
maintained their 
composure and made a 
run of their own.  
“I think cooler heads prevailed 
when the team went down 5-2 
early in the third quarter,” said 
Cronan. “There was a lot of the 
game left and we didn’t think 
about what the scoreboard said 
sports March 22, 2012 | 20
Men’s lacrosse rallies to smoke Camels
By Owen Teach
By Katie Siegner
Women’s lacrosse improves 
to 2-0 in conference play
andrew podrygula
Tri-captain Liz Garry ’12 contributed a free position goal to the 
Panthers’ 18 total scores on the day. Garry also led the team in 
ground balls, picking up four in the team’s second straight win.
andrew podrygula
LAUREN GREER ’13, 
AMONG OTHERS, 
NAMED ALL-
AMERICANS
PAGE 19
SPRING RECALLS 
THE LEGACY OF 
BASEBALL
PAGE 19
SEE PANTHERS, PAGE 19
Men’s tennis blanks 
Tufts 9-0 for 5-0 start
By Danny Zhang
Hunter Huebsch ’15 and Tim Cahill ’12 celebrate a goal during 
Middlebury’s 10-goal second half Saturday against Conn. College.
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
“We try to 
enter each 
game with the 
same approach 
and never 
understimate 
our opponent.”
Quinn Cronan ’14
midfielder
“[Spring break] 
is going to be a 
nice litmus test 
for where we are. 
We’re really excit-
ed for the level of 
competition we’re 
going to see.”
Adam kent
assistant coach
