On March 21, the College 
mailed letters of acceptance to 
1,422 prospective students rep-
resenting all 50 states and 82 
different countries in the hope 
that 575 of these students will 
enroll next fall.  The College 
shrunk its target class size due 
to yield for the class of 2017 that 
was greater than anticipated and 
therefore offered admission to 
14 percent of its regular decision 
applicants and just 17.3 percent 
of overall applicants – lower 
than last year’s 19 percent over-
all acceptance rate. 
“It is the most selective class 
ever,” said Dean of Admissions 
Greg Buckles. “They have been 
subject to the highest degree 
of scrutiny that any class ever 
has.” Despite a 10 percent drop 
in received applications (a total 
of 8,196), Buckles says that in 
terms of academic rating – the 
seven point scale used by the ad-
missions office to evaluate aca-
demic capability – the admitted 
class is the highest he has seen at 
Middlebury College. 
The number of admitted early 
decision students is consistent 
with last year’s total, and early 
decision students comprise 53 
percent of the class, contribut-
ing to a low regular-decision ac-
ceptance rate. Buckles describes 
this early decision method as “a 
little controversial” but says that 
Admissions did not want to pass 
over excellent early decision 
applicants just to keep the per-
centage of the class that applied 
early decision below 50. 
The admitted class for 2018 
hails from across the country, 
with the most admitted stu-
dents coming from California. 
Other pipeline states include 
New York, Connecticut, Massa-
chusetts and Illinois. The class 
also includes students from 82 
different countries. Buckles at-
tributed this diversity to Admis-
sions’ goal of, “creating a com-
munity that reflects the best of 
the rest of the world.” 
Within the accepted class, 
33.7 percent of the students 
identify as students of color and 
14.5 percent identify as the first 
in their family to attend college. 
The first generation category is 
very important for Buckles and 
his team as they strive to create 
a diverse student body. 
“First generation access cuts 
across a lot of boundaries,” he 
said. “It will be inclusive of so-
cioeconomic, racial, cultural and 
religious diversity.” 
The College plans to award 
$9.6 million in need-based fi-
nancial aid. Although the class 
size is smaller, the Admissions 
Office tried to maintain its num-
bers for students of color and 
first generation students. Ac-
cording to Buckles, this means 
that while the budget for finan-
cial aid might not be higher than 
last year’s, the percentage of stu-
dents on financial aid could be. 
April 10, 2014 | Vol. 112 no. 21 | middleburycampus.com
VT SCHOOLS 
CONSIDER 
CONSOLIDATION 
PAGE 5
NOM FOOD 
INITIATIVE UNDER 
NEW LEADERSHIP
PAGE 14
PREVIEW OF RENT 
AT THE TOWN HALL 
THEATER
PAGE 17
in
sid
e
By Kyle Finck 
Use, Abuse and the  
New Pharmaceutical Reality
sophomore year. 
A friend took the orange 20-milligram (mg) pill and 
crushed it into a light powder with the bottom of a mug, 
before guiding the mass into four equal lines with a credit 
card and instructing Emma to get a tampon. She re-
recreational use that continues to this day. 
“It was almost euphoric, it felt like I could do any-
thing.” she said. “But the next morning, I had the worst 
hangover I’ve ever had in my life.”  
More than two years later, Adderall has become a con-
stant companion to Emma’s academic and social life.  
Freshman year and the beginning of sophomore year 
before I tried it, I really liked just being drunk, and that 
enough. We can’t just all hang out and drink and go out. 
Someone always wants to do Adderall to take it to the 
next level.”  
Emma’s story is one of an increasing number that 
point to a new reality across colleges and universities na-
tionwide, as a wave of high-performing and highly stimu-
lated students strive for top grades and are willing to do 
whatever it takes to get there. 
Over the past 13 months, the Campus has followed 
numerous current and former students — all of whom re-
quested anonymity and were given pseudonyms and, for 
some, different genders for legal and social reasons — as 
they grappled balancing their relationships with the pow-
erful psychostimulant with academic, social and societal 
expectations. The Campus also interviewed experts on 
the frontlines, from psychologists prescribing the drug to 
neuroscientists studying their affects on the brain. 
Data on psychostimulant use at the College is hard to 
come by. In a student-led study last spring, 16 percent of 
Middlebury students who responded to the anonymous 
survey reported illegally using the drug, slightly above the 
5 to 12 percent estimated nationally. Of that percentage, 
only 4 percent reported having prescriptions. While the 
data is scarce, the stories of use and abuse paint a com-
plicated picture, in which the line between prescribed use 
and illicit self-medication is murky at best and farcical at 
worst. 
Whether Adderall is a life-changing medicine or an 
unfair performance enhancer depends on whom you talk 
to. What is clear is that we are now living in the Adderall 
Generation, a reality that is rarely talked about but ap-
parent just below the surface. You may not have a pre-
scription or snort the drugs on weekends, but psycho-
stimulants are here to stay, and they have the potential to 
affect nearly every aspect of life 
at the College. SEE SPREAD, PAGE 12
An
th
ea
 Vi
ra
gh
Living in the 
Adderall 
Generation
Part 1 of 2
Nyad to Speak at 
Commencement
By Emily Singer
8,196 Apply to Class of 2018
By Mitch Perry
The College has announced 
that Diana Nyad will deliver the 
2014 commencement address on 
Sunday, May 25. At the age of 
64, Nyad made history last year 
-
son to swim the 110-mile stretch 
between Havana, Cuba and Key 
West, FL without the protection 
of a shark cage.
Nyad will also receive an hon-
orary Doctor of Humane Letters 
degree from the College.
“Diana Nyad is a bold and fear-
less athlete whose determination 
is truly inspiring,” President of 
the College Ronald D. Liebowitz 
said in a press release. “Her men-
tal strength and her belief in never 
giving up on her goals make her a 
role model for others who wish to 
pursue their dreams, no matter 
how daunting.”
swimmer, having swam around 
the island of Manhattan in under 
eight hours at age 26. She also set 
the world record for both men’s 
and women’s distance swimming 
by traversing the 102 miles be-
tween North Bimini Island, Ba-
hamas and Juno Beach, Florida in 
just 27.5 hours.
In the 1980s, Nyad took a hia-
tus from swimming and worked 
in broadcast journalism, serving 
as senior correspondent for Fox 
Sports News and hosting her own 
show on CNBC. She has published 
two books about her long-distance 
swimming career, has written for 
the New York Times, Newsweek 
magazine and NPR’s “All Things 
Considered.” More recently, Nyad 
was named to National Geograph-
ic magazine’s 2014 “Adventurers 
of the Year” list and competed on 
Dancing with the Stars.
The College will also be hon-
with honorary degrees: former 
Board of Trustees Vice Chair and 
former executive of State Street 
Corporation William H. Kieffer 
III ’64, Grammy-award winning 
singer and social justice advocate 
Angelique Kidjo, acclaimed un-
derwater explorer Carl Douglas 
’88, former President Emeritus of 
Yale University Richard Levin and 
retired chairman and CEO of Col-
gate-Palmolive Reuben Mark ’60.
Keiffer has served as emeritus 
trustee since 2008, and has held 
various volunteer leadership posi-
tions at the College over the past 
50 years. He has served as vice 
chair of the Board of Trustees and 
led the Monterey Institute of In-
ternational Studies (MIIS) Board 
of Governors for nine years. 
Kieffer is currently co-chair of 
the 2015 Middlebury Language 
Schools Centennial Celebration. 
He will receive a Doctor of Hu-
mane Letters degree.
SEE CLASS, PAGE 3
SEE COLLEGE, PAGE 2
WELCOME, CLASS OF 2018
-Dean of admissions Greg Buckles
“It is the most selective class ever. They have been subject 
to the highest degree of  scrutiny any class ever has.” 
acceptance rate
REG decision
OVERALL
17.3% 14%
# applications: 8,196
4th largest # 
applications in 
midd’s history
BUT 10% fewer 
applications 
than last year
OVERALL # applications has 
doubled in the Last 10 years
| april 10, 20142 NEWS
Q&A Atwater Dinner
Dig into pork ribs and hush puppies at the 
Q&A-hosted Southern Comfort dinner. 
WEDNESDAY AT 6 P.M.
Yoga with Sayre
Unwind after a long week with some 
downward dog in Proctor Basement.
FRIDAY AT 1:30 P.M.
Zumba 
Take a study break to dancercize in 
McCullough Social Space.
SUNDAY AT 4 P.M.
Spring Formal
Take it back to the Roaring Twenties at 
the Great Gatsby-themed semi-formal. 
A night of eclectic music starts off with 
performances by Will Cuneo and Icarus 
& The Wax Wings, D. Scott and Milk 
Chocolate and DJ Norris. Beer and wine 
SATURDAY AT 9:30 P.M.
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
Old Chapel Restructures Roles
By Eliza Teach
SRI Panel Discusses Fossil Fuels
By Emily Singer
College to 
Award Six 
Honorary 
Degrees
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Kidjo’s blend of Afropop, Congolese 
rumba, jazz, rhythm and blues, gospel 
and Latin music earned her the Grammy 
award for Best Contemporary World 
Music in 2007. She is a native of Benin 
and has worked as a UNICEF Goodwill 
Ambassador since 2002. Kidjo also per-
formed at the College in the fall. She will 
be receiving an honorary Doctor of Arts 
degree.
Douglas, a recipient of a Doctor of 
Letters, founded Deep Sea Productions, 
a publishing and documentary film com-
pany that has chronicled the discovery of 
over 100 underwater ruins. Douglas also 
serves as chairman of Sweden’s largest 
private marine survey company.
Levin will also receive a Doctor of Let-
ters. During his time as President Emeri-
tus at Yale from 1993-2013, he launched 
the Yale Center for the Study of Global-
ization and collaborated with the Na-
tional University of Singapore to found 
the first liberal arts college in Asia.
Mark, who will be receiving a Doctor 
of Laws, was the longest-serving leader 
in Colgate-Palmolive’s history as a pub-
lic company. He served on the College’s 
Board of Trustees from 1985 to 1994 and 
has been an avid proponent of faculty 
scholarship, teaching and development.
The 2014 Middlebury College com-
mencement ceremony will be held on the 
lawn behind Voter beginning at 10 a.m. 
on Sunday, May 25.
Following the recent restructuring of 
the Board of Trustees, July 1 will mark a 
wide-sweeping change in faculty gover-
nance. These changes come at a pivotal 
transition point for the College, as the 
new President will assume his position in 
2015.
President Ronald D. Liebowitz wrote 
in an all school email, “The transitional 
nature of the amended responsibilities 
is intended to provide continuity for the 
College’s new leader, and also to allow for 
important coordination with the Board 
and its new committee and governance 
structures.” 
The Board of Trustees is now organized 
into three boards of overseers. There is a 
one board of overseers for the College as 
programs.
Shirley Collado, Dean of the College, 
will also become the Vice President for 
Student Affairs. Steve Trombulak, Profes-
sor of Biology and Environmental Studies, 
will take on the role of Director of Scienc-
es. Stephen Snyder, Professor of Japanese 
the Language Schools. 
Liebowitz wrote in his email, “[Sny-
our language schools, the likely increased 
collaborations between the Schools and 
other parts of Middlebury, and the cur-
rent leave taken by Associate Vice Presi-
dent Aline Germain-Rutherford to serve 
Interactive Languages.”
Andi Lloyd, the current Dean of the 
Faculty, will assume the newly created 
the College Board of Overseers. She will 
also take on the role of Vice President for 
Academic Affairs. 
“I will work with the chair and vice-
chair of the College Board of Overseers 
to set the agenda for the year and pro-
vide materials for meetings,” Lloyd said. 
“Probably the best way to think about it is 
that I am a liaison to the Trustees serving 
on the College Board of Overseers.” 
Tim Spears, the current Vice President 
for Academic Affairs, will become the Vice 
President for Academic Development. 
Spears sees his new role as bringing the 
needs of initiatives that might be bubbling 
up between faculty as well as different 
new and already existing programs to the 
“It makes sense, I think, from the Pres-
ident’s perspective to have an adminis-
trator who is familiar with the academic 
Advancement, the academic administra-
tion and the faculty to develop new initia-
tives,” Spears said.
Suzanne Gurland, currently an Associ-
ate Professor of Psychology, will succeed 
Bob Cluss as the Dean of the Curriculum. 
Gurland has an extensive background that 
will prepare her well for this new position. 
on when I came to Middlebury was the 
curriculum committee,” Gurland said. 
“And at that time Bob Cluss was the chair 
of the committee, so I feel that I learned 
from him and got a broad perspective on 
the College curriculum from that experi-
ence.”
Gurland has also served on the Educa-
tional Affairs Committee and the Gover-
nance Working Group. 
“Serving on the educational affairs 
committee has given me a broad view of 
the college and an appreciation for the 
similarities and differences among de-
partments and programs and how things 
work in various parts of the curriculum,” 
Gurland said.
All of the new roles will have a year to 
adjust under the leadership of Liebowitz 
before the new President assumes his po-
sition in 2015.
“The administrative transitions were 
timed so that President Liebowitz will 
-
cur,” Lloyd said. “This gives all of us a 
year to get up to speed on both the new 
positions and the new governance struc-
ture, so when the new president comes in 
we should all be comfortable in our new 
roles.”
On Monday, April 7, the College hosted 
its third panel on the subject of Socially 
Responsible Investing and the College’s 
endowment in the past 15 months.
Six investment experts were invited to 
speak on how fossil fuel investments are 
evaluated and how institutions such as the 
College can best incorporate Environmen-
tal-Social-Governance (ESG) conscious-
ness into their investment process.
Vice President of Advisor Markets at 
Pax World Tom Gainey, Managing Di-
rector and Director of ESG Research and 
Shareholder Engagement at Boston Com-
mon Asset Management Steven Heim, 
Real Assets Director at Investure Jon Hill, 
Partner and Portfolio Manager at Trillium 
Asset Management Stephanie Leighton, 
Senior Vice President of Essex Investment 
Management William Page and Proprie-
tary Trading and Risk Management Team 
member at Mariner Investment Group 
Akila Prabhakar served on the panel. 
The panelists hail from different genres 
of work, ranging from advising to invest-
funds.
The panel came on the heels of the Col-
lege’s announcement that, as of February 
28, a $25 million portion of the endow-
ment will go toward investments that gen-
erate social, environmental and economic 
value and are in keeping with good ESG 
practices. The $25 million represents ap-
proximately three percent of the College’s 
total endowment.
Additionally, the College has placed 
$150,000 of its endowment under the 
management of the Research and Invest-
ment and Social Equity (RISE) group, a 
division of the Socially Responsible In-
vestment Club (SRI). RISE will be using 
the funds to invest in companies that meet 
particular ESG standards. The group will 
present a report on the status of the fund 
to the Investment Committee of the Board 
of Trustees each year. On April 7, RISE an-
-
ment funds.
The panelists began by introducing 
themselves and explaining their work in 
socially responsible investing, and tran-
sitioned into a discussion amongst them-
selves about working directly with com-
panies to improve ESG-related practices 
and about the complexity of clean energy 
investments.
The panelists agreed that, particularly 
as climate change has moved to the fore-
front of political dialogue in recent years, 
companies have become more eager to ad-
dress workplace sustainability practices 
and engagement between investors and 
companies has become much easier.
Heim noted that sustainability reports 
have proven to be advantageous not only 
with regard to the relationship between 
companies and managers or investors, but 
also between companies and employees, 
for employees are often more willing to 
work for a company that promotes trans-
parency and boasts strong ESG practices.
The panelists noted that even clean 
energy investments, however, are not 
perfect. The mining of rare earth miner-
als, which are found in many phone and 
computer batteries, as well as solar panels 
and wind turbines, is an expensive and en-
vironmentally invasive process.
Throughout the evening, Hill empha-
sized Investure’s long-term outlook on 
investments. He argued that many of the 
company’s clients have been around for 
centuries and will be around for centuries 
more, and so slower, steadier and more 
promising investments are what they look 
for.
Adrian Leong ’16 found Investure’s 
stance to be problematic, however.
“It was surprising for me to hear … that 
they [Investure] think they’re currently in-
vesting with a view of the long term,” Le-
ong wrote in an email. “As long as they are 
investing in the fossil fuel industry, they 
are not doing that.”
He alluded to United Nations Rap-
porteur Olivier De Schutter’s warning of 
a broken food system, prolonged poverty 
current emission trends continue.
“Maybe we are still making money now, 
but sooner than we think, the consequenc-
es of our short-sighted vision and reluc-
tance to lead will imperil the fundamental 
conditions that make life in a organized 
society possible,” he said.
The panelists emphasized that there is 
no right way to go about divesting, or any 
right alternative to fossil fuel investments. 
Leighton suggested that those involved in 
the divestment movement at the College 
speak to students at other colleges—par-
ticularly those that are managed by Inves-
-
agers to make changes.
“I was pleased that all of the panelists 
addressed fossil fuel divestment,” Greta 
Neubauer ’14.5 wrote in an email. “The 
panelists made clear [during the panel and 
in conversations afterward] that Middle-
bury could divest if the College considered 
it to be a priority,” noting that she felt a 
“sense of inevitability” rooted in the in-
creasing number of socially responsible 
options for investment due to the worsen-
ing climate crisis.
Jeannie Bartlett ’15, too, remains opti-
mistic about the feasibility of divestment 
in the College’s future.
“In talking with a couple of the panel-
ists afterward, they said they think Inves-
ture could create a separately managed 
fund that was fossil fuel free but otherwise 
“We would just have to ask them for it, 
which so far Patrick Norton and the trust-
ees have been unwilling to do.” She added 
that in giving a portion of the endowment 
to RISE, “we have already seen that they 
can create a separate fund.”
Diana Nyad will address the class of 
2014 on Sunday, May 25.
Jon Hill of Investure speaks to students and faculty at the SRI panel on April 7.
michael o’hara
april 10, 2014 |  3        News
Class of 2018 Boasts 14.5% First Gen. Students
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Kiosk Opens in BiHall
By Ellie Reinhardt
“We have many more kids with aid 
packages out there than we have the bud-
get for,” Buckles said. “But, we look year 
to year and have a pretty good idea of 
where we will end up.” 
Recruited student-athletes make up 
11.5 percent of the admitted class. Due 
to the smaller pool of admitted students, 
Buckles said, this year Admissions was 
more “focused” with coaches about the 
number of recruits they could bring in. 
The Admissions Office has also started 
utilizing a new feature that makes it eas-
ier for faculty in the arts departments to 
evaluate work submitted by prospective 
students to afford students with excep-
tional artistic ability to be recognized and 
lend greater heft to their application. 
Buckles said the Admissions Office 
is as transparent about the admissions 
process as possible. The Admissions Of-
fice staff rates applicants on academics, 
personal qualities and extra-curricular 
activities, and then assigns the applicant 
an overall rating. This system allows the 
staff to attain a holistic view of the stu-
dent. 
Other factors are useful in determin-
ing whether Middlebury is a good fit for 
an applicant – “self-awareness” and “re-
siliency” are two qualities that Buckles 
and his team have found are important 
to increasing the likelihood of a student 
having a positive Middlebury experience. 
Buckles explained that these qualities al-
low students to take advantage of what is 
offered at Middlebury and, additionally, 
to give back. 
“That creates a better roommate, a 
better classmate, and a better commu-
nity,” he said. 
With every graduating class, the Ad-
missions Office compares the academic 
rating they gave students with students’ 
actual performance while at Middlebury. 
Buckles said that he has found that the 
best indicator of success at Middlebury is 
consistently the academic rating. 
Students have until May 1 to accept 
their spot in the Class of 2018. Once the 
Admissions Office is able to process ac-
ceptances, the composition of the en-
rolled class will be available. 
Coffee and snacks are now available for 
the science buffs on campus thanks to the 
grand opening of a café kiosk in Bicentennial 
Hall on Monday, March 31. 
The installation of the café was prompted 
after a WetheMiddKids petition received 247 
votes and won the attention of the Student 
Government Association (SGA). “[Chief of 
Staff] Danny Zhang ’15 discovered that ef-
forts to put a café in BiHall had been begun 
but were stalled” SGA President Rachel Lid-
dell ’15 said. “We thought that a café in BiHall 
would be amazing, so we began to pursue it.” 
The SGA Senate voted unanimously to 
support the petition and created a resolution 
called S.C.I.E.N.C.E (Supporting Cafés In 
Environments of New Community Enhance-
ment).   
The SGA worked with General Manager of 
Retail Food Operations David Cannistra and 
Special Assistant to the President David Do-
nahue to bring the petition to life. President 
of the College Ronald D. Liebowitz approved 
the movement to go forward with the project 
about three weeks ago.
Efforts to implement a café in BiHall go 
as far back as 2006, according to Cannistra. 
The most recent attempt was last year but 
the plans were “a little too ambitious for the 
space” according to him. 
Because of past efforts though, the deci-
sion to move forward with the café was easy 
for the administration. 
“[The café] seems likes it’s something 
that’s been needed on campus,” Cannistra 
said.
The café, located across from Armstrong 
Library, includes a kiosk of coffee and small 
snacks with in addition to more substantial 
food such as sushi from Sushi with Gusto. 
“We really just want to get up and going 
with this so I think it’s just going to stay [a ki-
osk]” Cannistra said. “[BiHall] is such a beau-
tiful space. They don’t want to do anything to 
permanently change the place.” 
The café will be run in part by student 
organizations. For their help, the organi-
made while they work. Both GlobeMed and 
the Track and Field team have already gotten 
involved with working at the café. Cannistra 
said that the program will work similarly to 
that of the Grille’s delivery service, which has 
been very successful. 
According to Co-President of GlobeMed 
Olivia Wold ’14, the organization received 
25 percent of the proceeds made while they 
worked. She acknowledged that it offers clubs 
an opportunity to fundraise without all the 
planning and time commitment that often 
goes into a fundraising event. “The College 
does a great job both promoting new ideas 
for fundraisers, like this one, and also provid-
ing guidance when we have our own ideas,” 
she said. 
The café, open from 8 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. 
then 6:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. On Mondays 
through Fridays, Liddell speculated, they 
“will provide sustenance and caffeine to hard-
working people. Students and faculty alike 
have communicated their desire for such a 
place for some time.”
“The café will allow [students] to relax and 
have a cup of coffee and enjoy themselves,” 
Cannista said. “It’s more of a service that we 
set up for the students than a money making 
opportunity.”
According to Cannistra, the café has al-
ready been a success. 
584 customers, and it was well received 
by,faculty, staff and students alike,” he said.
Along with the café in BiHall, the Rehears-
als Café in the lower lobby of the Mahaney 
Center for the Arts re-opened on April 1 for 
the rest of the spring semester.
“This started because [President Liebow-
itz] wanted a sense of community … where 
people could meet and have a cup of coffee 
and hang out. I think that was the driving 
factor. [President Liebowitz] was looking for 
a sense of community, as far as the CFA as 
well.”
CA
MA
IL NY
(ALL 50 STATES, DC AND PUERTO RICO REPRESENTED)
TOP 5 MOST REPRESENTED STATES:
1#
STUDENTS WHO APPLY 
TO MIDD ALSO APPLY TO:
dartmouth
amherst
williams
bowdoin
BROWN
$9,600,000
planned financial aid:
82
countries
33.7% STUDENTS OF COLOR 11.5% RECRUITEDATHLETES 14.5% FIRST GENERATION 27% APPROXIMATE %STUDENT ATHLETES
1,422
TARGET CLASS SIZE# admitted
575>--
WELCOME, CLASS OF 2018
Members of the track team staff the BiHall Kiosk as part of a fundraising effort.
Rachel Frank
The Milk Chocolate
Project  
FRIDAY 9:00-11:00pm
The Milk Chocolate Project is a soul and 
R&B cover band with smooth vocals and 
an infectious groove.  Come hear some 
blues and your favorite Motown hits!
Dayve Huckett
SATURDAY 8:00-10:00pm
Dayve Huckett’s repertoire spans from 
Zappa to the Beatles and from Sting to 
Tommy Emmanuel, as well as his own 
original music on classical, steel string, 
and electric guitars.
Blues Jam
NEXT WEDNESDAY (16TH) 
8:00-10:00pm
Join us every 3rd Wednesday for Blues 
Jam. Dennis Willmott from Left Eye Jump 
will provide lead guitar, bass, and drums 
and these guys will back you up or take 
a break and let you play. All musicians 
and blues fans are welcome! Everyone 
will get a chance to play.
Karaoke
FRIDAY 11:30-2:00am
Join us for a night of special talent 
and fun at Late Night Karaoke. 
Pub Night 
SATURDAY 9:00-11:00pm
Join Will Cuneo’s band “Icarus and the 
Waxwings” on Pub Night this week-
end. Alcohol will be served for those 
21+ with two forms of ID.
What’s going on this weekend at...
&
4 NEWS | april 10, 2014
Gensler to Explore Queer Studies
By Philip Bohlman
23 Celebrate 25 Years at College
By Vivian Guo
$800k Grant 
Awarded 
for Digital 
Scholarship
By Allie Cohen 
The sixth annual Gensler Symposium 
will take place from April 14 through April 
18 and will include a student-led discus-
sion, a poetry workshop, and lectures by 
visiting scholars. Entitled “Sexual Straight-
jacket & Queer Escapes,” it will highlight 
the relevance of queer studies and queer 
scholarship in a liberal arts environment.
The Gensler Family Symposium on 
Feminism in a Global Context was estab-
lished in 2008 by alumna Drue Cortell 
Gensler ’57. The annual conference focuses 
on transnational feminist issues in the new 
millennium. Previous Gensler events have 
analyzed the Afghanistan and Iraq wars, 
neoliberal capitalist formations, citizen-
ship, language and body image through a 
feminist lens.
“This year’s theme is meant to high-
light the relationship between feminist and 
queer studies in part because the Queer 
Studies House has been at Middlebury for 
Associate Professor of Sociology, Gender, 
Sexuality and Feminist Studies Laurie Es-
sig.
The weeklong symposium will begin 
with MiddQUEER, a student-led discus-
sion about sexual/gender identity and sex-
uality at Middlebury.
Students will have the unique opportu-
nity to engage in a poetry workshop with 
Sister Outsider, a duo of acclaimed female 
slam poets Denice Frohman and Domi-
nique Christina. Their poetry is concerned 
with the intersections of gender, sexuality, 
race and culture. The workshop will be fol-
lowed with a performance by Sister Outsid-
er and student poets.
The symposium will include two outside 
speakers. Dr. Nikki Young of Bucknell Uni-
versity will give a talk titled “I am NOT that 
Hungry: Creative Resistance, Black Queers, 
and Family.” Dr. Young focuses on the role 
of capitalism in establishing a value system 
that oppresses black queers and their ef-
forts of creative resistance. 
Dr. Suzanna Walters of Northeastern 
University will give the symposium’s sec-
ond lecture and will discuss the difference 
between tolerance, acceptance, and univer-
sal civil rights.
“Both of these scholars combine queer 
theory and feminist scholarship to provide 
us with deeper understandings of how our 
desires are molded by gender, race, class 
and citizenship,” said Essig. 
Walters’ lecture will be followed by the 
opening of the Guerrilla Girls exhibition, 
with a performance by Guerilla Girl Frida 
Khalo.
This year’s Symposium was organized 
by Essig, Gender, Sexuality and Feminism 
Program Coordinator Madeleine Winter-
falcon and Professor of Gender, Sexuality 
and Feminist Studies Sujata Moorti. Co-
sponsors for the event include the Center 
for the Comparative Study of Race and Eth-
nicity and The American Studies Spiegel 
Family Fund.
Digital scholarship and research has be-
come crucial to a liberal arts education and 
steps to implement it more fully. The Col-
lege recently received an $800,000 grant 
from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation for 
a project entitled “Galvanizing Digital Lib-
eral Arts at Middlebury”. 
The grant was proposed by a group of 
faculty and staff including Professor Tim 
Spears, vice president for academic affairs, 
along with Professor of Film and Media Cul-
ture and American Studies Jason Mittell, 
Professor of Geography Anne Knowles, Dean 
for Faculty Development and Research and 
Director of the Center for Teaching, Learn-
ing, and Research (CTLR) Jim Ralph, Dean 
of Library and Information services and 
Director of Collections, Archives, and Digital 
Scholarship Rebekah Irwin.
“We want to think about how technology 
is being used on our campus,” Spears said. 
“We’re paying particular attention to the Da-
vis Family Library and we want to make a 
space that is literally more visible [as a place 
for technological innovation and usage].”
Davis Family Library will be the center of 
the project’s work in hopes that the project 
will reach many different people on campus. 
greatly from the grant.
“[The Film and Media Culture depart-
ment] is fully invested in the use of digital 
technologies in their teaching and research,” 
Spears said. 
Mittell also believes the Film and Media 
Culture department, as well as others, will 
take their status as leaders among liberal 
arts colleges and improve even more with 
the help of the grant. 
“The Geography department is a leader 
amongst liberal arts colleges for using GIS 
… What’s unique about our program here is 
that [it] is really interdisciplinary [because] 
we have people who are social scientists and 
people who are humanists,” Mittell said. 
Geography is another department that 
will be able to use the grant to expand its 
already extensive digital simulations and 
mapping systems.
In addition to bolstering the Davis Fam-
ily Library and various departments, the 
grant will allow for other important projects 
to take shape. One such project will imple-
ment a Digital Faculty Fellows program and 
a Digital Research Assistants program for 
students. 
These programs will encourage faculty 
to do research in different areas as well as 
provide collaborative opportunities for stu-
dents with their professors. There will also 
be four “innovation hubs” created as part of 
the project. These include geospatial visual-
ization, video and audio production, digiti-
zation of special collections, and multimedia 
art. 
The group who proposed the project 
was passionate about incorporating digital 
humanities because they are such a rapidly 
-
cation. 
“Everyone had a piece in the development 
of the ideas for the grant and the writing of it 
Relations] pulled the proposal together and 
sent it off to the Mellon Foundation… with 
the president’s signature. Really, a great 
team effort, all the way around,” Spears said. 
“What can we learn about history that 
digital maps can teach us that we can’t other-
wise know just by using more traditional re-
search methods? How can we communicate 
to people using tools like video and audio on 
a website that’s different from the written 
word? What types of analysis of culture can 
emerge by using computational methods?” 
Professor Mittell posed these questions 
as a way of thinking about the possibilities 
of digital humanities. He and the other pro-
fessors involved in proposing the grant have 
-
portant presence at the College.
community council Discussing a SocialHonor Code
On Tuesday, April 8, Community 
Council met to discuss the idea of a So-
cial Honor Code, a topic that has been 
debated during various meetings since 
last September. When the Council dis-
cussed dorm damage, hard alcohol poli-
cies and party registration, many mem-
bers often mentioned how a social honor 
code would solve, or at least, alleviate, 
existing problems.
The idea of a Social Honor Code is 
not new, having been discussed year 
after year by Community Council and 
broached by the Student Government 
Association (SGA) back in 2001 in the 
form of a social component to the exist-
ing Honor Code. The interest in the idea 
has not diminished in recent years. Last 
January, after reports and surveys of in-
cidents of academic dishonesty, the SGA 
Honor Code Committee conducted a sur-
vey about the Honor Code and its future. 
Conflicting views currently exist on 
campus about the topic of the Honor 
Code. “You have a part of the campus 
[wanting] to diminish or get rid of the 
Honor Code we have,” said Blake Shap-
skinsky ’15, “then you have another part 
of the campus [wanting] to expand it.”
A Social Honor Code would require 
the whole community to sign it. Back 
in 2006 the topic was discussed but 
“didn’t move forward because Commu-
nity Council at the time felt strongly that 
the entire community needed to endorse 
the Honor Code,” according to Dean of 
the College and Community Council Co-
Chair Shirley Collado.
“There was huge consensus around 
the value of having these standards, but 
the students really felt strongly that the 
faculty and staff needed to sign it and 
that they too would live by an Honor 
Code system here,” she said.
At the time, faculty members resisted 
the idea of signing such a code. “There 
was discomfort in being required or ex-
pected to sign something that students 
were required to sign,” said Collado.
Instead, some of the ideas that came 
out of the discussions surrounding a new 
Social Honor Code were brought about 
in the form of community standards. 
“The community standards emerged 
because there were clear standards for 
each of the other communities,” said 
Dean of Students Doug Adams. “Staff 
have a very clear set of standards, faculty 
have a clear code of ethics and respon-
sibilities but students didn’t at the time 
have [such a set of standards.]”
Brook Escobedo, ex-officio of Middle-
bury Language Schools, compared the 
idea of a Social Honor Code to the Lan-
guage Pledge in place at the Middlebury 
Language Schools during the summer.
“The whole idea of that you come and 
you are signing this document in front 
of your school saying I’m going to follow 
this rule is [why a lot of students come],” 
said Escobedo. 
A few members also discussed chang-
ing the culture around the Honor Code. 
“During orientation we went through 
an Honor Code ceremony where all our 
FYCs and Res-Life staff talked about 
their experience with the Honor Code 
and what was never brought up was the 
social aspect,” said Reid Manheim ’17. 
“So if that is something you can ingrain 
in freshmen really early on, you can have 
a true change of culture.” 
“We are actually striving to create 
an experience here that actually can’t 
be replicated at any other point in your 
life,” said Collado about the purpose of 
creating a Social Honor Code. “You have 
a moment in your life when not only are 
you learning all kinds of things academi-
cally but on a human level you are in-
teracting [with others] in a residential 
community… If you can’t do it here, I 
fundamentally believe, you can’t leave 
this place and practice those core values 
the rest of your life.”
By David Yang
This year 23 faculty and staff members 
were inducted into the College’s 25 Year 
Club recognizing those who have contrib-
uted 25 years worth of service to the com-
munity.  This not only includes profes-
sors, but also the staff 
that are responsible 
for administrative af-
fairs and the welfare 
of the students. 
“All the members 
of the 25 Year Club 
are invited back for 
a reception in May,” 
said Thomas Corbin, 
one of this year’s in-
ductees who works in 
the Assistant Trea-
surer’s Office. “It’s 
kind of a gathering of the history of the 
college.”
The reception will be held this year on 
May 29 in the McCullough Social Space. 
At the gathering, President of the Col-
lege Ronald D. Liebowitz will share some 
of the College’s history, while personally 
congratulating and taking pictures with 
the inductees, who receive a pin that of-
ficially marks them as exceptional mem-
bers of the College community.
 When asked what about their posi-
tions and what has made such a long 
commitment worth it, the professors 
unanimously answered the students.
“It’s the students. You guys make all 
the difference in our lives,” said Chris-
tian A. Johnson Professor and Chair of 
the Department of the History of Art and 
Architecture Cynthia 
Packert. 
As Chair, she has 
a crucial role in hir-
ing and reviewing 
contracts and tenure 
tracks for the depart-
ment. 
“When you walk 
into a classroom of 
smart, really engaged 
students…. it feels 
like you have to put 
your best self forward because it’s essen-
tial to the whole learning dynamic,” she 
said. 
Thomas Manley, a Visiting Assistant 
Professor of Geology, praised the work 
that students have completed throughout 
the years. 
“The one really great thing is that the 
oceanography course that we teach here 
is one where students actively participate 
in very important research for the Lake,” 
he said. 
While faculty spoke to the level of free-
dom and support that the school offers 
them to conduct research and grow as an 
academic, the staff also described work-
ing for the College as rewarding.
“Middlebury is a great employer,” 
Corbin said. “I’ve been fortunate to work 
with presidents who value the staff, the 
faculty, the students, the parents highly 
and want people to feel safe and comfort-
able coming to work.”
Much has changed in 25 years, and the 
College is a different place than the one 
two decades ago. Joy Pile who works at 
Library and Information Services spoke 
about how technology has changed the 
way the library runs. 
“When I first came to Middlebury we 
were still filing catalog cards,” she said. 
At the same time advances like digi-
tal books and the speeds of inter-library 
loans have drastically impacted the ease 
with which research can be done.
Corbin, who has also worked in human 
resources, administrative processing and 
insurance prior to settle down in Treasur-
er’s Office said, “I think colleges are one 
of the last places where you would actu-
ally stay in a career for 25 years ... Colleg-
es have a longevity that is different from 
business.”
“... it feels like you have to 
put your best self forward 
because it’s essential 
to the whole learning 
dynamic.”
cynthia packert
Christian a. johnson professor and chair of  the 
department of history of art and architecture
local
Vt. House Considers School District Overhaul
Vermont’s education may be in 
for an historical overhaul if legislation 
passed in Vermont’s house of represen-
tatives last month passes at the end of 
this legislative cycle. 
The proposed bill, H.883, would 
radically consolidate public education 
in Vermont by reducing the number of 
school districts in the state from 273 to 
50 in the next five years.
Historically, the 
Vermont public edu-
cation system has 
struggled to reconcile 
impulses for local gov-
ernance with the finan-
cial benefits of consoli-
dation,
In 1777, Vermont’s 
state constitution 
was the first in Eng-
lish-speaking North 
America to mandate 
universal public fund-
ing for education. This 
initial mandate led to 
the creation of a num-
ber of tiny, indepen-
dent village elementary 
schools.
The importance of 
agriculture in the early development of 
Vermont’s residential landscape created 
a highly diffuse population across the 
state — and a highly diffuse network of 
public schools across the state to provide 
education to all corners of the state.
In the nineteenth century, migra-
tion to Vermont swelled due to increased 
prosperity and the success of Vermont’s 
agricultural industry.
The simultaneous increase in agri-
cultural productivity and overall popu-
lation led to an increased school-going 
population that remained spread out 
through the state due to the continued 
importance of the agricultural sector.
The diffuse network of tiny schools 
and school districts in Vermont persists 
in modern Vermont. The average num-
ber of students per Vermont school dis-
trict is just 313 students, which is less 
than one tenth of the national average, 
according to a 2009 report.
Opinion on school board consolida-
tion is mixed in Vermont, and each side 
of the argument has vocal advocates and 
opponents. 
Proponents of school board consoli-
dation argue that 
pooled financial re-
sources will enable 
small schools and 
school districts to 
diversify the edu-
cational offerings 
available to stu-
dents.
“Are you going 
to cut your music 
program or are you 
going to cut your art 
program?” asks Dan 
French, superin-
tendant of the Ben-
n i n g t o n - R u t l a n d 
Supervisory Union. 
“That’s where [Ver-
mont] is heading if 
we don’t do gover-
nance change.”
Proponents think that consolida-
tion will afford students in rural districts 
the opportunity of sharing teachers and 
other educational resources that individ-
ual districts would not be able to afford 
them individually.
Critics of consolidation are equally 
vocal. Most detractors 
of school board con-
solidation cite the loss 
of venerated schools 
and of local influence 
on education as detri-
mental byproducts of 
consolidation.
Vermont schools 
may be generally 
small, but they are re-
liant on the input of 
local people for edu-
cational policy. Critics 
of consolidating policy 
measures argue that 
eliminating school 
districts would under-
mine local control by 
putting undue power 
in the hands of rep-
resentatives from larger towns — at the 
expense of students in small towns who 
would have benefitted from specialized 
education.
“Access to decision makers and lo-
cal community involvement is what 
makes Vermont successfully tick and our 
schools succeed,” said Debra Stoleroff, 
director of the Renaissance Program at 
Twinfield Union High School in Plain-
field, Vt.
In addition to the argument that 
small schools are more attuned to the 
needs of students, opponents of con-
solidation have also voiced concerns 
over the lost social benefits of small-
town schools. Stoleroff says that small, 
local schools serve an important social 
function by fostering higher graduation 
rates, discouraging risky behavior and 
mitigating the divisiveness of poverty.
The H.833 Bill does not mark the 
first time that Vermonters will consider 
consolidation at a large scale, however.
In 1892, Vermont’s state legislature 
required that Vermont schools — which 
all functioned as independent school 
boards unto themselves and thereby 
constituted more than 2,500 school 
boards across the state — to consolidate 
into localized school districts. 
These original districts were created 
in accordance with historical settlement 
patterns in order to maintain cohesive 
local value systems.
In most cases, settlement patterns 
lined up neatly with town boundaries, 
and therefore the 1892 legislation had 
the effect of incorporating numerous 
schools within towns into a single school 
district — thereby reducing the costs of 
operating up to 8 school districts in a 
single town.
In 1896, the 
state passed legis-
lation that enabled 
individual dis-
tricts to form “su-
pervisory unions” 
in which individ-
ual districts still 
continued to con-
trol hiring, bud-
getary decisions 
and policy deci-
sions while jointly 
electing a largely 
nominal “super-
intendent” meant 
to liaise between 
school boards and 
federal tax pur-
veyors.
Beyond the town-scale consolida-
tion, however, Vermont schools have 
resisted any attempts to further merge 
administrative bodies.
Since the 1896 decision, though, the 
many large-scale attempts to continue 
the process of consolidation by merg-
ing school districts have floundered. The 
school district landscape has remained 
largely unchanged, therefore, since the 
1892 consolidation.
In 2010, the state legislature passed 
Act 153, the Voluntary School District 
Merger Act, which offered town school 
boards a number of incentives to con-
solidate. An interim report published 
by U.V.M.’s Jeffords research center in 
2013, however, confirmed what many 
education commentators had already re-
alized — that the act was ineffective at 
encouraging consolidation.
A number of school boards have al-
ready issued formal statements in re-
sponse to the passage of the H.883 bill 
in the house. On March 26, the Rutland 
Northeast and Rutland Addison supervi-
sory unions passed resolutions formally 
rejecting the consolidation bill.
In a statement issued by the Rutland 
Northeast and Rutland Addison supervi-
sory unions, the board stated their belief 
that “eliminating local school board gov-
ernance is not conducive to promoting 
our democratic ideals and fostering so-
cial capital.”
The Vermont Superintendents As-
sociation endorses the bill, but the Ver-
mont School Boards Association has 
declined to adopt a formal stance due to 
the diversity of opinion among members 
of the association.
The conversation about consolida-
tion is far from over. Steve Dale, head 
of the Vermont School Boards Associa-
tion, reminds his colleagues and fellow 
citizens that “[the consolidation conver-
sation] requires us to strike a balance 
between the students and the taxpayers 
[and] balance that with our deep love of 
our very, very local democratic process-
es.”
The bill still has to go through the 
state’s Ways and Means and Appropria-
tions committees before it undergoes fi-
nal deliberation in the house — and then 
the state Senate must still deliberate on 
the bill. The huge surge in debate, how-
ever, seems to foreshadow continued 
consideration of educational consolida-
tion and perhaps a dramatic shift in Ver-
mont’s school-board landscape in the 
near future.
By Conor Grant
“Are you going to cut 
your music program 
or your art program? 
That’s where [Ver-
mont] is headed if we 
don’t do governance 
change.”
Dan french
 Superintendant of the bennington
-rutland supervisory union
Charlotte Albright is a concerned Dan-
ville resident who articulated her con-
cerns about the dangers of school con-
solidation at a recent local meeting.
Courtesy vpr
Courtesy of protection in pink
Brandon High School, pictured above, was abandoned in 1961 when the Otter 
Valley Union High School opened. Most Vermont schools are resistant to clo-
sure in spite of dwindling resources, but soon other Vermont schools may be 
forced to close if the H.883 ball passes through the House and the Senate.
“[The consolidation con-
versation] requires us to 
strike a balance between 
the students and the tax-
payers [and] balance that 
with our deep love of our 
very, very local democrat-
ic processes.”
Steve dale
Head of vt school boards association
The above map shows all of the coun-
ties in Vermont — many of which con-
tain ten or more school districts.
Courtesy Vt geo alliance
On Friday, April 4th, Chitten-
den County Transportation Authority 
(CCTA) buses resumed their regularly 
scheduled routes. 
This decision came after a tense, 
18-day standoff between CCTA manage-
ment leaders and drivers came to an end. 
The CCTA board of commission-
ers and representatives of the bus driv-
ers produced a three-year contract after 
days of deliberation. The board of com-
missioners then ratified the contract 
with a 53 – 6 vote.
The drivers, who were represented 
by the Teamsters Local 597 chapter, saw 
the contract as a great victory for work-
ing-class Vermonters and for the trans-
portation industry in the state.
After long negotiations, the two par-
ties agreed to fix a 2 percent raise into 
the salary of all CCTA drivers for each 
year of the three-year contract. Further-
more, the CCTA management made pro-
visions for a number of workplace con-
cerns that were expressed by dissatisfied 
drivers. 
Chief among the arguments levied 
by the drivers were concerns about shift 
lengthening, overly strict rules and pen-
alties, part-time hiring policies, undue 
invasions of privacy and the observance 
of religious holidays.
Drivers had been frustrated with 
working conditions for months preced-
ing the climactic strike, and they were 
happy to have their conditions met by 
the management. They are also generally 
excited to return to work.
“We’re looking forward to going back 
to work,” said driver Rob Slingerland. 
“We’re looking around at our fellow driv-
ers and understanding just how unified 
[we] became through this. And we fully 
understand we’ve got to stay unified.”
A large swath of the greater Burling-
ton community was significantly affected 
by the lengthy strike. More than 10,000 
regular CCTA customers had to find al-
ternate means of transportation options 
for the weeks during which the strike 
was taking place. Among those negative-
ly affected by the strike were students at 
the University of Vermont (UVM) and at 
Burlington public schools.
“These past few weeks have been 
very challenging for Vermonters who 
count on CCTA every day to get to ap-
pointments, to work and to school,” said 
Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin. 
As the strike was going on, a num-
ber of community members mobilized 
to assist the drivers and the Teamsters 
group that represented them. Members 
of other unions, students and general lo-
cal residents assisted in strike efforts by 
handing out leaflets and starting conver-
sations with other community members 
about CCTA working conditions.
At the conclusion of the contractual 
negotiations, the drivers walked away 
with what they considered a victory for 
themselves and for their customers. The 
63 drivers who attended the final nego-
tiation meting expressed thanks to the 
many community members who demon-
strated their solidarity and support dur-
ing the strike.
“It’s a very good feeling to know 
that somebody’s got our backs when the 
times got tough and we ended up strik-
ing,” said Slingerland. “[The community 
members] were there. Now it’s time to 
pay that back.”  
Commuters in the area are happy to 
have the bus schedule back on track, and 
many have been even happier to real-
ize that the CCTA has offered local bus 
rides at no expense for the first half of 
this week in an effort to apologize for in-
convenience caused to customers during 
the strike.
10
CCTA Services Resume After Strike
By Conor Grant
Trail Maintenance Workshop
Take the path less traveled, and head on 
over to the Waterworks property in Bris-
tol for a workshop on hiking trail mainte-
nance and design. Conservation forester 
David Brynn and hydro-geologist Kristen 
Underwood will teach participants how 
to design, construct and maintain forest 
trails. The event is free and requires no 
pre-registration. For more information 
and directions to the site, call 802-453-
7728.
APR. 12, 9 – 12 P.M.
Local 
lowdown
 | April 10, 2014Local 6
CCTA posted signs about the strike.
Courtesy of wptz
Fiber Arts Exhibit in Brandon
Old man winter may be leaving Ver-
mont, but artistic winter quilts have just 
arrived. Come celebrate the opening of 
“Fabri-cations: Fabric and Fiber,” an 
exhibit of textile art ranging from quilts 
to home decor at the Compass Music and 
Arts Center in Brandon. The exhibit will 
be open until June 15. For more informa-
tion visit their website, at 
www.cmacvt.org.
 
APR. 11, 5 – 7:30 P.M.
 First Time Investing Workshop
Confused by the stock ticker at the bottom 
of your news program of choice? Unsure 
what NASDAQ, DOW and S&P really 
mean? Head on over to Orwell Free Li-
brary for an investing workshop oriented 
of the First National Bank will show at-
tendees the tricks of the trade. For more 
information call 802-948-2041.
APR. 10, 6:30 – 8 P.M. 
Vergennes Community Meeting
All government is local  — just ask Alexis 
de Tocqueville. Want to see how it func-
tions? The second meeting in the Ver-
gennes Community Visit, which aims to 
bring the community together to set “com-
mon goals” will meet this Wednesday. At 
the last meeting, over 100 concerned resi-
dents shared their opinions on a variety 
of local issues. For more information on 
the event, call 802-223-6091 or visit their 
website info@vtrural.org.
APR. 16, 6:30 – 9 P.M. 
VANR Public Meeting
The Vermont Agency of Natural Resourc-
es will hold a public meeting aimed at 
stimulating discourse around the draft of 
the South Lake Champlain Tactical Basin 
Plan. The plan details the conditions of 
surface waters and local habitats, water 
quality problems, and a host of other 
issues. Come and make your voice heard 
in this important local issue. For more 
information call 802-786-2503.
APR. 15, 6:30 – 8:30 P.M.
Pancake Breakfast in Addison
Looking for a change in your dining? 
Head over to the Addison Fire Station 
and take advantage of this wonderful and 
unique Sunday morning event. The event 
a number of titillating beverage choices. 
This is a great way to kick off a beautiful 
spring day!
APR. 13, 7 – 11 A.M.
Courtesy of vpr
A number of striking drivers took to the streets with signs for public support.
OLD PEOPLE #2
Submit your caption on Facebook or Instagram and 
the best will be featured in next week’s issue! 
 7 Advertising  | April 10, 2014
College and Pre-College Programs
Day & Evening Classes
Affordable Tuition
Outstanding Tufts Faculty
Online Courses
THREE SESSIONS:  
MAY 21–JUNE 27  |  JULY 1–AUGUST 8  |  MAY 21–AUGUST 8
go.tufts/edu/summer
TUFTS SUMMER SESSION 2014
PREPARE. EXPAND. DEVELOP.
School of Arts and Sciences | School of Engineering
Follow us:
Make Summer Count
USC Marshall School of Business intensive 
4-week Summer Business Program gives 
non-business majors an edge in today’s 
competitive job market.
Taught by faculty from the internationally ranked 
USC Marshall School of Business
Learn business principles in 5 key areas: 
leadership & communication, strategy & 
organization, finance & managerial accounting, 
marketing, and operations
Weekly site visits to successful companies 
and panels with prominent speakers
(213) 740-8990
summerprogram@marshall.usc.edu
marshall.usc.edu/summer
APPLY NOW!
SESSION DATES 
July 7 - August 2
Middlebury College Ad.indd   1 11/21/2013   1:59:19 PM
Big Things Are 
Happening At 
Crossroads
Tired of Speeder and Earls? You’re in luck. 
The Vermont Coffee Company is once again 
the official coffee provider, serving Crossroads 
After Dark, Crossroads Classic, and Cross-
roads Decaf. Try all three flavors. $1.60 for 
large and small
What will they think of next? 
Bubble tea is what. This month, the Taiwan-
ese tea is coming to Crossroads. Come by 
and try all four flavors: green tea, black tea, 
mango, and coconut for only $3 a piece.  
Congrats on our very own 
ads manager Lizzie 
Morris. Not only did she 
help get the ads on this 
page, but she threw a 
no-hitter against those 
pesky Lord Jeffs!
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifi-
able events; the use of vulgar language or per-
sonal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article 
that contains any of the aforementioned will be 
removed before publication. Contributors will 
be allowed to reference prior articles published 
in the Opinions section or announcements for 
the public record. If a reference is made to prior 
articles, the submission will be considered a let-
ter to the editor.  The Campus will not accept or 
print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed 
by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as 
reviews, columns, editorial comics and other com-
mentary, are views of the individual contributors 
and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submis-
sions at 800 words or less. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at 
www.middleburycampus.com. To be considered 
for publications, submissions must be received by 
5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic 
year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and busi-
ness offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, 
Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is 
produced on Apple Macintosh computers using 
Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press 
Republican in New York. The advertising deadline 
for all display and classified advertising is 5 p.m. 
Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Mid-
dlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business 
phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribu-
tion concerns to the Business Director. First class 
postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
Connecting the Dots with Career Services
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kyle Finck
MANAGING EDITOR
Alex Edel 
BUSINESS MANAGER
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Emily Singer, Nate Sans, Ellie Reinhardt, 
Eliza Teach, Claire Abbadi 
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol,  
Edward O’Brien, Isaac Baker
SPORTS EDITORS 
 Alex Morris, Joe MacDonald, Fritz Parker
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Conor Grant
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Isabelle Stillman, 
Emilie Munson
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Ben Anderson, Leah Lavigne 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anthea Viragh, Paul Gerard, Rachel Frank, 
Michael O’Hara
DESIGN EDITOR
Olivia Allen
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Greg Woolston, Maggie Cochrane,  
Ellie Alldredge
COPY EDITORS
Dan Bateyko, Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Ian Stewart, Greta Neubauer
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Do you have plans this summer? This 
stressful question resounds across campus 
far beyond the signs posted by the Center 
for Careers and Internships (CCI). As 
students scramble to pull 
together summer plans, 
post-graduation plans and 
funding proposals, many 
engage with the CCI or 
their resources for advice 
and opportunities.
Despite their reach 
and funding, the CCI 
seems to have limited 
effect with the exception of 
hire early, for students looking to go in a 
different direction, we have often been 
disappointed – from limited internships 
on MOJO to being repeatedly referred 
to MiddCore, which if done over the 
summer is an additional $9,500. We know 
the CCI makes a great effort to provide 
programming and other opportunities 
that are under-attended. We see this as a 
disconnect between what students need 
and what is offered and hope to make this 
resource with tremendous potential more 
useful for all parties involved.
Funding deadlines are one example of 
the discrepancy between the CCI’s plans 
and the reality of the job market. While 
many students have not yet heard back 
from potential employers, the funding 
deadline was April 6, leaving students 
who need this already limited funding to 
pursue an unpaid internship searching for 
other opportunities. This gives internships 
tend to require a more formal application 
process than opportunities discovered 
through more unconventional routes, 
priority for funding. This is a give-and-
take, for students who have secured 
internships early need to know if they can 
commit, but students who have not yet 
decided also need these funding options.
The appointment system is another 
example of a system out of touch with 
student needs. Instead of being able to 
choose the advisor who most closely 
to a drop-in meeting, hope the CCI is not 
busy and hope we get a useful advisor, who 
will likely just tell us to return for a longer 
meeting with someone else. This becomes 
The smattering of options on MOJO 
pathways. We have noticed, for example, 
a lack of media opportunities. Moreover, 
they are not often updated, with students 
on our Editorial Board going to discuss 
a posting with advisors, only to discover 
it was a few years old. These MOJO 
internships are also prioritized in the 
funding process, leaving students who 
want an internship outside what is 
available on MOJO with fewer options. 
Students could also use more support 
for careers with complicated application 
processes and tests, like certain military 
career paths and the foreign service, just 
as we have pre-professional advising for 
careers in medicine and law.
We all receive a deluge of emails from 
the CCI to the point where we tune them 
out, leaving us uninformed about the useful 
workshops and opportunities. Better 
coordination among the CCI’s platforms 
would help address this problem, so 
students receive one relevant newsletter 
a week that they know to read. A more 
streamlined, judicious use of email would 
help us pick and choose what is useful. 
Better coordination with departments 
and clubs would also help push these 
opportunities through different channels 
so we receive relevant information.
Take the Campus for example. Many 
of us are interested in useful discussions 
about careers in media, but we have 
very little contact with the CCI. Career 
discussions co-hosted by the Campus 
and other media outlets on campus could 
help draw a bigger audience and make the 
programming more dynamic. There is a 
reason the Goldman-Sachs information 
sessions can pack a room and that most 
other career paths cannot. People see value 
soliciting student organizations is a good 
place to start.
The Project on Creativity and 
Innovation (PCI) has done a great job 
trying to address many of the problems 
outlined above, working to provide a 
pathway for students to enter innovative 
at startups to discuss their experiences 
with interested students. This kind of 
by the CCI would allow for students to 
career conversations and would bring a 
broader group of people in who cannot 
necessarily travel to our remote campus.
As students, we must do a better job 
of engaging with the resources the CCI has 
to offer, but by adapting the program to be 
more relevant to what we are looking for 
and what our schedules require, we can 
enhance the value of the CCI and make 
the internship and job search process less 
stressful for all involved.
We’re proud to announce beyond the 
green. Launching today, beyond the green 
is a collective of voices that will be repre-
sented in an on-
line publication 
as the central-
ized location of 
our voices. be-
yond the green 
aims to provide 
space for voices 
that are not be-
ing heard on 
our campus. We 
chose the name, beyond the green, as a 
play on words: part of the Middlebury 
mission statement says that “the college 
also reaches far beyond the Green Moun-
tains... [connecting] our community to 
other places, countries and cultures.” To 
us,  beyond the green represents the need 
to express a multitude of experiences 
at Middlebury that transcend physical 
space; the need to go beyond the agenda 
of Middlebury Inc.; and the need to imag-
ine a space beyond “the campus green” 
which symbolically embodies institutional 
initiatives. 
We will also publish a weekly column 
in the Campus. We think it is important 
to also publish in the Campus because 
we want to provide a counter-narrative 
directly alongside opinion pieces that pro-
mote post-racial, post-feminist, neoliberal 
politics. While we hope to carve out a con-
sistent column in the Campus that repre-
sents opinions aligning with our politics, 
we must draw support from our online 
publication in order to do this. the Cam-
pus continues to be an important site of 
engagement, but we are creating our own 
publication because the Campus cannot 
provide enough space for our opinions 
without taking on our politics. We are 
also publishing in the Campus because 
we want the Middlebury College archives 
to document our opinions. Moreover, the 
Campus is a good way to advertise our ef-
forts.  
 beyond the green: collective of mid-
dlebury student voices is a student run 
publication that aims to provide space 
for voices that are not being heard on 
our campus. We are motivated to create 
beyond the green because we feel mar-
ginalized and silenced by the mainstream 
platforms available, including the student 
newspaper, the Campus, and the online 
alternative paper, Middbeat. For some 
of us, not being able to express ourselves 
without invalidation represents a double 
marginalization, as our voices, bodies and 
experiences are already simultaneously 
devalued and hypervisible. We want to be 
proactive, not reactive, and use writing as 
a way to support and ultimately achieve 
structural and institutional change. We 
feel as though individually our voices are 
often ignored in the face of the hegemonic 
Middlebury discourse, but collectively we 
will be able to engage with the Middlebury 
community more effectively.  
As a collective, beyond the green 
is grounded by politics that are radical, 
anti-racist, anti-sexist, anti-classist, anti-
ableist, and anti-homophobic (as well as 
strongly opposed to all forms of oppres-
sion). We reject the structurally neoliberal 
paradigm that exists at Middlebury and 
also oppose the “liberal” politics often ex-
pressed in the Campus because these pol-
itics are not transformative. The reasons 
behind our formation are many, but the 
predominate one is a feeling that our poli-
tics are alienated within campus dialogue; 
the so-called free market of ideas on cam-
pus is an illusion, one which exists only to 
support one strong ideology. Within our 
collective, we may not always agree, and 
we will allow space to challenge each oth-
er; however, ultimately we share the same 
principles and intentions and are com-
mitted to moving forward on this ground 
with solidarity and purpose. Moreover, 
we acknowledge the potential and prob-
ability that the articles we publish may be 
messy and emotional because the things 
we write about will be so close to our lived 
experiences. Rather than espousing the 
idea that all written work in the public eye 
must be detached and hyper-intellectual, 
we welcome the fact that our articles will 
be written with passion, with love, with 
anger and overall, with purpose.  Instead 
of engaging only with those who devalue 
our voices, experiences and values, we are 
creating our own platform, unifying in the 
face of this disregard and rejecting the 
idea that we must conform to the domi-
nant Middlebury narrative and forum.
 beyond the green will be accepting 
submissions on a rolling basis that align 
with our mission statement.  If you would 
like to contact or submit to this publication 
please email us at beyondthegreen14@
gmail.com. We will be accepting pieces of 
essay, rants, lists, stories, commentary 
on campus events or “real world” topics, 
etc.) as well as photographs, video blogs, 
artwork (if already scanned) and event 
submissions. Check out our website at go/
beyondthegreen, which will be updated 
weekly with regular columns (please con-
tact if you would like to be a regular con-
tributor) and submissions. 
reader oped
Beyond the Green is 
a new online student 
publication that 
can be reached at 
beyondthegreen14@
gmail.com.
A Collective of Middlebury Voices
Nolan Ellsworth
In light of Russia’s annexation of 
Crimea and the calamitous threat posed 
by Vladimir Putin’s regime to the global 
order, we can-
not lose sight of 
what an overre-
action would do 
to America. If we 
allow Neo-Cold 
War ideology to drive American foreign 
policy and reshape our domestic eco-
nomic and political institutions towards 
serving military purposes — the so called 
“Military Industrial Complex” — we will 
put at risk not only our international au-
thority, but we, the United States, may 
pose a threat to global stability rivaling 
that of Putin. In the words of the es-
teemed English historian A.J.P. Taylor, 
“The great armies, accumulated to pro-
vide security and preserve the peace, 
carried the nations to war by their own 
weight.”
 Paul Ryan’s newly released budget 
proposal would represent a return to 
Bush-era military funding, reversing the 
military spending cuts initiated by the 
sequestration. It seeks to revive the U.S. 
war machine in a time of peace. In order 
to avoid escalation with Russia, it may 
be more important for the world that the 
U.S. elects “doves” than Democrats in 
the 2014 and 2016 elections.
Russia’s recent acts of aggression 
are not only concerning in themselves, 
but provide rhetorical ammunition for 
war-mongers to call into question the 
timing of the military drawbacks initiat-
ed by the sequestration. These facts will 
likely be spun by pundits and “hawk” 
politicians into the simplistic narrative 
that while Moscow grows stronger, we 
cannot be seen as weak and therefore we 
must ramp up military funding. We, the 
educated public, should be deeply skep-
tical of such claims. 
The truth is our military already has 
the capacity to defeat any state. Increas-
ing military spending will not make us 
more secure and should be a policy of 
last resort. Harsh economic sanctions, 
energy diplomacy and multilateral coop-
eration with allies remain our best strat-
egies for deterring Russian aggression 
We must be aware of the risks posed 
by our own state, over which the public 
has little control in times of war. Since 
World War II our government has co-
vertly overthrown countless regimes, fu-
eled war by supplying weapons to states 
around the world and unilaterally initi-
-
tive feedback cycle of increased military 
funding. U.S. militarization represents 
an existential threat to international 
peace and the health of our democracy.  
The recent overhaul of Russian of-
fensive ca-
p a b i l i t i e s , 
despite Rus-
sian economic 
s t a g n a t i o n , 
suggests a new 
vision for Rus-
sian foreign 
policy in which 
its offensive 
role. In light of Putin’s apparent belief 
in Russia’s manifest destiny to reclaim 
the territories lost during the collapse 
of the U.S.S.R., these developments are 
very concerning to states around the 
world, especially the former U.S.S.R., 
whose independence we should defend. 
Nonetheless, building allegiances with 
non-aligned states may be the best de-
terrence to Moscow’s aggression. If we 
are to make new allies, our authority in 
countering Russian aggression must be 
based on trust, soft power and demo-
cratic accountability, not just military 
strength. 
The risks associated with increas-
ing military spending are largely inter-
military contractors could threaten our 
-
mining our moral high ground over Rus-
sia. The recent Supreme Court ruling 
McCutcheon v. F.E.C. has gone beyond 
Citizens United in liberalizing campaign 
spending, expanding the latitude of de-
fense contractors to lobby government 
campaign funding intended to move the 
political needle, among both Democrats 
and Republicans, towards increasing de-
fense spending. 
-
ests are not aligned with those of Amer-
ica. The empowerment of our increas-
ingly privatized defense sector, who will 
represents the 
greatest poten-
tial accelerant 
to escalation 
with Russia — 
or any other 
enemy.
R u s s i a n 
coercion of the Ukrainian state by rais-
ing energy prices foreshadows an era 
of global energy diplomacy in which 
the expansion of domestic fracking and 
other energy infrastructure investments, 
like Keystone XL, may be increasingly 
natural gas is years away from being ex-
port-ready, the ability of the U.S. to offer 
subsidized energy to Russia’s neighbors 
to withstand a potential oil embargo 
or balance our budget may prove more 
to some, justify the catastrophic climate 
impact of increasing fossil fuel extrac-
tion.  We should expect to be faced with 
no good options; we must weigh accel-
erating climate change by expanding our 
energy capacity against the long-term 
impact on health of the planet. We need 
to foster open, thoughtful, public debate 
about the trade-offs of these looming, 
painful decisions. It only stands to rea-
son that those most vulnerable to cli-
mate change, fracking and pipeline con-
struction will be forced to shoulder the 
costs of an energy arms race. We must 
keep them — and the health of our planet 
as a whole — in mind.  Seeking alliances 
with energy-rich countries like Venezu-
ela, Azerbaijan and even Iran, despite 
the unsavory and corrupt regimes in 
power, may be necessary. On a brighter 
note, investments in promising innova-
tions in renewable energy may become 
increasingly important for national se-
curity. Bearing in mind the strategic im-
portance of such decisions, we must hold 
our government accountable lest we lose 
our national character in the fog of war.
Projections about what may happen 
in the coming years are purely specula-
tive. Indeed, I hope that fears of Russian 
aggression are overblown. Nonetheless, 
and the institutional resolution of dis-
putes must triumph over military esca-
lation if we are to avoid the worst. 
It is not Putin, but the fear of our 
own weakness, that poses the great-
est threat to American democracy, to 
the environment and to the stable and 
prosperous international status quo. 
We must stand up against war until the 
United States is left with no other option 
but to respond with force. In the words 
of the French philosopher and activist 
Simone Weil, “The great error of nearly 
all studies of war... has been to consider 
war as an episode in foreign policies, 
when it is an act of interior politics.” If 
the will of the American people is tested 
with the temptation of false security and 
-
fastly demand peace.
| april 10, 2014 9opinions
A Critique of Pure Reading
echoes
Alex Newhouse ’17 is 
from Boulder, Colo.
In my short time here at Middlebury, I 
estimate that on average, I read about 400 
pages a week for class. This guess takes into 
account those 
weeks when my 
professors as-
sign shorter, but 
denser, academic 
papers, and those 
when a novel is completed every other day. 
Often, a seven-day period will require me 
to read upwards of 700 pages across sev-
eral different books and articles. I willingly 
chose the literature/political science path, 
and so I accept this burden to an extent, 
but this experience is not exclusive to my 
situation. I cannot count the number of 
times I’ve heard students lament the fact 
in one night. Listening to these woes and 
experiencing my own, I have realized that 
the line between necessary and exces-
sive amounts of reading has not just been 
crossed, it has been blasted through. Al-
though there must certainly be reasons for 
it, such a practice does not seem conducive 
to either effective learning or psychological 
health. 
First and foremost, a barrage of read-
ing renders it nearly impossible to fully 
piece. Each time we read, we receive in-
formation, process it and analyze it, de-
termining the purpose of the author. This 
is the system of academics and research 
that is generally second-nature to stu-
dents. But the fundamental point of class 
time is to apply the author’s purpose to 
general mechanisms that operate within 
the world. Through lectures and discus-
sions we take our analysis of the reading 
and attempt to reconcile the arguments 
contained within with the forces that gov-
ern the events we observe. We learn that 
each author presents a different perspec-
tive with which to study these events. The 
problem with a heavy amount of reading, 
therefore, is that we receive an excess of 
viewpoints. Especially in classes that cover 
previously unknown subject matter, a stu-
dent can go from having no framework 
with which to study the subject to having 
a dozen over the course of a couple weeks. 
Many of those perspectives compete with 
each other; some are outright contradic-
tory. Since there is simply not enough class 
time in a college system, therefore, how 
can a student possibly be able to come to 
a meaningful conclusion about the subject 
matter? Sure, often there is some under-
lying structure that the class teaches, but 
stopping at this severely undermines the 
import of the readings. The full applica-
tion of any one argument is infeasible 
when confronted with the deafening array 
of different viewpoints and an overall lack 
Heavy reading also lessens the value 
of the material. Remember very much of 
of the semester? I’m sometimes hard-
pressed to recall much of the content I read 
last week, let alone two months ago. I have 
consumed so many pages of information 
since the beginning of the year that very 
little ever stands out. Books quickly fade 
to echoes; general points are occasionally 
brought up but substance is pretty much 
left behind. If this is the case, then, why 
do we even need to read the entire book 
and effective to simply read a passage or 
two that summarize the main points and 
clearly state the impacts of those points? 
I strongly support reading the products of 
the great minds of history, but if the pur-
pose of these classes is to cover as many 
perspectives and arguments as possible 
then it would seem better served by heav-
ily abridged reading loads. That way, they 
will be less readily forgotten and will not 
be lost to the incessant waves of informa-
tion and rhetoric.
Finally, however, this practice often 
harms the psychological health of stu-
dents. Every time a massive assignment 
is completed, another one is there to take 
its place. Although obviously procrastina-
tion is a factor, 300-page nights are the 
products of unending piles of books and 
articles that must be read. It is extremely 
-
pecially with two or three reading-inten-
sive classes. As a result, it is easy to feel be-
hind, because there is no way to ever feel 
that the work is complete for a while, with 
another 300 page assignment due the 
next day. In addition, for me at least, this 
practice negates my desire to read for fun. 
-
able to pick up a novel for enjoyment. My 
ability to concentrate on a written story is 
entirely eliminated.
I believe that something needs to 
change. Ideally, more discussion would 
take the place of some of the readings. 
article or book to be more fully explored, 
and it would better solidify the impor-
tance of each author’s arguments for the 
student. Classes would be able to inves-
tigate the application of arguments more 
completely, furthering the understanding 
of the subject matter as a whole. Finally, 
the students and would give a little room 
to breathe to those like me who want to 
read for fun again.
“It is not Putin, but the fear of 
our own weakness, that poses 
the greatest threat to American 
democracy, to the environment 
and to the stable and prosperous 
international status quo.”
Putin’s Shadow, Halliburton and Keystone XL
Warm Glow
Hudson Cavanagh ’14 
is from New York, N.Y.
jena Ritchey
opinions10 april 10, 2014 | 
Reader Oped
Felix Klos ’14 is from 
Hilversum, The Netherlands
Ghosts of History Past
Geert Wilders, the leader and founder 
of the Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV), ap-
peared proudly before his loyal following 
in The Hague 
on Wednes-
day night, still 
hoping that the 
local elections 
would solidify 
his political power. Against the backdrop of 
of a medium-sized beer cellar in the politi-
cal capital of the Netherlands, Mr. Wilders 
asked his boisterous audience three ques-
tions.
“Do you want more or less European 
Union?” The audience, familiar by now with 
Mr. Wilders’ crusade against the ever-closer 
cooperation of European nation-states—
he has suggested violent rebellion if the 
EU gains powers of taxation—responded 
with a somewhat scattered but loud “Less! 
Less! Less!” The crowd repeated the word 
13 times. Wilders, building momentum, 
continued with the precise eagerness of a 
hunter who is about to corner his prey. “Do 
you want more or less Labour Party?” The 
Dutch Labour Party (PVDA), it had become 
apparent before Mr. Wilders entered the 
room, had lost political control over Am-
sterdam, the Dutch capital and most popu-
lous city with roughly 800,000 inhabitants, 
1949. Even Wilders’ disciples, whose con-
fused populism combines leftist and rightist 
conservatism, seemed to commiserate with 
the social-democrats. “Less! Less! Less!” 
they uttered just eleven times.
Wilders, visibly in need of a brief re-
covery after the underwhelming response, 
looked down on his bright green tie, then 
-
ing his third question with an expression 
of acute awareness of what his next move 
would bring about. “And the third question 
is…and I’m not actually allowed to say this, 
because I will be reported to the police… But 
freedom of speech is an obvious good. We 
haven’t said anything illegal. Nothing that 
is not true. So, I ask you. Do you want, in 
this city and in the Netherlands, more or 
fewer Moroccans?” This time, the ensuing 
chant was reminiscent of the response Jo-
seph Goebbels elicited in his Berlin Sport-
palast speech of February 10, 1933, which 
offered the national-socialist ‘solution’ for 
Germany’s Post-WWI pains. Mr. Goebbels, 
who served as Hitler’s Minister for Propa-
ganda between 1933 and 1945, racing in the 
rhythm of his rhetoric, assured his audience 
that “the Jewish insolence has lived longer 
in the past than it will live in the future.” The 
crowd laughed derisively, applauded, and 
clamored, with many rising to their feet to 
extend their right arm at a 45-degree angle.
 The congregation of Wilders-devotees 
in The Hague responded in unison to the 
question on the presence of Moroccans—a 
group that makes up about 2% of the total 
Dutch population—yelling “Fewer! Fewer! 
Fewer!” The chant lasted a total of 16 repeti-
tions of the word (‘minder’ in Dutch). Bask-
ing in the success of his kill, Mr. Wilders 
observed his surroundings, wetted his 
upper lip twice with his thin tongue in a 
gesture that completed his unnerving re-
semblance to a colubrid, and assured the 
Dutch on national television that “we will 
take care of that, then.” The crowd laughed 
derisively, applauded, and clamored.
after his address, the Dutch midterm elec-
tions forced the Party for Freedom, which 
thrives on the populist appeal of Mr. 
Wilders—he is the party’s only member—
to surrender political dominance in all 
but one municipality. Having previously 
national elections of September 2012, Mr. 
Wilders differs much from Minister Goe-
bbels in terms of executive power. That 
is not to say, however, that his populist 
rhetoric has failed to make an imprint on 
Dutch politics. Mr. Wilders’ hard-right 
campaign against European integration, 
Islam and ethnic groups brought him as 
far as holding a position of de facto gov-
erning power when the PVV served as the 
supporting party for the 2010 minority 
coalition of the Dutch Conservative Party 
(VVD) and Christian Democrats (CDA). 
Today, Mr. Wilders’ 15 seats in the Dutch 
lower chamber still see him represent 10% 
of the total population. Far more problem-
the Conservative Party (VVD) closer to 
demagoguery and xenophobia, and has 
successfully normalized anti-EU, anti-
immigrant, and nationalist discourse in 
Dutch politics.
But for all the negativity that has sur-
rounded the Dutch midterm elections, 
their outcome also holds the promise of a 
reversal in the populist trend of the past 10 
years. Mr. Wilders’ speech has provoked 
public outrage among the Dutch, leading 
one PVV parliamentarian to cut all ties 
with the party on Thursday afternoon. As 
of Thursday night, over a thousand Dutch-
men have reported Mr. Wilders’ discrimi-
natory remarks to the police. Perhaps even 
more promisingly, Prime Minister Rutte 
of party elders and European peers, an-
nounced late Thursday night that he has 
ruled out the possibility of forming a co-
alition government with Mr. Wilders if he 
maintains his views.
Finally, Democrats 66 (D66), the 
only Dutch party that has consistently 
refused to accept the Mr. Wilders’ brand 
of populism as tolerable political practice, 
emerged from the local elections as the 
undisputed victor, becoming the largest 
party in three of The Netherlands’ most 
populous cities: Amsterdam, The Hague, 
and Utrecht. The progressive centrists of 
D66-leader Alexander Pechtold will seek 
to translate this local power to a widen-
scale. To a large extent, the Dutch repu-
tation for religious tolerance depends on 
how successful Pechtold is in meeting his 
challenge.
I am not sure how many of you caught 
the news over the break. Amidst missing 
airlines and aggressive Russian foreign 
policy you may have noticed a headline 
one made the headlines as it occurred on 
a day with 50 mile per hour winds coming 
off the Charles River and tragically claimed 
home in question sits across the street 
from mine.
My home was unharmed and through 
a struggle that lasted upwards of 24 hours 
-
ever, being in a city and being in such 
close proximity made my family a part of 
the situation whether or not we wanted to 
be. The Internet and cable lines were cut 
early on and most of our news, somewhat 
ironically, simply came from looking out 
the window. For those of you that have 
Great, rancid plumes covered the streets 
-
ing an apocalyptic scene, a crowd formed 
on the corner of my street, iPhones held 
outstretched to document the whole thing.
I am no Luddite; it is hard to imag-
ine anyone of our generation is. In many 
ways the integration of technology and so-
our generation, and we have changed the 
world for it. Usually, I would see this as 
-
formation, the global spread of ideas and 
perspectives are all good things. Yet, as I 
stood looking out my window as scream-
and dying brothers from an inferno I could 
not help but feel disgusted as a crowd re-
corded the whole thing.
I have been lucky enough to have seen 
only one person die, calmly in bed and sur-
rounded by his family. That event had a 
gravitas to it. Everyone in the room under-
stood at a human level what could 
be said or done in that mo-
ment. A priest was present 
and the family prayed and 
cried together. There was a 
code of ethics built into the 
situation and while the rest of 
the world did not know my 
grandfather or my fam-
ily, everyone pulled over 
when the funeral proces-
sion drove to the grave-
yard.
Perhaps it was naïve 
of me to assume similar 
unwritten laws would 
govern the virtual world. 
However, it seems the 
codes of respect and dignity 
that hold true in human in-
in the virtual world where 
privacy and accountability 
are iffy at best. I sincerely wonder whether 
those videos garnered likes and re-tweets in 
the days that followed. Did people feel vali-
dated? That maybe 
they had pro-
vided some kind 
of service? Would 
people feel a little 
unnerved to watch 
resuscitate a dy-
ing brother while 
people screamed 
for an ambulance?
We have yet to come up with ethics for 
our new world of social media. The tools 
seem to have evolved faster than our mo-
rality. Whether we like it or not, this will be 
an issue for our generation. The Internet is 
rapidly becoming less and less of the anony-
mous, private tool it once was. The frontier 
is being tamed, no longer is anything truly 
private and total anonymity is becoming 
a thing of the past. This is not such a bad 
thing, is it? Should we not punish hate 
speech on the Internet as we would if it were 
on the sidewalk? Why would certain laws be 
exempt in the virtual world?
What concerns me more is the ethics 
we will build in this virtual environment. As 
of now it seems we are sorely lacking. Hurt-
ful personal content and often lies can be 
propagated at the click of a button. Things 
we speak about with hushed tones in person 
can be given a megaphone on the Internet. 
Hopefully, in a community or a classroom 
this would be met by rebukes or admonish-
ments. People would honk at the car tailgat-
ing a hearse. The Internet does not yet have 
those social customs that keep us getting 
along in the real world day to day. It is up 
to us to build them. Technology is not slow-
ing and information will only move faster. 
We should anticipate this. We will have to 
formalize it, make certain practices unac-
ceptable not in law, but in culture. So that 
our phones are turned to silent instead of 
posting to Facebook.
Social Media Blazes
The 
Unpopular 
Opinion
Andrew DeFalco ’15.5 
is from Boston, Mass.
amr thameen
 11Advertising  | April 10, 2014
Thank you, Senior Fellows!
Since September, the 
Middlebury Admissions 
Office has
835
60
5,509
308
8,196
Admissions Senior Fellows.
If you would like to apply to be  
a Senior Fellow in 2014–2015,
April 18, 2014
introducing...
[802] 388-3164
The   new official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
mouthwatering>
GREEN PEPPERS
LOCAL | HANDCRAFTED | FRESHLY PREPARED | AT YOUR CONVENIENCE
The Middlebury Campus| April 10, 201412 13features
When Emma was diagnosed with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in grade school, her 
parents refused to give consent for psychostimulant 
medication, instead resorting to behavioral therapy 
and tutoring. But when she got to the College, the 
workload became too much. After struggling to 
keep up as a first-year, she was prescribed Adderall 
as she went into her sophomore year. 
“I remember the first day that I took it,” she said. 
“I felt really uncomfortable in situations other than 
doing work and didn’t really know what to do with 
my hands or where to look with my eyes, but when 
I was doing work it felt like I was in that movie 
Bruce Almighty when he’s typing on the computer 
really fast.”
She was first prescribed two 10mg fast acting 
Adderall a day. When she did not feel anything, 
the dosage was upped to 20mg three times a day. 
Her doctor told her to only take two pills a day, but 
prescribed her three to make sure she did not run 
out. Because Adderall is a schedule II controlled 
substance, Emma cannot fill her prescription across 
state lines in Vermont. 
While Adderall has only been around since the 
late 1990s, psychostimulants have been ingrained 
in American culture. First discovered in 1887, they 
had no pharmacological use until 1934 when they 
were sold as an inhaler for nasal decongestant. Once 
the addictive properties of the drug became known, 
psychostimulants became a schedule II controlled 
substance in the early 1970s.  
“If you look at the history of amphetamines, 
it was a miracle chemical, but they didn’t know 
what to do with it,” said Assistant Professor of 
Sociology Rebecca Tiger. “It couldn’t just be thrown 
on the open market, so they called it a drug, but 
then they needed to find a disease for it to treat. 
Amphetamines have been racing around looking 
for a disease because people want to use them.” 
Psychostimulants regulate impulsive behavior 
and improve attention span and focus by increasing 
levels of dopamine in the brain. Dopamine is the 
neurotransmitter involved in natural rewards such 
as food, water and sex. Depending on the dosage, 
psychostimulants can boost dopamine levels 2 - 10 
times more than a natural reward. 
Put simply, dopamine is a key driver of happiness. 
The chemical is the key to many popular drugs 
— from opiates like heroin to amphetamines like 
MDMA. The release of dopamine in the brain after 
taking psychostimulants causes the euphoria users 
often feel. But when you constantly feed your brain 
dopamine, it can diminish your ability to make it 
independently. 
While her grades shot up during her sophomore 
year, Emma felt the full force of the side effects. 
Growing up, Emma was outgoing and vivacious, 
but the Adderall made her reserved and quiet. As 
a result, she was often forced into a zero-sum game 
between academics and basic social happiness. 
Adderall often took precedent. 
“I tried to avoid hanging out with people when I 
was on it, but that’s hard since it lasts a pretty long 
time, and then coming off it at night, it would make 
me really emotional and sad. It was really hard 
when I was coming down off of it to tell myself this 
is the Adderall and I shouldn’t actually be sad about 
whatever I was feeling.”
The sadness Emma felt after coming down from 
her Adderall is called anhedonia, or the loss of 
pleasure from things we naturally find rewarding. 
As her relationship with the drug evolved, she 
learned basic parameters of what she could and 
could not do with Adderall. If she took it too late in 
the evening, she wouldn’t sleep. If she did not take 
any for a few days, she had to take it early in the day 
or risk insomnia. But when finals rolled around, all 
bets were off. 
“Especially during finals, it got kind of aggressive. 
I would take it at like 10 p.m., work all night, go 
to bed at 4 a.m., wake up at a normal time, take 
another one, and continue doing work.” 
There are more than a dozen different medications 
currently on the market to treat ADHD. While 
there are slight differences between medications, 
Adderall and Ritalin have become the poster 
children for psychostimulants. Emma has tried 
both. 
If the College has an expert on the 
psychostimulants, it is Assistant Professor of 
Psychology and Neuroscience Clarissa Parker. 
Before arriving in 2013, Parker spent 10 years 
studying genetic risk factors associated with drug 
abuse and dependence, including sensitivity to 
the reinforcing effects of psychostimulants such 
as methamphetamine in mice. Parker said one of 
her main concerns is younger and younger ages at 
which psychostimulants are prescribed. 
“For me, the problem lies in the fact that so many 
people take it during a time when their pre-frontal 
cortex is still developing,” she said. “We know this 
part of the brain continues to develop into the mid-
20s. When you combine that with the age group 
that is most likely to abuse drugs — high school and 
college — it’s dangerous.” 
For big pharmaceuticals, stimulated minors 
means major profits. In numerous articles, the 
New York Times has reported on how the industry 
has lobbied heavily to push for medication over 
behavioral therapy. 
“Studies have shown that there isn’t much long-
term difference between Adderall usage and 
behavioral therapy for treating ADHD,” Parker 
said. “There are other ways to get the same effect, 
they just aren’t as immediate.” 
Parker was quick to draw a line between people 
who take the drug responsibly under medical 
supervision and those who take it without a 
prescription, those who crush and snort their 
medication or those who take more than prescribed, 
repeatedly clarifying that the negative side effects 
affect those who abuse it. But Tiger thinks that line 
has little to do with medicine. 
“The line you draw between people who need it 
and people who don’t is a cultural construct,” she 
said. “My interest is in who draws that line, and 
what their interest is in drawing it. People rarely use 
drugs the way they are supposed to, so in a way we 
are all abusing these drugs.”
Besides attending the College and taking Adderall, 
Max ’15 and Emma have little in common. A 
third-year lacrosse player, Max never encountered 
psychostimulant use while in high school, but 
quickly found it at the College. 
“I remember when I was a first-year, and I was in 
“Amphetamines have been racing 
around looking for a disease because 
people want to use them.” 
Rebecca Tiger
Associate Professor of  Sociology
“If the amount of people taking adderall 
were doing coke, it would be considered a 
huge problem.”
Max ’13
this kid’s room, and he was crushing up pills. I didn’t 
know what they were doing until he just told me 
‘doing homework.’ They called it skizzing.” 
With the stress of midterms building four months 
into his college career, Max took Adderall for the 
first time. 
“I wrote a five-page paper in an hour,” Max 
described. “That’s when I realized, ‘this is nuts.’ 
There are a lot of athletes on different teams that 
can’t do work without snorting Adderall. Anything 
that requires putting your mind to: Adderall. That’s 
what steered me away from taking it a lot. I couldn’t 
get like that.”  
Max does not have a prescription and estimated 
that he takes it five times a semester. Across athletics, 
he estimated that 60 percent use psychostimulants 
as a tool to get schoolwork done. When asked how 
easy it would be to obtain five pills, he took out his 
phone – “one text.” 
In the 2013 survey, conducted by Ben Tabah ’13, 
over 20 percent of males reported experimenting 
with psychostimulants compared to only 10 percent 
of females. When asked about the difference, Parker 
noted that in animal models she had worked with, 
there were no sex differences in psychostimulant 
usage. 
“You can teach a mouse to self-administer drugs, 
and there aren’t sex differences in the amount 
they administer stimulants like cocaine and 
dexamphetamine (an ingredient in Adderall) which 
suggests to me the issue is not about sex, but more 
about gender,” she said. 
Social constructions around Adderall are apparent 
beyond just gender usage. Cocaine is often viewed as 
a whole different class of drug socially than Adderall, 
despite their similar chemical makeups, effects, and 
legal classification. 
“Coke is scary to me,” Emma said. “It seems more 
intense to me because it is illegal and it could be cut 
with anything.” 
“Coke is different than Adderall,” Max said. “The 
fact that [Adderall] can be prescribed to you means 
it’s not as harmful. The only downside is that you 
don’t sleep. That’s the only fight you face when 
taking it. If the amount of people taking Adderall 
were doing Coke, it would be considered a huge 
problem.”
Max is exactly the type of student Executive 
Director of Health and Counseling Services Gus 
Jordan is worried about. 
“There is the notion that it is a quick fix, and that 
it’s safe because it comes in prescription form, but 
you are really playing the edge if you take these 
drugs without proper supervision,” he said. “We 
know that if you crush an Adderall pill, and snort it, 
it hits your brain in ways akin to cocaine, and with 
similar risks for dependence. This is such a powerful 
and potentially dangerous medication, that once it 
gets into a community and used in uncontrolled 
ways, people get hurt; you’re participating in that by 
selling or giving it away, and you don’t know if you 
will really harm someone down the road.”
In his 17 years at the College, Jordan has served 
in a number of student life roles and taught clinical 
courses in the psychology department. He said that 
psychostimulant use and abuse has only really come 
onto his radar in the past five years. 
 “Right now, it’s the hype about how great Adderall 
is that everybody seems to be listening to. But we 
don’t really know what happens when this drugs 
is used recreationally or without a prescription. I 
suspect that there are a lot of darker stories that aren’t 
being told, especially about the addictive qualities of 
these drugs, tragic stories that are buried out there.” 
Asking Emma whether or not she would do it 
all over again is an impossible question for her to 
answer. Her views on Adderall are as complex as 
her usage. On one hand, she vehemently attests that 
without the drug, she would not be at the College. 
But she is acutely aware of the power the drug 
has, from sleepless nights to unwrapping tampon 
applicators time and time again. 
“I think my path was necessary, but I don’t know if 
it was the right one in hindsight. I wish I didn’t have 
to take so much, but from trying all the other doses, 
nothing else really worked.”
Her parents know about her use because they pay 
for it, but have no idea about the recreational use — 
“they would be shocked and really mad.” 
When asked whether or not she would let her kids 
take Adderall, she quickly said no before retracing 
her steps. 
“Not until it got really bad, and not before the end 
of high school or even college. I think it’s going to 
get banned, or at least prescribed a lot weaker, just 
because it is addictive and being prescribed so 
ubiquitously,” she said. “It’s just going to end badly.” 
Layout assistance by Hannah Bristol 
Additional Reporting by Alex Edel
“I wish i didn’t have to take so much, 
but from trying all the other doses, 
nothing else really worked.” 
Emma ’14
BY KYLE FINCK
photos by anthea von viragh
Design by evan gallagher
Today, the College will launch its annual 
Spring Student Symposium with an inaugu-
ral keynote presentation by San Francisco-
based novelist Vendela Vida ’93 in the Ma-
haney Center for the Arts. Since graduating 
from the College with a degree in English 
and American Literatures with a Creative 
Writing focus, Vida has gone on to publish 
-
titled Girls on the Verge: Debutante Dips, 
Drive-bys, and Other Initiations inspired by 
a class in women’s studies.
One of the organizers of the symposium 
and the Associate Dean for Fellowships and 
Research Lisa Gates believes the symposium 
will give students a rare taste of the diverse 
academic work done by their peers. The stu-
dent presentations are intentionally “not or-
thread can connect independent research 
projects across academic sectors in an inter-
esting and interdisciplinary way,” Gates said. 
“One of the most empowering features 
of Vendela’s experience is the way in which 
her faculty instructors helped her believe in 
herself,” she said. “As young adults, students 
have ideas of what they want to pursue, but 
grapple with large and intimidating ideas in 
the process of reaching their goals.”
As an undergraduate who had no inten-
tion of becoming an English major, Vida cites 
Julia Alvarez and David Bain of the English 
and American Literatures department as the 
the possibility of pursuing a career in writing 
“I wrote a lot of short stories during my 
time at Middlebury and it was Julia Alvarez 
who encouraged me to write a novel,” Vida 
said. “She told me what I was trying to do 
was write a novel, which at the time was a 
prospect I found really exciting, but also 
very intimidating. It was inspiring that she 
thought I had the capacity to write a novel.”
Currently, Vida is working on a novel 
for the “Lives” section of the New York Times 
Magazine, of which deals with her mother’s 
experience of growing up in Sweden.
“I always tell people that when they are 
starting projects, the idea they have in mind 
cannot be sort of interesting – or even poten-
tially interesting – but rather all consuming,” 
Vida said. “I think the famous saying — write 
what you know — is often misunderstood by 
novelists. I encourage aspiring writers to not 
just write what they know, but to go out and 
experience the world. I am a big advocate of 
travel and placing oneself in different situ-
we can draw upon the emotions of the expe-
rience and observations of other cultures.”
Students will have the opportunity to 
introduce themselves to Vida during the 
keynote reception on Thursday. A full day of 
student independent research presentations 
will kick off tomorrow at 9 a.m. in the Great 
Hall. Vida will also moderate “The Creative 
Process” panel.
In the grand scheme of the upcoming 
symposium, Gates urges students to em-
brace the spirit of the intellectual curios-
ity and to explore a range of independent 
research across a multitude of academic 
spheres. 
“I encourage students to view the sym-
posium as special place in which different 
-
namic, and ultimately inspiring way.”  
14 features | april 10, 2014
By Emilie Munson
 On beautiful Thursday last week, I ac-
companied the student initiative NOM (Nu-
trition Outreach Mentoring) to the Boys and 
Girls Club of Greater Vergennes. Inside a gray 
building on a side street in downtown Ver-
gennes, about 15 local teenagers chatted and 
played cards and video games. However, the 
six students who arrived from the College had 
a new idea of what these teens could be doing.
As part of their goal of “creating com-
munity and connecting people through food 
and food education,” as mentioned in their 
mission statement, NOM volunteers at local 
schools and afterschool programs to teach 
healthy eating and cooking habits to children 
and young adults.
“Children are a great focus for our group 
because there are a lot of fun ways to teach 
nutrition,” said NOM President Rachel Kin-
ney ’16.5, who since her take over of the group 
last semester, has worked with Treasurer Cas-
sidy Mueller ’16.5 and other students to revi-
talize the group and expand its volunteering 
reach. “It has a big impact when people learn 
about healthy eating from a young age — and 
an impact that can trickle up to the child’s 
family and larger community.”
At the Boys and Girls Club, NOM’s learn-
ing kitchen programming proved itself to be 
tasty and informative: NOM volunteers part-
nered with Boys and Girls Club teens to make 
fruit and vegetable smoothies. NOM volun-
teers opened the activity with a discussion 
about the vitamins and nutrients in the fruits 
and vegetables on the gray table we circled. 
Then, volunteers and teens were set loose 
on the ingredients, free to sample the fruits 
and veggies and experiment with different 
smoothies combinations as they chose.
My partner Ethan, 15, and I concocted 
three delicious smoothies. After mixing a 
yummy strawberry banana smoothie, Ethan 
was willing to try a smoothie with spinach 
in addition to fruit in it, although his initial 
reaction to the vegetable was a series of loud 
exclamations of “That tastes bad!” After a few 
gingerly sips, Ethan was willing to admit that 
the smoothie did a pretty good job of mask-
ing the taste of the vegetable, just as NOMs 
volunteers had suggested at the beginning of 
the activity.
As the smoothie making continued, calls 
of “Can I try that?” echoed around the room. 
Teen enthusiasm for smoothie making varied 
from Natalie, 14, who was willing to sample 
a spinach only smoothie to Kairek, 13, who 
would make smoothies but never drink them. 
I knew NOM was making a difference when 
Ethan told me, “This is a lot of fun! This is the 
most fun I’ve had at the club in a long time.”
NOM also boasts other volunteering 
initiatives than the Boys and Girls Club. The 
group runs Farm to Table programming for 
students at Mary Hogan Elementary School 
in Middlebury, VT in which students get to 
taste-test and learn about different recipes for 
local produce.
“The curriculum we use teaches not just 
nutrition but how it applies to everyday life— 
something especially important in an area 
full of farms,” Kinney explained. “And these 
kids will then talk to their families about what 
they’ve learned, teach them how to make 
hummus from just a can of chickpeas, and the 
Additionally, the group participates in 
one-time volunteering events such as food 
packing and soup making for the volunteer 
organization Helping Overcome Poverty’s Ef-
fects (HOPE).
A large portion of NOM meetings are 
spent educating group members about food 
issues and hunger. During meetings, the 
group often reads and discusses articles or lis-
tens to TedX Talks to inform themselves.
“That’s part of effort to educate our-
selves to be better volunteers,” Mueller said. 
“Although we care about this issue, we aren’t 
nutritionists.”  
Education of NOM volunteers is espe-
cially important as NOM seeks to address 
the true needs of the community, not simply 
plant their own programming on organiza-
tions that have no need of it.
“We have to be understanding of the 
people that we are working with and what it is 
they are looking for out of the program,” Chel-
sea Colby ’17.5, the NOM liaison to the Boys 
and Girls Club of Greater Vergennes, said. 
“But I think it was cool how excited some of 
those kids got about spinach in their smooth-
ies. It’s just not something they’ve been ex-
posed to.”
Youth Programs and Outreach Assistant 
Daniel Murphy, who brings “institutional 
savvy” to student groups involving mentor-
for the community.
“They have a lot of students who both 
through academic and personal passion are 
really interested in getting out there and 
learning more,” Murphy said. “I would love to 
see them become an authority on campus for 
what’s already in place in the community, for 
what kids are getting and what the gaps are. 
I would love to see them become an author-
ity about getting people who are interested in 
these things aware and plugged in.”  
The group has set its own goals for the 
future: NOM hopes to increase awareness 
about nutrition issues on campus through 
workshops and speakers, continuing its exist-
ing volunteer program but also expand to in-
clude mentoring at the Addison Central Teen 
Center located in Middlebury, VT.
-
tion in NOM can have for students: “I think 
something that is really helpful is learning 
how to connect with the Middlebury commu-
nity which is sometimes something that is not 
really emphasized by the College. (…) Instead 
of giving money to people really far away, it is 
important to understand our local problems.”
Students interested in joining NOM 
should attend meetings at 6 p.m. in Laforce 
Seminar Room.
New Leadership to NOM Initiative
It took way too long for two college-aged 
girls to realize that the Middlebury Campus 
is released every Thursday. In other words, 
here is the very delayed Throwback Thursday 
edition of the Secret Life of NARPs.
Ever wondered whether Maddie or Izzy 
have ever experienced athletic success? Or 
when they realized that they were “differ-
ent” from the others? Well, we are going to 
throw it way back to a time when we were the 
unimaginable: ballers. Hop on board read-
ers (hopefully we were correct in using the 
plural here), because it’s time for a trip down 
memory lane.
Scene: The playground. While the weird 
kids ate dirt, we NARPs were busy basking in 
the glory of the only athletic moments of our 
entire lives: on the four square court. Recess 
commenced, and after chugging our Juicy 
Juice, we crumpled the cartons and tossed 
the boxes of liquid courage aside. NARPs 
were praised for their agility within the 8x8 
square and their masterful manipulation of 
the regulated 8.5 inch rubber red ball — be-
cause, frankly, it was impossible for Maddie 
to have an asthma attack in such a small are-
na. We lived to be crowned king in the fourth 
square. Whether it took an aggressive Cherry 
Bomb, Popcorn, or Around the World altera-
tion on the traditional game to be praised 
-
tions and safety to reach the ultimate goal. 
Are you wondering why Izzy’s cubby buddy, 
Jamie McDonell has a crooked nose? She 
doesn’t like to brag, but she had a wicked 3 
inch vertical before a major cherry bomb one 
day ... and I think we all know what happened 
next. With the power of her favorite footwear, 
Heely’s, Izzy’s athletic prowess reached an all-
time high (those dashing bedazzled wheels 
made getting those hard-to-reach balls a pos-
sibility). But the day came when Izzy’s Heelys 
the game after countless trips to the nurse 
-
velop hand-eye coordination anymore, it was 
merely a downhill battle from there.
The remainder of NARP childhoods 
were spent playing Sims (yes, we all used the 
money cheat), watching Boy Meets World 
and staring at the window at the other kids 
playing games like Kick the Can or heading 
to soccer practice in their minivans (are those 
still around?). For Maddie and Izzy, their 
only exercise came after recognizing the illus-
trious ringing from a nearby ice cream truck 
through the dialogue of a Spongebob re-
run. After a quick game of hide-and-go-seek 
for any loose change, a car chase ensued in 
front of all the neighborhood children. After 
on either the king-size Bomb Pop (for Izzy) 
or the Powerpuff Girl graphic popsicle with 
a gumball eye (for Maddie). The reaction to 
us venturing outside for momentary exercise 
elicited a very To Kill A Mockingbird-eque 
reaction from the other kids. To be clear, we 
were Boo Radley.
-
ing back to us recently as we had a moment, 
albeit brief, of soul searching. Why are we 
training for a half-marathon? Now as the 
schedule becomes more demanding, we real-
ize a half-marathon is not in fact just a few 
laps around Battell Beach; it’s a feat we have 
to work for. Not only are we trying to prove to 
ourselves that we can accomplish something, 
but we are representing the NARPs and try-
ing to prove it’s possible to others as well. For 
Maddie, it’s an homage to her high school 
gym teacher who blamed an apparently very 
serious “mental block” on her inability to be 
athletic and therefore bench press twenty 
pounds. In reality, she really just had the up-
per-arm strength of a squirrel. 
There are a lot of people on campus who 
doubt us as well. A mutual friend explained it 
in terms of economics. He wasn’t going to in-
vest in a venture in which he expected to fail, 
because it would be an unwise entrepreneur-
ial move. We take on a different mentality. 
When it’s early on a Saturday morning and 
we are about ready to embark on a long run, 
our ability to get out of bed is simple: haters 
be our motivators. We want to experience 
and we also need an excuse to make a pump-
up playlist. Happy Training!
By Izzy Fleming and Maddie Webb
The Secret 
Life of Narps
NOM President Rachel Kinney ’16.5 helps Vergennes teen with smoothie making.
emilie munson
Alumni and Novelist Vendela Vida’s opening lines to Spring Symposium inspire exploration. 
 Vendela Vida to Speak at Spring Symposium
By Renee Chang
courtesy
15featuresapril 10,2014   
Pruning 101: Diseased, Dead and Dumb
The next time you walk by a tree, and a 
dead branch does not come crashing down, 
knocking you off your feet, you can thank the 
College’s Facilities Services Maintenance and 
Operations. As spring thaw approaches, the 
College’s landscaping crew is busy pruning 
trees on campus before the snow melts and 
reveals quads of yellow grass and muddy 
shortcut eyesores that need to be dealt with.
At 8:30 a.m. on a crisp and sunny Thurs-
day morning, I met with Horticulturist Tim 
Parsons, Crew Chief Jon Quelch and the rest 
of the landscaping crew to learn about tree 
pruning at the Emma Willard House. Walk-
ing from Atwater Dining Hall, the 45 degree 
temperature and sunny clear skies made 
athletic shorts and sneakers feel like a great 
life decision — much better than waddling 
around in sweatpants.
 Fast forward another 30 minutes, shiv-
ering underneath the shade of trees in need 
of pruning and slip-n-sliding across the half-
frozen lawn trying to keep up with Parsons, 
-
ting more and more excited about each one 
— now I understood why these men were all 
wearing jeans and winter jackets.
Meanwhile, Parsons was busy explaining 
to me why pruning is done mainly for safety 
and aesthetic reasons.
“In the wild, trees don’t need to be 
pruned,” he said. “I’m not saying a tree won’t 
be healthier because of pruning, but generally 
we don’t prune for the health of the tree, but 
for our own safety.”
Though pruning happens naturally in 
the wild, this can be dangerous in the “urban 
forest,” such as the College campus, if a dead 
-
trian, though Parsons admits “the chance of 
this happening is very slim, but still.”
As he clipped off the lower branch of a 
young crab apple tree, Parsons explained 
the three D’s of pruning: “Dead, Diseased 
and Dumb. For example, these two branches 
growing on top of another, competing for the 
same sunlight? That’s dumb.”
Behind the Emma Willard House, Par-
sons noted how “cavernous” the backyard 
appeared with overgrown and overhanging 
branches. After pruning, the backyard felt 
more “spacious and welcoming” to visitors.
Late winter is an ideal time to prune 
trees because the branches are easier to ex-
amine and handle without leaves while the 
temperatures aren’t as cold and harsh. Some 
little critters also appreciate this timing.
“Because we prune in the winter for the 
most part, there are no birds in the nests,” 
said Parsons.
But not all little critters leave their nests 
empty.
“There was a subcontractor that was 
doing some tree work on a tree down at the 
Kitchel House, and a squirrel ran three feet 
above his head, and ran down into the limb he 
was on. It was a hollow limb and he couldn’t 
get the squirrel out to save his life. He didn’t 
want to work on the tree because he was 
scared he would hurt the squirrel. So, he was 
waiting for the longest time for that squirrel 
to leave because he didn’t want to hurt it.”
Parsons also showed me the three main 
tools used in pruning. For smaller trees, hand 
pruners are used. Parsons own several prun-
ers, which he hand-sharpens at the end of ev-
ery winter pruning season. For medium-sized 
to large trees, hand saws are used. For even 
larger trees, pole-saws are the tool of choice.
“The pole-saw”, he pointed out, “has a 
top of a long, re-tractable pole.
Hand saws are the most commonly used, 
especially in conjunction with the tree climb-
ing method. Workers climb trees, secured by 
a special rope on a limb, and prune within 
the branches. According to Parsons, there 
haven’t been any accidents (knock on wood).
“As long as you go slow and think care-
fully about what you’re doing, climbing with 
a rope is a safe way to prune trees.”
For Buzz, a member of Facilities Servic-
es, who learned to climb trees just last winter, 
the shift to pruning as the days get warmer 
“breaks up the long cold winter, especially 
this year, when we did a lot of shoveling. 
From up there [in the tree], it’s a whole dif-
ferent view.”
Some crew members, like Groundswork-
er Steve Rheaume, have been climbing for 
over 10 years.
“You can probably learn to climb a tree 
[using the rope] in a day or so, but it could 
take you 12 years to get as good as Steve.”
Rheaume was busy climbing and prun-
ing when we stopped by, but he shouted 
-
nitely break a sweat! The highest tree I’ve 
ever climbed was 25, maybe 30 feet.”
As a photographer tried to get Parsons to 
pose next to the tree being pruned, he pointed 
at Rheaume and said, “Well, he would be the 
star, here. Doesn’t that look like fun?”
During my Pruning 101 session, Parsons 
also pointed out some of his favorite trees 
on campus, including what he believes is the 
oldest tree, a huge sprawling 80-foot Bur Oak 
right by the CFA. Insisting it was worth see-
ing in person, Parsons offered to drive me 
down to take a look. I’ve always wanted to 
ride one of those green John Deere tractors 
and who wouldn’t want to see a tree that was 
alive at the same time as George Washington, 
so of course, I jumped at the chance.
“How fast does this thing go?” I asked as 
the motor hummed.
“A lot faster than I’m allowed to drive it.” 
He chuckled.
Parsons is not sure exactly how old the 
Bur Oak is.
“I’d say 200 years or more. The only real 
way to age a tree is to count the rings, and to 
do that, you have to use a special bore tech-
nique or cut down the tree and count the 
rings.  I’m not willing to do either on this tree. 
But, this has been here at least as long as the 
school, if not more. It is spectacular.”
When asked about pruning an old speci-
men like this, he said, “You can see all the 
dead wood here, there’s a large piece of dead 
[wood] right there that would have to come 
off. But for the most part, when trees are this 
old, they don’t need anything.”
Parsons hopes the Bur Oak has another 
200 years, but knows this might be far-
fetched. Health-wise, though, the tree seems 
to be in good shape.
“There’s not a lot dead [branches], it has 
a lot of nice young shoots, new twigs, it’s still 
putting out a decent amount of growth this 
year,” he said. Though 200 might be unrealis-
tically long, Parsons believes the tree sill stick 
around for a long time.
Facilities prune trees using hand saws.
By Hye-Jin Kim
paul gerard
What do cheese, 3D visualization 
goggles, epi-pens, cowgirls and undocu-
mented college students have in common? 
Not much more than the shared evidence of 
the creativity students will be pursuing this 
summer, with the help of grants awarded 
by MiddChallenge. On April 4 and 6, nine 
panel of judges, made up of many college 
alumni and Vermont professionals, in the 
categories of Business, Arts and Outreach. 
After two days of thoughtful presenta-
$3,000 grant, the support of an advisor net-
work and space at the Old Stone Mill. Mid-
dChallenge is one of several programs un-
der the umbrella of the Middlebury’s Project 
on Creativity and Innovation (PCI), which 
seeks to encourage students’ independent 
and inventive projects on campus.
The presenters surprised all with their 
preparation, foresight and diversity of inter-
ests. Joanie Thompson ’14, a member of the 
student MiddChallenge Committee, appre-
ciated the outcome of months of planning.
“My favorite thing is always seeing how 
different the projects are,” Thompson said. 
“It’s the variety that I love, and it shows a 
wonderful side to people, when they present 
on something they are incredibly invested 
in.”
In the business category, Nate Beatty 
’13.5 received a grant for his start-up, Iris 
VR, Inc. The company will develop software, 
to be paired with emerging stereoscopic 3D 
head mounted displays – “like ski goggles, 
with two eyes and a screen on the inside,” 
to help architects virtually imagine the re-
alities of their spaces, before construction. 
Beatty will use his grant to hire a student 
intern — still accepting applications — to 
assist in the development process this sum-
mer. 
“It’s all about virtual reality now,” he 
said. “It’s exciting, because I think if we 
started the project right now, we would be 
too late. We hit the timing, hopefully, just 
right. We’re riding the wave of this virtual 
reality buzz.”
Other winners in the business catego-
ry include Linda Waller ’15.5, designing a 
wearable Epi-Pen, and Linnea Burnham 
’14.5, making cheese and sharing the value 
of sustainable farming at Robinson Hill 
Farm.
In the arts category, “Cowgirls: A Docu-
mentary” won a grant to explore, through 
dominated culture of the American West. 
Anna Carroll ’14.5 and Ben Kramer ’13.5 
will direct the project, with collaboration 
by Sarah Briggs ’14.5, Katie McFarren ’14, 
Tommy Hyde ’14.5, Tito Heiderer ’14.5 and 
Maddy Lawler ’14. The cinematographers 
will follow cowgirls, Claudia Ogilvie and 
Patty Hayes, on a 100-mile horseback ride 
through South Dakota. Their documentary 
promises to be insightful portrayal of the 
friendship between two women, who have 
followed similar paths in breeding and 
training horses, and who will reunite on 
Finally, in the outreach category, Dan-
iel Ramirez ’17 received a grant for his proj-
ect, Documented Dreams, to build a social 
network where undocumented high school 
students can receive mentoring and ad-
vice from undocumented college students. 
Ramirez believes that undocumented col-
lege students are outliers, able to pursue 
their education only because of unusual 
relationships — like that which his brother 
gave to him and which he has given to his 
mentee, recently accepted to the College’s 
class of 2018. 
MiddChallenge provides students valu-
able practice in developing an idea, check-
ing its viability and planning for its imple-
mentation. Charlie MacCormack, Executive 
in Residence and former CEO of Save the 
Children, applauded the participants for 
their apparent dedication.
“I’ve come to have high expectations for 
the quality and importance and practicality 
of the ideas,” MacCormack said. “But this 
year did exceed my expectations, because 
all presentations were genuinely outstand-
ing, and really could have been made by 
very experienced people, with professional 
degrees.”
The presenters similarly appreciated 
value of the judges’ feedback, in shaping 
how they will progress with their projects. 
With summer just around the corner, Mid-
dChallenge provided a springboard from 
which the grant recipients can jump into 
and mental support.
“I am extremely honored to be the re-
cipient of a MiddChallenge grant and I 
want to thank the PCI, student organizers, 
and the funders for pulling together a great 
event,” Burnham said. “I look forward to 
this summer because, thanks to MiddChal-
lenge, I will be able to turn my business plan 
into a reality.”
Creativity Shines at MiddChallenge
By Brittany Thomas
Middlebury students are connected 
by no more than two degrees of separa-
tion: you either know someone or know 
someone who knows that person. Though 
there are many great things about this 
smallness, I always thought it presented 
a romantic disadvantage.
The main reason: the gossip-mon-
gering that roars into life at Sunday 
brunch. I didn’t mind hearing about oth-
ers’ travails, conquests and failures. I just 
dreaded being the topic of conversation. 
So I did what I think most of us do: I built 
an emotional bunker, sheltered from the 
embarrassments of casual romance.
I never hoped to squat in this self-
imposed “shelter” alone. I preferred the 
security of solitude to the risks active 
pursuit, searching for someone whom I 
might never find, whom I might find only 
to be ruthlessly rejected by. This school is 
too small; any rejection would effectively 
be public. Beyond the indignity of seem-
ingly everyone knowing about my failure, 
I would be consigned to awkward run-
ins until one of us finally goes abroad or 
graduates.
My limited, slanted consideration 
of only the potential downsides left me 
preferring passivity. I reasoned, some-
thing will happen if it’s meant to. After 
all, it never rains on the man who stays 
indoors.
But the sun never shines on the man 
who stays indoors. I changed my mind: 
sitting in my bunker waiting for a perfect 
relationship to bust through the boarded 
window is insane. The truth is that if 
I want to date, I’ve got to be proactive. 
Even if my fears of the small-school ru-
mor mill are legitimate, I stand to lose 
most if I let those fears inhibit me.
There will always be convenient ex-
cuses to blame our dateless evenings. At 
a certain point, we each individually bear 
the responsibility of overcoming these 
minor adversities. In the case of this par-
ticular excuse, that “Middlebury is too 
small”, we have the chance to reframe 
the matter. This school isn’t too small, 
it’s fortuitously “not too big”.
The truth is, we don’t actually know 
everyone on campus. Certainly, I know 
a lot of names but I don’t actually know 
much about the individuals themselves. 
What’s more, the reality is that the peo-
ple you’re most likely to date are neither 
close friends nor complete strangers, but 
loose associations. Our lives here are 
blessed with a preponderance of date-
potential acquaintances.
My friends at bigger schools have re-
sorted to matchmaking apps like Tinder. 
Even here, nearly a quarter of Middkids 
have registered profiles on Friendsy (al-
though many may be curiosity-serving, 
but functionally defunct like mine).  The 
difference, though, is that we don’t have 
to rely on services like Friendsy to find 
people of interest.  We have the chance 
to use Middlebury’s smallness to our ro-
mantic advantage.
Consider the notion that our com-
munity’s insularity might be a blessing 
in disguise. You don’t meet wonderful 
women only to have them dissolve back 
into the labyrinth of New York City; you 
get plenty of chances to see them again. 
Ask a friend for an introduction. We can 
only win if when we take on a little risk.
Dining, Dating 
& Dashing 
By Ryan Kim
16 features
Students Discuss Righteous Action and Empathy
On April 2, a motley crew of profes-
sors, students and local denizens came 
together to share in a discussion titled 
“Acting Righteously in Times of Danger.” 
The event sought to spark conversa-
tion regarding two key questions: “When 
others are threatened in times of danger, 
what is it that moves us to act coura-
geously on their behalf and risk our own 
safety and those closest to us?” and “How 
do we foster tolerance, understanding, 
empathy and courage?” 
To help guide the exploration of such 
nebulous — and fundamental — ques-
tions, the audience was first given an 
exceptional anecdote from the film “Two 
Who Dared,” whose chosen center is on 
Martha and Waitstill Sharp, two Ameri-
cans “who played a vital role in saving 
hundreds from persecution during World 
War II.”  As one might expect, any literal 
comparison between the Sharps’ life and 
that of most Middlebury students would 
be unfair.  
However, when attention turned to-
wards the values that guided the Sharps, 
an enlightening and applicable conclu-
sion was reached.  As one of the older 
participants said, “If Middlebury stu-
dents want to spread the values they hold 
dear, they must first devote themselves to 
those ideals in the day-to-day, the mun-
dane. This isn’t a new thought, but it is 
underappreciated.”
The Sharps’ lives were, above all else, 
defined by an unwavering devotion to vir-
tue. In “Two Who Dared,” one of the main 
points of emphasis was that Waitstill and 
Martha Sharp were the 18th choice for 
relief volunteers. The 17 previous minis-
ters declined for understandable reasons: 
young children, a job and a stable life. 
The Sharps were different. Waitstill often 
used the word “must” while describing 
why he and Martha made the decision to 
go on both of the two missions, the first 
to Prague and the second to Southern 
France during the German invasion. They 
had two young children, a stable job and a 
stable life, yet Waitstill continued to use 
that decisive word. The discussion group 
had some trouble with this — why must 
they leave their children? Why must they 
give up their lives when there were those 
who were better equipped? 
One attendee saw the reasoning to 
be simple, remarking, “It’s a matter of 
holding true to your virtues. It seemed 
as though they — Waitstill especially — 
didn’t see a choice. If they didn’t live by 
the idea of absolute equality in every ac-
tion then they just couldn’t be equipped 
to create equality.” 
Although this sentiment did not hit 
home with some in the room — seeing as 
much of the space was 
filled with mothers and 
fathers — many believed 
it could very well be the 
Sharps’ perspective. In 
either case, Waitstill 
and Martha had an un-
deniable impact. Dur-
ing these two tours, the 
Sharps helped over one 
hundred refugees find 
safety and security, and 
were “recognized by the 
state of Israel as Righ-
teous Among the Na-
tions for risking their 
lives to save Jews and 
dissidents during the Holocaust.” 
The Sharps’ story is an extreme one. 
Leaving one’s children in their most for-
mative years for a potentially life-threat-
ening mission is not something most par-
ents feel they “must do.”  It is certainly 
not something any student can fully ap-
preciate at this point in their lives.  As 
such, much of the conversation turned 
towards the realm of moral take-aways 
rather than literal ones. The take-away: 
it is the little choices we make every day 
that create real change, not implausible 
end goals. 
Seeing as the College’s Board of 
Trustees have outwardly lauded the Col-
lege as the first global liberal arts insti-
tution, it seems as though its students 
would be some of the best at enacting 
sweeping change. 
But one student solemnly asked, 
“How can we consider ourselves to be the 
best equipped if many of us don’t stand by 
the virtues of equality and fairness when 
we don’t respect something as small as 
peer proctoring?” 
For a student, one of the most com-
mon “little choices” is to respect the tra-
dition of peer proctoring.  Although it 
may not seem comparable to the idea of 
gender equality, for example, it is less a 
matter of the topic and more about the 
fundamental value 
driving any sort of 
change. 
As Lecturer in 
Religion and GSFS 
Maria Hatjigeorgiou 
stated after the dis-
cussion, “Even at 
a school like Mid-
dlebury, the most 
important class is 
that of the students 
‘walking the walk.’”
 That is to say, 
it is not enough to 
learn what equal-
ity is; it must also 
practice such virtues on a day-to-day 
and moment-to-moment basis. To this 
sentiment, Adrian Leong ’16 added, “Be-
ing virtuous does not have to be known 
all the time: we delude ourselves to think 
that until a grand goal is reached, our ef-
forts are without worth.”   
By the conclusion of the discussion 
and event as a whole, a consensus of sorts 
was reached. Students at the College, like 
all students, teachers and human beings, 
are shaped by our daily interactions with 
the world.  Although something as uncel-
ebrated as taking peer proctoring seri-
ously is not “acting righteously in a time 
of danger,” it equips students to spark 
just as much change as any class or peer-
proctored exam. 
Style Icon: Michaelcheck is “Woody Allen in Drag”
College is famously known and re-
membered as “the best years of our 
lives.” Four (or more) years to explore, 
experiment, learn and find ourselves, so 
that we can (hopefully) sort out our pas-
sions and plan our futures — including 
the development and cultivation of our 
own signature style.
I realized the value and significance 
of these years and their impact on our 
individual future in fashion when in-
terviewing Charlotte Michaelcheck ’15. 
Michaelcheck was born and raised in 
New York City, attending school in Man-
hattan before venturing to the Green 
Mountains. Most people either know 
Michaelcheck for her improv skills (she 
is a member of Middlebrow), her quirky 
collection of backpacks, her dedication 
to her neuroscience major or her bold, 
outrageous “going out outfits,” as she 
calls them.
Michaelcheck refers to her style as, 
“all over the place.”
“Sometimes I look like Woody Al-
len in drag,” she said. “And then other 
[times], very skimpy 90’s.” Whatever 
you know her for, we all can recognize 
that this girl has got personality, style, 
confidence and brains — and it seems to 
run in her family.
Michaelcheck’s wisdom in fashion 
is rooted and influenced greatly by her 
mother and sister. Her sister is a New 
York City-based fashion designer con-
sidered a rising star among high fash-
ion experts. In addition to her sister’s 
incredible success in fashion, Michael-
check’s mother “has always been adept 
at putting herself together.” Those two 
women “veto most of my choices so that 
any resultant style is mostly a product of 
abject constructive criticism I’d say.”
Even though Michaelcheck has a dis-
tinct style, she is still figuring out who 
she is and how she wants to be portrayed. 
When asked about where her look will 
end up, Michaelcheck said, “I have some 
things I know I will hold onto and others 
I really hope to lose — at this point that 
ratio’s probably more in favor of the lat-
ter.” But for right now she hopes to por-
tray herself in a versatile way.
“When I feel well dressed it’s mostly 
in something that’s at least in part con-
servative,” she said. “When I dress to 
go out or for more casual purposes I al-
most never consider it to be fashionable. 
I want to feel confident in what I wear, 
even if it isn’t necessarily a good outfit.”
 Michaelcheck isn’t afraid to stray 
away from what is “fashionable” for 
something that makes her feel good — 
and isn’t that what is ultimately most 
important? Fashion is fun and excit-
ing but if it doesn’t make you feel self-
assured then it is simply a materialistic 
form of expression. That is why Michael-
check goes the extra step when it comes 
to her selection of clothing.
“People pick out clothing usually in 
anticipation for some event or a new sea-
son,” she said. “So in that aspect, fashion 
is positively associated with fun things 
or something you’re looking forward to. 
It’s another, maybe superfluous, prepa-
ration step that makes otherwise not so 
enthusing events a little more exciting. 
Especially when costumes are involved: 
the more ridiculous the better.”
Interestingly enough, a girl with 
such a natural ability to express herself 
through clothing does not believe that 
fashion is fundamental to a person’s 
character.
“I never really focused on fashion,” 
she said. Michaelcheck approaches fash-
ion in a lighter hearted way, dressing up 
to simply please herself as opposed to 
make a statement.
“If someone wants to wear some-
thing that isn’t necessarily in keeping 
with what the rest of the population is 
doing, I think they should. If it’s a form 
of self-expression, great, if you just want 
to wear something ridiculous for atten-
tion, that’s fine too.”
After her years in the mountains, 
Michaelcheck plans to get rid of some 
of her more revealing garb as she gets 
older.
“At some point it just gets ridiculous, 
or tired,” she said. “Hopefully I will ac-
crue some things that last a little longer 
and can be worn in most public settings 
(which cannot be said for much of what I 
currently own).”
In the future Charlotte also aspires 
to follow her mother’s footsteps in her 
classic uniform attire, meaning that she 
wears a basic framework for every outfit 
that is always the same but changes the 
details so that every look is somewhat 
unique but still honest.
“My mother does that with button 
downs and straight leg black pants. Her 
closet is the best because it’s filled with 
different variations of the same struc-
tured outfit. For me, I think that’s the 
ideal.”
Middlebury may be a difficult place 
to try out outrageous things in the fash-
ion realm, simply because fashion is not 
that prevalent on campus, but at least 
there is no pressure to be up-to-date on 
all the trends. College is a transitional 
stage between high school and the real 
world—on one hand it’s your chance 
to wear what you will never be able to 
again, but on another hand, it’s also the 
place and time to develop your own style 
and cultivate a wardrobe. Even if you are 
like Michaelcheck and “still in transi-
tion,” keep trying new things, go out of 
your comfort zone and put time and ef-
fort into fostering a wardrobe that you 
are proud of.
By Mary Claire Ecclesine
| april 10, 2014
By Winston Kies
Improv actor Charlotte Michaelcheck 
’15 displays her quirly sense of style.
mary claire ecclesine
Sabine Gagenier leads discussion about how to act righteously in daily life at the College.
paul gerard
“Even at a school 
like Middlebury, the 
most important class 
is that of the students 
‘walking the walk.’”
Maria hatjigeorgiou
 Lecturer in Religion and GsFS
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Lore
4/12, 3 AND 8 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
Beauty and the Baritone
4/12 8 P.M., CFA, CONCERT HALL
The Swing Express
4/11, 8 P.M., MCCULLOUGH SOCIAL SPACE
Les Miserables
RENT
City of Angels
Midd-Life Crisis Man of La Mancha
“While City of Angels
RENT
RENT
RENT
RENT
RENT
RENT 
the
“RENT
Musical Players Present Rock Musical RENT
By Leah Lavigne
jiya pandya
jiya pandya
Forgive me, psych majors, if I am 
wrong in this, but I seem to recall learn-
ing in my psych disorders class two years 
ago about several studies which proved 
that the life-outlook of individuals suf-
fering from depression is not, in fact, 
overly pessimistic, but rather realistic 
compared to the realities of probability. 
Psychologically “healthy” individuals, by 
contrast, tend to be overly optimistic in 
their predictions for the future. That is, 
according to these studies, if individuals 
with and without depression were asked 
to predict whether or not they would get 
a job in the first year after college, the 
depressed individuals would more likely 
be correct. 
Whether or not this is actually true, 
we could certainly make a case for all 
the terrible things happening across 
the world everyday which we choose to 
ignore, as well as the terrifying existen-
tial questions which we usually put out 
of our minds, and say that on the whole, 
day to day, most of us 
are choosing to live in 
blissful ignorance. We 
could, of course, make 
the case in the other 
direction—that overall 
we ignore most of the 
beauty and the miracles 
of life (I mean, I am not a science ma-
jor, so the fact that our brains can heal 
from trauma and that plants know to 
grow upwards out of the soil and that the 
universe is expanding and folding in on 
itself at the same time— all of that feels 
like a miracle to me, but call it what you 
will). 
However, Ben Marcus, author of the 
new short-story collection Leaving the 
Sea released this January by Knopf Pub-
lishing, is most certainly of the former 
opinion. A narrator in his story “Watch-
ing Mysteries with My Mother” notices 
that the families of individuals with ter-
minal illness insist that their loved one 
is “a fighter”; she will be the one to “beat 
the odds.” But “odds should be odds, and 
they should never be beaten,” he writes. 
“If they are, then the odds are incorrect 
and should be changed.” Later he recog-
nizes that his mother’s odds of dying are 
increasing at every moment as she ages. 
“Right now, sleeping in her bed, she has 
never in her entire life been in greater 
danger of dying.” 
The moral, I guess, would be that 
life is often more arbitrary and unpleas-
ant than we would like to think, which is 
possibly the only certitude standing be-
hind the characters of Marcus’s stories, 
fifteen middle-aged 
male protagonists 
who seem painfully 
aware of the fact 
that their lives are 
not at all turning 
out as they would 
have hoped. Marcus, 
the author of three novels including The 
Flame Alphabet and the winner of three 
Pushcart Prizes, finds his own place 
among such bleakly sardonic storytellers 
as Kafka, Beckett and the Coen brothers. 
His characters are often pathetic, utterly 
failing to communicate and disgusted 
with the shortcomings of language and of 
their own bodies. If they happen to fall in 
love, it is “through several mutual mis-
understandings.” 
The stories begin in a familiar and 
disappointing modern world — a di-
vorced dad finds his cubicle at work 
overtaken by interns, a middle-aged son 
watches British mystery-dramas on PBS 
and cannot forget about his mother’s 
mortality. Marcus’s voice feels grippingly 
vivid and current; he doesn’t try anything 
fancy with his sentences (save for one 
sentence which goes on for six pages yet 
miraculously manages not to be annoy-
ing). Here and there, Marcus points out 
small sensations of daily existence which 
we might never before have noticed. 
As his stories progress, the recog-
nizable world and the forms of language 
themselves begin to dissolve, and the 
characters waver between struggling to 
survive and wishing to disappear. The 
reader is left alone without sign posts, 
only grounded in the recurrent rhythms 
of the stories and in the glimpses of sug-
gestion which make these wildly violent 
dystopias seem strangely similar to the 
reality we swim in every day. “We know 
nothing about the future,” the characters 
of one story remember from a sort of 
gymnasium turned bomb-shelter — “we 
know very little for sure at all.” 
The reader is as lost as the charac-
ters, and often frustrated and exhausted 
by the tediums of the everyday and by 
the devastating awareness that human 
life might be nothing more than a mis-
take. “I would have gills,” thinks one of 
the narrators, “if I were something better 
that had never tried to leave the sea.” But 
one keeps reading, I think, because every 
so often, even as Thomas inches for what 
feels like a thousand years worth of over-
wrought anxiety down the office hallway 
towards the beautiful, indifferent col-
league at the coffee cart — every so of-
ten, one miraculously finds a moment of 
peace. 
Leaving the sea
by Ben Marcus
“It is everything you want 
theatre to be. It’s stylistic, 
full of action and great cho-
reographed sequences, full 
of a lot of good questions 
and full of a lot of heart and 
passion.”
-Andrew w. smith ’97.5
visiting assistant professor of theater
On the surface, A Clockwork Orange 
is a standard dystopian text, in the same 
line as classics such as Huxley’s Brave 
New World. It is complete with suitably 
wicked teenage males, beautiful young 
women and gratuitous violence. It is not 
so simple though; it is an intricate work. 
It is freedom and choice, not violence, 
teenage rebellion, good and evil, social 
pathology, nor high adventure that is at 
the heart of this work. 
Written by Anthony Burgess, A 
Clockwork Orange was first published 
in 1962 and then adapted into a film by 
Stanley Kubrick in 1971. The film was a 
success and, despite being quite contro-
versial, it has become iconic. Burgess felt 
that the film glorified sex and violence in 
a manner that detracted attention from 
the core theme of 
his novella — choice. 
So repulsed was 
Burgess that, in re-
sponse to it, he pub-
lished a revised ver-
sion in 1987 which 
focused the lens 
more on his core 
theme of choice. It 
is this central mes-
sage that Visiting 
Assistant Professor 
of Theatre Andrew 
W. Smith ’97.5 has 
aimed to capture 
in directing the College’s production, an 
adaptation of the novella scheduled to be 
performed on Thursday, Friday and Sat-
urday April 10-12.
“It is everything that you want theatre 
to be,” Smith said. “It’s stylistic, full of ac-
tion and great choreographed sequences, 
full of a lot of good questions and full of 
a lot of heart and passion. There is a lot 
of music, light and a sense of pageantry. 
There is a whole lot to it.”
Smith believes that part of the rea-
son he selected A Clockwork Orange as 
the text for the production is that it is an 
expressionist piece and he is interested in 
that style and the creativity that it inher-
ently brings to the process and, ultimate-
ly, the product.
“Expressionism is a certain kind 
of style that, in essence, tells the story 
through the eyes of the main character,” 
he said. “Many of the stylistic choices 
have to do with how the other characters 
interact with him, or what they are block-
ing. Their behavior or actions are filtered 
through the lens of what it feels like to the 
main character [Alex]. That was certainly 
a point of interest in choosing the novella 
for the script,” said Smith.
The production’s aim is not just to 
convey the central message, but to lead to 
discussion and ask questions.
“I really believe and appreciate the-
atre that asks questions more than pro-
vide answers and that is what I am hoping 
will happen with this show,” Smith said.
While choice is the main message, 
Smith is aware of the intrinsic violence 
in the story but urges the audience to be 
alert to the distinction between the film 
and the novella.
“It is crucial to 
separate the movie 
and the novella,” he 
said. “Our produc-
tion focuses more on 
the novella. Still, it is 
a show that is full of 
fight choreography; 
there are probably 
15 different fights 
that involve huge 
numbers of the cast. 
We affectionately 
refer to it as a fight 
show with a little bit 
of text, but that is 
not to underplay the value of the text it-
self which has a very high level of poetry 
to it.”
Language is certainly a prominent 
feature of the text because it uses Nasdat, 
which is an invented language created by 
Antony Burgess.
“It [Nasdat] is essentially a mixture 
of Russian and English, which, at the 
time up to this, are the two most politi-
cally powerful languages,” Smith said. 
“The result is a very poetical language.”
The political significance of merging 
these two languages, given the context of 
the political tension that existed when 
the novella was written, is unmistakable 
to anyone familiar with the history of the 
Cold War. The use of Nasdat is even more 
important within the story because it is 
an impenetrable language spoken by the 
youth. It is incomprehensible to judges, 
government and all forms of authority in 
whatever guise that they are presented.
Smith is working with a total of 28 
talented actors, stage manager Katie 
Preston ’17, assistant stage managers 
Adam Rivera ’17 and Aashna Aggarwal 
’16, and between 15 and 20 students in 
technical supporting roles. 
A lot of time went into making the 
production possible.
“We rehearse every day for the maxi-
mum number of hours possible, which 
is an average of 24 hours a week,” Smith 
said.
As the performance date looms ever 
nearer, the cast and crew have been re-
hearsing for an average of 30 hours a 
week.
“The time commitment is truly im-
pressive,” he said.
Steven Medina ’17, one of the ac-
tors, conveyed excitement for the upcom-
ing performances. He expressed that his 
sense of drive is predicated on working 
with a group of people that care for and 
supportive of each other, as well as his ar-
dent love for theater.
“Honestly, we are all thrilled to be to-
gether,” Medina said.” At times, rehears-
als get really stressful, especially when I 
have to study and do homework for other 
classes. I keep moving forward because 
this camaraderie means a lot to me and I 
have a huge passion for theatre. Andrew 
is great and when he directs us, I know he 
really cares about not only the show, but 
our wellbeing and how we are developing 
as actors. I love these guys and soon our 
hard work will pay off, which is probably 
what most of us are waiting to test.”
The show will be nothing short of a 
dazzling phenomenon.
“The show combines the element of 
heart with spectacle, brilliant language 
and a great text – and that is something 
quite rare. It should be entertaining and 
hopefully thought-provoking,” Smith 
said.
Performances will be held in Wright 
Memorial Theatre at 8:30 p.m. on Thurs-
day, Apr. 10 and 7:30 p.m. on Friday, Apr. 
11 and Saturday, Apr. 12. Tickets are $6 
for students and are available at the Box 
Office. There will also be a discussion of 
the production after the Friday perfor-
mance with the director, cast and manag-
ers.
april 10, 2014 | 18arts SCIENCES
BY ALI LEWIS
Clockwork Orange Promises Excitement
By Mthobisi Sibandze
b0oking it
courtesy
Actors Kean Haunt ’17, Leah Sarbib ’15.5, Adam Milano ’15 and Kevin Cammarn ’16. 
nolan ellsworth
 | April 10, 2014  19Advertising  | April 10, 2014
8x10
1YEAR
MASTER’S
IN
EARN YOUR
www.merrimack.edu/graduate
978-837-5073
LEARN MORE. APPLY TODAY.
www.merrimack.edu/graduate
Now accepting for:  
Summer and Fall 2014
NO 
STAND
ARDIZE
D 
TEST S
CORES
 
REQUIR
ED.
• Accelerated one-year or part-time formats
• Co-op, internship, and networking opportunities
• Scholarships and financial aid
• Competitive tuition
• No standardized test scores required
• No application fee
• Assistantship and Fellowship programs
• Just 25 miles north of Boston
NORTH ANDOVER, MA
GRADUATE PROGRAMS IN:
 - Management
 - Engineering
 - Education - Licensure Programs
 - Higher Education
 - Community Engagement
 - Education General Studies
TAKE YOUR EDUCATION A STEP FURTHER AND DEVELOP 
ADVANCED SKILLS CRITICAL FOR PROFESSIONAL SUCCESS.
 
 20AdvertisementsApril 10, 2014 | 
April 10, 2014| SPORTS 21
Track Teams Hit Early-Season Stride
Like several other spring sports 
teams, the Middlebury track team began 
its outdoor schedule over Spring Break 
with two meets at Point Loma Nazarene 
University in San Diego, CA, competing 
against a variety of West Coast schools 
in a pair of meets. Upon returning to 
the Northeast, the Panthers continued 
their season on Saturday, April 5 in a 
dual meet at Springfield, handing in a 
decisive victory on both the men’s and 
women’s sides. 
The first meet at Point Loma, the Ross 
and Sharon Irwin Meet, on March 22, 
brought an exciting start to the season 
when Lauren Pincus ’14 broke the school 
record in the javelin, a mark that had 
stood for thirteen years. Pincus’s toss of 
140’ 9”, good for a second place finish in 
the event, beat out the existing mark of 
139’ 11”. 
“I took last year off to recover 
from elbow reconstructive surgery, so 
my main goal for the season was to 
successfully return to competing for the 
team,” Pincus said of her season. “I was 
surprised and thrilled when I realized 
I had broken the school record. It was 
the ideal way to start the season. It is 
extremely difficult to obtain those sorts 
of long distance throws in cold and windy 
Vermont, so it was important to me to 
take advantage of the warm California 
weather and get a distance that would 
hopefully qualify me for NCAAs. I’m 
excited to keep improving throughout 
the season, and hopefully break my own 
record a few more times.” 
Other standouts for the Panthers 
included the trio of top-five finishes in 
the 1500 meters from Erzsie Nagy ’17, 
Alison Maxwell ’15 and Summer Spillane 
’15, who took second, third and fourth, 
respectively. 
For the men, Wilder Schaaf ’14.5 took 
home the victory in the 1500 meters, 
where he ran a time of 3:54.78, while 
Jake Wood ’15 took second in the 400 
hurdles in 55.87 and Kevin Chu ’14 took 
fourth in the 110 hurdles in 15.48. 
The following Saturday, Mar. 29, 
the Panthers were back in action at the 
Point Loma Invitational. On the men’s 
side, Schaaf once again turned in a solid 
performance, taking second in the 800 
meters in a time of 1:55.53, Wood saw 
another successful weekend in the 400 
hurdles when he crossed the line in first 
with a time of 55.21. 
In the field events, Jason McCallum 
’14 took home the victory in the pole 
vault with his mark of 14’ 11”, also taking 
second on the track with a time of 10.98 
in the 100 meters. 
Kevin Wood ’15 also produced a 
decisive victory on a day that brought 
many high finishes for the Panther 
squad, winning the 5,000 meters with a 
time of 14:54.16. 
On the women’s side, Hannah 
Blackburn ’17 finished with a trio of 
top five results on the day, taking third 
in both the long and triple jumps and 
fourth in the 100 hurdles. Spillane took 
second in the 3000-meter steeplechase 
with a time of 11:15.82, with Panther 
teammates behind her in third, fourth 
and fifth. 
Not to be outdone, Pincus followed up 
her record-breaking performance with a 
win in the javelin, posting a mark of 135’ 
7”. 
“I think that there were a lot of really 
strong performances at the California 
meets,” Pincus said of both meets at 
Point Loma. “It is a very tough week 
training-wise, with practice twice a day, 
and difficult workouts. The combination 
of the travel and the hard training makes 
these meets especially challenging, so I 
was impressed with the team’s distances, 
heights and times.”
On Saturday April 5, the Panthers 
took to the track and field at Springfield 
in an entirely different climate, battling 
a cold and windy afternoon as they 
went head-to-head with the host Pride. 
Despite the less-than-optimal conditions 
at Springfield, several competitors on 
both the men’s and women’s side turned 
in fast times, big throws and stellar jump 
marks. 
On the women’s side, the day brought 
an impressive 17 victories in 19 contested 
events. Blackburn continued her season 
with three victories on the day, running 
15.43 for the 100 hurdles and jumping 
35’ 1.75” in the triple jump and 17’5” in 
long jump.
“I was really happy with my [personal 
best mark] in the long jump at Point 
Loma, but my favorite result was this 
past weekend’s 100m hurdles race,” 
Blackburn said. “The hurdles is my 
favorite event and that was the first 
time it felt really natural and fluid this 
season.” 
Other victories included Maxwell’s 
performance in the 5,000 meters where 
she ran a time of 17:52.20 and Lauren 
Henry’s ’16 12.92 performance in the 
100-meter dash. All in all, the women 
beat the Pride with a final total of 125-
70. 
The Panther men were victorious in 
11 events, totaling a final score of 100 
compared to Springfield’s 85. Event 
winners included McCallum in the pole 
vault with a mark of 15’ 1”, veteran Bryan 
Holtzman ’14 in the 100 meters in 11.03, 
first-year sprint standout Alex Nichols 
’17 in the 200 meters in 22.84 and Sam 
Klockenkemper ’17 in the steeplechase 
in 10:18. Jake Wood ’15 continued his 
dominance in the 400-meter hurdles, 
crossing the finish line first in a time of 
55.91.
“The team performed really well 
overall at Springfield,” Blackburn said. 
“It was a hard day because of the cold 
and the wind, but we still managed to 
compete at a high level.”
In the eyes of Head Coach Martin 
Beatty, one of the highlights from the 
meet at Springfield was his team’s 
performance in relay events, in which 
they defeated the host Pride in both 
races on both the men’s and women’s 
side.
“I like the way the team is looking,” 
head coach Martin Beatty said of the 
start to the season. “Both the men’s team 
and the women’s team are strong, and 
it’s exciting to be back outside.” 
The Panthers return to action on 
Saturday, April 12 at West Point, 
where they will match up with strong 
Division-I and III competition. After a 
final tuneup the following weekend at 
the University of Albany, Middlebury 
will travel to Colby on April 26 for the 
NESCAC championships, the focal point 
of the Panthers’ regular season.
For those who qualify, the season then 
includes a slew of championship meets, 
culminating in the NCAA championships 
on the final weekend of May.
By Fiona Maloney-McCrystle
8
Baseball
Until they start winning, it’ll 
be the eighth slot for the boys.
1
RANKING TEAM
Fritz’s Fancies
2
Women’s Lacrosse
As long as they keep winning, 
they’ll keep being number one 
in my book.
Men’s Lacrosse
The men are starting to play 
to the level that we got used to 
seeing last year.
3
Men’s Tennis
They are looking like they’ll 
compete in the NESCAC this 
season.
4 
Track and Field
Will face a sharp test this 
weekend at Army.
5 Women’s TennisThis team is really good, but 
they’re yet to come through in 
a big match.
7
Golf
Haven’t played yet, but who 
cares?
6
Softball
I’d love to see a series win 
against Wesleyan.
the middlebury
great  eight
10-7 W
2-1 W
5-4 W 
3-0 L
panther sc0reboard
Women’s Lacrosse vs. Bates  7-6 W 
An impressive second-half 
comeback for the lady Panthers.
First NESCAC series win after 
momentum going.
These boys are looking pretty 
unstoppable right at the 
moment.
Something needs to click for 
this team.
men’s Lacrosse  vs. Bates  
Softball vs. Amherst 
Men’s Tennis vs. Gustavus Adolphus
Baseball vs. Wesleyan
Despite the efforts of Joe MacDonald ’16, Cooper Byrne ’15 and 
John Luke ’16 (clockwise from upper left), the Middlebury base-
ball team has fallen on hard times, running their current winless 
streak to seven with a trio of losses on the road at conference foe 
Wesleyan on April 4 and 5. After the sweep, Middlebury falls 
to 2-11 on the season. The Panthers look to right the ship this 
weekend, April 11 and 12, when they travel to Hamilton for a 
three-game NESCAC series against the host Continentals. 
Jeff patterson
BASEBALL LOSING STREAK RUNS TO SEVEN WITH SERIES SWEEP AT WESLEYAN
The Middlebury men’s lacrosse team 
looks apt to turn around their early-
season futility, winning four of the past 
five games against strong competition. 
This streak started against NESCAC rival 
Bowdoin on March 22, a game which 
they won convincingly 10-4. 
Though had a setback in their 14-
12 loss to Endicott on March 25, the 
team has since gotten back on track 
with a three-game winning streak. 
They squeezed out a tough one against 
Amherst 8-7 on March 29, had a 
somewhat routine win on the road 
at Hamilton 12-6 four days later and 
defeated Bates 10-7 on Saturday, April 
5 to improve their conference record to 
4-3 and their overall record to 5-5. 
With their win over Bowdoin, 
Middlebury earned their long-awaited 
first win against a NESCAC school of the 
2014 season.
A scoreless stretch of over 41 
minutes from Bowdoin’s offense helped 
Middlebury cross the finish line in front. 
In addition, nine consecutive goals 
from Jon Broome ’16, Tim Giarrusso 
’16 and Stephen Seymour ’14 helped the 
Panthers keep the pressure on Bowdoin. 
Panther goalkeeper and team captain 
Nate Gaudio ’14 made a season-high 19 
saves during the game. 
Middlebury then battled against 17th-
ranked Endicott at Brown University but 
came up short 12-14. The game came 
down to the wire but Endicott was able to 
score three late goals in the final 2:30 of 
the game. Broome performed well once 
again, helping put four points on the 
board for Middlebury. Jack DeFrino ’17 
and Cal Williams ’15 helped Middlebury 
keep it close by adding four and five 
ground balls, respectively. 
The intense rivalry between 
Middlebury and Amherst did not 
disappoint during the Panthers’ 8-7 
clutch victory over the 18th-ranked Lord 
Jeffs. With the win, Middlebury halted 
Amherst’s five-game win streak and also 
posted their second NESCAC conference 
victory. 
The highlight of the game for 
Middlebury was the team’s strong 
defensive play, as they limited Amherst 
to just seven goals, well below the 
Lord Jeffs’ season average of 15 goals. 
Sophomore Jack Rautiola ’16 stood out 
for the Panthers on the offensive end, 
scoring three of Middlebury’s eight goals 
on the afternoon. 
With the Panthers back in action four 
days later, a 12-6 win over Hamilton in 
a midweek contest gave Middlebury a 
third consecutive NESCAC win. 
Six consecutive goals in the second 
half helped Middlebury put away the 
competition. Jack Cleary ’16 led the 
Panthers with three goals and fellow 
sophomore Broome contributed another 
two. Seymour also added two goals to 
pace the Panthers over Hamilton. 
In their fourth successive NESCAC 
victory, the Panthers defeated Bates 
10-7. Rautiola helped the Panthers 
with three goals and Cleary scored two. 
Rautiola’s hat-trick during the fourth 
quarter gave his team a gap that the 
Bobcats could not overcome. 
Middlebury held a 40-37 advantage 
in shots over Bates for the game. 
The Panthers also picked up four 
more ground balls and committed 
fewer turnovers in order to maintain 
consistent pressure on the offensive end 
throughout the afternoon.
Four games remain in the Panthers’ 
regular season, including home 
matchups against Skidmore on April 19 
and against Williams on April 23. The 
men hope to keep their win streak alive 
and carry their positive momentum into 
the NESCAC tournament, which kicks 
off at the end of April. 
Next up for Middlebury is a road 
matchup against Trinity on Saturday, 
April 12. A win over the Bantams 
would set up the Panthers nicely for a 
potential home game in the conference 
quarterfinals.
disappointing for the Panthers, Morgan 
believes it motivated them as well. 
“They’re fired up and ready to see 
them again,” Morgan said. 
The team continues their season on 
April 11 with a game against Emory at 
noon.
The Middlebury men’s tennis team, 
meanwhile, proved victorious in their 
first home game after a 6-2 record in its 
round of spring break games in Georgia. 
The 10th-ranked Panthers started off 
their spring break trip strong on March 
23 and 24 with a trio of wins against 
Sewanee (7-2), Oglethorpe University (9-
0) and Shorter University (7-2). Key wins 
by doubles team Alex Johnston ’14 and 
Andrew Lebovitz ’14 and singles players 
Ari Smolyar ’16, Allen Jackson ’16, and 
Zach Bruchmiller ’14 contributed to all 
three wins. 
The team’s first loss came in their face-
off against NAIA powerhouse Georgia 
Gwinnett on March 25, losing 7-2. The 
24th-ranked doubles team of Johnston 
and Lebovitz played 
an exciting match 
to garner one of 
two points, while 
Smolyar defeated 
Grizzly Hernan 
Hatem in straight 
sets to grab the 
second point. 
The men 
recovered from 
the loss with no 
trouble, grabbing a 
pair of wins against 
Georgia Perimeter 
and ninth-ranked 
Kenyon on March 26 and 28. 
The Panthers continued the trip with 
a much-anticipated game against Emory. 
Johnston and Lebovitz scored one point 
in doubles for the Panthers, with another 
coming from an exciting game by doubles 
team Brantner Jones ’14 and Palmer 
Campbell ’16. In singles play, Panthers 
Campbell, Jones and Johnston suffered 
tough losses, while Smolyar and Jackson 
Frons ’16 scored a pair of points to bring 
the score to 4-5 in favor of Emory. 
The Panthers followed the loss with 
a 7-2 win over North Carolina Wesleyan 
on March 29, ending the 
spring break trip on a 
positive note. 
They then returned 
to Middlebury to face 
18th-ranked Gustavus 
Adolphus on Friday, 
April 4. The Panthers 
were unfazed returning 
to indoor play, proving 
victorious over the 
Gusties 5-4. 
Middlebury started 
off the game with 2 
doubles wins by top-
ranked pair Jones and 
Campbell and duo Smolyar and Peter 
Heidrich ’15. Johnston and Lebovitz 
fell to their opponents. With wins by 
Johnston, Jones and Campbell, the 
Panthers clinched a tough win to bring 
their record to 9-2. 
The Panthers next play at Williams on 
April 11.
| April 10, 201422 sports
Men’s Lacrosse Turns the Corner
Men’s Tennis Climbs to 9-2, Williams Tops Women
“One of the reason you 
go out there is to play 
against some top-10 
teams.”
mike morgan
women’s Head Coach
CONTINUED FROM 24
OVER
Alex, though your vernacular 
regarding bat and ball sports is 
suspect, I must agree. It would be 
“home runs ‘hit’”.
YES
Go B’s!
Joe macdonald (27-34, .443)
Over/Under: Ten runs scored for the 
Softball team against Wesleyan
Will the Boston Bruins remain on 
top of the NHL Eastern Conference 
after Sunday?
Who will score the lowest for the 
women’s golf team in their season 
opener at Vassar?
Who will win the men’s London 
Marathon?
OVER
In 2nd grade I held the record for 
most home-runs scored in little-
league. So yeah.
YES
answer... #whatishockey
MONICA CHOW ’16
It’s the Masters this weekend 
you say? Ain’t got nothing on the 
Middlebury golf team.
WILSON KIPSANG
I’ve eagerly awaiting this event. 
Wait, I’m the only one? Cool.
WILSON KIPSANG
Though I’ll be watching to see 
marathon.
MONICA CHOW ’16
I’m just agreeing with Alex on 
everything because usually she’s 
right and I’m wrong.
WILSON KIPSANG
No comment.
editors’ picks
OVER
Cool story, Alex.
YES
They’re up eight on the Pens. Not 
even the Bruins could blow this one.
JORDAN GLATT ’15
this course a year ago, I think the 
junior takes it.
Alex Morris (32-28, .533)
Fritz Parker (32-37, .464)
Paul GERARD
The men’s tennis team squeaked out a 5-4 win over Gustavus Adolphus on April 4.
Michael O’hara
April 10, 2014| 23SPORTS
Softball Smacks Jeffs in Weekend Road Rout
The Middlebury softball team began its 
season in Clermont, Florida over spring 
break and returned to the northeast with 
a 6-6 record. After defeating conference 
series, the Panthers are second in the 
of the season by losing to Wellesley in the 
season opener 14-3 and then shutting out 
Kelsey Martel ’15 each had three hits on 
combined for the shutout in the night cap. 
Middlebury split again on day two of 
eight innings and losing to Wisconsin-
game of the twinbill, Concordia knotted 
the score at 4 in the bottom of the sixth to 
force extra innings. The Panthers pushed 
three across in the eighth to secure the win. 
The second game of the doubleheader was 
even more exciting. The game remained 
scoreless through seven innings. Wisc.-
tie-breaking rule, Alex Scibetta ’14 began 
the bottom of the eighth on second base, 
and was singled home by Kimber Sable 
’14 to tie the ball game. Unfortunately, 
Middlebury allowed two runs in the ninth 
and could not score any runs in the bottom 
half. Stearns pitched eight innings of one-
run ball in the contest.
The Panthers rattled off two wins on 
Middlebury continued its winning ways 
with an easy 14-3 victory over Rochester 
each gathered three hits in the blowout. 
hit effort from Freyre and four effective 
innings from Stearns in relief.
for the shutout, with Morris getting her 
third win and Stearns her second save of 
the young season.
The trip ended on a sour note however, 
day, Middlebury dropped a pair, starting 
After a handful of rainouts, Middlebury 
traveled to western Massachusetts to 
Panthers claimed the series opener on 
was dominant, throwing a no-hitter and 
earning her fourth win of the year. The 
the game was over,” Morris said of the no-
game was crucial for our morale.”
Middlebury was victorious again in 
by a score of 4-1, as Stearns allowed just 
one run through four innings and Morris 
from the day before with three shutout 
got the best of the Panthers with a 6-1 win 
in the nightcap, as Middlebury managed 
just six hits and committed three errors.
“Winning the series this weekend put 
us into a great spot in-conference and 
that we’re also conscious that we need to 
continue to work hard in order to meet our 
potential for this season.”
schedule with a series against Wesleyan at 
home this weekend.
By Joe MacDonald
Middlebury Cyclists Keep The Wheels Turning
The Middlebury Cycling Team has 
quietly become a powerhouse. 
After the fall mountain bike season 
and the winter cyclocross season, it’s 
now time for road racing. The highlight 
when Sam O’Keefe ’16.5 rode to second 
the two-month spring season, and in 
that time, nine Middlebury riders have 
competed in races in Philadelphia and 
wins, two second-place finishes, and 
a fourth-place finish. With only these 
results, Middlebury is currently ranked 
schools.
Collegiate cycling is unique in that any 
student from any school on the east coast 
Road, mountain, cyclocross and track 
cycling all have their own seasons. 
based on each of the five categories - 
of the level of competition. 
to start bike racing, or even just to get 
a taste of what the pros do in the Tour 
de France; each race is preceded by a 
clinic with a veteran coach who guides 
new cyclists through the technicalities 
of racing with other competitors. From 
there, racers work their way up through 
the categories by accumulating points 
from good results in each respective 
field. 
The most elite category, the A 
category, frequently sees professional 
and nationally-acclaimed riders. 
professionally paid athletes are 
permitted to compete at all collegiate 
events. At the end of the two-month 
road season that features events around 
the northeast, the top men and women 
to nationals, where they compete against 
other collegiate teams from across the 
country.
This year, Middlebury Cycling, one 
of the oldest and most productive sports 
teams at the College, is stacked with a 
diverse and talented group of racers.
cycling when she got to Middlebury, 
but she had never considered racing 
until a couple friends on the team 
first intercollegiate cycling weekend on 
the front of the pack, with only one rider 
from Temple University able to stay on 
she exacted her revenge during Sunday’s 
criterium, breaking away from the main 
field on the first lap and winning the race 
by nearly a minute.
That same weekend, Kai Wiggins ’16.5 
A category. They targeted Sunday’s 
split from the main field. Wiggins 
attacked the breakaway relentlessly, 
University left the group behind entirely. 
On the last lap, Wiggins powered away 
from his companion to take a definitive 
victory.
O’Keefe rode like a lion throughout the 
race, countering moves and riding at the 
front of the pack, but with five laps to 
half of the course. O’Keefe slipped off 
the front of the pack to let the others 
try to chase his teammate down, but 
captured another second-place finish for 
Middlebury Cycling.
the Mount Philo Road Race and to the 
conference championship in Providence, 
team is also planning to send a small 
contingent of members to the U.S. 
The cycling team is always looking 
for new members, and anyone interested 
should send an email to cycling@
middlebury.edu, or just flag down 
someone in spandex.
By Zack Isaacs and Jake Barker
Matthew lasala
4 
6
Unanswered goals scored by women’s 
lacrosse in the second half of the Bates 
game in order to overcome a late 
Events won by the men’s track 
Ranked opponents faced by women’s 
final watched by sports editors on 
11
0
by the Numb3rs
4
After recording a 6-2 record 
in their spring-break trip to 
California, the women’s tennis 
team returned to their home 
court to play sixth-ranked 
Williams in Nelson Arena on 
Sunday, April 6, losing 7-2. 
The women began their 
spring break trip on March 22 
with a tough loss to Pomona-
Pitzer, their lone point coming 
in singles from a straight sets 
win by senior Dorrie Paradies 
’14. 
According to Coach Mike 
Morgan, the Panthers’ loss 
“affected them in a positive 
way,” helping them prepare for 
the next matches mentally and 
physically. 
The Panthers had to adjust 
to the time difference as well as 
playing on outdoor courts. They 
improved their record in the next 
match with an 8-1 win on March 
23 against UC-Santa Cruz. The 
Panthers won all six singles 
matches in straight sets and two 
out of three doubles matches to 
win the game handily. 
They continued the trip with 
a tough loss March 25 against 
fifth-ranked Claremont-Mudd-
Scripps. The Panthers garnered 
two of three doubles points with 
wins by duos Ria Gerger ’16 / 
Kaysee Orozco ’17, and Lauren 
Amos ’16 / Margot Marchese ’16. 
In singles play, Alexandra Fields 
’17 and Sadie Shackelford ’16 
scored points for the Panthers, 
but it wasn’t enough to win the 
match. The Panthers fell 4-5 to 
CMS to bring their record to 4-2. 
Morgan believes that this was 
their most challenging game of 
the series.
“Claremont is certainly a 
strong team and we needed to 
play well in that one,” Morgan 
said. 
Despite the loss, Morgan 
thinks that this game was just 
what the team was looking for 
in a schedule filled with strong 
opponents. 
“One of the reasons you go 
out there is to play against some 
of the top ten teams,” he said. 
The Panthers finished the 
trip strong on March 27 and 28 
with 8-1 wins over Westmont 
and 12th-ranked University of 
Chicago, ending the trip with a 
6-2 record. 
In addition to their games on 
the trip, the Panthers had the 
opportunity to meet with a sports 
psychologist and members of 
the Olympic volleyball team, an 
experience Coach Morgan found 
particularly valuable because 
the team was able to discuss 
“some of the things we’ve talked 
about all year with someone 
who had a little bit of an outside 
perspective.” 
The Panthers continued 
their season on Sunday, April 6 
with a match against NESCAC 
rival, sixth-ranked Williams. 
The Panthers fell to the Ephs 
2-7, with their points coming 
from number-two singles win 
by Fields and a hard-fought 
win by doubles team Amos and 
Marchese. 
Though the loss was 
After earning a number of key 
wins against very competitive 
teams both in the NESCAC 
and outside the conference, the 
Middlebury women’s lacrosse 
team has continued to show their 
talent and potential as the team 
moves towards the second half of 
the season, achieving a 9-1 record 
against a tough slate of opponents.
The Panthers, now ranked 
strung together 
a series of 
commanding wins 
over spring break, 
defeating Bowdoin 
14-6 at home, 
with Liza Herzog 
’14 leading the 
points, followed 
by Katie Ritter ’15, 
Bridget Instrum 
’16 and Mary 
O’Connell ’17 each 
contributing four 
points. 
Herzog was named NESCAC 
player of the week for her 
performance against Bowdoin. 
Following the Bowdoin game, 
the Panthers travelled down to 
West Palm Beach, Fl. where they 
defeated Rochester Institute of 
Technology 19-4 for Head Coach 
Missy Foote’s 400th win over the 
course of a 34-season career with 
the program. Following their trip 
to Florida, Middlebury headed 
north to play fourth-ranked 
Franklin & Marshall in Lancaster, 
Penn. 
Despite the close proximity 
of the two teams in rankings, 
the Panthers dominated the 
Diplomats, winning by a score of 
14-5. Sophomore Laurel Pascal 
’16 led the Panthers in their 
on eight shots, supported by a pair 
of goals and three assists from 
Ritter.
Middlebury’s undefeated 
record, however, was ended the 
following game in a 11-10 loss to 
third-ranked Amherst. 
and falling 
behind 0-5 
to the Lord 
Jeffs within 
minutes of 
the game, 
Middlebury 
s l o w l y 
clawed their 
way back 
by scoring 
three goals 
in the last 
few minutes 
half, and four 
unanswered goals in the second 
half. After taking a 9-8 lead off 
six minutes into the second half, 
Middlebury went goal for goal 
with Amherst, until Amherst’s 
Elizabeth Ludlow scored with 3:35 
left in the game to give her team 
the conference win. 
Despite this loss, Middlebury 
was able to defeat Hamilton 
11-8 with seven straight goals to 
come back from behind this past 
Wednesday, April 2.
On Saturday, the Panthers took 
on the 14th-ranked Bates Bobcats, 
who had earlier in the season 
defeated perennial NESCAC 
powerhouse Trinity. 
game with two goals from Wally 
Pierce. Middlebury answered, 
however, with goals from Alli 
Sciarretta ’16 and O’Connell. Bates 
then proceeded to go on a three-
goal run to bring the score to 5-2 
going into the second half. 
from Pascal with 23 minutes left 
in the game. Bates answered with 
a goal from Kalleigh Maguire to 
put the score at 6-3 in favor of 
Bates. Middlebury did not relent, 
and after a goal from Sciarretta 
with 15 minutes left in the game, 
proceeded to stage a late-game 
comeback with three consecutive 
goals: two from Instrum and one 
from Catherine Lincoln ’16. 
“I think the Bates game was 
a big test for our team,” said 
Lincoln. “We were able to pull 
together under intense pressure 
and make some amazing things 
happen.”
Senior captain Alyssa Palomba 
’14 made several key saves in 
goal, ending the day with a save 
Middlebury was also able to hold 
off the Bobcats with stellar defense 
and key ground balls from senior 
defenders Hannah Deoul ’14 and 
Erin Benotti ’14. 
The Panthers now sit at 9-1 
overall and 6-1 in the NESCAC. 
They will play Cortland State 
at home on Thursday, April 10, 
followed by a matchup with 
conference foe Trinity at home on 
Saturday, April 12.
“Moving forward, I think we 
intensity and team work when we 
face Cortland and Trinity, who are 
both tough teams,” said Lincoln.
sports April 10, 2014 | 24
By Gabe Weissmann
SOFTBALL NOTCHES 
SERIES WIN OVER 
AMHERST
PAGE 23
TRACK EMERGES 
FROM SPRINGFIELD 
MEET VICTORIOUS
PAGE 21
Tennis Squads 
Rack Up Wins
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Women’s Lacrosse Rises 
Through the Ranks; Now 5th
By Emma McDonald
BACK IN IT
Paul GERARD
Men’s lacrosse has much to celebrate. 
After four straight conference wins, 
the Panthers look poised for a 
postseason run. 
SEE PAGE 22 FOR FULL COVERAGE.
SEE MEN’S, PAGE 22
“We were able to pull 
together under intense 
pressure and make 
some amazing things 
happen.”
Catherine Lincoln ’16
Attacker
