Atwater Senator Jigar Bhak-
ta ’18 resigned from his posi-
tion during the April 10 meet-
ing of the Student Government 
Association (SGA). 
Since his election to the Sen-
ate in a special election last 
fall, Bhakta felt that the SGA 
strayed from its true purpose as 
a body and became an activist 
organization.
“We were doing the activist 
organizations’ work for them, 
which I did not believe was 
right” Bhakta said. “It’s my im-
pression, from people I talk to, 
that we are not the social justice 
warriors that we think we are.” 
He cited two inclusivity 
bills, passed by the Senate on 
January 31 of this year, as an 
example of the SGA becoming 
more activist-oriented. The two 
bills called for statements of 
condemnation to be released 
by both the SGA and College 
President Laurie L. Patton in 
response to the College’s MLK 
Today Event and the contro-
versial comments of the late-
Supreme Court Justice Antonin 
Scalia. 
Bhakta does not believe that 
it is the role of the SGA to take 
on such issues. 
“There were [cultural] 
groups that did not support the 
inclusivity bills,” Bhakta said. 
“How can we do this on behalf 
of the campus when not every 
one of the groups that we are 
backing is backing us them-
selves?”  
As the bills were being delib-
erated on, Bhakta felt that voic-
es of dissent were unwelcomed 
in the discussion. 
“The Senate was a place 
where my opinions were defi-
nitely not welcome,” Bhakta 
wrote in an email to his for-
mer senate colleagues. “When 
it comes to campus topics like 
racial tensions, it was quite ap-
parent that SGA is a ‘hop on 
board fast’ sort of train, instead 
of a logical/rational discussion 
that actually represents what 
many students on campus (like 
myself) are afraid to say aloud 
because they’ll be shunned.”
It is Bhakta’s belief that the 
bills distracted from more im-
portant issues going on at that 
the time that the SGA could 
have been focusing on. 
Bhakta acknowledges that 
he did not voice his opinion 
until his resignation. He hopes 
that, in the future, other Senate 
members will be more active in 
sharing any dissenting views. 
“Hopefully it shows people 
that they’re not alone,” Bhakta 
said. 
Four students are running to 
serve as President of the Student 
Government Association (SGA) 
for the 2016-17 academic year. 
The Middlebury Campus met 
with the candidates to discuss 
their platforms and goals for the 
upcoming election. A debate be-
tween the candidates will be held 
on Thursday, April 14 at 7 p.m. 
in Crossroads Café, moderated 
by SGA Director of Membership 
Zak Fisher ’17 and Senior Sena-
tor Madeleine Raber ’16. Stu-
dents can vote online from noon 
on April 18 to noon on April 19.
Michael Brady ’17.5
Brady’s platform is centered 
around expanding current initia-
tives, fostering diversity and in-
clusion and creating new Middle-
bury traditions. 
A member of the SGA since 
his first semester, Brady has 
previously served as Chief of 
Staff, Speaker of the Senate and 
Feb Senator. Brady stated that, 
through these roles, he has built 
working relationships with se-
nior administrators and gained 
experience working with mem-
bers of the Senate.
“As a president, you have a lot 
of ability to get the wheels turn-
ing on change but you always 
need to be involving the Senate 
and keeping them on board,” 
Brady said. “[You need to] step 
back and be thoughtful as to what 
the student body would want.”
Working alongside Ilana 
Gratch ’16, Brady assisted with 
the creation and development of 
“10 o’clock Ross.” While he rec-
ognizes the success the program 
has had in its first year, he sees 
room for improvement. Citing a 
solid working relationship with 
dining services, Brady hopes to 
expand food options for the pro-
gram, with the goal of eventually 
having hot food served. 
Brady played a role in the cre-
ation of the student-run bar at 51 
Main. He views this initiative as 
one of the only places where stu-
dents can meet one another and 
wants to increase the number of 
such events.
“This past year, I’ve spoken 
with many students that noted 
there aren’t enough neutral spac-
es at Middlebury,” Brady said. 
“Both of these programs have the 
potential to help solve that prob-
lem.”
If elected, Brady will look for 
ways to make the SGA more in-
clusive. He proposes the creation 
of an additional senate seat to 
represent cultural organizations 
on campus. 
“I know creating a senate seat 
isn’t going to necessarily solve 
all of the problems — no senator 
can address all issues [faced by 
the different cultural organiza-
tions],” he said. “But it’s a step in 
the right direction.”
He wants to implement a re-
form system to have the consti-
tutions of all organizations re-
viewed every few years to reflect 
on the makeup of clubs and ex-
amine any barriers to entry that 
may be excluding students. 
Brady identifies another prob-
lem with the College; despite be-
ing over two hundred years old, 
the College does not have many 
traditions. Each year, the SGA 
is allotted a discretionary fund 
that, according to Brady, has typ-
ically been used for conferences 
and events for cabinet members. 
Brady hopes to use the fund to 
hold the very first “President’s 
Ball,” an annual, outdoor party 
held in the fall semester for all 
students.
Charles Rainey ’19
Rainey’s platform is grounded 
in constructing a more inclusive 
Middlebury, fostering a greater 
sense of community, address-
ing the funding of athletics and 
building upon existing SGA ini-
tiatives. 
Rainey currently serves as 
SGA First-Year Senator and has 
worked with other student orga-
nizations and senior administra-
tors to pass two inclusivity bills 
that he authored. Rainey believes 
he can create a new SGA that 
works for everyone. 
“I have the relationships to 
get the things we need done,” 
said Rainey. “I have the passion. 
I have the record. And I have the 
ideas.”
As president, Rainey would 
form a team comprised of facul-
ty, students and administrators 
to create a mandatory training 
program for all Residential Life 
staff members on how to deal 
with situations involving bias or 
discrimination.  He also wants 
to integrate the JusTalks initia-
tive with the First-Year Seminar 
Program to promote larger, more 
continuous conversations about 
inclusion.
“The lack of inclusion on this 
campus is the largest problem 
The College’s 10th annual 
Spring Student Symposium will 
take place tomorrow, Friday, April 
15. Featuring work from over 300 
students, the event will begin on 
Friday morning in McCardell Bi-
centennial Hall with a welcome 
address from President of the Col-
lege Laurie L. Patton. It will con-
clude with a celebratory reception 
Friday evening. 
As part of the celebration, the 
play “The Pitchfork Disney” will be 
performed at the Hepburn Zoo on 
both Thursday and Friday night, 
and the McCardell Bicentennial 
Hall Observatory will be open for 
stargazing on Friday night. 
In 2007, Professor of Geology 
Pat Manley and Associate Dean for 
Judicial Affairs and Student Life 
Karen Guttentag organized the 
first Spring Student Symposium. 
Since then, the event has “grown 
from a half-day event with about 
60 students to a full day, with work 
from hundreds of students,” said 
Lisa Gates, associate dean for fel-
lowship and research, and co-chair 
of the Spring Student Symposium 
Committee. Gates noted that “the 
Symposium itself offers students 
a rare opportunity to present their 
academic or creative work in a 
professional setting for the whole 
Middlebury community. It’s a way 
for them to share the ideas and 
lines of inquiry they’ve been pur-
suing and for us to celebrate the 
thoughtful and thought-provoking 
work our students engage in. I al-
ways finish the day feeling awed by 
By Elizabeth Sawyer
Conrtibuting Writer
SGA Candidates 
Talk Platforms
April 14, 2016 | Vol. 114 no. 21 | middleburycampus.com
‘I LOVE RUTLAND’ 
CAMPAIGN 
REDEFINES CITY
PAGE 4
STUPID F***ING 
BIRD BRINGS 
HUMOR TO 
UNSETTLING THINGS
PAGE 17
VENTURE CAPITALIST 
LAUNCHES COLLEGE 
STATEGY INITIATIVE 
PAGE 10in
sid
e
Students To Present 
at Spring Symposium
By Will DiGravio
Staff Writer
Garrett Borns performed as BØRNS in Chip Kenyon ’85 Arena on Saturday, April 9. See page 16. 
Michael o’Hara
COACHELLA-BOUND BØRNS STOPS AT MIDD FOR MCAB SPRING CONCERT 
Senator Drops SGA During meeting
By Will DiGravio
Staff Writer
SEE STUDENTS, PAGE 3SEE FOUR, PAGE 3
Daisy Williamson
This past weekend, six teams of 17 
students from the College competed in a 
DataFest challenge at St. Michael’s College 
in Burlington. Middlebury teams won priz-
es in all three categories: Best in Show, Best 
Visualization Runner-up and Best Business 
Recommendation Runner-Up. 
Albert Kim, assistant professor of math-
ematics at the College, spearheaded the 
event along with Philip Yates, an associate 
professor of mathematics at St. Michael’s. 
Kim is interested in a new field called 
data science, combining skills from a va-
riety of fields to make sense of large data 
sets. “In this new information age, we’re 
bombarded with all sorts of information, 
and we need people with both the computa-
tional and the mathematical and statistical 
skills to make sense of that,” he said.
“Instead of trying to build something, 
like a program, we’re instead trying to 
make analysis of this data,” Jonah Simon 
’18 said. Simon, Christian Lehner ’18.5 and 
Trisha Singh ’18 won the runner-up award 
for Best Visualization for their project.
The American Statistical Association 
(ASA) created DataFest events as “a cel-
ebration of data in which teams of under-
graduates work around the clock to find and 
share meaning in a large, rich and complex 
data set.” The first DataFest happened at 
UCLA in 2011; the DataFest at St. Michael’s 
this past weekend was one of many nation-
wide, with thousands of undergraduates 
competing annually for the best analysis of 
a chosen company’s data at colleges across 
the country, Germany and Canada. 
Starting Friday, April 8, teams of three 
to five had 48 hours to compile their con-
clusions from the data set into four content 
slides, which they then presented to the 
groups and judges on Sunday afternoon. 
The judges were Beth Anderson, city of 
Burlington chief innovation officer; Jeff 
Buzas, UVM department of mathematics 
and statistics chair and director of statistics 
and biostatistics programs; and Matthew 
Landis, data scientist at ISciences.  
Kim teaches courses in statistical sci-
ence, data science and statistics, but en-
courages students in the economics, physi-
cal and social science departments the 
opportunity to participate in the DataFest. 
Competitors from the Middlebury teams 
were comprised of math, neuroscience, 
economics, computer science and biology 
majors. 
The DataFest was a successful trial run 
for Kim. He plans to host a DataFest at 
Middlebury next year, inviting competitors 
from the Vermont and surrounding states, 
and bringing in outside help from gradu-
ate students and professionals from vari-
ous industries. “This is a very energetic and 
forward-thinking institution, and I’m very 
invigorated to be here,” said Kim. “This is 
something employers like to see. This is 
both fun and an opportunity to make your-
self a little more marketable.”
Photon, a student-built photo printing 
company, won MiddChallenge last Monday, 
April 11. After six hours of pitches judges 
awarded the $3,000 prizes to the top ideas in 
three categories: business, social enterprise 
and education and policy. 
MiddChallenge started in 2009 as an idea 
competition, originally named Stonehenge. 
The competition is hosted by Programs on 
Creativity and Innovation in the Liberal 
Arts (PCI). Although MiddChallenge was 
originally conceived as a contest for business 
ideas, it has expanded to include ideas in 
education, outreach and policy and social 
entrepreneurship. 
Two $3,000 grants are typically awarded 
per category, although this year, the judges 
split the second place prize into two $1,500 
prizes to acknowledge the potential of 
two runner-ups. Volunteer judges were 
selected from local staff, faculty, community 
members and alumni based on their relevant 
experiences. 
Contestants are judged on a number of 
criterion. “The best projects, or the most 
memorable winners, were the ones where 
the people presenting were clearly having fun 
and cared a lot about what they were trying 
to do,” student organizer Kate Robinson ’16 
said. “If you can be creative and have fun with 
your presentation while also making sure 
you’re clear and your idea is processed fully, 
then you’re golden,”
Photon was developed by Brandon Gell 
’16, Davin Chia ’17 and Sherif Nada ’16, who 
have already built a downloadable version 
of the app, complete with a yellow gnome 
serving as the company mascot.
Similar to a service like Shutterfly, Photon 
is a mobile app that allows users to print 
photos directly from their phone. Photos are 
printed at Kinney Drugs and then mailed to 
campus mailboxes. 
“The average person takes 150 photos a 
month,” Gell said. “With a smartphone it’s 
so easy to take pictures of everything. Photon 
seeks to bring some of that intentionality 
back into taking pictures by allowing people 
to print the pictures that matter the most to 
them.”
Judges believed Photon had the best 
business plan and vision. “It identifies 
something everyone wishes they did more 
of,” AJ Gruff said. “It also goes about it in a 
traditionally Middlebury way — by involving 
local businesses.”
The two second-place winners were 
Maryam Mahboob ’18 with her company, 
Mac and Choose, and Madison Brusman 
’18.5, who developed an “Assassins” mobile 
app, CatchMe. 
“It’s really important that I went through 
a program like MIDDCORE, where I got the 
idea, and received my crowd funding link on 
MIDDSTART,” Mahboob said. 
“There’s a culture of spitballing, of really 
wanting to elaborate on things and grow ideas 
bigger and talking about ideas that you know 
are never going to happen and then suddenly 
something clicks,” Gell said. “I think it has 
two parts: Coming up with the idea and then 
finding the right person to help you do it.”
| April 14, 20162 NEWS
By Nick Garber
Community Council Correspondent 
& Staff Writer
Community  
Council
On Tuesday, March 22, Community 
Council began its meeting with a 
presentation by Tim Spears, vice president 
for academic development and professor of 
American studies. Spears came to propose a 
potential pilot project to revise the College’s 
pet policy, specifically in regard to dogs.
Under the College’s current bylaws, 
faculty and staff are not allowed to keep 
dogs on campus. However, responding to 
community input, the administration has 
recently discussed allowing faculty and 
staff to bring their dogs to campus during 
business hours, provided that they register 
the dogs and receive permission from their 
supervisors.
“There are any number of positive 
reasons to be around dogs,” Spears said. 
“In bringing a dog to campus, we, in a funny 
way, humanize people … If I bring my dog 
to campus, and you see me with my dog, 
you come to understand me as a faculty 
member or administrator in a different sort 
of way.”
Several council members expressed 
concern that College custodial staff would 
be left with increased cleanup duties. 
Spears acknowledged the legitimacy of 
these concerns, but cited similar programs 
at institutions such as Amherst College, 
where faculty members are required to be 
completely responsible for their own pets.
The Council did not take a vote, as the 
intent behind Spears’s visit was simply to 
gauge the Council’s feelings on the matter.
Later in the meeting, the Council 
completed its discussion from the previous 
week on its list of possible solutions 
to student stress. The document was 
compiled by Emma Bliska ’18, and would 
be sent by the Council to the working 
group on stress established by President 
of the College Laurie L. Patton. After 
several amendments, including changing 
the proposal from an “endorsement” to 
a “formal recommendation,” the Council 
voted unanimously to approve the 
document.
During the next meeting on Tuesday, 
April 5, the Council welcomed Roberto 
Lint-Sagarena, associate professor of 
American studies and director of the 
Anderson Freeman Resource Center, who 
gave an update on the work of the Alliance 
for an Inclusive Middlebury.
Lint-Sagarena primarily discussed the 
Alliance’s upcoming website, which will 
include “a picture of who’s at Middlebury 
and how long they’re at Middlebury.” This 
information, Lint-Sagarena shared, is “the 
most difficult” aspect of the website.
Lint-Sagarena presented data to the 
Council showing the College’s retention 
rates for black students, overall students 
of color and all students. According to the 
data, six-year graduation rates for black 
students have generally increased over the 
past several years, rising from 69 percent 
during the 2005 cohort to 100 percent in 
2009. 
Other students of color maintained a 
relatively steady six-year graduation rate, 
finishing most recently at 94 percent. 
The rate for all students, meanwhile, was 
generally slightly higher, although the 
2009 figure of 94 percent was identical to 
that of students of color.
“This data has been mysterious for a 
very long time,” said Lint-Sagarena. “So 
we’re hoping to have this be the first step in 
transparency, so we can see where we are, 
where we’ve been, where we might be going 
and address any issues that might have 
negative consequences.”
Afterwards, Associate Dean of Students 
for Residential and Student Life Doug 
Adams gave a presentation on the biennial 
review of academic and special interest 
houses conducted by Residential Life. 
According to Adams, the committee 
approved 14 of the 17 houses this year with 
no stipulations. The remaining houses 
were given various stipulations regarding 
insufficient membership or possible 
changes to the house mission.
Photon Wins MiddChallenge
By Grant Olcott
Contributing Writer
Last Tuesday, April 12, Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer John H. White shared 
his story working as a photojournalist in Chicago with the College community.
Michael o’hara
PHOTOJOURNALIST JOHN H. WHITE SPEAKS AT MIDD
Datafest Arrives in Vermont
By Rae Aaron
Contributing Writer
The David K Smith ’42 Economics 
Symposium will take place Saturday, 
April 16 and is titled, “Economics of Skin 
Tone, Gender, Ethnicity and Diaspora.” 
The event was organized by Phanindra 
V. Wunnava, professor of economics 
and David K. Smith ‘42 chair in applied 
economics, and Vijaya L. Wunnava, the 
events coordinator for the economics 
department.  According to Phani 
Wunnava, the day-long symposium 
will cover “the most pressing issues of 
socioeconomic differentials based on 
skin color, gender, ethnicity and refuge 
status.”  
The symposium is dedicated to 
the memory of former Professor of 
Economics Robert E. Prasch III.  Prasch 
taught at the College from 2000 to 
2015. Wunnava fondly remembered 
conversations with his dear friend about 
economic inequality, and said Prasch is 
greatly missed by everyone at the College 
who had the opportunity to know him.  
 The day’s program will begin at 8:30 
a.m. in the Robert A. Jones ’59 House 
Conference Room with opening remarks 
from Wunnava. Over the course of the 
day, five papers will be presented and 
two keynote addresses will be given.  
Wunnava described the presenters 
as friends, colleagues and mentors. 
“Over the years, I have benefited 
immensely from my own mentors, and 
feel strongly that I should also take a 
lead role in mentoring my students,” 
Phani Wunnava said. His own students, 
Jana Parsons ’16, Hyeon-Seok Yu ’16 and 
Nathaniel Cleveland ’16.5, will moderate 
the sessions.
The guiding question of the first session 
is “Do we have a Color-Blind Economy?” 
Marcos A. Rangel, an economist from 
the Sanford School of Public Policy at 
Duke University and research affiliate 
with the Duke Population Research 
Institute, will present his paper, which 
explores the effect that skin color has 
on socioeconomic and demographic 
outcomes. Art Goldsmith, a professor 
of economics at Washington and Lee 
University, will present his paper on how 
the racial composition of high schools 
affects life outcomes. 
The first keynote address will be 
delivered by Professor Solomon W. 
Polachek following the first session. 
Polachek is a professor at Binghamton 
University whom Phani Wunnava 
described in an email as a “labor-
economics pioneer, and an authority on 
gender/racial wage differentials.” 
The second session will be guided by 
the question, “Are earnings converging 
across race and gender?” John S. 
Heywood is a professor of economics and 
the Director of the Graduate Program in 
Human Resources and Labor Relations at 
the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 
The paper he will present looks at gender 
and racial wage gaps. Joyce P. Jacobsen, 
professor of economics and the provost 
and vice president of Academic Affairs 
at Wesleyan University, will present her 
paper on the convergence of the work 
lives of men and women.  
The question guiding the third session 
will be “Who benefitted from the Civil 
Rights Act?” Harriet Duleep, a research 
professor at William and Mary’s Public 
Policy program, will present on how the 
earnings of Hispanic men were impacted 
by the Civil Rights Act. 
The final Keynote Address will be 
delivered by Klaus F. Zimmermann, the 
founding director of the Institute for 
the Study of Labor in Bonn, Germany. 
Zimmerman’s talk is titled “Diaspora 
Economics: Global Challenges and 
Perspectives.”
“In my view, our students and 
community members could benefit 
immensely by attending this 
symposium,” Phani Wunnava said. 
By Catherine Pollack
Contributing Writer
Econ Symposium 
Brings speakers
The College hosted a faculty-led discussion 
dinner about inclusivity on March 24. The 
meeting, which was co-led by Associate 
Professor of Education Studies Jonathan 
Miller-Lane and Associate Professor of 
History William Hart, is the first in a series of 
similar talks that are scheduled this semester 
as part of the wider, ongoing conversation 
about diversity and inclusivity on campus. 
“The purpose of the first ‘pizza chat’ about 
inclusivity and diversity was to hear what 
students had to say about these concepts; to 
invite students to speak freely to each other 
and to faculty and staff in a small, pressure-
free (if that is possible) setting,” Hart said. 
Hart believes inclusivity is an issue 
students should care deeply about. “A 
learning community that is neither diverse 
nor inclusive compromises learning,” he 
said. “I see it as the students’ responsibility to 
make the world a better place, which requires 
change. And that change must begin here at 
Middlebury College.”
At the forum, which was attended by 
23 students and nine faculty members, 
students and staff split into three groups to 
discuss inclusivity on campus. Hart framed 
the conversation through the lens of the 
College’s mission statement. The groups 
analyzed the statement to see if there was 
room for the concept of inclusivity. One 
point of discussion was the difference 
between inclusivity and diversity. Timothy 
Spears, professor of American studies and 
vice president for academic development, 
was one of the faculty members involved in 
organizing the forum.
“Diversity is a concept that colleges 
and universities have used to describe 
demographic differences that constitute 
their respective communities,” Spears 
said. “Inclusivity points to the values and 
practices that the institutions uphold to 
insure that everyone in those communities 
feels welcome — that everyone is able to fully 
participate in the life of the community, and 
that the community is open to being changed 
by the participation of its members.”
Elizabeth Dunn ’18 attended the talk 
because she wanted to participate in the 
College community in a way that enacts such 
a change. 
“Middlebury is not inclusive at all. For 
people of non-dominant identities on 
this campus — dominant meaning white, 
straight, cis, male, rich, able-bodied, or any 
combination of those — our only options 
are to assimilate, be erased, or isolate 
ourselves,” Dunn said. One thing Dunn got 
out of attending the talk was reassurance 
that there are people on campus who are not 
directly affected by the lack of inclusivity but 
still want to discuss creating change. “I just 
hope the momentum keeps going, because 
at this college we seem to have an incredibly 
difficult time focusing on issues like these for 
more than a couple of weeks,” she said. 
Many students who attended the talk 
expressed a desire to continue having small-
scale forums as the basis for meaningful 
conversations about inclusivity, including 
Ben Belinski ’18.5. Belinski believes that the 
effort to improve our community should 
be ongoing and that talks like these are 
instrumental in that effort. 
“Taking the time to participate in this 
kind of group discussion is exactly what we 
need to be doing,” Belinski said. “The only 
way to make any genuine progress is through 
heartfelt, engaging and well-directed 
discourse; not through the continuous 
bickering on ineffective media platforms.”
Jose Tollens ’18 agreed that the inclusivity 
forum was a useful way to build inclusivity 
by learning about other student’s personal 
stories. “We need to, as a collective body, 
understand where other people are coming 
from,” Tollens said. “Sharing stories, life 
experiences and overall challenges from 
different perspectives is a great way to induce 
a sense of empathy, which I think would lead 
to a better awareness and a greater, safer 
campus culture.”
Tollens hopes future inclusivity forums 
will expand and involve more people, 
especially those who are not participating 
in the conversation yet. “The people that are 
having these inclusivity conversations are not 
out to make you seem like a racist or call you 
out on your lack of black friends,” he said. 
“We are here to spread an awareness about 
these issues. We care about your perspective 
and what you have [gone] through in your 
life; we are here to make friends, not impose 
shameful enumerators on to you. Join the 
conversation, even if you feel afraid.”
Hart also hopes the talks will continue 
to expand, and he considers the first one 
a success. “The event was enormously 
successful, as faculty and staff learned a great 
deal about how students felt about how these 
concepts were working – or not working — at 
Middlebury,” he said. “Right now, our plan 
is to hold a series of these conversations 
over pizza for the remainder of the spring 
semester and see in May where we need to 
go next fall.” 
let it be?”
Rainey hopes to encourage the admin-
istration to diversify the faculty, believing 
the most effective way to do so would be to 
identify specific departments that need to 
be diversified. 
“Diversifying the faculty is essential to 
ensuring that the student body receives a di-
verse set of perspectives in the classrooms,” 
Rainey said. “It is important to have profes-
sors who students of marginalized groups 
on campus can identify with and seek ad-
vice from about personal matters they may 
be uncomfortable sharing with others.” 
He also wants to restructure the SGA In-
stitutional Diversity Committee (IDC) to be 
more effective in facilitating campus-wide 
conversations on inclusion, starting with 
the implementation of monthly town hall 
meetings in which students would be able 
to discuss problems that negatively impact 
the community. 
If elected, Rainey would introduce “Mid-
dSibs,” a program in which first-years 
would be paired with an upperclassman to 
aid them in getting acclimated to life at the 
College. Rainey believes this will help form 
bonds between first-year students and up-
perclassmen and more strongly connect ju-
niors and seniors with the Commons. 
Rainey also plans to create a more effi-
cient laundry service, turn unused spaces 
on campus into on-campus student bars, 
advocate for the institutional funding of 
club sports and launch a “Staff Apprecia-
tion Day.”
Karina Toy ’17
Toy’s platform focuses on three areas: 
improving the College’s financial aid sys-
tem, building community and increasing 
SGA transparency.
Toy has served for three years in the 
Senate as a representative of the Class of 
2017. She also worked for two years as an 
assistant in the Student Activities Office.
“I know what SGA can do and I know 
what it can’t do,” Toy said.
Toy identified financial aid reform as the 
largest part of her platform. As a student, 
she has worked with Student Financial Ser-
vices to gain a better understanding of how 
the system works. 
“In my experience, Middlebury’s finan-
cial aid staff are incredibly talented and 
work very hard at what they do but there is 
a disconnect between the work they put in 
and the way students feel about our finan-
cial aid system,” said Toy. “I have facilitated 
things between students and the financial 
aid office before [and] I would like to do 
things on a larger scale.”
She plans to create a student-wide sur-
vey to assess the views that students have 
on issues like filling out a financial aid 
form and understanding the amount of aid 
awarded.  Her goal is to work to reduce the 
confusion that students may have about the 
process.
In addition to reevaluating the financial 
aid process, Toy plans to use the SGA Presi-
dent’s discretionary budget to create a fund 
for high-cost J-Term workshops that may 
be inaccessible to students.
If elected, Toy plans to focus on building 
community. Her first step will be to host a 
workshop in the fall to give student leaders 
an opportunity to talk candidly about prev-
alent issues. To promote a greater sense of 
community amongst students, Toy wants 
to aid in the development of ready-made 
communities of faculty and students in the 
same major and department.
Toy wants to work with the Middlebury 
College Activities Board (MCAB) Traditions 
Committee to create and organize a Staff 
Appreciation Day. 
“It would do a lot to increase staff-to-
student interactions,” Toy said. “The staff 
[members] have some incredible stories 
and backgrounds. [There are] diverse sto-
ries that are not heard on campus.”
The final pillar of Toy’s platform is to 
increase the transparency of the SGA. As 
president, Toy would work to increase col-
laboration with other organizations by 
emailing the SGA agendas to club presi-
dents and posting them online and in the 
McCullough Student Center. She would 
also bring back the online petitioning ser-
vice “We the MiddKids” to increase student 
voice and participation. 
“This year, to my knowledge, we haven’t 
used it at all,” Toy said. “As president, I 
would personally follow up on any petition 
that reaches a number of votes reflecting 
definite student investment and passion.”
Ivan Valladares ’17
Valladares plans to increase the SGA’s 
role in promoting intersectionality on cam-
pus. If elected, he will work to implement 
a variety of measures he deems essential to 
the progression of equitable academic and 
personal growth. 
Valladares wants to utilize the faculty’s 
influence on campus and work with de-
partment heads to implement a series of 
lectures, given by professors, to encourage 
students to take active roles in creating a 
more inclusive community. He also believes 
that the College can greater utilize the tools 
it already has in place, such as JusTalks and 
ResLife, to spark greater levels of participa-
tion amongst the student body.
He believes space needs to be made 
available for departments and students to 
host events that bring the community to-
gether for discussions on how to bolster 
campus intersectionality.
“There are a lot of people who I’ve spo-
ken to who don’t feel safe here or feel mar-
ginalized,” Valladares said. “Every single 
one of us needs to be involved in those dis-
cussions.”
He plans to incentivize students to host 
events wherein they can teach one another 
new skills, like photography or tennis, in 
an effort to promote a sense of community. 
As SGA President, he would work to cre-
ate a community in which students mutu-
ally guarantee one another’s success by sup-
porting one another.
“We can progress equally and we can all 
guarantee each other a better academic ex-
perience,” he said. “It takes effort and time, 
but it is effort and time that will pay off in 
the end.” 
Although he has no SGA experience, Val-
ladares has led groups of students interest-
ed in political science on exploratory trips 
to Washington D.C. He also led a group 
through the Middlebury Alternative Break 
Program (MAlt), conducting research in 
South America. He sits on the board of 
the Blackbird Arts Journal and has been 
involved in the production of the Atwater 
Coffee House. He believes these experienc-
es will aid him in the role of SGA President. 
Valladares said that the SGA has been 
successful in many of its smaller initiatives. 
However, he believes it has been ineffective 
in quelling the dissonance felt throughout 
the school and unable to instill values of in-
clusivity with their methods. As president, 
he plans to accomplish the aforementioned 
short term goals in an effort to construct a 
solid base on which progress can be built. 
“My presidency isn’t about radical 
change. It’s about laying down the funda-
mentals,” Valladares said. 
All four candidates have been invited 
to appear on this Sunday’s edition of The 
Campus Voice at 8 p.m. on WRMC-91.1 
FM, where they will participate in a one-
on-one town hall event with moderator 
Nathaniel Wiener ’18.
April 14, 2016 |  3        News
College Hosts Dinner on Inclusivity
By Sarah Asch
Contrinuting Writer
the work that happens here.”
The symposium provides students an op-
portunity to both showcase their own work 
as well as appreciate the diverse projects 
of hundreds of others. A participant in last 
year’s symposium responded to a survey 
that while they “enjoyed being able to share 
my work with my friends and family in a 
public setting,” they were “really amazed by 
the depth and breadth of the other research 
I got to learn about during the Symposium. 
I felt reenergized at the end of the day be-
cause it was a great reminder of the passion 
and brilliance of so many members of the 
Middlebury community.”
Gates described the event as a “huge, col-
lective effort to organize, but all worth it. 
Walking around Bi-Hall during the day, talk-
ing with students about their posters, listen-
ing to presentations, there is this great buzz 
in the building, of people coming together 
and learning from each other. For me, it is 
one of the best things we do at Middlebury.”
This  year, there will be 144 oral presen-
tations and 54 poster presentations, and 
artwork from 56 students will be on display 
in the Johnson Memorial Building. “There’s 
a tremendous breadth of topics and disci-
plines represented in this program,” Gates 
reported. “There are students talking about 
inclusivity, language, poverty, literature, 
gender, politics and policy, art, culture, sci-
ence and more. Looking through the topics, 
you begin to understand what an incredible 
diversity of work happens at Middlebury.” 
Greg Vitercik, professor of music and 
co-chair of the Symposium, echoed Gates’ 
sentiments in an email to The Campus. “I 
hesitate to mention any particular papers be-
cause no sample can give a real sense of the 
breadth of subject matter that will be packed 
into one day,” he wrote. To provide a small 
sample of what can be expected, he reported 
that “the breadth of topics is wonderfully il-
lustrated in one session, all gathered under 
the title, ‘Formations and Reflections of 
Social Class,’ which includes presentations 
titled ‘Ticket to Ride: Social Geography and 
Railroads in Nineteenth-Century London,’ 
‘Drinking, Drugs and Depression: Economic 
Mobility and White Middle-Aged Mortality,’ 
‘Fields of Difference: Usage and Perception 
of Urban Park Spaces in New York City’ and 
‘Morality of Neuroscientific Reductionism-
-Predicting Problem Populations?’”
“To see all this work at this level at a little 
liberal arts college tucked away in Vermont 
is breathtaking.  It even gives me hope for the 
future,” Vitercik confided to The Campus. 
“Please urge everyone to look at the sched-
ule and to come out to learn, support their 
friends and classmates and be inspired.” 
Gates emphasized her hope that all stu-
dents, including underclassmen, will attend. 
“This event isn’t just for seniors. Typically 
about half of our presenters are not seniors 
… And for first-year students, it’s a great 
chance to see the kind of work that happens 
in many different departments.” 
Students can visit go/sym for more infor-
mation and a complete schedule of Thurs-
day and Friday’s events. 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Students show 
work, research
Four Students Campaign for SGA
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
MCAB Trivia Night
Enjoy the early weekend and challenge 
your friends to a night of trivia and fun. 
Free food and lots of prizes will be pro-
vided!
THURSDAY AT 9 P.M. IN CROSSROADS CAFE
Modern Diet and The Will Overman 
Band
Come listen and dance to these jammin’ 
bands LIVE this Friday in Johnson Pit.
FRIDAY AT 10 P.M. IN JOHNSON MEMORIAL BUILDING
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
Low levels of PFOA (perfluoroocta-
noic acid), the chemical that contami-
nated 100 private wells in North Ben-
nington, have been found in a public 
water supply of Pownal, VT. The Pownal 
contamination is the first instance that 
this potentially cancer-causing chemi-
cal has affected a public drinking water 
system in Vermont. 
However, a similar 
type of contamination 
has already occurred 
in Hoosick Falls, NY.  
Testing samples 
came from the Fire 
District No. 2 mu-
nicipal water source 
in Pownal. This par-
ticular water source 
reaches about 450 
residents.
The PFOA chemi-
cal levels in Pownal 
measured between 26 
parts per trillion and 
27 parts per trillion. 
These levels exceed 
the state of Vermont’s 
advisory mark of 20 parts per trillion, 
but fall far below the 400 parts per 
trillion advisory level of the U.S. Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency for short-
term exposure to PFOA.
“At 26 or 27, that is not enough 
PFOA in the water to probably make 
much of a difference in your blood-
stream,” state Health Commissioner 
Tracy Dolan informed WPTZ News. 
“However to be cautious, we recom-
mend that people drink another source 
of water because there is a very slight 
risk.”
The discovery of PFOA in Pownal 
poses a great financial burden to the 
state. The state has already dispensed 
large sums of money to combat the con-
tamination in North Bennington, and 
the Pownal crisis will only add to that 
sum. 
S a i n t - G o b a i n , 
the multinational 
corporation that had 
owned the suspected 
factory in North Ben-
nington, has funded 
water tests and car-
bon tests. However, 
with the source of 
contamination still 
unclear in Pownal, 
there is no corpora-
tion on which to place 
the financial burden. 
If blame cannot be 
placed on a specific 
party, the special en-
vironmental contin-
gency fund employed to deal with this 
water contamination will run out by the 
year’s end.
“We hope to find a responsible par-
ty in the near future,” said Alyssa Sch-
uren, Department of Environmental 
Conservation Commissioner. “In the 
meantime, the state will be spending its 
own resources to do the water sampling 
as needed.”
The state predicts that the source 
for the contamination in Pownal is the 
old Warren Wire 
Company.  This 
company used Tef-
lon in its wire pro-
duction, a source of 
PFOA. Warren Wire 
has passed between 
three different com-
panies, making it 
difficult to track 
down the company 
that participated in 
illegal dumping.  
Deb Markow-
itz, Vermont Agen-
cy of Natural Re-
sources Secretary, 
expressed disappointment over the 
chemical contamination.
“We need stronger protection from 
toxic chemicals,” remarked Markowitz 
in an Addison Independent opinion. 
“It is common sense that we should 
only allow new chemicals into the mar-
ketplace when we know they are safe.”
Chuck Schwer, Director of Hazard-
ous Waste Management and Preven-
tion at the Department of Environmen-
tal Conservation, is taking action until 
the responsible source of the chemical 
contamination can be officially con-
firmed.  He has set up an emergency 
response station in Pownal in efforts to 
track private wells, but the testing is no 
small expense. In search of solutions 
for this water crisis, Schwer and his 
team are considering bringing in pure 
public drinking supplies from Wil-
liamstown, Massachusetts or from safe 
public sources in Pownal. However, all 
of these solutions 
would still not solve 
the financial issue 
at hand.
Concern has 
expectedly arisen 
among many Pown-
al residents, despite 
the fairly low levels 
of PFOA found.
“Any contami-
nation is ... very 
scary to me, and I 
know to my constit-
uents,” explained 
Sen. Dick Sears (D) 
in an interview with 
WCAX.
In attempts to quell the concerns of 
Pownal residents, a town meeting was 
held at the American Legion building 
in Pownal at which hundreds of Ver-
monters made a presence.  At the meet-
ing, the Department of Environmental 
Conservation informed residents that 
it would be unable to take long-term 
action until the source of the chemical 
contamination is confirmed.  The meet-
ing appears to have reassured some 
residents.
“As long as we know that it’s 
not that high, I think we’ll be okay,” 
claimed Pownal resident Bernadette 
Snide, according to WPTZ.
The state hopes that this reassured 
mindset will be justified as water test-
ing continues in Pownal.
local
PFOA Contamination Spreads to Water in Pownal
By Rebecca Walker
Local Editor
“We need stronger 
protection from chem-
icals. It is common 
sense that we should 
only allow new chem-
icals into the market-
place when we know 
they are safe.”
Deb Markowitz
Sec. of Vt. Agency of Natural Resources
“We hope to find a re-
sponsible party in the 
near future. In the 
meantime, the state will 
be spending its own re-
sources to do the water 
sampling as needed.”  
Alyssa Schuren
Dept. of Enviromental Conservation Commissioner
Rutland has something of an im-
age problem. Despite making strong 
economic strides, Rutland continues to 
be defined by an heroin problem inti-
mately documented by national media 
platforms over the past several years. 
“Block by block, this city in cen-
tral Vermont has 
been fighting a her-
oin epidemic so en-
trenched that it has 
confounded all ef-
forts to combat it,” 
began one such arti-
cle describing in the 
New York Times.
A new cam-
paign, called “I Love 
Rutland,” hopes to 
change all that.
“By simply talk-
ing about all the 
great people, places 
and assets we have,” 
reads the website, 
“we hope to support 
the Rutland area’s 
ongoing rebirth, and 
create a positive, 
constructive dia-
logue.”
 The campaign 
is modeled after the 
“I Love New York” campaign of the late 
1970s, which was designed to bolster 
local pride and promote tourism.
“I always loved that campaign,” 
said Mike Napolitano, owner of Awe-
some Graphics and one of the leaders 
of the campaign. “I love New York City 
and it’s gotten better and better.”
Like the campaign in New York, 
Awesome Graphics will sell “I Love 
Rutland” themed bumper stickers, t-
shirts and banners on their website and 
at their Rutland store. 
“I love my community and want 
to declare it to the world,” Napolitano 
said. “This is a great community, filled 
with people powered by determination 
and compassion, 
surrounded by some 
of the most beauti-
ful mountains, lakes 
and rivers in the 
world. I think we 
need to express that 
at every opportu-
nity.”
Mike Napoli-
tano is a third-
generation Rutland 
resident, who mar-
ried, raised a fam-
ily and currently 
runs a small busi-
ness in the city. 
Steve Costello, an 
executive at Green 
Mountain Power, is 
also helping to get 
the project off the 
ground.
“This is more 
about how we as 
individuals and business leaders and 
community leaders talk about our com-
munity and put it in a positive light 
when that’s appropriate,” Costello said 
in an interview with Vermont Public 
Radio. “And I think it’s appropriate a 
lot more than we do in Rutland.”
The Rutland campaign currently 
has a Facebook page that profiles local 
residents and advertises events. Donna 
Goodhale, local professional photogra-
pher and Rutland resident, is produc-
ing short stories on Rutland residents 
similar to those made popular by the 
web blog and book series Humans of 
New York.
Rutland is the third largest city in 
Vermont, after Burlington and South 
Burlington. The city witnessed fast 
growth during the late nineteenth cen-
tury, fueled by the lucrative marble 
quarries nearby and guided by John A. 
Mead, the first mayor of Rutland. The 
downtown area of the city is currently 
listed as an historic district on the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places.
Unfortunately, the city was most 
recently thrust into the national lime-
light following Governor Shumlin’s 
heroin-themed 2014 State of the State 
address. Most media portrayals of the 
city have been unglamorous.
 Philip Allen, a local business own-
er and resident of the city, said that the 
campaign was an important positive 
step toward rebranding the city.
“You know, success breeds success, 
and pride breeds pride and negative 
feelings breed negative feelings,” he 
said.
‘I Love Rutland’ Campaign Redefines City
By Harry Cramer
Local Editor
Courtesy VPR
Awesome Graphics is leading the charge by producing images like the one pictured above.
“I love my community 
and I want to declare 
it to the world. This is 
a great community, 
filled with people pow-
ered by determina-
tion and compassion, 
surrounded by some 
of the most beautiful 
lakes and rivers in the 
world. I think we need 
to express that at ev-
ery opportunity.”
Mike Napolitano
Awesome Graphics Owner
The Ripton General Store is made 
up of nooks and crannies, with a col-
lection of odds and ends in between. 
There’s the longstanding shelf of old 
glass bottles, the old post office in the 
back corner and wind chimes hanging 
from the ceiling that dangle over your 
everyday soup cans, postcards and pea-
nut butter. 
Sue and Dick, perhaps the finest 
gems in the store’s collection and the 
owners of it all, are content behind the 
counter. Mid-afternoons bring the oc-
casional customer to the register, and 
when we walk into the store, Sue greets 
us with a smile. 
The two didn’t always dwell in Rip-
ton.  The couple came up from Pennsyl-
vania in 1976, looking for a change.  
“We were just tired living around a 
city and all that bullshit in the suburbs 
of Philadelphia,” Dick told us. “I worked 
for a bank, and we just thought we want-
ed something different. And it really 
worked out for us, though it didn’t work 
out for everybody who made jumps like 
that. We just thought we would escape 
from the regular rat race.”
Dick and Sue took a leap in coming 
to the then 250-person town, raising 
their one and three-year-old sons in the 
apartment just above the little store.  
Dick explains that in the ‘60s and 
‘70s, a lot of people started moving up 
to Vermont, but it was still more rustic 
than it is now. 
“The whole character of Vermont 
has changed over those years, and I 
think Ripton is pretty typical of what’s 
happened. It’s gotten a little more gen-
trified – that’s really the most signifi-
cant thing that I can see that’s changed,” 
he elaborates.
They worked to keep the store in 
similar conditions to how they found it, 
and even restored the small post office, 
which brings in many of the general 
store’s customers. Yet, both Dick and 
Sue say that many of the original, old 
Vermonters are now gone.  
In the back of the store, Sue points 
us to a picture of what she determines to 
be ‘an old Vermonter.’
“He used to sit on our porch, playing 
his violin. He lived with his friend down 
there in that broken down house, which 
was always broken down. They didn’t 
have any running water and washed 
themselves from the river. That’s an old 
Vermonter.”  
On the wall opposite from the violin 
player are four more photographs of the 
porch of the store – almost identical, 
but not quite.  Every ten years, since the 
opening of the store, Dick and his sons 
posed for a photo with the American 
flag on the front porch. 
“He’s a little heavier and my hair is 
whiter, but there’s not much change,” 
Dick laughs. The succession of photos 
picture his sons as small seven and nine 
year-olds, and later having kids of their 
own.  
“When our kids were growing up 
they worked here too,” Dick says. “We 
taught them how to deal with people 
and how to make change.”
Sue added that both of their boys 
had expressed gratitude for their child-
hood in Vermont, despite moving away 
with their new families. The store 
framed most of the family’s life, and the 
photos on the wall color the passing of 
time with growth and joy.  
“If I had to do it again, I would total-
ly do it again,” Dick says.  He says that 
one should go for it – take the chance 
on a new lifestyle if you’re outgrowing 
the old one. 
“We’re way past retirement, but we 
just enjoy doing it. It’s a special place.”  
Dick has a glow in his eyes as he 
says it, the afternoon light bending over 
the collections of trinkets and memo-
ries.  He reminds us that you don’t have 
to accept the rut, but can rather uproot 
and replant. Although it may prove dif-
ficult at first, there will always be said 
little stores in need of a little love, and 
they might just give a bit of an adven-
ture back in return.   
Sen. John Campbell (D-Windsor), 
who has served as President Pro Tem-
pore in the Vermont Senate for six 
years, and has served in the state senate 
for 16 years overall, recently announced 
that he would be ending his time in of-
fice. This is just one in a succession 
of changes in the 
leadership of Ver-
mont’s government, 
as House Speaker 
Shap Smith (D-Mor-
ristown), Gov. Peter 
Shumlin and Lt. Gov. 
Phil Scott have all 
announced that they 
too will not be seek-
ing re-election.
When Camp-
bell first stepped 
into power in 2010, 
he was widely criti-
cized. Many were 
concerned by his 
seemingly haphazard 
leadership style. Luckily, Campbell im-
proved in the eyes of his peers after his 
first term as Senate president. In an in-
terview with VT Digger, Smith reflected 
on Campbell’s development as Senate 
president, stating that, “Not many peo-
ple can take the kind of criticism that he 
took, internalize it and figure out a way 
to do better. I think it showed some-
thing that he did that. Kudos to him.”
In recent years, Campbell has been 
praised for his ability to empower com-
mittee chairs, deferring power to his 
peers in many cases and fostering a 
healthy community within the Senate. 
Campbell has stated that the greatest 
accomplishment of his time in office 
was the legalization of same sex mar-
riage in Vermont. When asked about 
this achievement, Campbell told Seven 
Days that gay marriage was “one of 
those issues that will only come along 
once in a lifetime,” adding that, “of all 
the things we’ve done here, that was 
one that had a dramatic change on so 
many people’s lives — not only here but 
also across the country.”
Several commit-
tee chairs within the 
Vermont senate have 
already expressed in-
terest in taking over 
for Campbell after 
his departure. Sen. 
Tim Ashe, who chairs 
the Senate Finance 
Committee, stated 
to Seven Days that 
he feels that he has 
“matured as a mem-
ber of the Senate to 
the point where my 
skills are there to 
successfully lead the 
Senate.” So far, Ashe 
has expressed the 
strongest desire for the position. How-
ever, Sen. Ann Cummings, Chair of the 
Senate Education Committee, and Sen. 
Claire Ayer, Chair of the Health and 
Welfare Committee have also expressed 
interest in the position, among several 
other Senators. 
So far, Campbell has refused to en-
dorse a successor.
In an interview with Seven Days, he 
stated: “Even if I did have a preference, 
I would probably hold back on that one 
because I don’t think it would be fair to 
them. I think each one of them would 
have to and does have to make their 
case to the body as to why they would 
be best suited to be in charge.” 
Campbell did, however, express 
support for his assistant Conor Ken-
nedy, who has still not decided whether 
he will vie for the position. 
In stepping down, Campbell feels 
that he is making room for new per-
spectives on the issues Vermont is fac-
ing today.
“We’ve done a lot of good for the 
state of Vermont,” he told Seven Days, 
“and, I think, for my constituents in 
Windsor County. But I think it’s time 
for there to be a new view on where this 
state is going. It’s time to get a new set 
of eyes and ears here.”
Financial motivations also con-
tributed to Campbell’s decision to step 
down. While the position of Senate 
President is a year round responsibility, 
Campbell has only received part time 
pay, and he has observed to Seven Days 
that the financial difficulty that comes 
along with the position “gets tiring after 
a while.”
Campbell will become Executive 
Director of the Department of State’s 
Attorneys and Sheriffs after he steps 
down as Senate president. Campbell, 
who was once a police officer and cur-
rently serves as an attorney in Windsor 
county, feels that the position will be “a 
good fit.”
Campbell leaves the Senate in the 
midst of a mass exodus of Vermont 
Government officials. Lt. Gov. Scott, 
who is also stepping down, told Seven 
Days that the winds of change are blow-
ing.
“There’s going to be a lot of changes 
after this session,” he said. 
With such a drastic change in state 
leadership approaching, Vermont law-
making may also be in for a transfor-
mation.
Senate President John Campbell Steps Down
By Julia Hower
Contributing Writer
April 14, 2016| 5local
Courtesy VtDigger
 “Not many people can 
take the kind of criti-
cizm that he took, in-
ternalize it and figure 
out a way to do bet-
ter. I think it showed 
something that he did 
that. Kudos to him.”
Shap Smith (D)
Speaker of the House
By Wendy Walcoff
Ripton General Store Owners Revel in Memories
Contributing Writer
John Campbell (D) will leave the Senate for the Department of State’s Attorneys and Sheriffs.
Dick Collitt has run the historic Ripton General Store with his wife Sue for four decades.
wendy walcoff
With SGA elections to be held this 
Monday, April 18, The Campus editorial 
board met with each of the four candi-
dates running for 
SGA President to 
get to know more 
about their plat-
forms, positions 
and goals for their 
presidency. We 
commend each of 
the students run-
ning for their passion and commitment. 
After hours of speaking with the candi-
dates, researching their platforms and 
discussing our views as a board, we are 
excited to endorse Michael Brady ’17.5 
for the position of SGA President for the 
2016-2017 academic year.
  Although we eventually came to a 
near consensus in support of Brady, 
our choice was far from easy. We were 
moved by each candidate’s dedication 
to the service of our community and the 
improvement of students’ lived experi-
ences at the College. Although we con-
sider Ivan Valladares ’17’s passion for 
active participation and greater commu-
nity engagement admirable, we believe 
he fell short in providing concrete steps 
that would help to accomplish these 
goals and were concerned by his lack of 
experience on the SGA. Karina Toy ’17 
presented herself as a highly qualified 
and thoughtful candidate, but we were 
disappointed that her platform did not 
include explicit steps towards making 
Middlebury a more inclusive commu-
nity. The editorial board believes that 
the issue of inclusivity on campus mer-
its more attention than Toy outlined for 
us. The most difficult decision for our 
board was determining whether Charles 
Rainey ’19 or Brady would be the most 
qualified student to serve as SGA Presi-
dent. 
 We were refreshed by Rainey’s per-
spective, which brought a personal con-
nection and confident focus to arguably 
the most pressing issues on campus 
– inclusivity and diversity. Although 
we have not chosen to endorse Rain-
ey, much of his platform struck us as 
thoughtful and rooted in what matters 
most to many of us, and we are excited 
to see him grow in leadership roles on 
campus in the next three years. If elect-
ed, we encourage Brady to make inclu-
sivity and diversity central to his presi-
dency, working with Rainey and others 
to make Middlebury a stronger commu-
nity. We feel confident that with his per-
sonal connections to students, his fellow 
SGA members and the administration, 
as well as the concrete plans outlined 
in his platform, Brady is the most expe-
rienced and qualified candidate to lead 
our community in the 2016-2017 school 
year.
  We encourage students to examine 
each candidate’s platform in the News 
section of this publication, where we be-
lieve it will become evident that Brady 
most effectively balances idealism and 
pragmatism in his plans for next year. 
Of all the candidates we heard from 
on Monday night, Brady presented the 
strongest understanding of the ways 
in which the SGA can be productively 
utilized for students’ benefit while also 
demonstrating a clear-headed grasp of 
the SGA’s shortcomings and inabilities. 
He demonstrated that the constructive 
changes he proposes are achievable and 
desirable in equal measure. We feel that 
Brady’s proposals will push our campus 
towards greater inclusivity for all stu-
dents on campus by providing a plat-
form for marginalized voices. We were 
especially excited about his idea of cre-
ating a SGA senate position that repre-
sents cultural organizations, bringing 
students with a wide variety of perspec-
tives together in the process. 
 Brady’s approach to the challenges 
our community faces is balanced, and 
is reinforced by his experience utilizing 
the channels of communication and leg-
islation offered by the SGA. With his ex-
tensive experience navigating the com-
plex systems of student government in 
a wide variety of roles — from Speaker 
of the Senate to Chief of Staff for SGA 
President Ilana Gratch — we are con-
fident that Brady is the most equipped 
to empower the voices of our commu-
nity, including fellow SGA members like 
Rainey and Toy. Brady spoke with keen 
awareness of the Senator-President re-
lationship in the SGA; he recognizes 
the importance of a collaborative, open-
minded SGA President willing to work 
with those who hold a wide variety of 
opinions, analyzing situations with pre-
cision and poise. His impressive level of 
experience and comprehensive knowl-
edge of the SGA would serve him well as 
SGA President. 
Many who know Brady attest to his 
capacity to listen, a skill that we admire 
and believe will be beneficial for navi-
gating the often polarizing conversa-
tions that are so crucial to improving 
the climate of this campus. It is for this 
reason that we find Brady the most ca-
pable of making concrete progress; he 
works adeptly with his peers and col-
leagues, and would be best able to navi-
gate the interpersonal relationships that 
are crucial to the effectiveness of an 
SGA presidency. The respect Brady has 
earned among both peers and admin-
istrators will enable him to get things 
done in the SGA, working with those 
who may or may not share his views. 
This may be one of the most difficult 
challenges of such a position, and we 
believe his record of listening and col-
laborating in a wide variety of SGA po-
sitions will facilitate successful steps to 
address the many important challenges 
faced by our campus.          
Problems of inclusivity and diversity 
have been important to our discussions 
throughout the year as an editorial 
board, and we hope that our community 
continues to work towards solutions. We 
hope that Brady leads the charge and 
makes this topic a priority on this cam-
pus as President. His dependability and 
predictability signals to us that he will 
be ready to handle any new challenges 
our college may face, and his achievable 
and specific platform gives us hope that 
his presidency may start to bring about 
solutions issues currently plaguing our 
community. We strongly encourage ev-
ery member of our community to con-
sider voting for Michael Brady ’17.5 as 
the next SGA President. 
opinions
editorial board 
The content written within the 
Opinions pages may cause emotional 
distress. Please excercise discretion.
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor. The 
opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions 
section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial com-
ics and other commentary, are views of the individ-
ual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the 
opinions of the newspaper. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.
middleburycampus.com. To be considered for pub-
lications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. 
Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all 
submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
Brady for SGA President
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Claire Abbadi
MANAGING EDITOR
Leah Lavigne
BUSINESS MANAGER
Wyatt French
NEWS EDITORS 
Christian Jambora, Eliza Teach, Phil Bohl-
man, Ellie Reinhardt
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Sara Hodgkins, Francesca Haass, Lauren 
Alper, Nina Colombotos 
SPORTS EDITORS 
Alex Morris, Emily Bustard, Andrew Rigas, 
Will Case, Remo Plunkett
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Rebecca Walker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Emilie Munson, Ethan Brady, Henry Bur-
nett, Renee Chang
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Elizabeth Zhou, Toby Aicher
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel Frank, Ivan Valladares, Michael 
O’Hara, Anthea Viragh, Michael Boren-
stein 
DESIGN EDITORS
Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Boone McCoy-Crisp
ONLINE EDITORS
Maggie Cochrane, Pyone Aye 
COPY EDITOR
Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOST
Nathaniel Wiener
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITORS
 Pyone Aye, Nathaniel Wiener
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
official opinion of 
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Disclaimer: Reader op-eds do not reflect the opinion of The Middlebury Campus editorial board. 
As we return from spring break, we 
as a community must be conscious of the 
events that occurred on this campus as 
of late. I feel that in some ways, we as a 
student body need to refocus our lenses 
on the true problem. I have observed the 
outcries of racism that my peers have ex-
pressed as a result of what has happened 
at Middlebury during this academic year. 
We have seen a passionate, growing 
movement against cultural appropriation 
and racism, which are issues that I am 
pleased to see coming to the forefront of 
the movements on this campus. 
I applaud the passion and amazing 
work that my peers do to raise aware-
ness. Before coming to Middlebury, I 
was raised in a Southern Maine suburb 
that was so homogenous that although 
we were told to respect our differences, 
there weren’t really any to be conscious 
of. When I realized I was gay, the once ac-
cepting, homogenous social landscape I 
had become accustomed to had morphed 
into a completely different beast. The in-
sensitive speech and fear of difference 
had stuck out to me more than it ever had 
before. The smoke of blissful ignorance 
that I had lived in for my entire life had 
faded and I was stuck in the middle of it 
all, confused and afraid of the reactions 
of my friends and family to my true iden-
tity. I bring this up to exemplify the back-
ground that some students come from. 
After my almost two years at Middle-
bury, I have been able to be aware of so 
much more than I had ever dreamed of. 
I learned, through living along side my 
peers and getting to know them and their 
vast experiences, about the struggles that 
marginalized groups face on a daily ba-
sis not only on 
this campus, but 
throughout the 
United States 
and the world as 
a whole. 
That is why 
I am disappoint-
ed by the shift-
ing focus of the 
student body 
towards these 
issues, from both sides of the spectrum. 
When I first heard about the “Pitiful 
Garments of Victimhood,” I was pleased 
to know that marginalized groups on 
campus were making a statement and 
changing what was seen as negative to 
a positive. However, when I saw the de-
scription on the store page, I felt an ache 
in my stomach. The first line of the de-
scription is: “Help Make Fun of “It’s Not 
Fair” published here:” In the same vein, 
I am appalled to see the stream of racist 
posts on YikYak singling out a student 
without any regard for how he and his 
peers might feel. These two sides of the 
spectrum have something in common: 
they both address a person, not the issues 
at hand. 
While in no way do I condone the evi-
dent racism that has erupted as a result 
of the anonymous safety of YikYak, I feel 
that we need to spark conversation about 
these issues and make our whole commu-
nity aware of the struggles that students 
face every day. We need to be mindful 
that we are ad-
dressing the issue, 
not attacking the 
agent. When our 
attempts are mis-
guided, we don’t 
make any real 
progress. We need 
to make sure our 
message is one 
of understand-
ing one another, 
not invalidating our peers based on their 
opinions or identity. I am not saying that 
we should disregard everyone’s experi-
ences. I actually believe the opposite. 
There is so much value in our differences 
not only in our identities but our expe-
riences as well. Whether we are black 
or white, gay or straight, or anything in 
between, we all bring something very im-
portant to the table. When we can stand 
up for the issue at hand but not against 
the ones perpetuating it, we will foster a 
community of which we can all be proud 
to be a part. 
Mindfulness in the Message
Reader op-ed
 Jason Meuse ’18 is from Gorham, 
Maine
“We need to be mindful 
that we are addressing the is-
sue, not attacking the agent. 
When our attempts are mis-
guided, we don’t make any 
real progress.”
THE LO-DOWN
Lauren Alper ’16 
is from Mill Valley, CA
School Abroad in Paris Limits Freedom 
Let me start this way: I love Middlebury. 
My three years here have been the best of 
my life. I have started to create myself here. 
Obviously resumés are reductive, but if you 
look at mine, you can start to understand 
a little about who I am. Socially Respon-
sible Investing Club, The Campus, Queers 
& Allies, Blackbird literary magazine, occa-
sional participant at Verbal Onslaught. I’ve 
worked for political startups and municipal 
government and done research on sketchy 
financial aid practices. Poet, writer, econo-
mist, queer, environmentalist, social justice 
activist, politically-opinionated. That’s me. 
These are all pieces of my identity. I’ve built 
this identity through my choices at Middle-
bury. And this year, I chose to add another 
identity to the list: expat.
I consider Middlebury a place that en-
courages this diversity of activities and 
individualism. But that’s why I was so dis-
appointed by what awaited me in France. 
I came here to prove to myself that I could 
create life for myself somewhere else, but 
unfortunately Middlebury has stopped me 
from creating my own life in two essential 
places: extracurricular activities and hous-
ing.
I was very clear on my application: I 
wanted to live in a student boarding house 
(foyer in French) because I am gay and I do 
not want anyone’s opinion on my sexuality 
to ever matter again. I had already come out 
once, I did not need another family to come 
out to. Middlebury then placed me into a 
Christian foyer. The foyers were not only full 
of groups of homophobic guys that made me 
feel uncomfortable living there, but it was 
also a controlling space where the woman 
in charge would enter my room without 
my knowledge, would open the window, 
clear my room of snacks (apparently food 
was not allowed in the rooms) and grade 
my room on its cleanliness. The moment I 
walked into my room to a scorecard on the 
ground grading how clean my room was, I 
knew I had to leave. The experience was in-
sultingly infantilizing. I was also not allowed 
to have any guests in my room, so I could 
pretty much forget any kind of sexuality 
whatsoever let alone having a private space 
to hang out with friends (this last comment 
may seem trivial, particularly to the older 
generation, but I argue that it is inherently 
problematic when anyone has any power 
over another person’s sexuality, particularly 
when that person is twenty-one and there 
is not a country in the world where they are 
still a minor).
Still not wanting to live with a family, I 
pressured Middlebury to let me find my own 
apartment, a normal practice in other Mid-
dlebury schools abroad but that was consid-
ered a large ask here in Paris. My thought 
process was that if I lived with equals, then 
I could take back some personal power, and 
I stand by that. I was told multiple times 
that I was an exception and that this was not 
normally an option. Unfortunately, I chose 
to live with an older man and the power dy-
namic was anything but equal, so I had to 
leave. I think this would have worked better 
had I lived with students.
   When I finally moved into my new host 
mother’s apartment, I asked the Middle-
bury representative, as casually as one can 
ask these things, whether she happened to 
know whether this woman was homopho-
bic. She responded that she didn’t know, but 
that she didn’t see why I would ever have to 
out myself to her. I made a mental note not 
to talk about my boyfriend in my new living 
quarters, something no one should have to 
do. My host mother turned out to be a very 
nice woman (if mildly homophobic), and 
though I never outed myself to her, we get 
along well.
        Part of the experience of studying abroad 
here in Paris has not just been adapting to 
the language, the culture, and the city, but 
adapting to essentially being sixteen in a 
family that has authority over you but that is 
not even your own family. It is not an equal 
living situation. You also are constantly a 
guest in someone else’s home, which makes 
it difficult to feel like you have your own 
home or life here and which is thoroughly 
exhausting for introverts like me.
    I suggest that the Middlebury School in 
Paris, like the schools abroad in London and 
Madrid, offer student housing options where 
students can live with each other as equals. 
I encourage future students in Paris to press 
for this option because I do not believe 
Middlebury has the right to tell 21-year-olds 
where to live. However, if for some reason 
Middlebury thinks it is their right to tell me 
where to live, then they have to absolutely 
assure me that it is not an oppressive envi-
ronment. They cannot require that I live in 
homophobic housing or in housing where I 
am being treated as if I cannot make my own 
decisions.
        Then there is the bnévolat, which roughly 
translates into community service. Middle-
bury requires that everyone do four hours 
of community service every week if they are 
not doing an internship. This is to integrate 
us into the community and to make sure 
we do something other than schoolwork. 
Sounds reasonable at first, right? Let’s just 
take a minute to break it down anyway.
        The Middlebury School in Paris requires 
14 hours of class per week minimum, which 
already translates into five classes, rather 
than four, per semester. The coursework 
is, of course, in French and the methodol-
ogy of assignments is entirely different, so 
the work takes much longer to do. Then we 
have to dedicate four hours of time to an ac-
tivity that Middlebury chooses for us. Also, 
I go two days a week and it is an hour from 
my apartment, so I lose 4 hours to commute 
time and 8 hours total of my week — even if I 
wanted to go I’m unconvinced that it would 
be an efficient use of my time.
    While all of us are very busy at Middle-
bury, most of us find ourselves involved in 
many activities or highly engaged in one. 
We choose to do this. But that’s just it, we 
choose it. We choose what each activity is 
and how much time we have to dedicate to 
it. We make our choices based on how much 
we care about that particular activity, how 
stressful our workload that semester is, and 
what interests us. We use our own judge-
ment. This required activity is an activity 
where we do not choose a) to do it at all b) 
what it is we’re doing or c) how much time 
we reasonably have to devote to it. Middle-
bury makes all these decisions for us.
      Middlebury justifies the bnévolat because 
it “integrates us into the community.” The 
problem here is that they do not distinguish 
between communities. One of the most 
common complaints at the Middlebury 
School in Paris is that it’s very hard to meet 
French people our age. Already, that should 
be a red flag that something is functioning 
very wrong. If Middlebury wanted to help us 
settle into the “community,” it should be the 
student community. It should be with the 
people that we most want to and are most 
likely to connect with. The problem boils 
down to two principles: Middlebury does 
not distinguish between communities (i.e. 
a community that would help us to build a 
home here vs. a community that adds little 
to our lives here) and they do not distin-
guish between students (they make us all 
do the same thing rather than naturally join 
activities that interest us).
    I suggest that Middlebury abolish the re-
quirement to do community service and, 
instead, offer a range of informational pam-
phlets and contact info for organizations 
that students may be interested in joining 
while they are here, on their own time and 
of their own volition. Don’t get me wrong, 
I want to be involved. I just want to create 
my own experience and my own life like I 
would at Middlebury. I wish I had been able 
to take up the offer of my friends at Sciences 
Po to join them in the young socialists club 
and in other school organizations. I’d even 
have liked to be involved in the Sacré-Coeur 
youth group. As it was, the meetings were 
the same time as the Middlebury communi-
ty service requirement and my time was al-
ready too limited to add more to my sched-
ule. The individual choice and the ability 
to build a life and an identity like we do at 
Middlebury is so important and my two se-
mesters without that have been frustrating 
and constricting.
        I came here to create a life and a home in 
Paris. Unfortunately, Middlebury has hin-
dered rather than helped this process. They 
have prevented me from having a physical 
space where I can express myself and they 
have prevented me from choosing the activ-
ities that I would like to get involved with. I 
have been treated like a kid who cannot be 
trusted to make his own decisions about how 
to best use his time. The Middlebury School 
in Paris needs to abandon this authoritar-
ian approach to education and realign itself 
with the Middlebury values I chose when I 
decided to come here as a freshman.
April 14, 2016 | 7opinions
Reader op-ed
Edward O’Brien is from Lincoln, 
Mass. 
Students SUPPORT rainey for sga president
Over the past year, I have seen Charles 
grow into one of the most passionate leaders 
at Middlebury College. I know that “passion-
ate” is a clichéd, worn-out term during elec-
tion season, but Charles might be one of the 
only people I know truly deserving of the title. 
He has the type of passion that drives him to 
stay up all night to accomplish his goals. He 
has the type of passion that you feel within 
minutes of speaking with him. He has the 
type of passion that I believe will make Mid-
dlebury a better place.
Charles is the right candidate at the right 
time for Middlebury. It is no secret that this 
past year our campus was ablaze with conflict, 
illuminating the fact that Middlebury has a 
lot of work to do in becoming a truly inclu-
sive community. During my experience as an 
FYC and Vice President of Chromatic, I have 
worked to create welcoming communities 
throughout campus and I have realized how 
much work we have to do. This challenge, of 
making Middlebury a more inclusive com-
munity to all of our members, towers in im-
portance over any other issue on our campus. 
Middlebury needs real change to become a 
more inclusive campus and I believe Charles 
is the candidate to accomplish this change to 
move our campus forward. On April 18, I will 
be voting for Charles Rainey.
-Matt Witkin ’16.5
Out of all the candidates for the 2016-2017 
SGA Presidency, Charles Rainey has proven 
himself as an individual committed unflinch-
ingly to inclusivity and progressive change 
at Middlebury. His campaign is not about 
trivial reform -  it is about a movement that 
will define the legacy of our generation of 
Middlebury college students. Our institution 
stands at a crossroads of identity. We must 
now collectively commit with our entire will 
and capacity for action to one of two paths: 
the path that leads circularly to the majority-
dominated and subversively exclusionary 
dynamics of the past, or the path that leads 
to — as Charles would put it — a Middle-
bury where everyone feels that they belong. 
The pursuit of this latter path is our great-
est responsibility, and none of us embodies 
that pursuit so well and so courageously as 
Charles. I endorse, wholeheartedly, Charles 
Rainey for Middlebury’s next SGA President, 
for few have yet so boldly envisioned an SGA 
that stands to combat the pervasive issues 
that affect us presently.
-Kyle Wright ’19.5
   I believe Charles Rainey is the best can-
didate for SGA President because after al-
most a year of being friends, classmates and 
members of the First Year Committee he 
has showed many others and me his intense 
desire in making Middlebury a place where 
more and more people can feel welcome and 
included. For example, in the First Year Com-
mittee he has proven great ability in organiz-
ing and managing with other board members 
events that foster community and stronger 
relationships among all the individuals in the 
first-year class. 
    Ultimately, although many have criticized 
his lack of seniority, I believe that indeed this 
point is negligible. In fact, Charles Rainey is 
the candidate that has the biggest amount of 
skills and enthusiasm to build and solidify a 
stronger college community. In the past year 
he has demonstrated great love and care for 
this institution and its students, and I am 
sure he will do the same in the next academic 
year. This is why I am voting for him, and this 
is why I hope other students will do so as well.
-Meron Benti ’19 
I have seen the passion Charles has to cre-
ate change on campus from day one. I did not 
know who he was, why he was in a suit every 
time I would spot him, why I would see him 
have a conversation with a new somebody ev-
ery minute I glanced at him. Apart from my 
guess that he was a freshman, what surprised 
me about Charles was the fact that he was 
determined and very persistent. I have never 
seen a first-year so engaged and so eager to 
be apart of the SGA than what I was seeing 
coming from him. Hence, I thought maybe he 
has purpose. I decided to approach him to see 
what perspectives he had to bringing change 
upon the Midd community. And by that sole 
interaction I automatically knew my hopes 
for Middlebury could be trusted in Charles 
Rainey.
 From our very first interactions of me try-
ing to know about his platform and who he 
is, he gave me his full attention. He listened 
as I poured my heart out concerning my own 
heartfelt exclusions about this place, on it be-
ing not as inclusive as I would want it to be 
– especially concerning my queer, trans and 
gender nonconforming community. Not only 
did he listen, but the minute I finished say-
ing what this place needed to make me feel 
more supported, he broke down the steps of 
what he will do to make a step towards that 
inclusion. It was something I respected. Nev-
er have I felt my anti-bureaucratical feelings 
towards the SGA and Middlebury adminis-
tration so far away from me when interacting 
with Charles. He makes it really easy to trust 
him because whatever he says he will do, he 
does. And he did do what he said he was to 
do that first interaction. If I have seen him do 
this as a first-year senator, I can only imagine 
how much the Middlebury student commu-
nity, specifically the black, queer and of color 
students on campus can profit from his pas-
sions if he becomes president. 
 Keep it up Charles, we have faith in you.
-Yerlin Baez ’16.5
As one of the co-directors of the SGA’s In-
stitutional Diversity Committee I would like 
to endorse Charles Rainey for SGA President.
Like many of the candidates in this elec-
tion, Charles has experience in the SGA. 
However, unlike many of these candidates, 
Charles has worked in the SGA with a par-
ticular focus towards diversity and inclusion. 
For him, these issues are not platform topics 
created to respond to this past years’ events. 
Diversity and inclusion are something that 
Charles has cared about before the sombrero 
incident. Charles’ experience in the SGA with 
a particular focus on diversity and inclusion 
empowers him to be the most effective candi-
date on these issues.
 It is also important to note that Charles 
is one of the only candidates who does not 
talk about diversity and inclusion with coded 
language that dismisses marginalized people. 
Charles does not believe that those who have 
expressed their pain are “divisive” or “pes-
simistic.” Furthermore, he is the only candi-
date who addresses diversity and inclusion 
with direct solutions.
 Throughout this election, I have seen 
many of my peers express reservations about 
supporting Charles due to his young age. 
However, I believe that Charles’ age is one of 
the reasons to support him. As a black wom-
an who has grappled with issues of marginal-
ization for four years, I am tired. Of course, I 
am not alone in this fatigue — throughout the 
years I have witnessed many of my margin-
alized peers (and allies who have dedicated 
their time to critiquing/fighting systems of 
oppression at Middlebury) burn out. In this 
respect, Charles’ age is an advantage.
 Overall, Charles has had personal and 
political experience with issues of diversity 
and inclusion. Throughout these experiences 
Charles has demonstrated an ability to assert 
himself and to listen to others — even when 
others are not willing to listen to him. 
-Jasmine Ross ’16
reader op-edS
The following students 
support Charles Rainey for 
SGA President
 8 Advertisements  | april 14, 2016
It is increasingly difficult to envision 
the 21st century without the looming (and 
vaguely omnipotent) presence of technol-
ogy. From social networks to instantaneous 
cloud-based sharing, modern technology 
has become somewhat of a secular God, 
shaping the way in which we interact with 
people and the biophysical world. 
Considerably less attention, however, 
is paid to the way that technology can en-
hance and change the way in which we in-
teract with art forms such as film, music and 
literature. This was the theme of Kevin L. 
Ferguson’s April 5 talk, which delved into 
applications of the digital humanities in re-
lation to film and media studies. In a lecture 
titled “Summed Slices: Digital Surrealism as 
Research Practice,” Ferguson, an assistant 
professor of English and director of writing 
at Queens College (CUNY), spoke about the 
digital humanities as a way of “generating 
knowledge that is not otherwise accessible” 
through conventional learning methods. 
Inspired by the surrealist artists such 
as Salvador Dali — whose work embraces 
staggering juxtapositions of seemingly un-
related objects — Ferguson refers to these 
discoveries in the making as pieces of “ir-
rational knowledge.” Just as the visual sur-
realists engage in an artistic tradition that 
privileges experimentation, Ferguson hopes 
to use modern software in unconventional 
ways. 
One such program is ImageJ, a Java-
based program developed by the National 
Institutes of Health (NIH) to aid scientists 
in microscopic analysis by dissecting a sin-
gle image into its multiple constituents. This 
stacking process — or “summing of slices” 
— is what piqued Ferguson’s interest in Im-
ageJ. 
“ImageJ works on these stacks of imag-
es, and as a film studies person, this struck 
me as being analogous to a film strip as it 
passes in front of us,” Ferguson said. “[In 
microscopy], when you want to take a pho-
tograph through a microscope of something 
really small, the depth of field gets smaller, 
so you take a bunch of successive pictures 
of each plane in focus. Later on, you stack 
them together to get a picture of a cell.” 
Though not a scientist by training, Fer-
guson’s research uses ImageJ to create a 
three dimensional image of a film by “stack-
ing” multiple stills into a single “volumetric 
rendering.”
“I use (or misuse) the scientific image 
analysis software ImageJ to sum the frames 
of a movie into a single collapsed image, vi-
sualizing film and media texts in ways that 
are literally impossible to see otherwise.” 
As Ferguson takes a collection of 745 
stills from Walt Disney’s Snow White and 
the Seven Dwarfs and “sums” them in Im-
ageJ, the result, at first glance, is single im-
age abstraction that feels loaded with inex-
tricable meaning. 
And Ferguson himself acknowledges 
the strangeness of this experience. “The first 
thing I think that’s worth looking at is just 
how defamiliarizing it is to have a temporal 
experience be made spatial.” 
Besides providing another perspec-
tive with which to consider visual media, 
the summed image also creates a proleptic 
glance into progression of the film. “You 
might be able to see in some films shifts (or 
particular rhythms) that are harder to tell in 
the experience of watching it but are easier 
to see when you make what you might call a 
kind of distant reading of the film.” 
These idiosyncratic rhythms that Fer-
guson gestures at become all the more ap-
parent when he creates two dimensional 
summed images of Walt Disney Animation 
Studios’ entire canon of films by “perform-
ing a different mathematical operation on 
the RGB (red, green, blue) values of each 
voxel — or volumized pixel — in the image.” 
From old classics such as Bambi (1942) 
and The Jungle Book (1967) to contempo-
rary features like Big Hero Six (2014), the 
two-dimensional “summed images” re-
veal distinctive aesthetic choices that likely 
would have escaped the conventional view-
ing experience. 
“While the hue and central shape looks 
similar to Jungle Book, Bambi’s summed 
frame has a darkened lower portion,” notes 
Ferguson. “Closer investigation shows that 
animators often occluded the foreground of 
the frame with bushes, tree limbs, or other 
natural objects, creating a voyeuristic effect 
to make it seem as if viewers are peering 
through [the] underbrush to watch Bambi’s 
life unfold.” 
Interesting differences also exist be-
tween widescreen films. The summed 
slice for Frozen reveals “two faint central 
shapes,” which is a rather rare occurrence. 
“Unlike other widescreen films like Sleep-
ing Beauty, Frozen uses its widescreen for-
mat to frame a preponderance of two-shots, 
emphasizing relationships between charac-
ters,” said Ferguson.
Together, these observations all return 
to Ferguson’s notion of digital surrealism, 
producing knowledge that is not so irratio-
nal after all. “In my method, I’m making an 
argument for a digital surrealism that isn’t 
primarily aesthetic, but one that [can be 
used in an] comparative analysis to gener-
ate real knowledge.” 
During Spring break, a group of seven 
College students took a trip to Cuba, where 
they worked on three tasks: brining surf 
gear to locals who have, for years, been de-
prived of surfboards due to the embargo, 
learning about local Voodoo practices and 
learning about how the health care system 
in Cuba has suffered as a result of the em-
bargo’s aftermath.
The group stayed with a host fam-
ily outside of Havana. Christian Johansen 
’16.5, one of the leaders of the surfboard 
mission, said the family was incredibly 
kind and generous. “Angel, the head of the 
house, is this big man who loves smoking 
cigars, watching American music videos 
and telling stories. He just loves life.” 
Many of the locals the group encoun-
tered were vivacious. “People, like Angel, 
were warm and welcoming, but after a 
while, in our conversations, we could get to 
a deeper, darker place,” said David Fuchs 
’17. 
A couple of the students witnessed a 
darker event when they were together in 
an Internet park – one of the only spaces 
where locals can access Internet. While the 
students were sitting, a Cuban man walked 
by wearing a grain sack, and with tape on 
his mouth. The grain sack read: “The gov-
ernment took away my bike taxi. How am 
I supposed to eat now?” Within a few min-
utes, spectators gathered around the pro-
testor and the police were called. 
“There was screaming and hollering. 
The man was carried down the street,” Jo-
hansen said. 
Christoph Niederhauser ’16 added, “I 
wouldn’t be surprised if he was in jail now.” 
Fuchs expressed a similar air of cau-
tion. “We have to be careful about how we 
think about Cuba. We rolled in for 10 days 
and none of us know how it really works. 
We understand that there is really limited 
political mobility and a bleak economic sit-
uation, but we cannot overgeneralize and 
say we know how the country works.” 
The College partially funded the group 
of students to travel to Cuba with the surf 
gear. The group acquired the gear by con-
tacting several surf shops in the New Eng-
land area. Although the surf gear’s arrival 
was delayed due to unforeseen complica-
tions, the group was able to deliver the gear 
to local surfers well within their departure. 
“The hardest part, after getting the equip-
ment, was finding people to give the gear to 
in Cuba,” said Niederhauser. 
The group went to the beach every day 
and spoke with locals to find out whether 
there were surfers in need of gear. Some 
people they spoke to laughed in their face. 
“Guys would laugh at us. They would say 
‘There aren’t surfers here!’” Brown said. 
But eventually the group was able to 
find surfers to give their gear too. “None 
of the equipment went to waste, which was 
cool. The best and most dedicated surfers 
get the best equipment,” Fuchs said. 
While looking for local surfers, the 
group was also able to learn about the Voo-
doo practices of Cuba. Sena Voncujovi ’17, 
led this component of the trip. Voncujov’s 
objective was to compare the Voodoo prac-
tices of his home, Ghana, to the Voodoo 
practices of Cuba. Working to destigmatize 
the practice of Voodoo in America, Von-
cujovi has an exhibit in the McCullough 
Student Center featuring photographs of 
Voodoo practices, which will be up until 
the end of April.
Niederhauser said that one of the most 
memorable parts of the trip was getting to 
“witness Voodoo first hand. It was really 
eye-opening. I mean, when would I ever be 
able to see that anywhere else?” 
A Molecular Biology and Biochemis-
try major, Niederhauser came on the trip 
to explore the Cuban health care system. 
“I was always told by my dad and by other 
people, that the Cuban health care system 
was the best in the world.” 
Because Cuba provides free medical 
school, there are many physicians in the 
country. However, the country lacks up-
dated medical equipment because of the 
embargo.
“You can tell that the whole country 
lacks supplies,” said Johansen. When you 
go to the super market there is one kind 
of oil. When you go to the hardware store, 
there is one brand of paint.”
The group hopes to go back to Cuba. 
“All of our own goals were pretty much ful-
filled,” Niederhauser said. 
Johansen added, “We made lots of 
connections with surfers and Cubans in 
Havana and outside of the city. We want 
to go back.”
april 14, 2016   
Digital Humanities Presents 
New Avenues of Interpretation
By Renee Chang
Features Editor
9features
By Joana Salievska
Contributing Writer
Students Visit Cuba, Service Community
This cube is a three-dimensional “summed slice” of Walt Disney’s Snow White and the Seven 
Dwarfs produced using ImageJ software discussed in the April 5 digital humanities lecture.
Why Can’t We 
Be Friends?
By Alex Forde
Contributing Writer
“He’s becoming more and more of a 
douche.”
“They wish they were at a state school.”
“You see a girl hang out with them and 
you’re just like, why?”
Those are all quotes from me or my 
friends about a group of four guys in our 
dorm. Guys that we like spending time 
with, guys that some of us consider friends, 
at least on certain days. But we don’t think 
of them as human beings.
Maybe we think we do, but we don’t. 
To us, they’re labels — “fratty,” “douche” 
— or cogs in the stories we tell each other. 
We play up their faults when it’s funny to 
do so, or play them down when we feel like 
telling something more uplifting.
“He drank 16 beers. That’s pretty im-
pressive. We should do a power hour with 
him.”
“He drank 16 beers and couldn’t find 
his way back to the dorm. Classic them.”
Even when we get deeper into our dis-
cussions, and try to analyze who they are 
as people, we still don’t treat them like 
people. We use them to sharpen our think-
ing skills and to have fun socially analyz-
ing our peers. And social analysis without 
compassion is just nerdy gossip.
Why do I say all this? Because it’s 
scarily easy to dehumanize a person. You 
reduce them to the small portion of their 
actions that make good stories. You see 
patterns that are amusing and easy to spot, 
and then you let those patterns overtake 
your image of them.
The problem is that you forget the 
person underneath, or worse, never get to 
know that person in the first place. Valu-
ing the stories you can tell about someone 
more than the moments you actually share 
with them precludes them from being your 
close friend. Because what you’re really 
doing is separating your close friends — 
the recipients of your stories — from ev-
eryone else.
I realized my tendency to dehumanize 
people because of this column, actually. 
The aforementioned four guys had want-
ed me to write a column about them for a 
while, and I was enthusiastic. What fun it 
would be to write about a goofy group of 
hard partiers who sometimes say outra-
geous things, I thought. Their shenanigans 
make for punchy anecdotes, so they must 
provide the basis for a great friendship col-
umn.
But what the hell did I know about 
their friendship? They steal one anoth-
er’s beer sometimes, and they play video 
games, and they rib one another just like 
any group of friends. They sure seem like 
great pals, but how much did I really un-
derstand them? Did I have anything in-
sightful to say about them? I realized the 
answer was no.
Now, after a week of concerted men-
tal effort to not put them in a box labelled 
“parts for funny stories,” and also some 
effort to not just switch them to a box la-
belled “parts for my column,” I do under-
stand them as people a little bit more.
That little bit of understanding could 
be part of a great column. Each one of the 
four interacts with girls differently, all be-
cause of a different set of experiences and 
hopes and priorities. One of the guys spent 
one night with a girl earlier in the year, 
and his roommate felt shaken. He said he 
didn’t want to lose his best friend. That 
might not get laughs with my friends, but 
it’s interesting as hell to me.
And it’s human.
Kevin L. ferguson
ACROSS
1 With 6-Across and 
9-Across, an explo-
sively appropriate 
name for drinks
6 See 1-Across
9 See 1-Across
14 “I’m going to __ __ 
China!”
15 Shed Mountain __
16 Loudly closes the door
17 Once around the track, 
in extra time
18 Former Japanese cur-
rency
19 The heck do ya mean, 
“The body was __ __
to the wood chipper?”
20 Bhagavad Gita trans-
lator for Penguin
23 Explosive substance
24 Holy guitar player?
28 Academic dept. known 
for arid lectures?
32 How one might ask 
abt. when the doctor 
will arrive
33 A place where the 
seventh Greek letter 
might live
36 Service that Epic 
Systems provides, for 
short
37 2013 D3 Champions 
from Middlebury
41 Alkaline solution used 
in soap making
42 A lunch item at a diner
43 How the British author 
Sir Kingsley might 
introduce himself
47 “I don’t have my 
homework, my __ __ 
it” (bourgeois excuse)
48 Oxford style, one-on-
one
51 Distributor of The 
Wizard of Oz
52 Predecessor of 
20-Across
57 Get together of Madi-
son Avenue types, for 
short
60 More info. coming 
later
61 Intermediate proof in 
a theorem
62 “In the beginning was 
the Word, and the 
Word was with God” 
location
63 One of Sauron’s sol-
diers
64 Electronic Arts sleep 
time, for short
65 What 37-Across is 
played with
66 “__ dude?”
67 Place with the best 
Monday night beer 
deals
DOWN
1 Fox’s “American __”
2 She’s a lovely meter 
maid
3 An Inuit house
4 South American mon-
key in outer space
5 What one might say 
when picking up the 
author of this puzzle
6 Complain, as about a 
trivial matter
7 Alternative name
8 __-__-Cen-
ter, for TVs
9 Comic Sans, for short
10	 Suffix	meaning	“full	
of,” in Latin
11 AMC’s “__ Men”
12 Above 30 is consid-
ered unhealthy
13 Well-guarded no.
21 __-__-Sketch
22 White collar require-
ment
25 A Winger or a Wilson
26 Vegetarian’s request
27 A French pancake
28 Shirt about the 1945 
Nobel Prize in Physics 
winner
29 All the sounds a cow 
makes?
30 Permitted to consume
31 Small amount
34 The __, in N.Y.C.
35 Ruin, colloquially
38 Nursing program at 
U.Mass. Boston
39 Proclamation made 
after a long time wear-
ing the Ring
40 Pool attire
44 See 45-Down
45 Type of humor lost on 
44-Down
46 One of seven
49 Choir members with 
high voices
50 Columbus Day astro-
logical sign
53 Per __
54 What one might say 
their	first	time	at	a	
Greek letter conven-
tion?
55 Necessary item for 
getting around Boston 
public transit
56 Shoots with a ray gun
57 Steely Dan’s sixth 
studio album
58 Its H.Q. is the Penta-
gon
59 Greek tea?
Venture Capitalist Launches College Strategy Initiative
People paticipating in this year’s “Sleep-Out” will camp at Marbleworks, near the foot of the Otter Creek Falls in Middlebury. 
10 features | april 14, 2016
As part of a strategic planning process 
announced	in	March,	the	Office	of	the	Pro-
vost hosted a talk by Bill Maris ’97, titled 
“Vermont, Silicon Valley and the Future,” 
on Friday, March 11 in Wilson Hall. The 
talk	was	the	first	of	a	speaker	series	focused	
on key themes of innovation and learning. 
Maris is the founder and C.E.O. of G.V., for-
merly known as Google Ventures, a venture 
capital	investment	firm	owned	by	Alphabet	
Inc. that invests $2.5 billion of its assets in 
life sciences, health and robotics.
On its website, the College described 
the strategy initiative, called “Envisioning 
Middlebury,” as a campus-wide conver-
sation aimed at shaping the future of the 
institution. The actual planning process is 
slated for 2017. The website does not spec-
ify which parties will directly participate in 
the planning.
President of the College Laurie L. Pat-
ton gave an introduction of Maris and de-
scribed the College’s new strategy initiative. 
“My intention for envisioning Middlebury 
is to have a conversation among all of us, 
about our perceptions, our visions, our 
hopes and our thoughts — about what our 
future should look like,” she said.
Patton said that the initiative will be “a 
yearlong conversation, designed to engage 
all of Middlebury’s locations, campuses and 
constituencies.” The preliminary events, 
including Maris’ talk, are broken down into 
a speaker series, facilitated small group dis-
cussions and surveys of the student body. 
She said that this work will inform the com-
munity on priorities for the strategic plan, 
and that, for now, “the conversation is the 
strategy.”
Maris’ presentation was fast-paced, us-
ing vector cartoons to bring a touch of hu-
mor to his story. In telling the history of his 
start-up, he showed old photographs of his 
dorm	 room	 in	Hepburn	Hall	 and	his	 first	
office	 in	 South	 Burlington.	 The	 audience	
delighted in his one-liners and running 
jokes, which included a Hard Rock Café T-
shirt that appeared in several photographs.
Maris was a neuroscience major at the 
College and graduated with honors. He 
took “an equal number, literally,” of classes 
in literature, sociology and Greek as he did 
science classes, and attributed his versatil-
ity in the workplace to that fact.
Maris told several anecdotes about 
his	experience	in	finance	after	graduation.	
“For those of you contemplating a career 
on Wall Street, don’t do it,” Maris said to 
laughter. He described himself as a hippie 
who casually strolled into work late and re-
jected the suit-and-tie dress code. One day, 
he said, while on a business trip to Sweden, 
he decided to quit and start an internet 
company.
“I didn’t have any money, I didn’t have 
any experience — all I had was a credit 
card.” He moved to Burlington because of 
its	 low	 cost	 of	 living,	 and	 he	 figured	 that	
the worst-case-scenario if the startup failed 
would be that he lived in a “beautiful area.” 
In December 1998, Maris purchased three 
computer servers — he had not taken a 
single computer science class at the College 
—	and	filled	 a	 small	 office	 space	 in	 South	
Burlington with them.
Maris transitioned to the theme of 
technology and its rapid rate of develop-
ment. He showed pictures of presiden-
tial inauguration ceremonies in 2006 and 
2009, highlighting the devices that people 
were holding in the audience, to demon-
strate his point that rapid change is hard 
to foresee. The 2006 image showed a man 
holding a laptop to the stage.
“This guy has invented the iPad,” Maris 
quipped. The 2009 image showed almost 
everyone in the audience holding up digital 
cameras. “And if you were to fast-forward 
now to an inauguration, no one would 
have a camera — they would all have their 
phones.” Computer machinery grows at 
an exponential rate, he said. He continued 
with examples like medicine, the human 
genome and the iron lung.
“These tools of innovation have and 
will	enable	revolutions	 in	many	fields,”	he	
said. Maris spoke particularly about the 
life	sciences,	in	which	his	firm	G.V.	invests.	
Today, he said, a new pathogen takes about 
a day to sequence. He linked this to prac-
tical matters, like developments in cancer 
research. “Imagine if you had a computer 
that knew how every cancer patient had 
been treated, and every outcome. It could 
probably do a good job of telling your phy-
sician what protocol might be best for you. 
This is just the beginning,” he proclaimed.
“When we think ahead to the future of 
2030, and what that looks like, there’s lots 
of possibilities,” he said. “Lots of people 
tend to look forward to the negative pos-
sibilities. They fear the dystopian future of 
The Terminator.” He suggested that people 
should have faith in the positives, since 
technology tends to be used for its highest 
purpose in the end.
“If you don’t hope that, and you don’t 
think that, then you have no business doing 
my job. My job is to be incredibly skeptical, 
not optimistic and open to everything.”
Maris gave examples of the positives 
that technology could give to society, and 
offered	a	vision	of	hope.	“Today,	I	take	for	
granted 140 megabits per second of inter-
net in my house,” he said. “We all take for 
granted penicillin, and the treatments that 
enabled us to live our incredibly fortunate 
lives. We take for granted that there’s no 
polio, no small-pox, no bubonic plague.”
He assured the audience, though, that 
it is normal and good to take those things 
for granted — “they’re what enabled prog-
ress,” he said. “In the future, I hope, my son 
and your children live in a world with no 
cancer, no disease. And I hope those are the 
things that everyone in the world should 
come to take for granted.”
Distinguishing the innovation of tech-
nology with its distribution, he stressed 
that	firms	have	“a	responsibility	to	cultivate	
that kind of world.” He spoke of “the cult of 
the entrepreneur” in Silicon Valley.
“Palo Alto is not the end-all be-all, but 
if you live there, you think it is. The great 
challenge for Silicon Valley is to distribute 
the technologies that enable us to have bet-
ter lives around the world.” Maris cited the 
average lifespans of sub-Saharan Africa 
and the United States — 46 compared to 
79	—	and	offered	that	distribution	of	tech-
nology is just as important as disruption, or 
innovation.
“We should think about disruption just 
as much as we do distribution. When the 
two curves match, great things will come,” 
he said. “There’s a lot of push to enable the 
internet all around the world. What if we 
did the same thing for healthcare, clean 
water and nutritious food?”
Susan Baldridge, provost of the Col-
lege, asked Maris what he thought the Col-
lege could do to improve itself. He said that 
the school could either make itself “like a 
museum or, instead, a living, breathing 
place. The best thing to do is to say yes — 
if the students want to go somewhere, say 
yes.” He then related this proposition to his 
own experience at the College: “I could have 
gotten a great education at lot of places, but 
the experiences where I felt supported by 
the	school	made	the	difference.”
He suggested that people should “en-
tertain the world of possibilities, and start 
with yes. Thankfully my wife said yes in-
stead of no, and thus we have a human,” 
Maris said, speaking of his young child, 
who was in the audience. “You can make 
your own luck by being persistent — by be-
ing a heat-seeking missile.”
Maris	concluded	his	talk	with	a	reflec-
tion on how unpredictabe his life has been. 
For him, he said, life is about possibilities; 
taking the impossible or the improbable, 
and making it the actual.
“If you had told me when I was sitting 
in that dorm room in Hepburn that I would 
be running this venture fund at this com-
pany called Google that doesn’t even exist 
at the time but will be the biggest company 
in the world, I would’ve thought that that’s 
insane — that doesn’t make any sense. And 
my next thought would be, how do I get 
there?”
“I didn’t have any 
money, I didn’t have any 
experience — all I had 
was a credit card.”
Bill Maris ’97 used humor and personal anecdotes to talk about improving the world.
By Ethan Brady
Features Editor
Crossword
Michael o’hara / the middlebury campus
Puzzle by Sam Tauke
Greek Life
Edited by Ethan Brady
Nosagie Asaolu ’18 stumbled into the 
room. Surprised, he glanced around at the 
panel of student judges arranged in half 
moon in front of him. 
“What’s going on in here?” he asked.
The students explained. This was the 
preliminary event for the 2016 Parker Mer-
rill Speech Competition. Students were pre-
senting three-minute previews of a short 
speech on a given subject. If selected, the 
orators would progress to a semi-final round 
and then a championship with a public audi-
ence. The winner would receive 500 dollars. 
“Ok,” Asaolu said, “what’s the topic?” 
A minute later he began, voice rising and 
falling as he spoke about his childhood in 
Lagos, Nigeria. His voice was rhythmic; his 
narrative gripping. It was a story, though re-
moved, many students can relate to: the end-
less work and academic hoops that preceded 
life before Middlebury Col-
lege. All he wanted to do, 
Asaolu said, was play chess. 
“The only principle I 
have to guide me through 
the troubled times of life is 
belief,” concluded Asaolu. 
When I asked him later 
why he decided to speak he 
said, “I was looking for an 
empty room to study for my macro exam. 
I thought this was a good way to procrasti-
nate.”
Stiff Competition
Not everyone had such a serendipitous 
journey to the Parker Merrill preliminary. 
Many of the other competitors spoke of their 
nerves, of endless repetition, adrenaline, the 
fear of “blank brains.” 
“It’s like presenting a piece of writing 
and seeing everyone react to it,” said con-
testant Tabitha Mueller ’18 about giving a 
speech. 
In all, 24 contestants previewed their 
speeches on Sunday April 10 and Monday 
April 11 in the hopes of being chosen for the 
next round.  
They are competing in a revived tradi-
tion: the first Parker Merrill Speech Com-
petition took place in 1825 and took place 
annually until 1965. It is unclear why the 
competition stopped. 
Recently, the competition was rediscov-
ered by Oratory Now, a student organiza-
tion started in 2014 that aims to help people 
speak with “conviction, sincerity and persua-
sive power,” according to their mission state-
ment. 
“I’m addicted to that quick change po-
tential that so many people have,” said Dana 
Yeaton, visiting assistant professor of theater 
and director of Oratory Now. “For so many 
people, public speaking is 
what they dread and they’re 
just one good direction away 
from being highly effective, 
from making a quantum 
leap into becoming a truly 
dynamic speaker.” 
Yeaton and Oratory 
Now are happy to add the 
Parker Merrill Speech Com-
petition to their events, which also include 
student workshops on rhetoric.    
After the preliminary round, 12 candi-
dates move on to a semi-final round on today, 
April 14 at 7:30 p.m. in the Abernathy Room 
at Axinn Starr Library. The students appear-
ing in the semi-finals are August Hutchinson 
’16.5, Bilal Ansar Khan ’18, Brennan Delat-
tre ’16, Briana Garrett ’19, David Valentin 
’19, Dominick Tanoh ’18, Georgia Grace Ed-
wards ’18, Josh Espy ’17, Nia Robinson ’19, 
Peter Dykeman-Bermingham ’18.5, Mueller 
and Asaolu. 
Candidates receive coaching from Ora-
tory Now members to help them prepare 
for the semi-finals. The 12 semi-finalists 
will again preview their speech, this time in 
front of a public audience. They will progress 
to the championship round only if they are 
elected by the panel of judges: James I. Arm-
strong Professor of Classics Jane Chaplin, 
Post-Doctoral Fellow in Theater Nathaniel 
Nesmith and Pardon Tillinghast Professor of 
Religion Larry Yarbrough. 
In preparation for the final round, the 
six students invited to the championship will 
receive scriptwriting consulting from For-
mer Governor of Vermont Jim Douglas. 
On April 29, 2016, they will present a five 
to six-minute speech on the topic of “True 
North: A Principle to Guide Us Through 
Troubled Times.” The championship event 
will be held at 7:30 PM in Dana Auditorium. 
A winner will be chosen by a panel of 
alumni guest judges. These guest judges are 
experts on rhetoric; they have spent their 
careers performing and thinking about pub-
lic speaking. The judges include cofounder 
of TEDxMiddlebury Cloe Shasha ’11, now 
a Content and Program Producer for TED, 
the Director of Implementation at the Yale 
Center for Emotional Intelligence Dena Sim-
mons ’05 and Jay 
Heinrichs ’77, au-
thor of the bestsell-
ing book Thank You 
for Arguing and a 
professional consul-
tant for TED speak-
ers. 
These alumni 
will judge the stu-
dent speakers on 
criteria based on the 
Five Canons of Rhet-
oric—the holy grail 
of public speaking if 
you will. In particular, judges will focus on 
invention, arrangement, style, delivery and 
memory. 
“We’re looking at the quality of the 
speaking and someone’s ability to express 
themselves,” explained Mariah Levin ’16.5, 
an Oratory Now coach and a judge in the 
Parker Merrill preliminary. 
The first place speech will receive $500; 
the second, $250. 
In terms of the competition, Yeaton 
hopes that the final speeches are unortho-
dox. 
“The ones we imagine have a kind of 
Moth element to them, but hopefully they 
also have a little scholarship, a little more in-
tricate thinking to them,” Yeaton said. “We 
didn’t just come to hear a good story from 
you; we want you to do what we’ve asked you 
to do which is give us a principle that could 
guide us.” 
The Seeds for Change
Yeaton envisions this speech competi-
tion as a force promoting conversation and 
self-reflection across the College’s commu-
nity. 
“Part of what 
Oratory Now says in 
its mission is that by 
communicating with 
itself, a community 
thrives. We think of it 
as a way to foster an 
internal dialogue.”
Others also view 
the Parker Merrill 
Speech Competition 
as a change to spark 
change.  
“It’s a unique op-
portunity to present 
positive solutions in a way that sometimes 
there are less opportunities for here,” said 
Espy, a semi-finalist and an Oratory Now 
coach. “It’s a chance to say, ‘Here’s my idea. 
Here’s why I believe in it. Here’s what I 
would build, what I would make.’ And I think 
that’s really cool.”
For others, like Asaolu, the chance to re-
flect, talk and be heard was too good to pass 
up.
“It’s nice to talk. These are things I think 
about: what’s a principle that you live by?” 
said Asaolu about the topic of the speeches. 
“And it’s a really hard question to answer, es-
pecially if you’re not religious. And I feel like 
that’s part of the reason why we are all in col-
lege. To answer these questions.”
Historic Speech Competition Returns with 
Heated Preliminary, Semi and Finals to Come
By Emilie Munson
Features Editor
Emilie Munson
Members of Oratory Now, including the student judges of the preliminary, pose. L to R: 
Visiting Assistant Professor of Theater Dana Yeaton, Alex Hogenhuis ’19, Claudia Huerta 
’18, Ellen Colton ’19, Raphael Mettle ’18, Alex Brockelman ’18 and Mariah Levin ’16.5.
“It’s like present-
ing a piece of writing 
and seeing everyone 
react to it.”
Tabitha Mueller ’18 
“Part of what Oratory Now 
says in its mission is that by 
communicating with itself, a 
community thrives. We think 
of it as a way to foster an in-
ternal dialogue. ”
Dana Yeaton
Visiting assistant professor of theatre
Emilie Munson
Dana Yeaton and Tabitha Mueller play an 
oratory game to warm up before her preview. 
april 14, 2016   11features
WANT A PIECE OF THE ACTION?
The Middlebury Campus is always seeking new voices. Writers are 
needed in the following sections:
To express interest, please send an email to campus@middlebury.edu detailing the section(s) for which 
you’d like to write.
NEWS
ONLINE  
FEATURES
SPORTS
OPINIONS
ARTS&SCIENCES
12features 13featuresAPRIL 14, 2016    | APRIL 14, 2016
 For many, spring break is synonymous with rest and relaxation. For some students, however, there could be no better time to dip 
their feet into the world of community service — and this year was not any different. Between the recent trip to Orleans, Vt. organized 
by students involved in the Middlebury Alternative Break Program (MAlt) and the Scott Center for Spiritual and Religious Life’s trip to 
Chicago, Ill., there was no shortage of meaningful social engagement. 
 Started in the mid-1990s by a group of students eager to service both local and global communities, MAlt has quickly expanded 
to become one of the College’s hallmark student-initiated service programs. Over the course of the academic year, the MAlt program 
not only brings students together during breaks, but also gives them the opportunity to plan and lead their own trips. Historically, MAlt 
participants have found themselves spread the continental United States, ranging from the rural forests of Vermont to the heart of major 
urban centers including New York City and Chicago. 
 The Scott Center trip to Chicago mixed 23 students with seven members of the College staff, who bussed 16 hours each way to 
spend the break learning up-close and doing service work. Last year, Alternative Spring Break Trip alums who traveled to Alabama sug-
gested this year’s trip to Chicago. The students who participated varied from Chicago natives to those who had never visited the city, 
knowing only of its reputation as “one of the most dangerous cities in the U.S.” Rabbi and Associate Chaplain for the College Ira Schiffer 
described the trip as an opportunity to discuss how “the social justice challenges facing Chicago and society at large will require your 
generation to engage for the long haul to build a more just society.” Every student interviewed described the trip as a success.
ALTERNATIVE SPRING BREAK TRIPS
Language in Motion Mini-MAlt Trip 
 Led by Kyler Blodgett ’17, this year’s “mini” MAlt trip took a group of five students to Lake Region Union High School and Brown-
ington Central School in Orleans, Vt., which is located in what is known as the state’s Northeast Kingdom. The trip was a collaborative 
effort with the College’s Language in Motion (LiM) program, which puts Middlebury language students in touch with teachers to develop 
novel teaching plans. 
 “Language in Motion is an educational collaboration that connects Middlebury’s international, study abroad, and upper level lan-
guage students with local high school and middle school teachers, students and classrooms,” said Kristen Mullins, who serves as the LiM 
Coordinator at the College. “In addition to supporting the developing global awareness and intercultural competence of the secondary 
students, students deepen and further the meaning and integration of their own intercultural experience in collaboration with others.” 
 At the school, MAlt participants worked first hand to with students. “Students gave a full day of presentations, visiting over fifteen 
classroom and focusing on [topics including] cultural relativity, stereotypes, global perspectives on music, the global environment, student 
life in francophone cultures (specifically France and Cameroon), and community involvement and citizenship,” said Mullins.
 Although the students could only spend a short time at Lake Region and Brownington Central, the trip involved extensive planning 
and thought. “For every trip, it is very rewarding to see how much work students put into preparing to meaningfully enter into the com-
munity where they will be serving,” said Ashley Laux, Associate Director of Community Engagement and campus advisor to MAlt. 
 “The passion and energy that students put into making the MAlt program their own inspires me each year. I see students come back 
to campus grappling with issues of privilege, social justice, citizenship and one’s role in local and global communities. MAlt is wonderful 
because it serves as a springboard for many students to dive deeper into these issues and continue to engage as active citizens at Middle-
bury and in their own communities.” 
Scott Center for Spiritual and Religious Life Alternative Spring Break Trip to Chicago
 Associate Chaplain and Rabbi at the College Ira Schiffer helped coordinate the Scott Center for Spiritual and Religious Life’s Alter-
native Spring Break Trip to Chicago, where a group of 23 students and seven staff members spent the week learning about the intersection 
of arts and social justice. The trip participants studied the pros and cons of charter schools in the Chicago area, volunteered in meal prepa-
ration during a teachers’ strike that left hungry students without access to public school lunches and visited the Chicago Young Authors 
program to witness young people “wrestle with the difficulties, challenges and prejudice they experience in their lives,” Schiffer said.
 “The Friday we were there, the Chicago Teachers Union had a strike, so the schools were closed,” Nia Robinson ’19 said. “While they 
were fighting for a great cause, it meant that thousands of students could not get the meals they count on from the schools. When we went 
to the Greater Chicago Food Depository, we packed Pop-Tarts that were to be sent to libraries and other spaces the students would use. It 
was nice to take part in the packing because we got to support the movement in several aspects. While we were not able to attend the strike, 
we were able to provide food for the students, the main focus of the strike.”
 Speaking about her own experience depending on public schools for meals, Briana Garrett ’19 said she got a new perspective on her 
privileged life at the College.  “This was a positive experience for me because I never consider how our faith or personal beliefs can guide 
the way in which we address social, political and economic issues,” she said. “As someone who benefited from school food programs, I held 
the experience at the Food Depository close to my heart. We were packing food that could be distributed to food centers across the city for 
the day of the teachers’ strike. Students often rely on school as a place for their meals and we were able to be a part of the process of getting 
meals to those kids across the city.”
 Meron Benti ’19, for whom the trip was her first visit to Chicago, enjoyed the experience and would encourage other students to 
participate if the program is offered again next year. “I would definitely recommend this trip to others,” she said. “In fact, before leaving for 
the week I did not know much about Chicago except for the fact that it was regarded one of the most dangerous cities in the U.S. However, 
by the end of the trip I had learned so much more about this city that is filled with history, art, culture, and great desire for social change. 
From participating in different religious ceremonies, to visiting different museums, attending open mic events and volunteering side to side 
with other Chicagoans, this trip has offered me an overview of Chicago that no other touristic tour would have given me.”
 Schiffer described the trip not only as a success for the students who participated, but as an opportunity to realize the impact that 
religious and spiritual organizations have on their communities. In addition, students were able to meet like-minded peers and begin con-
versations that will carry over onto the campus.
 The trip was suggested by students from Chicago who went last year to Montgomery, Ala. to mark the 50th anniversary of the Selma 
to Montgomery Civil Rights March.  Both last year’s trip and this year’s highlighted the role that churches, synagogues and mosques can 
play in building their communities and helping to provide support, meaning and resources to address difficult issues and life situations,” 
Schiffer said. “Our Spring Break Trips have brought together groups of students, who form an amazing cross section of the religious, cul-
tural, regional and international diversity at Middlebury. Many of these students would not have met one another without this trip.”
MAlt participants stand outside a historical building in Orleans, Vt., which is part of the state’s 
Northeast Kingdom and in close proximity to the Canadian border. Photo credit: Ashley Laux
Panel reporting on the trip: L-R, Prof. J Finley, Nia Robinson ’19, Shan Zeng ’19 and Zarai Zaragoza ’18 in Wilson Hall
Photo Credit: Yeager Anderson 
By Renee Chang and Henry Burnett
Design by Julia Hatheway
CARTOONS
Emily COx
WIN HOMER
KAITLYND COLLINS
Vaasu Taneja
BOONE MCCOY-CRISP
 15Advertisementsapril 14, 2016 | 
GREEN PEPPERS
Official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
ft
(802) 388-3164
The Archer’s Heart by Astrid Amara 
is such a pleasure to read. I have read 
this novel more than three times, and 
each and every time 
I discover something 
that I missed before. 
This fantasy novel 
draws on elements of the Mahabharata, 
one of the two major Sanskrit epics, and 
is set in Marhavad, a land resembling In-
dia.
The Indian influence that prevails 
in this novel is a welcome change, as 
most other fantasy books are ground-
ed in European roots. Amara creates a 
world with magical elements that blend 
seamlessly with the historical tone of the 
novel. The nod to Hindu mythology is 
clear from beginning to end: Jandu wins 
Suraya’s hand in marriage by shooting a 
fish in the eye without looking directly 
at it; Suraya ends 
up marrying 
all three Paran 
brothers; and 
the Yashva king bestows Jandu and Kes-
han with mystical gifts.  
The protagonist, Prince Jandu 
Paran, may come across as a spoiled, 
brash boy at first, but do not let this dis-
courage you. The novel chronicles his 
journey as he grows into someone worthy 
of his title. This is accomplished with the 
help of Keshan Adaru, a man who stands 
at the forefront of change due to his gift 
of “The Sight.” Charismat-
ic and beautiful, Keshan is 
determined to abolish the 
caste system for the sake 
of gender equality.
Lust blossoms into 
love between Keshan and 
Jandu that exposes the 
men to each other’s vastly 
different outlooks on life. 
Keshan becomes frustrat-
ed with Jandu as he tries 
– and fails, over and over 
again – to open his lover’s eyes to the 
inherent unfairness built into the caste 
structure. Meanwhile, Jandu’s complete 
disregard for Keshan’s radical beliefs is 
challenged by his inability to resist Kes-
han as a person. Over time, 
Jandu matures from a 
young, arrogant warrior to 
a wise, older man. In this 
way, The Archer’s Heart 
exemplifies the power of 
love to transform people.
This book will always 
have a very special place 
in my heart. Featuring ex-
cellent world-building and 
lyrical text, The Archer’s 
Heart is a tale of betrayal, 
adventure, war and love. Above all, how-
ever, it is a love story that will stay with 
you forever.
arts & sciences
don’t
miss
this
Heathers
This rock musical tells the mordantly delicious story 
of Veronica Sawyer, a brainy, beautiful teenage misfit 
who hustles her way into the most powerful and ruth-
less clique at Westerberg High: the Heathers. A hilari-
ous, heartfelt and homicidal evening of entertainment 
based on the greatest teen comedy of all time. 
4/14-4/16, 8 P.M., TOWN HALL THEATER
Middlebury College Orchestra Spring Concert
Student soloist Gioia Pappalardo ’16 will  be the featured 
artist in Charles Tomlinson Griffes’ impressionistic Poem 
for Flute and Orchestra. The program will also include 
Robert Schumann’s Fourth Symphony and Bacchanal 
from Camille Saint-Saëns’ opera Samson et Delilah. Run-
ning time: one hour. Free.
4/16, 7 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
The Pitchfork Disney
After the tragic death of their parents, twin sib-
lings spend a decade locked away in a fantasy 
world until the door is opened and their worst 
nightmares invade. Deemed one of the origina-
tors of the “in-yer-face” theatre movement, this 
play explores fear and humanity’s need for it. 
4/14-4/16, 7:30 P.M.; 4/15, 10 P.M., HEPBURN ZOO
On Saturday, April 9, indie-pop band 
BØRNS headlined the spring concert spon-
sored by the Middlebury College Activity 
Board (MCAB). Anticipation for the show 
had been building since the announcement 
of the headliner six 
weeks before the show. 
Students turned out en 
masse to see BØRNS 
and the opening act, 
Burlington-based Ma-
daila, perform.
Local business 
Atomic Professional Au-
dio spent the morning 
setting up the stage and 
sound before the bands’ 
arrival. BØRNS, a five-
piece group fronted by 
Michigan native lead 
singer Garrett Borns, whose name gives the 
group its name, arrived in Middlebury at 3 
p.m. and began sound check an hour later 
at 4. With his long locks swept back under-
neath a gray beanie, Borns and company 
filled the empty Kenyon arena with crisp 
and energetic sound. At many points, there 
was a small crowd gathered to listen to the 
preview at the second floor entrance to the 
arena. With a water polo tournament and la-
crosse game happening on both sides of the 
arena, it was no surprise that such an event 
drew curiosity.
During the sound check, James Ander-
son of One if by Land Productions, the Bos-
ton-based agency that handled the booking 
of BØRNS for MCAB, spoke at length about 
the appeal of the 
band. 
“There’s some-
thing about BØRNS; 
this band just 
screams Middle-
bury,” Anderson said. 
“We had sold 800 
tickets by Wednes-
day, and were up to 
1,100 [Friday].”
Tickets had been 
on sale since March 
20 at $8 a piece with 
a price at the door 
of $15, a move that prompted many to buy 
tickets early, but did nothing to deter those 
in the lengthy line at the door prior to the 
show who did not want to miss out on the 
event.
Five hours later, BØRNS took the stage 
for an audience that quite easily may have 
reached Anderson’s projected size. Playing 
an hour-long set, BØRNS played hits and 
highlights from their Candy EP and debut 
album Dopamine such as “American Mon-
ey,” “Past Lives,” and “Electric Love,” which 
served as an aptly electrifying closer to the 
set and an energizing sing-along with the 
crowd. Both performers and audience mem-
bers were enjoying the show, with Borns 
himself noting between songs, “We flew 
from the other side of the country to play 
some songs for you guys. So far it’s been 
f***ing worth it.”
Within their set of originals, BØRNS 
also covered “Heroes” by David Bowie, the 
British superstar who died in January. The 
cover was a huge hit with the crowd. 
“I think [their] cover of ‘Heroes’ sticks 
out as a highlight,” said Katherine Brown 
’18, one of the two co-chairs of MCAB’s 
Concerts Committee, the organization that 
planned the event. “Such a great song [and 
they] did a cool version.” 
The cover drew a parallel between 
Borns and Bowie. While their musical ap-
proaches may be divergent in some senses, 
with his long hair and high range, Borns 
seems to tap into some of the gendered-im-
age-defying look that Bowie perfected over 
his career. “Heroes” was wrapped in as part 
of a medley with one the bands originals, 
and such a blending of old and new high-
lighted the bands musical chops. 
“I believe [Borns’] presence and style 
have earned him a fair comparison to David 
Bowie, if that’s not too ambitious; power-
fully catchy, anthemic and somehow a bit 
nostalgic,” Tess Weitzner ’18.5 said.
 The concert wrapped up just before 
11:00 p.m. and most audience members ap-
peared to walk away having enjoyed them-
selves, if with a slight disappointment on the 
run-time of the performance. 
“As someone who listens to BØRNS, I 
was excited when [MCAB] announced they 
were going to play the spring concert. It was 
even more fun than I expected,” Hope Alli-
son ’19.5 said. “My only complaint is that it 
didn’t go on for longer.” 
Nonetheless, even with disappointment 
concerning the length of the preformance, 
BØRNS did make a positive impression on 
the Middlebury community. 
“I bought two songs today and they 
were both BØRNS,” Grayson Ahl ’19.5  said 
after attending the concert. “Definitely was 
not expecting that.”
The show was seen as a resounding suc-
cess from MCAB’s perspective as well. 
“The concert was a big success on a lot 
of levels,” Brown said. “People were enjoy-
ing themselves whether they were dancing 
or just sitting and enjoying the music. [...] It 
feels really good for the Concerts committee 
to put on an event that draws such a large 
mix of students, community members and 
faculty.”
With a crowd that appeared to have 
nearly filled the space around the stage in 
Kenyon, it is no surprise that the concert can 
be seen as such a hit by the audience, those 
who planned it and the performers alike. 
Next year’s headliner will have quite an act 
to follow. 
BØRNS Spring Concert Electrifies Crowd
By Devin McGrath-Conwell
Staff Writer
“I believe [Borns’] pres-
ence and style have 
earned him a fair com-
parison to David Bowie, if 
that’s not too ambitious; 
powerfully catchy, anthe-
mic and somehow a bit 
nostalgic.” 
-Tess Weitzner ’18.5
Michael O’Hara
booking it
By Abigail Walton
Staff Columnist
Featuring excel-
lent world-build-
ing and lyrical 
text, The Archer’s 
Heart is a tale 
of betrayal, ad-
venture, war and 
love.
The ARcher’s Heart
Michigan-born singer Garrett Borns is the lead singer of the indie-pop band BØRNS. 
Michael O’Hara
Burlington band Madaila opened for BØRNS, taking the stage at 8 p.m. on Saturday. 
April 14, 2016 | 17arts & SCIENCES
Michael O’Hara
The Chekov-inspired play Stupid F***ing Bird premiered this weekend in the MCA.
Kendo, “The Way of the Sword,” is 
the practice of Japanese fencing. One 
of the oldest and most celebrated of the 
Japanese martial arts, it is held in high 
regard in Japan as an important cul-
tural legacy. Kendo has transcended its 
bloody origins in Japan’s feudal past to 
become a modern martial discipline that 
instills courtesy, humility, self-control 
and fighting spirit through mentally in-
tense and physically rigorous training. 
On Tuesday, April 19, there will be a free 
demonstration by members of Boston 
Kendo Kyokai and Boston Shufukai in 
the Mahaney Center for the Arts (MCA) 
Dance Theatre.
Assistant Professor of History of Art 
and Architecture and Curator of Asian 
Art at the College Museum of Art, Dr. 
Sarah Laursen, was inspired to invite 
these practitioners to campus after un-
earthing a suit of ceremonial armor from 
the school’s archives. The armor is an art 
piece on its stand, but its true beauty can 
only be appreciated within the context in 
which it was meant to be worn.
Modern Kendo began to form in the 
late 18th century with the introduction of 
protective equipment. Such protection is 
important because the four strike zones 
in Kendo correspond to the four areas 
associated with fatal wounds. The “men” 
shields against strikes to the top of the 
head as well as stabs to the throat; the 
“do” is the chest plate that softens diago-
nal cuts across the torso; and “kote” are 
padded gloves that shield from slashes at 
the hand or wrist that would incapacitate 
the sword arm. These precautions sharply 
curtail the number of serious injuries sus-
tained during practice and allow students 
to put their full power behind strikes.
Although the discipline suffered with 
the abolishment of the samurai class dur-
ing the Meji Restoration, it was revived as 
a way for police officers to defend against 
uprisings in the 1880s. Constant conflict 
through the latter half of the 19th cen-
tury stimulated such widespread practice 
that Kendo was officially incorporated 
into middle school curriculum by WWI. 
By WWII, it was mandated for all boys. 
Although the practical applications of the 
armor were limited by evolving warfare 
techniques, the character, self-discipline 
and respect it symbolizes are timeless.
The first thing a student learns in the 
dojo is “reigi,” etiquette. Next, the differ-
ent postures, footwork and sword-swing-
ing techniques. Every martial art has a 
rigid sequence of motion that uniquely 
reflects the art. The 10 Kendo Kata are 
performed with a wooden sword, the 
“bokken,” and practiced between two 
people, the “Uchitachi” and the “Shida-
chi.” The first sets the pace; the second 
responds. Only with significant dedi-
cation and practice of these forms is a 
student allowed to begin training with 
“bogu,” armor.
In every movement, it is crucial to co-
ordinate the strike, footwork and shout of 
“kiai” so that they occur simultaneously, 
in one fluid expression. While beginners 
engage in a variety of drills, advanced 
practitioners don their bogu and prepare 
for free practice (jigeiko), the actual fenc-
ing.
Tuesday’s event is sponsored by the 
Department of History of Art and Archi-
tecture, the Middlebury College Museum 
of Art, the Program in East Asian Studies 
and the Department of Japanese Studies. 
The event is free and open to the public.
By Connor Forrest
Senior Columnist
Performing Arts Sp    TLight: Kendo
 
Stupid F***ing Bird, one of the Col-
lege’s spring faculty shows, started out 
strong on opening night last Thursday, 
April 7. Penned by Aaron Posner, the work 
explores the nature of art by successfully 
incorporating humorous elements into 
very serious themes. Stupid F***ing Bird 
is an adaptation of The Seagull, a work by 
19th-century Russian playwright Anton 
Chekov. Fourth wall breaks occurred fre-
quently throughout the show, with actors 
directly addressing audience members 
(or rather, strategically placed actors in 
the crowd) in amusing repartees.
Middlebury’s show was directed by 
Cheryl Faraone, Professor of Theatre and 
Gender Sexuality and Feminist Studies, 
and designed by a group of faculty mem-
bers and students. Stupid F***ing Bird 
featured a talented student cast and crew, 
joined by Kevin Commins ’76, who played 
the role of Sorn, and Adam Milano ’15, 
who choreographed the show.
The play details a messy tangle of 
unrequited love between young adults 
Dev (Jackson Prince ’17), Mash (Shannon 
Gibbs ’18), Con (Jackson Prince ’17) and 
Nina (Katie Weatherseed ’16.5). When 
Con’s actress mother, Emma, comes home 
with her self-obsessed writer boyfriend, 
Trigorin (Greg Swartz ’17.5), these ten-
sions reach a boiling point. Continuously 
scornful of her son’s work as a budding 
playwright, Emma ignites a fierce series 
of arguments and fails to notice Trigorin’s 
relationship with Con’s love interest, Nina. 
After Trigorin runs off with Nina, Con spi-
rals into a depression. Years later, Mash 
and Dev raise a happy family together, 
while Con remains trapped by despair over 
his lost love. When Nina, Con’s “seagull,” 
comes back to town single, he tries one last 
time to win her over.
Dev’s tumultuous relationship with 
his mother, as well as the complicated re-
lationships between the young adults, set 
the stage for some spectacular arguments. 
Heated debates dominated several scenes 
in the show, an element that illustrated the 
actors’ prowess at fully engaging in their 
characters but which became a bit repeti-
tive and overly intense after a while.
Stupid F***ing Bird was spectacularly 
acted, with especially powerful perfor-
mances from Kean Haunt ’17 and Com-
mins. Haunt shined in his monologues as 
Dev, in which he deftly balanced feigned 
intoxication with clear line delivery. Mean-
while, Commins was hysterical as Dev’s 
uncle Sorn, playing up the age difference 
between himself and the rest of the per-
formers and sparring well with Lana Mey-
er ’17, who portrayed Dev’s combative, dis-
traught mother.
Although many plays have their actors 
simply mime the acts of eating, drinking or 
food preparation, Stupid F***ing Bird took 
the intriguing approaching of using all real 
food in the second act. A well-furnished 
kitchen set onstage became the centerpiece 
of a cocktail-making scene. As Sorn slowly 
and deliberately mix-
es himself a drink, 
he speaks to the au-
dience with real bar-
tending equipment 
and ingredients in 
his hands. These ele-
ments of realism set 
the scene effectively, 
making the audience 
feel as if they were ac-
tually watching fam-
ily members going 
through their daily 
routines at home.
The set was very 
creatively designed, 
integrating a series of televisions with 
static images that could be changed to suit 
a particular scene. Arranged on large skel-
etal metal frames, the televisions could be 
quickly and easily shifted around between 
scenes. The use of images on these televi-
sion screens instead of full-size backdrops 
was an interesting and unorthodox choice 
that ended up being quite eye-catching and 
engaging for the audience. For most of the 
play, one of the televisions featured a por-
trait of Chekov, as a tribute to the inspira-
tion behind Stupid F***ing Bird.
Even as the play explored unsettling 
themes such as family rupture, depression 
and suicide, it managed to incorporate 
healthy moments of 
humor to prevent 
scenes from becom-
ing too bleak. The 
frequent fourth wall 
breaks that char-
acterized the show 
helped to bolster 
these moments, with 
one character even 
quipping to another 
at one point, “[The 
audience] knows 
you’re fictional.” The 
jokes were well dis-
tributed throughout 
the show, keeping it 
entertaining without diminishing the seri-
ousness of the darker themes addressed in 
the play.
Stupid F***ing Bird was a triumph, 
bringing together a talented group of stu-
dents, faculty and local actors to form a 
funny and thought-provoking play. An 
attention-grabbing show from beginning 
to end, Stupid F***ing Bird quite literally 
ended with a bang as Dev fired a deafening 
shot into the air, sparks flying and smoke 
billowing from his prop revolver.
By Will Simpson
Staff Writer
Bird Handles Dark Themes with Humor
Middlebury College Performing Arts Series
A Japanese fencing demonstration will take place in the MCA on Tuesday, April 19.
Michael O’Hara
The three-act show explores a messy tangle of unrequited love between young adults.
Even as the play ex-
plored unsettling themes 
such as family rupture, 
depression and suicide, 
it managed to incorpo-
rate healthy moments of 
humor to prevent scenes 
from becoming too 
bleak.
18 arts & SCIENCES
By Toby Aicher
Arts & Sciences Editor
“When you look at these 
rocks, you see things that 
look so similar to things 
you see on earth that it’s 
really possible to imagine 
that there could have been 
life on Mars.”
-John Grotzinger
      Mars Science Laboratory Scientist
| April 14, 2016
While serving as a project scientist for the Mars Curiosity mission, Grotzinger found evidence for a previous abundance of water. 
Space.com
Mars Curiosity Lead Scientist Gives Talk
It is no secret that the computer sci-
ence field – at the College and beyond – is 
largely dominated by males. An initiative 
spearheaded by Hannah Beach ’18 and Anna 
Parker ’17.5 is seeking to change this culture. 
Known as WiCs++ (pronounced as “wicks”), 
the newly formed Women in Computer Sci-
ence Club is open to all female-identifying 
individuals in the department.
The idea for the group stemmed from an 
e-mail that Academic Department Coordina-
tor Amy Rose and Professor of Computer Sci-
ence Amy Briggs sent out to all female majors 
and minors this past fall. Noticing a lack of 
community among this ever-growing demo-
graphic within the department, they pro-
posed the creation of an official club. Now, 
Rose and Briggs – the only women within the 
eight-member computer science faculty team 
– serve as advisors to WiCs++. The goal is to 
forge connections within a field that has tra-
ditionally consisted of male-centric spaces.
For Beach, alienation within the com-
puter science world has been a problem since 
high school.
“My experience in senior year was that 
everyone was talking about Stars Wars all 
the time. I didn’t watch Star Wars,” she ex-
plained. “So I thought that I enjoyed comput-
er science, but if the people I work with can 
only talk about Star Wars and I don’t like Star 
Wars, is this the job for me?”
For many females, this isolation has per-
sisted into higher education.
“I don’t want to speak for everyone’s 
experience, but I’ve found that boys in CS 
tend to find their communities in computer 
science,” Parker said. “Girls who major in CS 
tend to take the classes but 
find their community else-
where.”
Last Wednesday, April 
6, marked the first official 
WiCs++ gathering, which 
centered on tech prep and was 
designed to attract a larger-
group of any interested par-
ties. Soon to become a regular 
installation of WiCs++, tech 
prep sessions offer a practical 
overview to participants hop-
ing to enter the professional 
world of computer science.
“For many CS jobs, the interview pro-
cess is very technical. Intro-level classes cover 
this, but if you take them your freshman or 
sophomore year, it’s easy to lose that infor-
mation later,” Parker said. “Tech prep meet-
ings seek to help review these concepts.”
The club also hopes to instill an appre-
ciation for the real-life applications of coding. 
Last Friday, WiCs++ hosted a game night 
open to anyone of any experience level. Stu-
dents had the opportunity to try on virtual 
reality goggles while bonding with other tech 
enthusiasts.  
The next project in the works is a confer-
ence linked to Girl Develop It, an organiza-
tion that sets up tech meet-ups for women at 
various meeting points around the country. 
Scheduled for April 23, the event will feature 
a panel of guest speakers and computer sci-
ence faculty members, as well as a workshop 
with robotic controllers.
“The goal of the workshop is to be as wel-
coming and unintimidating as possible,”  said 
Parker. “These are things that are generally 
lacking from the computer science depart-
ment, and we think it’s one 
of the reasons why there are 
fewer women and fewer un-
derrepresented groups in the 
field. It’s hard for people to 
come in and see themselves 
breaking into that demo-
graphic.”  
The efforts of WiCs++ to 
empower traditionally mar-
ginalized identities come as 
part of an important larger-
scale movement. All across 
the United States, chapters of 
Women in Computer Science have been crop-
ping up at institutions like Dartmouth Col-
lege and Columbia University. The impact of 
WiCs++ extends far beyond the college years 
as well; diversity initiatives at the higher edu-
cation level will provide tech companies with 
a larger pool of qualified candidates to choose 
from once these students graduate. In the 
meantime, females with a passion for coding 
will experience greater comfort and accessi-
bility both inside and outside the classroom.
“We’re building a community in a de-
partment where that has never existed,” 
Beach explained. “Joining this club now, I 
feel I have so many more connections that I 
did not have before. It’s made my classes a lot 
less intimidating.”
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
Last Friday, April 7, Fletcher Jones 
Professor of Geology at Caltech John 
Grotzinger spoke about the current re-
search of the Mars Science Laboratory 
Curiosity rover mission. Grotzinger was 
the lead project scientist on the mission 
from 2011, when Curiosity landed, un-
til 2015, and continues to play an active 
part in the scientific team that works 
with the Curiosity rover. Grotzinger 
summarized his research as trying to un-
derstand the “chronology of the evolu-
tion of the planet.”
The Curiosity rover was sent to Mars 
to build off the work of the Opportunity 
rover. One of the major upgrades on Cu-
riosity is the addition of a drill, which 
allowed Curiosity to dig into the planet 
rather than simply visualize the surface. 
The central question the Curiosity rover 
seeks to answer is whether the planet 
was ever habitable for life.
“I’m not so sure there’s life there 
now, but it’s possible there could have 
been life early on mars that went ex-
tinct,” Grotzinger said. “The planet went 
through an insane change when it lost all 
its water and all its atmosphere, which is 
not a good thing for life. When you look 
at these rocks, you see things that look 
so similar to the things you see on Earth 
that it’s really possible that there could 
have been life 
that emerged 
on Mars. We 
just have to fig-
ure out in our 
next mission 
in 2020 a way 
to return these 
rocks so we 
can really get 
our eyes onto 
them.”
For the Cu-
riosity mission, 
NASA first had 
to pick a prom-
ising spot for Curiosity to land. Using a 
satellite sent to mars with spectropho-
tometers, they were able to analyze the 
chemical composition of rocks on soils 
on mars from orbit. One site, Gale crater, 
had a promising signal indicative of wa-
ter. Gale crate was created by an impact 
millions of years ago and has a mountain 
called Mount Sharp in its center.
“Gale crater, the place were we land-
ed Curiosity, is the 
lowest place on the 
planet for a thousand 
kilometers in any di-
rection,” Grotzinger 
said.” We imagined 
it like a cesspool, it’s 
where all the water 
went on Mars. And 
if you send a rover 
there you have a re-
ally good chance of 
finding rocks with 
water in them.”
The rover suc-
cessfully landed in 
Gale’s crater in 2011, and quickly started 
uncovering remarkable evidence that 
has changed our conception of Mars. The 
rover recently passed the one mile mark, 
and can travel at a maximum of 0.09 
miles per hour. One incredible finding 
was that Mars wasn’t always red. At the 
first drill sight they uncovered grey soil.
“Mars is red because it has iron ox-
ide in the dust and the soil. But the grey 
stuff underneath the surface tells us that 
there’s iron in a different chemical state 
that’s much more promising for habit-
ability,” Grotzinger said.
Another remarkable result is that 
the Gale crater was likely the site of an 
ancient lake.
 “Here’s the general theory the evi-
dence suggests. We have a hole in the 
ground created by an impact 3.8 billion 
years ago. The hole was filled up with a 
bunch of sediments and river deposits 
and ancient lake deposits. Then the sys-
tem went from a state of net desposition 
to a state of net erosion, and the wind 
swirls around in here for a long period of 
time that creates the mountain we see. 
We think that the lake varies and that 
sometimes it was dry and sometimes it 
was wet.”
Working on the Mars Curiosity mis-
sion has several challenging aspects, one 
of which is that Mars has slightly longer 
days than earth that last 24 hours and 
39 minutes.
“What we do is work through the 
Mars night to process the data from the 
day and think about what we are going 
to do and send commands. You have to 
follow the Martian day. Every day you 
get up 39 minutes later, you have break-
fast 39 minutes later and you go to work 
39 minutes later. It’s like getting in an 
airplane and driving two-thirds of a time 
zone every day.”
Throughout his talk Grotzinger em-
phasized the large amount of research 
that still needs to be done to understand 
Mars and understand the planet’s evo-
lution. He believed that Mars planetary 
science will flourish in the next decade.
“Although NASA’s funding has de-
creased recently, I’m optimistic about 
future research because of advances in 
fields like robotics and spectroscopy. 
These tools will enable us to do effective 
research with less money and answer 
questions we haven’t been unable to ap-
proach until now.
Women Forge Community Within CS
Elizabeth Zhou
Co-presidents Hannah Beach and Anna Parker bond while organizing for WiCs++.
“We’re building 
a community in a 
department where 
that has never ex-
isted.”
-Hannah Beach ’18
Co-President of Women in 
Computer Science
19Advertisementsapril 14, 2016 | 
|  April 14, 2016 20 sports
Delayed flights and other travel dif-
ficulties gave the softball team only 
two hours of sleep on the first day of 
their spring break trip to Clermont, Fla. 
However, the Panthers fought through 
exhaustion and split the doubleheader 
against Southern Maine and West Vir-
ginia.
The Panthers began the trip on Fri-
day, March 25 with a win against South-
ern Maine. Neve Sterns ’16 got the save 
after tossing the final three frames, 
striking out three and walking two.
Their loss came against West Vir-
ginia University Institute of Technol-
ogy with a score of 11-5. Though West 
Virginia scored 11 runs, Middlebury’s 
offense was highlighted by Hye-Jin Kim 
’17’s two-run home  run in the second 
inning.
On Saturday, March 26 the Panthers 
won two out of three games. The loss 
came to the University of Chicago in a 
tight contest all the way through seven 
innings; the Maroons managed to score 
a run in the top of the seventh inning to 
pull ahead.
The loss seemed to fuel Middlebury 
as they won the next two games against 
Oberlin and Thomas. Sarah Freyre ’17 
went 4-7 with three RBIs as the Pan-
thers scored a total of 19 runs in 10 in-
nings.
The action never stopped as the 
Panthers were back at it again with a 
triple-header on 
Sunday, March 27. 
They started the day 
with a thrilling win 
over Buffalo State 
as they were down 
5-0 coming into the 
4th inning. They 
scored four runs in 
the bottom of the 
fourth off a Siobhan 
O’ Sullivan ’17 lead-
off double, followed 
up with a single by 
Erin Giles ’17 and 
another double by 
Ande Troutman ’19.
An old saying goes, “Get em’ on, get 
em’ over and get em’ in” and Middlebury 
did just that. Carlyn Vachow ’16 reached 
on a single and soon scored after a laid 
down by Giles and a single by Kim drove 
Vachow home for the win.
In the second game, the Panthers 
beat Thomas again 5-2. Sullivan and 
Vachow both went 2-4 and Sullivan 
recorded two more RBI’s; she finished 
with four in the two games.
In the final game of the trip, 
Middlebury lost to Luther 5-0 after they 
were unable to get their bats going. The 
Panthers finished their tour to Cler-
mont with a 5-3 record and headed back 
to Vermont to face Amherst in a NES-
CAC three-game series.
When asked about the trip, Ali Della 
Volpe ’18 only spoke in positive tones.
“Overall I think our team did very 
well. We won the games we should’ve 
won and although we suffered a few 
losses, our energy and effort was always 
there!”
Vachow praised her team highly af-
ter the yearly trip. She was very pleased 
with the team chemistry and how the 
team fought the fatigue.
“The Florida trip was great. We 
showed how resilient we are and we had 
some serious trouble traveling, but in-
stead of using it as an excuse for a bad 
performance, we played through it and 
did a stellar job. I was so impressed with 
the overall display of maturity and re-
silience.”
The Panthers faced the Lord Jeffs on 
Friday, April 1 and Saturday, April 2. In 
the first game of the series, Middlebury 
led into the top of the seventh inning 
3-2. However, Amherst proved their 
toughness by scoring a run in the bot-
tom of the inning to force extras. The 
game went scoreless through the eight; 
however, Brianna Cook hit a two-run 
walk off in the bottom of the ninth in-
ning to end the game.
The series con-
tinued on Satur-
day with a double-
header. In the first 
game, Amherst’s 
bats exploded in 
the bottom of the 
fifth to give them a 
7-3 lead. Unfortu-
nately, Middlebury 
could not come back 
from the deficit and 
they lost 7-4. In the 
second game, which 
was suspended due 
to darkness, the 
bats came alive for 
the Panthers as they scored five runs in 
the top of the second inning. Before the 
umpires called the game, Middlebury 
was leading 9-6 in the fifth.
“Amherst was tough. They’re great 
team and even though we did a great job 
hitting,” Vachow said, “the hits didn’t 
quite fall.”
Della Volpe shared the same senti-
ments as her captain after reflecting on 
the NESCAC opener.
“After playing Amherst, we learned 
that we can’t take any NESCAC team 
lightly. We are definitely as good as 
them, if not better.”
Heading into the week, the Panthers 
held a 5-5 record. They were scheduled 
to play two games against Union on 
April 6. Heavy snow fell in Middlebury, 
Vermont, but the Panthers trudged on 
through four innings.
Gardner, a California native, was 
amazed by the team’s commitment to 
play in harsh con-
ditions.
“The snow game 
was something 
new, I think there 
are a majority of 
people on the team 
who have never 
played while it 
has been snowing 
and it was defi-
nitely a fun, cold 
experience. It is 
a bummer that 
we couldn’t finish 
the games against 
Union, but at least 
it was something 
memorable.”
The doubleheader was postponed 
after the fourth inning after light snow 
turned into a heavy blizzard. The Pan-
thers looked to finish the last four 
games of the week on a high note.
On Friday, April 8, Middlebury 
played Skidmore in a two game, home 
opening doubleheader. In the first con-
test, the Thoroughbreds capitalized on 
an early five-run lead in the second in-
ning and the Panthers could not string 
their nine hits together to make the 
comeback. In the second game, the Pan-
thers looked to split the series.
Once again, the bats exploded for 
Middlebury as they tallied 13 total hits. 
Jackie Stern ’16 kickstarted the first in-
ning with a single and later scored when 
Giles doubled to left center. O’Sullivan 
doubled to left center to score Giles 
and another double by Freyre scored 
O’Sullivan. Though the Thoroughbreds 
chipped away with back-to-back triples 
in the third and a solo home run in the 
fourth, Skidmore could not touch Neve 
Stearns ’16 who retired the final ten 
batters and finished the game with two 
runs allowed and five strikeouts.
After the win in game two against 
Skidmore, the Panthers clicked to pro-
duce a weekend of stellar pitching and 
powerful offense. The Spartans led the 
Panthers 2-0 coming into the bottom 
of the fifth inning. Here the comeback 
began as Middlebury collected three 
straight hits to load the bases with one 
out and a sacrifice fly by Kati Daczkows-
ki ’18 to score the first run. 
After tying the game in the sixth 
inning, Middlebury and Castleton re-
mained deadlocked 2-2 coming into 
the bottom of the seventh inning. Dac-
zkowski started the inning with a single 
and scored after Giles roped a double 
off the wall to win the game. Allison 
Quigley ’18 pitched a complete game 
with a stellar perfor-
mance. She allowed 
two runs off six hits 
with a season high 10 
strikeouts.
In the second 
game, the Spartans 
could not match the 
momentum fueled by 
the walk-off win and 
the Panthers won 6-0 
on 14 hits. Stearns 
pitched a complete 
shutout gem with 
four strikeouts and 
no walks.
Liza Tarr ’19 spoke 
highly of the perfor-
mance of the pitchers 
this weekend.
“This weekend, the games were great. 
Our pitchers were [absolutely] fan-
tastic. Allison [Quigley] kept the team 
in the first game with 10 K’s when we 
weren’t really producing offensively,” 
Tarr said. “Our pitchers were our rocks 
this weekend.”
The Panthers recorded 14 total 
strikeouts as both Quigley and Stearns 
went the distance to boost the team 
to wins. Vachow praised not only the 
pitchers but also the hitters whose bats 
came alive in timely situations.
“This weekend was a rock star perfor-
mance from our hitters and our pitch-
ers. Our offensive was relentless. Hit-
ting bombs and punishing the defense 
for mistakes like not choosing to inten-
tionally walk some of our hitters.”
The Panthers hope to carry this mo-
mentum through the week and into the 
weekend as they prepare to take on the 
Wesleyan Cardinals in their second NE-
SCAC series.
“Our weekday’s game this week are 
scheduled to make sure we stay sharp 
and prepared for Wesleyan this week-
end” said Vachow said. “It is a time to 
keep getting better. This past weekend, 
we showed that we have the tools and 
that we are improving in all aspects of 
the game, so it’s time to keep going!”
Softball Hampered by Weather in Opening Games
By Sebastian Sanchez
Staff Writer 
“After playing Amherst, we 
learned that we can’t take 
any NESCAC team lightly. 
We are definitely as good 
as them, if not better.”
ali della volpe ‘18
softball
“It is a time to keep getting 
better. This past weekend, 
we showed that we have 
the tools and that we are 
improving in all aspects 
of the game, so it’s time to 
keep going!”
carlyn vachow ‘16
softball
a player on Middlebury’s roster. Ko shot 
a 76 on Saturday and then a 74 on Sunday 
for a cumulative weekend score of 150, which 
was good for a tie for fifth on the individual 
leader board. 
“The strongest part of my game,” said Ko, 
“was definitely my ball striking, in particular 
my irons. It was a major focus during the 
preseason because we have such a short pe-
riod of time after the season starts to really 
get back into the groove.”
Like Morin, Ko said that the weather 
conditions contributed to the overall tough 
weekend for the Panthers.
“It rained all day on Saturday,” Ko report-
ed, “and we teed off in 30 degree weather 
on Sunday. Although the course was not too 
long, the wind, coldness and wetness defi-
nitely contributed to making the course play 
longer and more difficult.”
Bennett Doherty ’18, co-Champion at 
last year’s NESCAC Championship with Fitz 
Bowen ’17, said he felt he is starting to hone 
in on his game.
As the conference tournament nears, ev-
eryone on the team is looking to continue 
improving their games to try and help the 
team any way they can.
“I think the team was a little disappointed 
by our overall performance this weekend,” 
Doherty said. “The whole team can take pos-
itives from it. Joe and Phil played well and all 
the guys had some good holes and now have 
a better sense of what they need to work on. 
I think we are in a good spot, and we know 
that there is plenty of room for improve-
ment.”
Asked if he expects to be one of the five 
players who will try and help the Panthers’ 
three-peat at NESCACs later this month, Ko 
said that he does not think anyone expects to 
be one of the five.
“Everyone on the team is working hard 
and pushing each other to be better,” Ko 
said. “We are all practicing with the mindset 
that it could be anyone of us who fill up the 
lineup for NESCACs. And I am fully confi-
dent that the five who will represent the team 
in NESCACs will be successful.”
Both the men’s and women’s teams are 
back in action this weekend, April 16-17. The 
men’s team will compete at the Johnson & 
Wales Wildcat Spring Opener at Cranston 
Country Club in Cranston, R.I. while the 
women’s team heads to the Jack Leamon 
Invitational at Amherst Golf Course in 
Amherst, Mass.
“We know that being defending champs 
there is some pressure on us to do it again,” 
Morin said. “We are trying to gear our mind-
set from being the ‘hunted’ to doing the 
‘hunting,’ because we know that we can’t get 
complacent after a good season last year. 
Our team chemistry embodies the team as-
pect of the competition, and, even though 
it may feel like an individual sport at times, 
guys are always competing for the other guys 
on and off the course.”
April 14, 2016| SPORTS 21
As it continued to snow in Middlebury 
over spring break, the track & field team 
started off the outdoor season on the oth-
er side of the country. Both the men’s and 
women’s teams had two meets in the San 
Diego area before returning home this 
weekend to compete at Springfield College. 
In the first meet of the season on Saturday, 
March 26, the day after arriving in San Di-
ego at the Point Loma Nazarene University 
Collegiate Invitational, both teams fared 
well, with the men’s team coming in 7th out 
of 21 teams and the women’s team coming 
in 6th out of 18 teams. 
At PLNU, Alex Morris ’16 broke the 
Middlebury women’s school record in the 
400-meter dash with a time of 57.06 sec-
onds, good for second place in the event. 
Also on the women’s side, Lucy Lang ’19 fin-
ished third in the 800-meter run (2:12.49) 
and Paige Fernandez ’17 finished third in the 
400-meter hurdles with a time of 1:05.38. 
In the javelin Carly Anderson ’16 finished 
second with a throw of 136’1”.
In men’s action, Sebastian Matt ’16 led 
the pack and won the 5,000-meter race 
with a time of 14:51.30 while teammate Sam 
Klockenkemper ’17 was close behind him in 
second place at 14:55.38. Also in distance 
races, Jonathan Perlman ’19 finished sec-
ond in the 1,500-meter run with a time of 
3:58.64 while Kevin Serrao ’18 finished in 
fourth place in the 800 meter run (1:53.26). 
In sprints, top finishers were Jimmy Mar-
tinez ’19 with a sixth place finish in the 
200-meter dash (22.02 seconds), and Alex 
Nichols ’17 with a seventh place finish in the 
400-meter sprint (48.85). In the pole vault, 
John Natalone ’19 finished in fourth place at 
a height of 14’9.5”.
To cap off the week in San Diego, the 
team had another meet at UC San Diego 
in the California Collegiate Invitational on 
Saturday, April 2. In the second meet both 
teams ended up in the middle of the pack, 
with the men’s team coming in 6th out of 11 
teams and the women’s team coming in 6th 
out of 12 teams. 
“We worked them pretty hard during the 
week,” Head Coach Martin Beatty ’84 said, 
“but some people still came back and had 
terrific performances at UCSD.”
For the men, Serrao led the way by win-
ning the 1,500-meter race in 3:54.20. Mar-
tinez finished fifth in the 200-meter race 
with a time of 22.20 seconds. Ascencion 
Aispuro ’18 was also fifth in the 3,000-me-
ter distance race (9:57.18). In the field, Tyler 
Chaisson ’17 threw the shot put 45’10.5” for 
an impressive fourth-place finish.
For the women, Abigail Nadler ’19 got 
second place in the 5,000-meter run with 
a time of 17:24.63. Lang finished third in 
the 800-meter run at 2:09.93 with Mor-
ris behind her in seventh with 2:14.64. The 
4x100-meter relay also had the fourth-fast-
est time in the event with 52.40. Andersen 
finished runner-up in the javelin throw for 
the second meet in a row with a distance of 
133’11”.
At the Springfield meet this past week-
end, Middlebury left about half of their top 
runners home. The indoor NCAA qualifiers 
and injured runners needed to rest lead-
ing up to the more important races and the 
upcoming NESCAC Championships in two 
weeks. The men’s team competed well, fin-
ishing 3rd/4 teams and the women won the 
event out of the four teams. 
On the women’s side, the Panthers won 
nine total events. Some of the winners were 
Robin Vincent ’18 who won the 800-meter 
dash (2:17.10) and Katherine MacCary ’19, 
winning the 1,500-meter run (4:58.71). Off 
the track, Kristin Kimble ’19 finished first in 
the high jump (5’0.25”) and Kreager Taber 
‘19 won the pole vault competition (10’6”). 
In the men’s competition, Middlebury 
won four events with Aispuro winning the 
1,500-meter run at 4:05.51, Michael Pal-
lozzi ’18 claiming the title in the 110-meter 
hurdles at 15.76 and Natalone winning twice 
for the Panthers in the pole vault (13’11.25”) 
and in the long jump (19’10.25).
Middlebury will build on their strong 
early season momentum, — including fin-
ishes above other NESCAC schools — on 
their way to the upcoming NESCAC cham-
pionships on April 30. This week, the Pan-
thers are all set to host the Panther Spring 
Invitational on Saturday, April 16.
Track and Field Begins Outdoor With Good Momentum
By Colby Morris
Staff Writer 
After an eventful few weeks that included 
the annual spring trip to Tucson, Ariz. the 
baseball team is 6-10. One of the more stun-
ning results of the trip was that the Panthers 
took two of three from Williams, which they 
followed by taking one of three in their series 
at Wesleyan to bring the Panthers to 3-3 in 
conference play and third in the West divi-
sion.
The team began their spring trip with an 
8-4 win over Oberlin on March 26, before los-
ing the night game 5-3. In the day matchup, 
Middlebury dominated the first inning, high-
lighted by a Jason Lock ’17 two-run double to 
score Max Araya ’16 and Jake Turtel ’18. 
The Panthers took a 4-0 advantage into 
the top of the fifth when Oberlin scored two 
runs on three hits. Middlebury blew the game 
open in the bottom of that inning with four 
runs. Dylan Takamori ’17 eventually closed 
out the game in the seventh inning.
In the second game, the Yeomen filled the 
scoreboard with three runs in the bottom of 
the second inning. The Panthers responded 
in the third with a Lock single that resulted 
in a Turtel score. Leading 3-1, Oberlin tallied 
another on a double down the left field line. 
Middlebury scored a pair of runs in the fifth, 
as Johnny Read ’17 raced home on a single by 
Araya and Turtel scored on a sac-fly by Joe 
MacDonald ’16.
Oberlin brought it to 5-3 in the bottom of 
the fifth. At the top of the seventh with two 
runners on and one out, Middlebury tried 
to pull in the lead, but the Oberlin reliever 
sealed a victory with a fly out and a pop-up.
On March 27, the Panthers lost to Car-
thage 13-8 after they allowed six runs in the 
second inning. Middlebury took the early 
lead in the opening inning with runs by Tur-
tel and Araya. In the second, Drew Coash ’18 
walked, eventually running home on a wild 
pitch.
Carthage struck for six runs in its half of 
the second, all of them unearned. After the 
Panthers retired the first two batters of the 
inning, an error extended the inning and the 
Red Men had nine straight batters reach base 
to take a 6-3 lead. Carthage extended that 
lead to 8-3, but Middlebury bounced back 
with a pair of runs by Turtel and Lock in the 
fourth.
In the bottom half of the fourth, Carthage 
countered with three more runs and added 
another in the fifth. In the eighth inning, with 
the score at 13-6, Middlebury managed an-
other two runs to bring their deficit to four, 
but the score was final at 13-8.
The next day, Middlebury dropped a pair 
of games, the first a 29-8 blowout against 
Westminster College in Missouri and the sec-
ond a tight 10-9 loss against Gustavus Adol-
phus. 
In game two, Middlebury took an early 
2-0 lead in the first inning by Araya and Mac-
Donald. The Golden Gusties tied the game up 
in the second half of the inning with runs of 
their own. In the fourth, Gustavus Adolphus 
sent six runners to home plate, but the Pan-
thers battled back in the fifth with a four spot 
that culminated in a sac-fly by MacDonald.
After Middlebury knotted the game at 8-8 
in the sixth, Gustavus Adolphus scored to 
take a 9-8 advantage. The Panthers bounced 
back again on an RBI groundout by Spencer 
Tonies ’19. Relief pitcher Takamori stepped 
in, but forced a fielder’s choice that allowed 
Gustavus Adolphus to score the game-win-
ning run.
Middlebury faced Westminster again the 
next day, falling 15-14 in a tight game. The 
Panthers again took an early lead, this time 
3-0 with singles by John Luke ’16 and Alex 
Deutsch ’18 and a double by Read. Westmin-
ster scored the next five runs, and the Pan-
thers sealed a pair of runs in the top of the 
fifth.
Behind 14-8 in the eight, Westminster 
made five straight singles in the eighth inning 
and scored for seven runs. The Panthers went 
quietly in the ninth, falling 15-14 in a devas-
tating loss.
Adding insult to injury, the Panthers lost 
to Gustavus Adolphus for a second time the 
next day. Like most games, the Blue took an 
early lead, with a run by Graf. Gustavus Adol-
phus struck for three in the second, though, 
which Middlebury could only match by sin-
gle tallies in the third and fifth innings. The 
Golden Gusties scored a decisive pair of runs 
in the sixth, and the Panthers could not mus-
ter an answer during the final three innings.
Middlebury began a three-game series 
against Williams on April 1. After dropping 
the first game, the Panthers won the next two.
In the second game of the series, 
Middlebury was first on the board with an 
Araya single in the second. Williams subse-
quently tied the game on a sac-fly to deep 
center and the game remained knotted at one 
until the bottom of the seventh when Spencer 
Tonies ’19 scored a wild pitch.
In the second half of the double-header, 
the Panthers again were the first on the 
board, breaking the game open with six runs 
in the third. A sac-fly by Tonies scored Turtel, 
followed by a bases-loaded that scored Luke. 
The stunner of the series was Raj Palekar ’18, 
who crushed a bases-clearing triple to center 
field and gave Middlebury a four-run lead. 
Deutsch drove Palekar home on a single to 
make it 6-1, which was all the Panthers would 
need as they added some insurance runs for 
an eventual 11-4 win.
Following their spring trip, the Panthers 
headed to Middletown, Conn. on April 8 to 
face Wesleyan and took game one of a three-
game series 7-4, but dropped both caps of a 
doubleheader the next day.
In the opener, Middlebury jumped to a 
lead with three runs on three hits, with runs 
by Phil Bernstein ’19, Turtel and Brendan 
Donohue ’18. The Cardinals scored in the 
bottom half of the inning, then made it 3-2 
in the third. By the bottom of the fifth, a Wes-
leyan sac-fly tied the game at three.
Middlebury broke the tie in the sixth af-
ter Donohue scored Graf with a shot to left. 
Middlebury then scored two more runs 
thanks to a Wesleyan error, which Tonies fol-
lowed by hitting a double down the left-field 
line to make it 7-3.
Takamori worked out of a bases-loaded 
jam in the eighth and the Panthers then held 
on for a 7-4 win.
On April 9, the Panthers dropped both 
bills of their double header with the Cardi-
nals. Trailing 5-0 in the fourth Graf sent a 
double down the left-field. He then scored 
on a Bernstein fielder’s choice which put 
Middlebury on the board. The Cardinals ex-
tended their lead by three in the second half 
of the inning and kept the Panthers off the 
scoreboard for the final three innings for an 
8-1 final.
In game two, the Cardinals broke away 
early with six runs in the third inning, creat-
ing a deficit the Panthers could not overcome 
as they dropped the last game 10-2.
The Panthers came back to win their 
home opener 4-0 over Norwich at Forbes 
Field on Monday, April 11, highlighted by Co-
lin Waters ’19, who tossed a two-hit gem for 
his first collegiate win.
Waters got out of danger in the first with 
runners on the corners, but he retired three 
straight to end the threat. In the bottom of 
the inning, Graf scored on a Luke single and 
the Panthers would later extend their lead 
to 2-0 in the third on a MacDonald two-out 
single.
“The game started off with far from ideal 
conditions,” Waters said. “It was raining and 
the mound was very slippery so I was just 
focused on throwing strikes and pitching 
for contact. As the game went on, both the 
weather and my confidence improved.”
The Panthers extended their lead in the 
seventh on a Sebastian Sanchez ’18 suicide 
squeeze that scored Coash. In the eighth, 
Araya singled to first and was able to score on 
a Luke double.
Waters retired the final 11 batters he faced 
and was helped by sparkling defensive plays 
by a pair of diving grabs by Donohue and 
Coash.
“The defense behind me made great 
plays,” Waters said. “Drew Coash, Brendan 
Donahue and John Read in particular all 
made fantastic plays in the field, and Max 
Araya played awesome behind the plate, 
blocking all pitches I threw in the dirt. It was 
great to know that if Norwich put the ball in 
play, the guys behind me would make the 
out.”
The Panthers return to action at Hamilton 
on Friday, April 15.
Baseball Sits at 6-10 Following Spring Break Trip to Arizona 
By Ethan Brady
Features Editor 
golf teams kick off spring season with women in third, men in ninth 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 24
2
23
Earned runs allowed by NESCAC Pitcher of 
the Week Neve Stearns ’16 over 14 innings on 
the mound for the Middlebury softball team. 
Faceoffs won by the men’s lacrosse team 
in their 15-12 victory over Bates on 
Saturday.
by the Numb3rs
19
Seconds separating a pair of goals for Alli 
Sciarretta ’16 in a 12-5 victory over Bates 
for the women’s lacrosse team.
Events won by the women’s track and 
field team at Saturday’s quad meet 
hosted by Springfield. 
12
While Middlebury students left cam-
pus for spring break, likely in search 
of the sun which has seemingly for-
gotten about northern Vermont, the 
Middlebury men’s lacrosse team left in 
search of victories. The squad started 
the break with a trip to Maine to face 
NESCAC rival Bowdoin before traveling 
to upstate N.Y. to take on the nationally 
second-ranked Rochester Institute of 
Technology at the historic Carrier Dome 
in Syracuse, New York. Unfortunately 
for the Panthers, both trips resulted in 
defeats. The first, at the hands of the 
Bowdoin Polar Bears, came in the form 
of a 9-8 loss which marks yet another 
game decided by two goals or less for 
Middlebury. The 13th-ranked Panthers 
followed up the valiant effort with an-
other gut-wrenching one goal loss, this 
time to the same squad Middlebury took 
on last year at Johns Hopkins’ storied 
Homewood Field in Baltimore, Md.
To date, the four Panther losses on 
the season have been by a combined 
five goals including defeats at the hand 
of top-seeded Tufts and also RIT, who 
is now unbeaten in their last 49 regular 
season contests.
The team refused to continue spiral-
ing, however, and turned things around 
when Amherst came to Youngman Field 
on Saturday, April 2. Just as they did 
last year, the Panthers used the oppor-
tunity against a strong Lord Jeffs team, 
currently ranked sixth, to embark on a 
new winning streak. Middlebury came 
out firing on all cylinders, going up 4-1 
in the fourth quarter, and refused to al-
low Amherst back into the game. Led by 
a hat trick from Jack Rautiola ’16 and 
another four strike from Henry Riehl 
’18, the Panthers downed Amherst 17-14 
on the day handing the Lord Jeffs their 
first NESCAC loss of the year.
Hitting the road yet again to take on 
Hamilton on Wednesday, April 6, the 
Panthers continued to come out of the 
gates flying while locking down the op-
ponent. After taking another three goal 
first quarter lead, this time ending the 
quarter up 3-0, the Continentals struck 
back with four goals in the second quar-
ter to go into halftime notched at 4-4 
with the visiting Panthers. As has been 
the case so often during the season, 
Middlebury turned to their senior lead-
ers to take over the game. Jack Cleary ’16 
dished two assists to Sean Carroll ’16, at 
the 11:19 and 8:39 marks, respectively, 
while Tim Giarrusso ’16 added two of 
his own to give the Panthers the 9-5 lead 
heading into the final quarter. After the 
two sides traded goals throughout the 
fourth, Middlebury came away the vic-
tors by a score of 12-8 to record their 
second straight win in NESCAC compe-
tition.
As alumni and parents alike flocked 
to the stands of Alumni Stadium on 
Saturday, April 9, to watch Middlebury 
take on the Bates Bobcats, the Panthers 
looked to defend their home turf and 
earn their third consecutive NESCAC 
victory. Though not a traditional pow-
er, Bates came into the game tied with 
Middlebury in the league as they both 
sat at 4-2, making an always difficult 
NESCAC bout that much more impor-
tant for the streaking Panthers. Unfortu-
nately for the Bobcats, Middlebury con-
tinued to combine blistering offensive 
force with the unbreakable defensive 
wall that has defined their current win-
ning streak. After yet another fast-paced 
and Panther-dominated first quarter, 
marked by another two goal stanza from 
Giarrusso, Middlebury again ended the 
opening quarter with a three goal lead, 
a lead which they would never relin-
quish. Not to be outdone by his fellow 
senior, Sean Carroll ’16 put together a 
two goal quarter of his own in the sec-
ond, while the Middlebury defense con-
tinued to lock down Bates by allowing 
only two goals, one apiece from juniors 
Andrew Melvin and Charlie Fay. As a 
result, the Panthers carried a 9-3 lead 
into halftime. Demonstrating the kind 
of resiliency which has defined NESCAC 
lacrosse teams, however, Bates refused 
to go down without a fight and came 
out firing in the third quarter. Again led 
by Fay and Melvin, the Bobcats scored 
four goals in the quarter to the Panthers’ 
two, coming from Cedric Rhodes ’17 and 
Henry Riehl ’16. Though Middlebury 
carried an 11-7 advantage into the final 
quarter, the squad knew complacency 
could mean defeat. As such, they raised 
the offensive level without missing a 
step and poured in four goals in the final 
quarter. Yet again, the Panther seniors 
led the charge as Kyle Soroka ’16, Jon 
Broome ’16, Carroll and Giarrusso each 
found the back of the net in the quarter 
to lead their squad to a massive 15-12 
victory.
Middlebury, who following the game 
improved to 7-4 on the year and 5-2 in 
the NESCAC, returns to action away at 
Springfield Wednesday, April 13 when 
they look to win their fourth straight 
against the 4-6 Springfield College 
Pride.
| april 14, 2016 22 sports
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKING TEAMPlunkett’s Predictions
2
men’s lacrosse
The squad pulled off a 
close victory over sixth-
seeded Bates in front of 
alumni from the program. 
woMEN’S Lacrosse
Still undefeated, the team 
has great momentum.  
3 Women’s golfA third place finish marks 
a strong result in the first 
tournament of the spring. 
4
Men’s Tennis 
The team notched a pair of 
conference wins over the 
weekend. 
5
7
baseball
They managed to pick up 
one out of three against 
Wesleyan. 
6
softball
The team has some 
positive momentum after 
their spring break trip. 
track & field 
Both teams had good 
results at their quad meet. 
Snow
Do you even go here? 
By Trevor Schmitt
Senior Writer
Men’s Lacrosse Edges Sixth-Seeded Bates 
Women’s Lacrosse Remains Undefeated at 10-0
The Middlebury women’s lacrosse team 
remains undefeated after adding five more 
victories over the course of the past two 
weeks.
“The past couple of weeks we have 
really worked on refining many of our 
offensive plays as well as making sure we 
have a balanced attack in terms of having 
both assisted goals and goals generated 
from drives,” Alli Sciarretta ’16 said. 
In addition to their aggressive approach 
to offense, the team’s dominating 
defensive presence has also contributed 
to some decisive wins for the nationally 
second-ranked Panthers.
While most of the student body was 
enjoying spring break, the lacrosse 
team cruised to a 20-9 victory over 
NESCAC rival Bowdoin College. It was a 
remarkable game for Mary O’Connell ’17, 
who registered nine goals and four assists 
to set the new school record of 13 points 
in a single game. Her nine goals were the 
second best in Middlebury history.
The Panthers got off to a strong start 
as O’Connell keyed the early run with two 
goals and three assists en route to her 
record performance. Bowdoin finally got 
on the board with a pair of goals, and the 
Panthers responded with a four-goal run 
over the next eight minutes. By the end of 
the first half, Middlebury had secured a 
commanding 15-6 lead.
Bowdoin opened the second half with a 
quick goal, bringing the visitors to within 
eight. However, the Panthers responded 
with a five-goal surge in the half to seal the 
victory. The team next made the road trip 
to Pennsylvania to play Dickinson College. 
The long drive did not faze the Panthers 
as they came out firing with Megan Griffin 
’16 scoring just 38 seconds into the game. 
Griffin’s tally was followed by a goal from 
Bridget Instrum ’16 minutes later. Instrum 
would go on to tally back-to-back goals 
in a 3-0 run for Middlebury. However, 
Dickinson was able to cut the deficit to 5-3 
at the half. 
The Panthers opened the second half 
with a 4-0 run as they looked to pull 
away, leading 9-3 with 20:17 left to play. 
Dickinson refused to surrender and 
responded with the next three goals to 
bring the score to 9-6 with 10 minutes left. 
Laurel Pascal ’16 broke the Dickinson run 
with a goal assisted by O’Connell with 7:54 
remaining. Dickinson moved to within 
striking distance with a goal with 6:58 left 
to play. Pascal converted a free position 
and O’Connell found Sciarretta for the 
last two goals, bringing the final score to 
12-7. Goaltenders Kate Furber ’19 and 
Maddie Kinker ’16 were brilliant in the 
net for the Panthers, each recording thirty 
minutes in the win. The Panthers held a 
significant 39-12 margin in shots and a 25-
15 advantage in ground balls. 
The Panthers entered their next game 
against Stevenson University undefeated 
with the nation’s fifth most prolific offense. 
Middlebury dominated the game from the 
start scoring the first six goals in route to 
an 18-6 victory. 
O’Connell had another 
stellar game netting four 
goals and an assist. Griffin 
added three goals and two 
assists of her own for the 
Panthers, while Instrum 
notched three goals and an 
assist. Pascal also added 
two goals, moving her into 
10th place in Middlebury’s 
career goals list with 149. 
The Panthers dominated 
Stevenson throughout the 
contest, with the first three 
goals coming within 3:24 
of play. The goals kept 
coming for Middlebury 
as they led 6-0 after only 
7:03 of action. Stevenson 
did not accept defeat though, and scored 
the next three goals bringing the score to 
a 7-3. The Panthers responded with seven 
of the final eight goals of the half and took 
a 14-4 lead into intermission. 
In the second half, Middlebury 
controlled play and held a 4-2 scoring 
advantage. Furber and Katie Mandigo ’16 
played a half in goal for Middlebury and 
combined to make five saves. Middlebury 
outshot Stevenson 29-17 and won 14 of 25 
draw controls on the afternoon. 
The final game of the three-game road 
trip was a thriller against eighth-ranked 
Amherst. The Panthers won in overtime 
when Instrum scored 1:48 into extra time. 
It was an evenly contested game 
throughout. Instrum got the scoring 
started for Middlebury at the 24:48 mark 
of the first half. Amherst answered by 
netting back-to-back goals at the 23:15 to 
give the Lord Jeffs a 2-1 lead. The Panthers 
responded less than a minute later when 
Instrum netted a free position shot to 
bring the score to 2-2 with 15:40 to play in 
the opening period. Amherst added a tally 
before Pascal answered 37 seconds later to 
make it 3-3 with 6:51 on the clock. With 
time running down in the half, Amherst 
scored with just 0:57 remaining to gain a 
4-3 edge at intermission notwithstanding 
the fact that the Panthers held a 12-7 
advantage in shots in the first 30 minutes. 
A quick start gave the home team a 
5-3 lead when Amherst capitalized on a 
free position attempt at the 27:39 mark. 
However, Middlebury responded when 
Pascal netted a free 
position try of her own 
to make it 5-4 with 25:33 
remaining in regulation. 
Amherst scored again in 
the 22nd minute to extend 
the lead back to two at 
6-4. Middlebury delivered 
a pair of unassisted scores 
in a span of less than 
five minutes as Emma 
McDonagh ’19 and Hollis 
Perticone ’18 each found 
the back of the net making 
the score 6-6 with 14:25 
to play in the contest. 
Amherst responded to 
give them a slim, 7-6 
lead. Sara DiCenso ’19 
found Griffin, who scored 
with 10:34 remaining to make it 7-7. 
With less than five minutes in regulation, 
Amherst attempted a free position shot, 
but Mandigo made a critical stop to keep 
the Panthers in the game. Unfortunately, 
Instrum was not able to convert on either 
shot attempt in the last nine seconds 
and kept the game locked at 7-7 forcing 
overtime. 
Middlebury won the opening draw of 
the extra session, granting the Panthers 
an important possession to start overtime. 
Shortly after, Instrum struck for the 
game-winner with 4:12 remaining to lift 
the Panthers above Amherst in a thrilling 
victory. 
Mandigo made six saves and added five 
ground balls in the winning effort, while 
Pascal, Ritter and Sciarretta recorded 
three ground balls apiece. Ritter also 
forced three turnovers in the win. Pascal 
won five draw controls as the Panthers 
held a 12-5 edge. 
The Middlebury women’s lacrosse 
team dominated the start of the game 
scoring the first give goals, and turned 
in a solid defensive performance in their 
12-5 win at Bates this past Saturday. 
Middlebury entered the game as the 
leading offense in the NESCAC and Bates 
had the conference’s leading defense. The 
Panthers’ 12 goals on the day were three 
more than Bates had given up in a game 
all season. 
Middlebury started out the contest with 
an early lead as Pascal scored 1:57 into the 
contest. The Panthers followed this with 
another four goals bringing the score to 
5-0 with 14:54 left. Bates finally was able 
to get on the boards with 14:04 left. They 
responded again five minutes later making 
it 5-2. The Panthers netted one more goal 
from Sciarretta before the conclusion of 
the first half, leading Bates 6-2.
In the second half, the Panthers came 
out of the gates firing, scoring two goals 
in the span of 39 seconds by Ritter and 
Instrum. Sciarretta followed with back-
to-back goals in a span of 12 seconds to 
extend the Panthers lead to eight. Despite 
three goals by Bates late in the second half, 
the Panthers were able to earn the decision 
by a final score of 12-5. Middlebury held 
an advantage in both shots and ground 
balls. Defensively, the Panthers were 
exceptional, holding Bates scoreless for 
31:30 of game action.
“[The] team has so much depth that we 
have had a variety of players contributing 
to the scoring on the field …[which] makes 
it difficult for teams to scout us — everyone 
really poses a threat,” Sciarretta, reflecting 
on the team’s success so far this season, 
said.
Middlebury (10-0, 6-0) will compete 
in a doubleheader this weekend, hosting 
NESCAC rival Trinity on Saturday, April 
16 at 2:00 p.m. before playing Hamilton 
on Sunday, April 17 at 2 p.m. on Kohn 
Field.
“This will arguably be the most 
important weekend of our season thus 
far ... taking care of the ball and playing 
smart...under pressure will prove crucial 
when we have to play to strong teams back 
to back,” Hailey Cosseboom ’17 said.
By Christine Urquhart
Senior Writer
“[The] team has so 
much depth that we 
have had a variety 
of players contrib-
uting [...] every-
one really poses a 
threat.”
alli sciarretta ’16
women’s lacrosse 
april 14, 2016| 23SPORTS 
Men’s Tennis Team Drops First Games; Rebounds in NESCAC Play
FITZ BOWEN ’17 YES
I see this team staying perfect in 
the NESCAC as they wrap up the 
season. 
THREE
Go off Sheen. 
YES
editors’ picks
JOE KO ’18
Basing this on his fifth place finish 
(and lowest score on the team) in 
last weekend’s tournament.
YES
I’m pretty confident that this team 
will do well in both games this 
weekend.
YES
Yes.
FOUR
Hopefully he’ll have a good game.
Emily Bustard (68-73, .482)
Alex Morris (99-91, .521)
Andrew Rigas (44-31, .587)
Men’s golf: Which Panther has the 
lowest score this weekend at the 
Johnson & Wales Wildcat Spring 
Opener?
Premier League: Does Leicester 
City keep its roll going this 
Sunday against West Ham?
Women’s Lacrosse: Can the 
Panthers stay undefeated this 
Saturday at home against Trinity?
Men’s Lacrosse: Closest to: 
Number of goals scored by 
midfielder Sean Carroll ’16 this 
Saturday at Trinity?
BENNETT DOHERTY ’18
The former NESCAC champ will 
come in clutch.
YES
They score A LOT of goals. Like a 
lot.
TWO
Seems very doable.
YES
“They’re hot.” -Arigas. 
REID BUZBY ’19
I’ll put my trust in Buzby.
YES
That’s easy.
TWO
That’s what he’s averaging.
YES
Oh yeah, they’re hot and the 
future Premier League champion.
PHIL MORIN ’19
He’s one of their top first-years 
and will be a key contributor for 
the team’s attempt to three-peat at 
NESCACs.
YA. 
Home field and we look unbeatable.
THREE
Seems like three against Trinity’s 
defense.
TIE
We will go with a draw in this 
one, as West Ham stays in 
shouting distance of the top four.
REMO PLUNKETT (58-50, .537)
         Will Case (18-13, .580)
The men’s tennis team suffered its 
first two losses of the season on its 
spring break to California, where the 
Panthers won their first four matches 
before falling in their final two against 
DI competition UC Riverside and de-
fending Division III national champion 
Claremont-Mudd-Scripps. However, in 
their return to the east coast, the Pan-
thers overwhelmed Williams on Satur-
day, April 9, 8-1 and Tufts on Sunday, 
April 10, 7-2 to remain undefeated in the 
NESCAC (5-0) and move to 9-2 on the 
season.
Middlebury entered break with a 3-0 
record and ranked third nationally after 
defeating ninth-ranked Wesleyan 5-4 
and shutting out Bates and Hamilton.
The Panthers began their trip at Con-
cordia University against the Division II 
Eagles, whom they defeated 8-1 on Sat-
urday, March 26. Noah Farrell ’18 and 
Ari Smolyar ’16 dominated 8-1 in first 
doubles, and the Panthers swept doubles 
play as the pairs of Palmer Campbell ’16 
and Hamid Derbani ’17 and Timo van der 
Geest ’18 and William de Quant ’18 also 
triumphed. Farrell, Campbell, Derbani, 
van der Geest and de Quant all won their 
singles matches, while Smolyar suffered 
a tough loss after taking the first set 3-6, 
6-4, 14-12.
The Panthers did not lose a match in 
their next two matchups, defeating both 
Lewis & Clark and Biola 9-0 on Sunday 
and Monday, March 27 and 28, respec-
tively. Kyle Schlanger ’18, Peter Martin 
’19 and Cole Sutton ’19 all notched their 
first victories of the trip against Biola in 
singles play.
After a day off, Middlebury paid a 
visit to eighth-ranked Pomona-Pitzer 
on Wednesday, March 30, hoping to re-
venge a 5-4 loss on its spring break trip 
last year. Farrell and Smolyar crushed 
their opponent 8-1 in first doubles, 
and van der Geest and de Quant edged 
theirs 8-6. Campbell and Derbani fell in 
a tiebreaker 9-8 (7-5), so the Panthers 
took a 2-1 lead into singles play. Der-
bani rebounded emphatically by smack-
ing Spencer Simonides in the fifth slot, 
and de Quant won 6-1, 3-6, 6-0 in the 
fourth slot to put Middlebury ahead 4-1. 
Smolyar beat Jake Yasgoor, ranked 23rd 
nationally, in straight sets 6-3, 6-4 to 
seal the Panthers’ revenge, Farrell won 
7-6, 6-1 and the Panthers earned a 6-3 
victory.
The next day, Middlebury lost for the 
first time this spring against Division I 
opponent UC Riverside. Playing by Di-
vision I rules, the 
Panthers needed to 
win two of the three 
doubles to earn the 
doubles point. Far-
rell and Smolyar 
lost 6-3, but Camp-
bell and Derbani 
knotted play at 
one with a 7-5 vic-
tory. In the decisive 
third match, van 
der Geest and de 
Quant fell 7-6 and 
Middlebury fell be-
hind 1-0. UC River-
side took command 
of the match in sin-
gles play, winning the first four match-
es to secure the team victory. Smolyar 
and van der Geest both battled back 
after losing their first sets to win their 
matches, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3 and 2-6, 7-6, 6-3, 
respectively, but Middlebury lost the 
match 5-2.
After one more day off, the Panthers 
ventured to fourth-ranked Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps for their much anticipat-
ed matchup with the Stags on Saturday, 
April 2. The Stags took first doubles as 
Skylar Butts and Daniel Morkovine de-
feated Smolyar and Farrell 8-2. Der-
bani and Campbell beat Lester Yeh and 
Glenn Hull 8-3 in the second slot to tie 
the match at one, and van der Geest and 
Schlanger put Middlebury ahead with an 
8-6 victory over Max Macey and Bryan 
Mehall in the third slot.
Morkovine quickly tied the match 
by defeating Campbell 6-1, 6-1 in third 
singles, but Patrick Wildman dispatched 
van der Geest 6-3, 6-3 and regained the 
lead for CMS in the second slot. Farrell, 
the national champion, won in straight 
sets against Butts, ranked third nation-
ally, 6-1, 7-5 in the first slot to bounce 
back from his loss against UC Riverside 
and knot the match at three.
After losing the first sets in two of 
the final three matches, the Stags came 
back to win the final three matches 
of the day and secure a 6-3 victory. In 
fourth singles, Derbani won the first set 
of his match with 
Yeh 6-1, but Yeh 
won the second set 
in a tiebreaker and 
the third 6-2 to win 
the match. Smolyar 
lost to the Glenn 
Hull 7-6, 2-6, 6-2 
in the second slot, 
and de Quant fell to 
Macey in a third set 
tiebreaker after tak-
ing the first set (4-6, 
6-3, 7-6) in the third 
slot.
“It was disap-
pointing, and the 
guys were really 
bummed,” Assistant Coach Bryce Par-
melly said. “The lesson was we had the 
match on our racket and didn’t close it 
out when we had our opportunity but 
are well within our range to beat a team 
like that.”
The Panthers returned to Middlebury 
for a week of practice and focused on 
closing matches a little bit better and 
embracing the pressure more through 
mental work, visualizing every day and 
having affirmation meetings.
“Our whole thing is we want to run 
towards winning, not run away from 
losing,” Parmelly said. “We don’t want 
to hope they give it to us but actually go 
take it.”
Middlebury traveled to Williams on 
Saturday, April 9, and swamped the 
ninth-ranked Ephs 8-1. All three dou-
bles pairs of Farrell and Smolyar, Camp-
bell and Derbani and de Quant and 
Schlanger won. Smolyar, Farrell and 
Campbell all won in straight sets in sin-
gles and de Quant came from behind to 
earn a 5-7, 6-3, 6-2 victory. Derbani lost 
6-4, 2-6, 10-5, and van der Geest earned 
Middlebury’s final point when his oppo-
nent retired.
“It [the mental preparation] totally 
paid off this weekend, which was very 
cool,” Parmelly said. “We won all three 
decently close doubles matches.”
The next day, Middlebury swept sin-
gles play at Tufts and triumphed over 
the Jumbos 7-2. In doubles, Campbell 
and Derbani lost 9-7, de Quant and Sch-
langer answered with an 8-5 victory, 
and Tufts won the last doubles match 
over Farrell and Smolyar 9-8. Campbell 
did not lose a game in his singles match 
(6-0, 5-0) before his opponent retired. 
Derbani and Farrell both won in straight 
sets, and Smolyar bounced back after 
losing a first set tiebreaker (14-16) to 
win the final two sets and his match. De 
Quant and van der Geest also came back 
from one set deficits to win their match-
es and secure a 7-2 Middlebury victory.
“Our guys just worked and worked,” 
Parmelly said. “We only won three of 
the first six sets. We ended up coming 
back, and, as the match went further 
and further and further, every guy was 
fighting at his spot and eventually wore 
them down. They started to get tired and 
mentally weaker, and we just got stron-
ger and stronger.”
The Panthers will have one week to 
prepare for their biggest match of the 
NESCAC season thus far against Bow-
doin, whom they will host on Sunday, 
April 17. The Polar Bears are the only 
other undefeated team remaining in the 
NESCAC, have not lost out-of-confer-
ence and beat Claremont-Mudd-Scripps.
“Bowdoin coming up is huge,” Par-
melly said.
He acknowledges the Polar Bears’ 
success thus far, but points out the Pan-
thers defeated them three times last 
year.
“Our guys are in a really good place, 
where it is going to be a huge test but 
one that everyone is really excited for to 
see where we are.”
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor 
“It was disappointing, 
and the guys were really 
bummed. The lesson was 
we had the match on our 
racket and didn’t close it 
out when we had our op-
portunity.”
Bryce Parmelly
assistant men’s tennis coach
sports 24
MEN’S TENNIS 
DOMINATES IN 
CALIFORNIA AND 
NESCAC MATCHES 
PAGE 23
MEN’S LACROSSE 
DEFEATS BATES AT 
HOME ON ALUMNI 
WEEKEND
PAGE 22in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
The women’s tennis team won 
and lost over spring break, winning 
its first two matches and falling in 
its last two before returning home to 
split a pair of NESCAC matches this 
past weekend, losing at Williams 
on Saturday, April 9, and winning 
at Tufts on Sunday, April 10. With 
a 3-3 record over this stretch, the 
Panthers moved to 6-3 overall and 
4-1 in the NESCAC this season.
Before embarking on their 
spring break trip to California, 
the then seventh-ranked Panthers 
traveled to Boston to take on 
Babson on Friday, March 25. They 
swept the Beavers 9-0, winning all 
three doubles matches by at least 
three games and only conceding 
one set in singles play. Alexandra 
Fields ’17 and Sadie Shackelford 
’16 shut their opponent out, both 
winning 6-0, 6-0, and the Panthers 
stayed undefeated, winning fourth 
match in as many tries this spring.
In its first match in California, 
the Panthers visited Point Loma 
Nazarene on Tuesday, March 29, 
to play the Division II Sea Lions. 
Middlebury dominated once more, 
taking all nine matches for its fifth 
straight win. The doubles pair of 
Fields and Lauren Amos ’16 won 
its match 8-0, while Ria Gerger 
’16 defeated the No. 23 ranked 
singles player in Division II Nikki 
Newell 6-0, 6-2 and Amos beat her 
opponent 6-0, 6-1.
Next, after one day off, 
Middlebury visited fifth-ranked 
Pomona-Pitzer, whom they beat 
6-3 last year on its spring break trip. 
Middlebury won the first doubles 
match of the day when Fields and 
Amos won 8-4 in the third slot, 
but Pomona-Pitzer took the final 
two doubles matches. Christina 
Puccinelli ’19 won her match in 
fourth singles 6-0, 6-1 for her sixth 
straight victory, but the Sagehens 
took the next three matches to seal 
the victory. Gerger and Lily Bondy 
’17 both won their matches in three 
sets, bringing the match to 5-4 in 
favor of Pomona-Pitzer.
In their final match of their 
spring break trip on Saturday, 
April 2, the Panthers matched up 
with then fifth-ranked Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps, whom they had lost 
to the last three years. The Stags 
made it four straight, winning 6-3, 
two of the three doubles matches 
and four of the six singles matches. 
Bondy and Shackelford won 8-3 in 
second doubles for the Panthers, 
while Gerger won 6-4, 7-6 in first 
singles and Kaysee Orozco ’17 came 
from behind to win 4-6, 6-2, 6-1 in 
sixth singles.
After one week off, Middlebury 
played at No. 2 Williams and fell 
7-2. Fields and Puccinelli were 
the only Panthers to win, as Fields 
won in straight sets 7-6, 6-1 in the 
fourth slot and Puccinelli outlasted 
her opponent 6-1, 6-7, 10-8 in the 
fourth slot.
The next day, Middlebury 
snapped its three game losing 
streak by squeaking one out at 
14th-ranked Tufts. The doubles 
pair of Fields and Puccinelli won 
8-2 in the third slot, but the other 
two Middlebury pairs lost. Down 
2-1 entering singles, Molly Paradies 
(6-4, 6-1), Bondy (6-3, 6-3), Gerger 
(6-3, 6-4) and Puccinelli (6-3, 7-6) 
won the first four singles matches to 
secure the win for the Panthers.
The Panthers host No. 1 and 
2015 NCAA Division III runner-up 
Emory on Friday, April 15, No. 4 
Bowdoin on Saturday and No. 19 
Skidmore on Sunday.
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor
Golf teams tee up for Spring SeasonWomen’s Tennis Team 
Splits Conference Play
Men’s and women’s golf were 
back in action last weekend, April 
9-10, as both teams partook in 
competitive tournaments for the 
first time this spring. The women’s 
team played in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. 
at the Vassar College Invitational 
held at the Casperkill Golf Course, 
while the men’s team played at the 
NYU Spring Invitational at the For-
est Hill Field Club in Bloomington, 
N.J.
The women’s squad placed third 
out of the nine teams that compet-
ed in Poughkeepsie as they contin-
ued to build on their strong fall sea-
son. For the weekend, the Panthers 
shot 678, 335 on Saturday and 343 
on Sunday. Williams followed its 
dominant fall season with a win in 
Poughkeepsie. They shot 627 for 
the weekend, 22 strokes better than 
runner-up Amherst.
“We have only played once out-
side at Middlebury,” said Katha-
rine Fortin ‘18, who looks to carry 
the momentum of her successful 
fall into the spring season. “We 
[played] four rounds over spring 
break in South Carolina, which is a 
different look than cold, Northeast 
golf. The cold weather definitely 
didn’t help this weekend, but we 
were mostly underprepared physi-
cally and mentally. Spring season is 
short and comes up fast and it’s al-
ways the hardest to get going in the 
transition from inside to outside.”
Despite the cold, Monica Chow 
’16 had a couple of her best rounds 
of the year at the Vassar tourna-
ment. Chow shot a 79 on Saturday 
and an 81 on Sunday. Her weekend 
total of 160 was good for an indi-
vidual finish of sixth-place.
“I felt that the strongest part 
of my game this weekend was my 
mental game,” Chow said. “Instead 
of getting caught up in the results, 
I was relaxed and enjoyed the pro-
cess of being outside with my com-
petitors, which allowed me to score 
well while remaining calm.  I play 
best when I’m having fun and en-
joying the process rather than out-
comes.”
Specifically, Chow was strong 
off the tee, which she credits to hav-
ing played the Casperkill course in 
the past.
“The course was in great condi-
tion,” she said. “I was particularly 
impressed by the quality of the 
greens, as they rolled pretty true 
despite having just come out of 
winter.  Having played the course 
several times before definitely 
helped me make better decisions 
off the tee.  For example, many tee 
shots required a placement on the 
right side of the fairway to avoid 
some overgrown trees on the left, 
a fact that someone playing the 
course for the first time would not 
be aware of.”
Fortin was one of the team’s top 
players throughout the fall and shot 
back-to-back 85s, tying for 14th on 
the individual leaderboard.
“I was not even close to playing 
at the top of my game,” Fortin said. 
“But this weekend is gone and we 
have a week to practice and fix our 
mistakes. Chow, our senior captain, 
led our team and stayed steady 
throughout the weekend with good 
scores and Breckinridge, our in-
dividual, shot an 87 on Sunday, 
which was a personal tournament 
best for her. That was great.”
Chow also remained upbeat 
about the team’s prospects of 
eclipsing Amherst on tournament 
leader boards before the spring sea-
son ends.
“We are just as strong as the 
Amherst team,” Chow said. “One 
of their strongest players returned 
from abroad for this spring, but 
that does not mean we don’t have 
the capabilities to beat them as 
a team.  What it’s going to come 
down to is mental toughness and 
having a winning attitude.”
In New Jersey, the men’s team 
also tried to shake the cobwebs off 
their clubs and started to prepare 
for the NESCAC Championship 
at the end of the month, April 30 
and May 1. They finished their first 
tournament in ninth place with a 
team score of 639, 319 on Satur-
day and 320 on Sunday. Skidmore 
walked away the winner of the 11-
team tournament, while NESCAC 
rivals Williams shot 618, good for 
runner-up and Trinity shot 624, 
good for fourth place. However, 
Williams’ tough fall means that it 
will not be making the trip to the 
Ralph Myhre Golf Course for the 
NESCAC Championship.
Phil Morin ’19 led the five play-
ers who represented Middlebury 
with a 153 for the weekend and 
shaved three strokes off of his Sat-
urday score by shooting a 75 on the 
second day.
“My ball-striking was the best 
part of my game,” Morin said. “We 
got to New Jersey late Friday so I 
was unable to play a practice round 
at Forest Hills. Saturday was a pret-
ty brutal day in terms of weather. It 
was raining for the first half of the 
round and temperatures felt to be 
in the high 30s. The main issue I 
faced was keeping my hands warm 
for putting and chipping.”
The first-year said that he felt he 
played the greens well on the sec-
ond day.
“I managed to save par on nu-
merous occasions that definitely 
saved my round,” Morin reflect-
ed. “The putter was pretty solid 
throughout the weekend, especially 
on day two where I don’t think I 
missed a putt inside five feet.”
Joe Ko ’18 entered the tourna-
ment as an individual but ended up 
registering the lowest round by a 
By Will Case
Sports Editor
CONTINUED ON PAGE 21
Jeff patterson
Curveball
After making huge strides in the opening of their 
season, the baseball team narrowly lost its double-
header to NESCAC competition Wesleyan. Read 
more on Page 21.
