If you wanted to get an Adderall prescription 
written for you while at the College, you would 
need to go through a person like Dr. John Young, 
who works at the Counseling Service of Addison 
County. He is the consulting psychiatrist for the 
College and is on the front lines of the complex 
issue of prescribing psychostimulants. 
“It is one of the more complex assessments 
diagnostically,” he said. “The problem is that 
sometimes it is a diagnosis of desire — ‘I read a 
book, I tried someone’s Adderall and it worked 
for me, I think I have ADHD.’” 
The problem with diagnosing ADHD is that 
there are few black and white cases and no blood 
Young tries to get to know the patients and looks 
“You want a good reason, not just perfor-
mance enhancement. When I meet with some-
one, I’m trying to get an idea of what they’re 
looking for, if they’re looking for treatment more 
broadly, and whether they’re willing to accept 
that there are a lot of different ways their prob-
lem might be addressed. The more they focus on 
Young said he sees on average 10 Middlebury 
students a year looking for psychostimulants. 
Less than half he believed actually needed the 
medication. 
stand up and slam the door because he didn’t 
get the medicine that he thought he needed,” 
Young said. “It’s a tricky thing because usually 
they’re suggesting it, and it’s very hard to talk 
people out of that because it is a simple answer, 
it’s something that works now.” 
But for every student he declines to prescribe, 
there may be a doctor back in their hometown 
more than willing to prescribe them enough Ad-
derall for them and their friends.
“There’s too much of it around, and people 
are being pressured by their friends to give it 
out. I guess it’s just part of things now, but I 
don’t have to like it,” Young said.
April 17, 2014 | Vol. 112 no. 22 | middleburycampus.com
VT TO REGULATE 
TASER USE
PAGE 5
RECAP THE SPRING 
SYMPOSIUM
PAGES 14
WHO MANAGES 
THE COLLEGE’S 
TELESCOPES?
PAGE 19
in
sid
e
Anthea Viragh 
SEE PAGES 4-5
By Kyle Finck
A Diagnosis of Desire?
Living in the Adderall Generation
[part 2 of 2]
Faculty Reject
Internship Credit
By Ben Hawthorne
Advising Under Review
By Emily Singer
The faculty rejected internships 
for credit by a 53-48 vote on Mon-
day, April 7. A more general “Sum-
mer Study Proposal” was passed at 
the same meeting, however. The 
internships for credit segment of 
the bill was not approved by faculty 
due to the passing of an amend-
ment that sought to counter intern-
ship-related policies within the bill.
to the faculty on March 3, Math 
Professor Priscilla Bremser intro-
duced a resolution seeking to pre-
vent the Educational Affairs Com-
mittee (EAC) from introducing 
anything regarding internships for 
credit. Bremser’s resolution then 
became an amendment to “remove 
the option of academic credit for 
summer internships.” In keeping 
with faculty meeting bylaws, dur-
ing the crucial April 7 meeting, the 
amendment was voted on before 
the larger proposal.
Once Bremser’s amendment 
was passed, the amended version 
of the EAC bill was voted on and 
passed by the faculty, with the 
wording “while an internship can 
be a valuable experience, in no case 
does it warrant notation on a stu-
dent’s transcript from Middlebury 
College.” 
The EAC proposal divided in-
ternships into three distinct clas-
provide credit. Transcript nota-
tions, which are currently available 
to students, are not credit-bearing 
but take the form of a note on a stu-
dent’s academic transcript that he 
or she completed an internship.
Credit-bearing clustered in-
ternships would involve a group of 
students with similar internships 
working with a faculty mentor and 
completing a series of readings or 
assignments. The faculty mentor 
would receive a summer stipend 
for mentoring 15 or more students, 
-
pend if he or she worked with fewer 
students.
Course-connected internships 
would also earn students academic 
credit, requiring either a prereq-
uisite course or a predetermined 
course to be taken after the com-
pletion of the internship that re-
lates to the student’s major. For 
example, a Political Science major 
who spent time working on a politi-
cal campaign would have to enroll 
in U.S. National Elections the fol-
lowing fall in order to receive credit 
for his or her summer internship. 
Faculty advisors would receive a 
stipend for offering supplemental 
assignments to those completing 
course-connected internships. 
In order to receive credit for a 
summer internship, the internship 
would have to be directly linked 
-
ment in which the student has tak-
en a number of courses.
Dean of Faculty Andi Lloyd not-
ed that among faculty, “there didn’t 
seem to be a question of whether 
they [internships] could be valu-
able [for many did acknowledge 
the importance of internships], it 
was whether or not they should be 
awarded academic credit.”
“The question of how all of you 
navigate from your education to a 
career is front and center,” Lloyd 
said. “The faculty vote was about 
-
all academic experience. I don’t 
think it should be seen as in any 
way an end to that broader conver-
The Educational Affairs Com-
mittee (EAC) has been presented 
with a series of recommendations 
compiled by an ad hoc committee 
to reform the First Year Seminar 
(FYS) program. The committee’s 
on the FYS program since the 
1997-1998 academic year.
It is unlikely that a vote will oc-
cur during the current academic 
year, however. In order for a vote 
to occur, the ad hoc committee, 
led by Associate Professor of His-
tory Amy Morsman, had to com-
pile a report and present it to the 
EAC for review before it could be 
discussed during a faculty meet-
ing. The report was presented to 
the EAC just two weeks ago and 
only one faculty meeting remains.
As it exists now, there are 42 
in the fall and eight in the spring. 
A system of rotations based on the 
number of faculty within each de-
partment was developed to select 
the 50 professors leading semi-
nars each year.
“We ask more from the English 
department and the History de-
partment, than we do from Clas-
sics, because there are more facul-
ty in there to rotate around,” said 
Associate Professor of English and 
Assistant Dean for Instruction 
Kathy Skubikowski, who has over-
seen FYS advising since 1995.
On average, faculty return to 
the role of FYS advisor once every 
three and a half years. However, 
some rotate through more fre-
quently simply because they enjoy 
advising students during their for-
Morsman did not reveal in-
formation held within the ad hoc 
committee’s recommendations, 
writing in an email that “they [the 
EAC] will take the time they need 
over the next several weeks to go 
through it ... before making any 
She did note, however, that she 
and other committee members 
sought feedback from students 
about their FYS experiences.
“But at least from my perspec-
tive, the initial impetus to rethink 
the FYS program came from fac-
ulty who have taught in the pro-
gram and wanted to make some 
changes and from administrators 
who were happy to have faculty 
consider possible tweaks to the 
system,” she wrote in an email.
Skubikowski and Dean of Cur-
riculum and Director of the Sci-
ences Bob Cluss hinted at poten-
tial changes based on the recent 
evolution of FYS advising, how-
ever.
When the FYS program was 
last reviewed in Spring 1998, it 
led to the integration between FYS 
courses and the Commons system. 
The Commons system was de-
veloped during the presidency of 
John M. McCardell and expanded 
as new dormitories were con-
structed to allow for commons-
the timing of the review and the 
expansion of the commons system 
year housing assignments with 
FYS courses.
“One of the changes we’re 
thinking of is having a larger Com-
year seminars,” Skubikowski said, 
noting Commons-organized din-
ners linked with particular aca-
semester sophomores in declaring 
a major.
Vice President for Academic 
Writer Vendela Vida ’93 presented the 2014 Spring Symposium 
keynote address on Thursday, April 10. Vida spoke about her most 
formative experiences at the College and offered advice to students.
Rachel Frank
VIDA OPENS SYMPOSIUM
SEE BARELY, PAGE 2
SEE EDITORIAL, PAGE 8
SEE COMMONS, PAGE 3
| April 17, 20142 NEWS
New Social House to Fill Prescott
By Katie Theiss
Barely 1/3 of Faculty Attend Crucial Vote
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
sation about the pathway from education to 
career.”
The faculty vote stirred a range of reac-
tions from across campus. 
“In my opinion, this vote symbolizes our 
inability to acknowledge the real value and 
promise of a 21st century liberal arts educa-
tion,” said Dean of the College Shirley Colla-
do. “Our students are asking us to recognize 
how multi-faceted and rich their learning 
experiences can be …  It is unfortunate that 
the vote did not support these kinds of teach-
ing and learning opportunities for both our 
faculty and students.”
But Political Science Professor Murray 
Dry, a longtime vocal critic of internships for 
credit, applauded Bremser’s amendment.  
“Internships are not liberal education. 
They’re something that may be practical and 
useful, but they are not governed by what 
I think the standards should be for what 
should be studied here,” Dry said. “We’re not 
a vocational school.”
“It’s not just a matter of work, it’s a mat-
ter of what it is that we’re about and that we 
the faculty are responsible for determining 
the content of a liberal education,” Dry con-
tinued. “We don’t all agree [on what should 
be in the curriculum], that’s true, but that 
doesn’t just mean that we should allow oth-
ers, the people who run internships, to de-
cide what should count for credit.”
SGA President Rachel Liddell said she 
was frustrated by the vote. 
“From my perspective, the legislation 
presented by EAC provided a huge amount 
-
sors,” she wrote in an email. “Professors had 
the option to offer for-credit internships, 
they were not required to do so. Nor would 
students be required to participate in a for-
credit internship. The legislation simply cre-
ated options for professors and students who 
wanted to offer these opportunities for their 
-
trust amongst faculty members. Those who 
voted to prevent for-credit internships com-
municated that they do not believe in that 
their colleagues’ teaching methods.”
Several faculty pointed out that many 
of the arguments made in support of the 
amendment, especially the arguments about 
how promoting internships for credit goes 
against the core principles of a liberal arts 
education, also apply to the existing policy 
of allowing students to do internships in the 
winter term for credit.
proposal came up is that aren’t we being hyp-
ocritical, by providing credit in the winter 
term but not in the summer, and so I think 
that we shouldn’t provide credit for J-term 
either,” said Assistant Professor of Econom-
ics Racha Moussa.
However, Moussa stressed that students 
will still be able to take internships for credit 
in J-term.
“I didn’t get the sense that the faculty 
wanted to end the J-term program,” Moussa 
said. “The voting was so close, so that’s not 
something I predict that will happen in fu-
-
tion led into thinking about J-term a little bit 
more.“
One of the major criticisms of the vote 
was the lack of faculty attendance. The meet-
ing barely roused the 94 votes needed for 
quorum. 
“To those professors who did not attend 
the vote but held an opinion on the issue, I 
hope they regret their decisions,” wrote Lid-
dell. “I also hope that students learn from 
their mistakes and remember to vote in SGA, 
local, state, and national elections.”
But Lloyd said that low faculty attendance 
at meetings and votes is nothing new. 
“We’ve been grappling with an issue of 
relatively low attendance for a couple of 
years now,” Lloyd said, noting that the April 
7 attendance of 101 voting faculty was about 
normal. 
When asked why she thought internships 
for credit was amended out of the proposal, 
Lloyd pointed to the role that student experi-
ences played in shaping her own support of 
internships for credit. 
“I had the opportunity this past fall to hear 
the students in the Foodworks program talk 
about their experience. it was extraordinary 
for me to hear from students how much their 
academic work had been enriched by the 
experience. It changed my attitude towards 
internships,” she said. “I think it would be 
valuable for us to think about how to create 
more opportunities for faculty and students 
to come together to talk about your perspec-
tives on internships — and the broader dis-
cussion of how your education prepares you 
for what comes next.”
It is hard to predict when the idea of in-
ternships for credit may come up for another 
vote, but Math Professor and longtime fac-
ulty member Mike Olinick said that once 
issues have been voted on, “faculty commit-
tees accept the verdict and move onto other 
questions as least for a few years.”  
While dead now, the future of internships 
for credit at the College may not be over. 
“Students did internships before this 
vote, and I assume you will continue to do 
them after the vote. I don’t think the conver-
sation between students and faculty about 
what you learn from internships, or how you 
can best integrate your learning from intern-
ships with your classroom pursuits, is over.”
Additional reporting by Emily Singer, Ellie 
Reinhardt and Kyle Finck.
In the past few weeks, students have 
serve students! As we returned from 
Spring Break, MiddCourses, a course re-
view site created by the SGA, made its de-
but. The site features over 1,300 courses, 
and it aims to help students share infor-
-
ly. The site was built by Teddy Knox and 
Dana Silver, who serve as SGA Directors of 
Technology. Since the site went live, stu-
dents have written almost one thousand 
reviews. That’s incredible. On top of that, 
we have received useful feedback from stu-
dents. Your help is essential as we roll out 
this new website, so we thank you for tak-
ing the time to post reviews and to send us 
your ideas. We hope that by the end of the 
year we will have as many as 2,500 reviews 
on the site. It will take time to build up a 
base of reviews, but with your help, we can 
create a tool that aids future generations of 
students.
This week in Senate, Emma Kitchen 
-
ed, Concussions Speak. Concussions Speak 
is “a community dedicated to providing 
empathy for all those affected by concus-
sions,” according to its website www.con-
cussionsspeak.com. Emma came to the 
SGA to discuss her new initiative to place 
lights on all bikes on campus. Not only will 
-
ing a bike at night without a light violates 
Vermont law), but she also hopes to pre-
vent accidents and, by extension, concus-
sions.
Also this week, Ben Clark ’16, co-pres-
ident of EatReal, visited to tell the SGA 
about the student group’s effort to bring 
more “real” food to the dining hall menus. 
Challenge, is food that belongs to two of 
the four following categories: humane, 
ecologically sound, local and fair. Ben and 
his co-president Noah Stone ’16.5 have 
been meeting with Dining Services and the 
administration to see how best sustainable, 
or “real,” food can be brought to campus.
The SGA food survey was a huge help 
to Ben when he began meeting with Din-
ing Services and discussing the topic with 
President of the College Ronald D. Liebow-
itz. Furthermore, an internship during 
J-term, sponsored by the Environmental 
Council, had students examine the din-
ecologically sound alternatives could be 
sourced in Addison County. With the sup-
port of the SGA, Ben is planning to pass the 
bill next week to bring the whole initiative 
home and show President Liebowitz the 
student body supports EatReal’s goals.
Lastly, the administration recognized a 
resolution that the Senate passed last week 
to reform the AAL distribution require-
ment. The bill—sponsored by students 
Daniela Barajas, David Ollin Pesqueria, 
Adriana Ortiz-Brunham, Jiya Pandya, 
and Amari Simpson—asked that the AAL 
requirement be removed and that new re-
quirements focus on a larger set of cultures 
and civilization.
When President Liddell forwarded the 
resolution to Dean of Faculty Andi Lloyd, 
the resolution was met with gratitude. Dean 
Lloyd commented it was a good piece of 
legislation. While Dean Lloyd’s comments 
do not determine the future of this bill, she 
assured the SGA it would be shared with 
the faculty Education Affairs Committee 
-
tion requirements next academic year and 
we hope that they will consider the resolu-
tion in their discussions.
Thanks for all your help! Don’t forget 
to vote in the upcoming SGA Presidential 
election on April 29 and 30.
The Community Council and President 
of the College Ronald D. Liebowitz have 
approved a proposal for a new social house 
on campus located in Prescott House, the 
former location of Delta. The new Chro-
matic House will provide artistically-
minded students with a place to live, prac-
tice, collaborate, and showcase their work.
Hannah Giese ’16, Emma Gee ’16 and 
Jackie Wyard-Yates ’16.5 are behind the 
proposal for the new social house.
“We were looking at housing options 
for next year and saw that applications for 
a new social house were being accepted,” 
said Gee. “There is not a house on campus 
where arts-oriented people can live, so we 
decided to jump on it and take the oppor-
tunity.” 
Giese, Gee and Wyard-Yates submit-
ted their proposal through several orga-
nizations, including the Residential Life 
Council, Student Government Association 
-
-
ebowitz. 
“It’s a great environment for creativity 
house also gives students room for ac-
tivities that they could not do in a dorm 
room. We want to make a ‘mess room’ in 
the house where you can paint, which is 
not practical in a dorm room. If you play 
an instrument in a dorm, you may disturb 
-
cians who don’t want to trek to the Mah-
aney Center for the Arts.”
A diverse array of interests will occupy 
the house next year.
“We have members from all seven a ca-
pella groups, choir, orchestra, jazz band, 
jazz combos, independent student musi-
cians, DJs on the radio, members of the 
pep band, people in musicals, music ma-
jors, actors, directors, people in improv 
groups, people in Riddim, writers for the 
Campus, writers for MiddBeat, people in-
terested in culinary art, people interested 
in photography, Film and Media Culture 
majors and more” Giese said. 
“The group of students living in the 
house next year is truly a group of arts and 
musically inclined people who are seeking 
a place to perfect their craft,” Wyard-Yates 
said. 
Chromatic House will provide a space 
for a capella and improvisation groups to 
practice, as well as a space for students to 
display their work for students and staff to 
admire.
“Down the road, we hope that this house 
will encourage more live performances on 
the radio and more collaboration among 
students,” Wyard- Yates said. 
The founders of the house focused on 
social house. “One of the reasons why we 
think we’re going to be different is that we 
want to include all people who are inter-
ested in art, even those who do not consid-
er themselves particularly talented,” Gee 
said. “It’s not about talent. It’s about level 
of interest and about having a place where 
people can share this.”
“That’s why it’s great that this is a social 
house,” Wyard-Yates added. “It can act as 
a central arts hub, and we can have people 
who are members of the organization with-
out living there.”
Other students are excited about the op-
portunity for variation in the social scene. 
“I hope that Chromatic will provide a 
new kind of social scene on campus,” said 
SGA President Rachel Liddell ’15, a mem-
ber of the Community Council. “I think 
they will host events that appeal to stu-
dents who are not drawn to other parties 
thrown in Ridgeline but who still desire to 
socialize on the weekends. Chromatic will 
foster the artist in all of us.”
“Middlebury also lacks a middle ground 
and sophomores who don’t have their own 
party space,” Liddell said. “Chromatic 
music- and art-based gatherings. 
“There are always going to be arts orga-
nizations on campus and the interest will 
always be there, so this is a sustainable 
idea,” Gee said. “It makes sense in the long 
run.”
From The
President’s
Desk
BY RACHEL LIDDELL
February 28
March 3
April 1
April 7
An open meeting is held to 
discuss the Summer Study 
proposal before it is
presented to faculty.
The Summer Study proposal is
Bremser presents her resolution to halt 
discussions of internships for credit.
A second open meeting to 
discuss the Summer Study 
proposal is held.
The faculty vote on Bresmer’s 
amendment. It passes 53-48.
Voting faculty pass the now-
amended Summer Study bill.
The College bike shop introduced a new 
bikeshare program giving students, faculty 
and staff the opportunity to borrow bikes for 
up to a day from the College. Spearheaded 
by Paul Quackenbush ’14 and the College 
bike shop, the pilot program is expected to 
begin sometime early next week.
The program will allow students to bor-
row one of eight bikes stationed at the Davis 
Family Library that have been refurbished 
by the bike shop. 
Quackenbush was inspired to pursue the 
bikeshare program by the efforts of Ellory 
Kramer ’13.5 last spring and a similar pro-
gram from a few years ago called the yellow 
bikeshare program where yellow bikes were 
spread around campus for student use. Al-
though the yellow bike program ended be-
cause of a lack of accountability, the concept 
remained of interest. 
Kramer received negative feedback last 
spring, however Quackenbush was able to 
see the program through with the support 
of Public Safety Administrator and Museum 
Manager and Events Coordinator, Wayne 
Darling, and Circulation Services Manager 
Dan Frostman.
Support from both the Department of 
Public Safety and the Library Circulation 
Services was crucial because of their role in 
the program. 
help the bike shop with funding by provid-
ing them with unclaimed abandoned bikes 
that can be refurbished and resold.
“We have a role in providing the essen-
tial resource that makes the bike shop work 
bikes that can be rented or in this case bor-
rowed,” Darling said. “This has become their 
primary form of funding.” 
To maintain accountability, students will 
have to check the bikes out from the library. 
Quackenbush worked primarily with Frost-
man to engage the use of the library check 
out system. 
“Bikes could get stolen and there needs to 
be some sort of accountability which is why 
I though to attach it to the library system. I 
checking things out,” Quackenbush said. 
The program is being introduced as a 
pilot in order to gauge interest and identify 
any faults.
“The pilot program is to see if there’s 
anything we’re forgetting,” Quackenbush 
said. “In order to go to a bigger scale, you are 
going to need more resources. So if we can 
demonstrate this is a viable program and 
there’s interest for it suggests that the school 
should allocate some resources to it.”
Darling added that this program could 
lead to an expanded version in the future. 
“There was a version of this discussion 
about three years ago that reached a topping 
point where we were thinking about mul-
tiple places around campus where you could 
take a bike and drop them off at bike check 
stations,” he said.
In order to become a part of the program 
students are required to sign up online at 
go/bikeshare where the terms and condi-
tions are stated. Once registered, students 
hours to get a sticker on their ID that will in-
dicate to the library that they can borrow a 
bike.
“I hope it achieves the mission of getting 
bikes in as many people’s hands as possible. 
Our whole mission is that bikes are great be-
cause they provide freedom,” Quackenbush 
said. “Many people don’t have cars on cam-
pus and I think it’s a shame that they can’t 
get out more into the surrounding areas and 
bikes are a great and fun way to do that.”
April17, 2014 |  3        News
Bikeshare Program Spins its Wheels
By Ellie Reinhardt
Commons 
to Boost 
Advising 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Affairs Tim Spears elaborated on the evolv-
ing role of advisors.
“What we’re trying to do on the admin-
istrative side is to take advantage of the 
resources we have to establish a frame-
year through to sophomore year,” he said. 
“We understand that from a student per-
spective academic advising can, and some-
times should, lead to more general discus-
sions about what students might want to 
do with what they’re majoring in.”
Cluss made note of the potential for a 
group of super-advisors who would serve 
as expert advisors with regard to major 
advising and AP or IB credit distribution. 
Adapting the FYS program to remain 
current with regard to student needs and 
College policy is also a concern.
“One thing that’s changed in 26 years 
is the students who are coming in. There’s 
just a whole different preparation,” Sku-
seminar is that it helps ... students make 
the transition between being excellent 
high school students to being excellent 
college students … but we need to identify 
in some ways what those transitions are.”
Spears echoed Skubikowski with regard 
to the changing needs of students.
“Is it appropriate that the FYS program 
should only focus on writing skills? Some 
have suggested we consider other skills, 
like public speaking or information lit-
eracy.”
Felix Klos Quartet
THURSDAY 8:00-10:00pm
Drawing from the American songbook, 
this quartet of Middlebury College 
seniors takes a straightforward and 
exciting approach to improvisational art. 
In the words of lauded jazz pianist Cyrus 
Chestnut: “this group is set to conquer 
the national stage.”
The Doughboys
FRIDAY 8:00-11:00pm
The Doughboys are a 10-piece ensemble 
playing a danceable mix of soul and rock 
music from the 1950s all the way up to 
today!
Closed for Private 
Event
SATURDAY
MCAB Trivia Night 
THURSDAY 9:00-11:00pm
Join us for another exciting Trivia 
Night in Crossroads Cafe. All ages 
welcome!  
Paradiddles
FRIDAY 8:00-10:00pm
The Middlebury Paradiddles is an 
all-female a cappella group whose 
repertoire includes a variety of musi-
cal styles–from R&B to classic rock to 
country.
Mischords
SATURDAY  7:30-9:30pm
The Mischords is an all female a cap-
pella group founded in 1962.  They 
perform a vast repertoire, providing 
entertainment to the campus and sur-
rounding community.
&
students share body image tales
By Caroline Agsten
What began as submitted responses to an 
article on Middbeat regarding body image at 
the College has now evolved into a campus-
wide storytelling event. Spearheaded by Leah 
Fessler ’15 and Sayre Weir ’15, “Let’s Start the 
Conversation: A Story-Telling Event Focus-
ing on Body Image, Eating Disorders, and 
Wellness at Middlebury College” will be held 
on April 17 in the Gamut Room. 
The event’s mission statement states that 
the goal of the project “is to spark meaningful 
conversation and bring more awareness to 
body image and eating disorders on campus.”
The inspiration behind the event began 
with a Middbeat article written by Fessler 
in February that focused on how obsessions 
with body-consciousness often manifest into 
unhealthy habits and negative self-compari-
son at the College. It generated 2,000 page 
As stated in the article, the initiative be-
hind the piece was to “decrease that negative 
[body image] tendency, and increase cele-
bration of body-diversity,” as well as to create 
an online forum for written stories or prose 
about personal experience with such issues. 
In addition to the overwhelming number of 
page views, the article also received 180 sur-
vey submissions and 45 written responses, 
most of which were anonymous.
“It was very encouraging to see that peo-
ple were invested in this project and were ex-
cited about it,” said Fessler.  
A common trend throughout the submis-
one’s body.
“The vast majority of submissions were 
reinforcing the idea that the standards at 
-
dents to adopt a negative self image as it re-
lates to their bodies,” said Fessler. 
Some responses were from students who 
are currently suffering or have suffered from 
serious eating disorders, referencing times of 
hospitalizations and other drastic preventa-
tive measures. However, some pieces were 
also written with a positive outlook on the 
subject.
The story-telling event will feature ap-
proximately half of the submitted responses, 
two-thirds of which are from female authors, 
and one-third of which are from male au-
thors. There will also be an open-mic portion 
at the end of the event, where anyone in the 
audience will have the opportunity to share 
their experience or story. There will also be a 
follow-up discussion regarding the event the 
following week. 
For both Fessler and Weir, the issues of 
body image are deeply rooted in the College’s 
environment.
“Ever since I arrived at Middlebury, it’s 
been glaringly obvious that the standards of 
and unrealistic, causing a lot of anxiety, espe-
cially among girls in addition to boys,” said 
Fessler. “The standard of beauty here causes 
a lot of self-image problems. There’s an ob-
things feed off each other.” 
Weir reinforced the idea of competition 
that is inherently comprised in this issue. “I 
believe the obsession with body image found 
on campus is a byproduct of our determina-
tion to succeed and compete, and it perpetu-
dominate conversations,” she said. 
Even though this topic poses such a huge 
problem, it often goes unsaid. 
“What bothers me the most is that no one 
wants to talk about it. People will talk about 
almost every other image on campus, but no 
one wants to ever talk about body image. I 
think a lot of people are afraid of admitting 
that this is a serious problem,” said Fessler.
Thus the goal of the readings is to create 
an open platform for dialogue and conversa-
tion.
“It should be a powerful and meaningful 
night, and I hope it will spark lots of discus-
sion regarding how we can continue this 
important conversation,” said Weir. The co-
organizers hope that students in the Middle-
bury community who might feel anxiety will 
campus, and this event will hopefully provide 
the outlet to do so.
“I think it’s time to start talking about 
it,” said Fessler. “We’re not professionals, 
or psychologists, or nutritionists, but we are 
concerned peers who are part of the problem, 
and that is something that we need to admit 
and start talking about. This is our commu-
A bike rack designated for the purple bikeshare vehicles sits outsite the library. For more information, see go/bikeshare.
emily singer
4 NEWS | April 17, 2014
But for Oliver ’13, who graduated last spring with an economics degree, easy access psychostimulants were a common convenience during his time at the College, similar to coffee. 
can’t be helped by Adderall or any other stimulant.” 
Oliver readily admitted that he showed none of the symptoms of ADHD 
and saw Adderall as a vehicle to get him where he needed to go. 
“It’s just another tool that people use and will continue to use no matter 
-
performance-enhancing supplements. Coffee is legal, but at the end of the day, 
it helps you get the paper done.” 
Conventionally, Adderall and other psychostimulants are meant to level 
But Oliver does not buy that argument. 
the majority of people prescribed here actually qualify as people who would 
leave an advantage on the table.” 
Oliver’s views on Adderall usage were seen as “worrisome and sad” to Dean 
a larger problem. 
-
derstanding about psychostimulant usage and the larger trends it suggests.
“We are all contributing to creating a high-intensity situation here. But 
going to be for the long term.”
While most students the Campus
usage at the College, Collado pointed to a new wave of applicants who are be-
-
dents who really need it, but I’m worried about the culture that we are cur-
rently in where there is an abundance of these drugs,” she continued. 
Campus -
-
-
activities, engage in community service, and have a good social life. Adderall 
can help you with that, so what is so wrong with it?” 
“bad.” 
-
it. You guys are rarely criminalized for your drugs use.” 
2:1
The ratio of men to women 
who reported trying 
psychostimulants.
26%
The percentage of social 
science majors who 
reported trying the drugs
Of the 388 students who 
-
at the College.
Anthea Viragh Anthea Viragh 
April 17, 2014 |  5        News
F
or Tyler ’14, it was a slow, 
seamless transition from tak-
ing Adderall as a study drug 
taking it to study and party starting 
here and there from a friend, but as 
his use increased he transitioned to 
buying from a campus drug dealer. If 
he buys smaller quick-release Adder-
all, it is $1 for 2mg. Extended-release 
XR pills are discounted, but not by 
much. 
“Before, it was only when my 
friends had some, a crime of oppor-
tunity. Now, there’s a person I buy 
from. It’s expensive, but worth it to 
me.” 
The numbers of students at the 
College using psychostimulants rec-
reationally is unknown, and the esti-
mates vary greatly depending on the 
anecdotal source. Tyler estimated 
that 50 percent of students who take 
it orally eventually try it recreation-
ally. 
“You can justify it as a study en-
hancer by arguing that it’s for work,” 
he said. “A lot of people get into the 
drug by justifying it that way, but 
the recreational use doesn’t have 
that safety net. Usually people don’t 
start snorting it until they have done 
it a couple times orally. It comes on 
slowly. You try it, you like it, then 
move on.” 
Tyler said snorting Adderall 
makes him more attentive in con-
versations, allowing him to live up to 
social expectations. But despite his 
best efforts to keep the pills he buys 
for studying, Tyler said he ends up 
snorting more than he intends every 
month. The dealer he buys from usu-
ally sells out, so he has to go at the 
beginning of the month. In the begin-
ning of March, he bought $60 worth 
— 120mg — but only used 50mg to 
study with. 
“I’m like a goddamn child when 
I have it,” he said. “I can’t keep my 
hands off of it. Especially if it’s a night 
when we’re going out, I’ll just bust 
out the Adderall. I have to be strate-
gic or I’ll pop them like candy.” 
One of the biggest frustrations is 
that Tyler rarely snorts it all himself. 
“It’s annoying to me when my 
friends just don’t want to go through 
the process of buying Adderall. I can’t 
fault them for it, because I am much 
better friends with the guys who sell 
it, so I’ll just go kick it with them and 
buy Adderall.”
Tyler’s monthly sojourns to his 
drug dealer put him in the minority 
of illicit users. Over 73 percent of the 
respondents obtained Adderall and 
other psychostimulants from either 
“Close friend/Sibling” or “Friend,” 
according to the 2013 report on psy-
chostimulants by Ben Tabah ’13. 
As his thesis has come to a head 
mid-way through the spring, Tyler 
continues to buy Adderall on the 
While he said he has come to terms 
with his own usage, he was unsure 
when asked whether he would let his 
kids be prescribed Adderall. 
“If I had a child who showed 
symptoms of ADHD and was in a 
position to be prescribed Adderall, 
I would think long and hard about 
it. Not to say that I would or would 
not, but I would do a lot of research 
because an Adderall prescription is 
something that fundamentally af-
fects your day-to-day interactions.”
W
hen you follow a group of 
students over the course 
of a semester, there are al-
ways nascent trends that do not have 
-
tively proved. But among long-term 
prescribed students, there is a subset 
that has had enough, and decided 
that the side affects just are not worth 
the rewards.
Going into his senior year this 
fall, Ben ’14 was juggling a long-term 
relationship with prescription stimu-
lants. His brother and sister were 
both prescribed growing up, and he 
began taking psychostimulants in 
ninth grade. He was given Focalin 
and Adderall and brought it with him 
to the College, taking it regularly. 
Insomnia and loss of appetite hit 
Ben particularly hard. He arrived 
at the College 5’10 and 150 lbs. and 
-
hours of a sleep began. 
“Nyquil was the only thing that 
could knock me out. I would write a 
stream of consciousness during those 
sleepless nights, writing things like 
‘wow this Adderall won’t go away.’ 
Pages and pages. You get to the point 
where you just ask yourself what the 
hell your doing,” he said. 
“People would always joke, ‘you 
like working, Adderall makes work 
fun.’ Try taking it for two days, then 
leaving the library wanting only to 
sleep and not being able to because 
your mind is racing and won’t stop.” 
Ben would take a pill, enter the li-
brary, and exit ten hours later feeling 
as if his head was in a cloud. 
“I felt at times like I was a guinea 
pig, and no one could really under-
stand where I was coming from,” he 
recounted. “I started thinking when 
I turned in papers coming off my 
Adderall high, ‘who was doing that 
work? Me or the drugs? Am I really 
in control?’” 
The long days and longer nights 
brought him to a moment of crises. 
“I haven’t been able to get a 
handle on it,” he said late in the fall. 
“When my parents came up this past 
weekend, I told them not to ship me 
another bottle.” 
As he progressed through his se-
nior year, Ben began to learn how to 
cope without the drug. It was harder 
far outweighed the cost, from smok-
ing less weed to a reinvigorated sex 
life. But it remains a constant battle. 
“My brain keeps telling me to call 
my mom, hop in the library, and just 
start knocking work out,” he said. 
“But I don’t want to do that right 
now. I’m at the point of deciding 
what I want to do with my life and 
what role Adderall is going to play in 
that life.”
During spring break, Ben took it 
sparingly to try and push through his 
thesis. He said it helped immensely, 
but the side affects were especially 
severe because he had no tolerance. 
Returning after break, Ben continued 
to lay off psychostimulants. 
Ben is not alone in taking a hard 
look at long-term psychostimulant 
usage. 
“They’re not miracle drugs,” said 
John Young, the Middlebury-based 
that in the long run, after the initial 
excitement wears off, it might not be 
more helpful than a cup of coffee.” 
After graduating, Oliver went to 
work at an investment bank. While 
he used Adderall for his junior sum-
mer internship, he too has decided 
against taking psychostimulants.
 “You want to be seen highly at 
work, but you can only do so much 
in one day, while one test in a math 
or economics test could be worth 40 
“There’s no six-hour period of time at 
work where it will be worth 40 per-
cent of my evaluation.” 
But even if there are students re-
evaluating the long-term worth psy-
chostimulants, there will always be a 
project or midterm beckoning on the 
horizon, tempting students across 
campus.
“I’m the Dean of the College com-
ing in and saying, ‘take a chill pill’ (no 
pun intended),” Collado said. “This 
is the time to invest in yourself away 
from your parents and have it be 
messy some of the time. It’s normal 
for students to explore drugs and all 
kinds of things in college, but if that 
is the normative culture that a stu-
dent is walking into, that is highly 
problematic. My biggest concern is 
that you are equipped with the right 
that you are not creating behaviors 
here that will be detrimental to your 
future as a person.”
The problem with living in the 
Adderall Generation is that you can-
not just divorce yourself from these 
drugs altogether. As Ben learned, 
there is no such thing as cold turkey 
for students taking psychostimulants 
at the College. But you can learn to 
use the drugs responsibly and come 
to terms with their role here. For bet-
ter or worse, from 30mg extended-
release Adderall pills with breakfast 
to Saturday nights driven by neon 
blue and orange lines, we are living 
in the Adderall Generation.     
“If you walked up to any random 
person on campus and offered them 
Adderall, not many of them would 
say no,” said Ben. “But I’m trying to 
nobody understands. Kids who take 
Adderall regularly never talk … [but] 
-
ing.”
Additional reporting by Alex Edel
Layout assistance by Hannah Bristol
Gr
ap
hi
c b
y E
va
n 
Ga
ll
ag
he
r 
local
Legislation Mandates Taser Training
On Wednesday, April 9, Vermont 
Senate Government Operations Commit-
tee considered new legislation that would 
regulate taser use across Vermont. 
Bill H.225, already passed by the 
house, would im-
plement statewide 
training standards 
for all law enforce-
ment officials armed 
with electronic con-
trol devices (ECDs).
According to the 
proposed bill, “The 
Criminal Justice 
Training Council 
shall ensure that a 
law enforcement of-
ficer receives appro-
priate and sufficient 
training before be-
coming authorized 
to carry or use an electronic control de-
vice.”
The weapons induce involuntary 
muscle contractions, enabling the an offi-
cer to safely apprehend the suspect. Con-
comitantly, the shock can disrupt basic 
neurological functions, causing seizures, 
heart attacks and even death. Despite this 
risk, ECDs are often praised as a safe al-
ternative to traditional firearms. 
Jim Masland (D-Thetford) proposed 
the bill. Masland witnessed ECD’s lethal-
ity last summer, when his neighbor was 
killed by a taser. 
Macadam Mason, a 39 year-old man 
with a history of mental illness, threat-
ened to commit suicide. Officers arrived 
quickly at Mason’s 
Thetford home, but he 
refused to comply and 
moved toward one of-
ficer with ‘clenched 
fists.’ Moments later, 
the officer fired a tas-
er that disrupted Ma-
son’s heart and ended 
his life.
Masland attri-
butes the accident to 
inadequate training 
and improper proto-
col. Communicating 
with mentally ill citi-
zens is a particularly 
delicate skill that requires special train-
ing.
“It’s clear that what we really need is 
for all officers to have the same training, 
having to deal with individuals having a 
mental health crisis,” Masland said.
Accordingly, one of the bill’s provi-
sions requiries that any officer hoping 
to carry a taser undergo Act 80 training. 
This training focuses on de-escalation 
and non-violent intervention.
If the bill passes, by the end of June, 
2017, “every State, local, county, and mu-
nicipal law enforcement agency” must 
ensure its officers complete training 
outlined in 2004 Acts and Resolves. The 
training will be overseen by The Criminal 
Justice Training Council (CJTC).
According to their website, CJTC 
aims to “ ... enhance public safety and 
promote law enforcement excellence by 
establishing policies, certification stan-
dards, training, and resources that em-
brace best practices in criminal justice.”
Critics of the bill have cited its rigid-
ity as a weakness. Instead of a codified 
taser protocol, opponents stress the im-
portance of an officer’s personal discre-
sion. 
“[The bill] leaves no room for the offi-
cer to make a judgement,” said represen-
tative Donna Sweany (D-Windsor).
Representative Joanna Cole (D-Burl-
ington) was worried that the bill was too 
broad and stripped of essential provi-
sions. 
“I wanted to see something much 
stronger,” she stated.
Other opponents are concerned that 
the bill will propagate the myth that tas-
ers are safe, and will tacitly condone ir-
responsible taser use.
“I think the bill makes the situation 
worse,” said Defense Attorney Robert Ap-
pel, the former head of the Vermont Hu-
man Rights Commission. “They’re codify-
ing a poor public policy ...”
Appel described the bill as giving of-
ficers the “green light” whenever they 
anticipate violence. “I would rather see 
them do nothing than pass this language,” 
he said. 
The current bill allows an officer to 
use a taser whenever a suspect actively 
resists arrest — a relatively opaque defi-
nition.
“Active resistance includes some-
thing as simple as pulling your arms 
across your chest,” noted Allen Gilbert, 
the executive director of the Vermont 
chapter of the ACLU. “This is a very low 
threshold.”
Furthermore, the proliferation of 
such high-tech weaponry has financial 
repercussions as well. In a study released 
by the ACLU, the state has paid approxi-
mately 269,000 dollars in seven different 
settlements since 2004. 
“Tasers are powerful weapons that 
should only be deployed in unusual cir-
cumstances,” Gilbert told the Senate 
committee on Wednesday.
Governor Shumlin noted that al-
though ECDs are dangerous, they are 
relatively safe if used correctly. 
“Anything can kill someone,” he 
stated in a June press conference. “It de-
pends how you use it. The point is, Tas-
ers are less likely to kill you than a bullet, 
which is why we use them.”f
By Harry Cramer
“Anything can kill 
someone, it depends 
how you use it. The 
point is, Tasers are 
less likely to kill you 
than a bullet...”
Peter Shumlin
 Vermont State Governor
After an altercation with state police, 39-year-old Macadam Mason was killed 
by a taser outside his Thetford home. Nearly two years after Vermont’s first 
taser death, state legislators hope to mandate Section 80 taser training.
Courtesy VtDigger
Electronic stun devices fire needle-like electrodes, which embbed into the target 
and use electricity to disrupt their nervous system, causing them to collapse.
Courtesy Wall Street Journal
And the Winning Captions are...
“You think your arabic final was hard? I just got 
chased by a 30- foot-tall lizard with fangs!” 
“This is a scam” - mjoster
The Vermont Senate gave prelimi-
nary approval to a bill that would protect 
medical professionals from prosecution 
by state regulators for prescribing long-
term treatment for Lyme disease on 
Thursday, April 10. 
The vote, 27-0 in favor of the legis-
lation, followed a unanimous precursory 
vote by a Senate committee on Friday, 
April 4, which recommended the bill’s 
passage during the full Senate vote. 
The decision follows a heated con-
troversy over the use of long-term 
drugs — medication lasting longer than 
a month — antibiotics for curing symp-
toms of chronic Lyme disease, which has 
become a more viable option because of 
the bill. In the past, any health profes-
sional who wished to prescribe long-
term antibiotics feared the risk of losing 
his or her medical license on account 
of professional conduct charges to the 
Medical Practice Board. Though no such 
incidents have occurred in Vermont, 
these limitations have led Vermont citi-
zens to seek treatments in other states. 
States such as Connecticut, Massachu-
setts, California and Rhode Island have 
approved similar legislation to protect 
doctors from such prosecution. 
Lyme disease is  considered an epi-
demic in Vermont and can be found in 
every county in the state. Last October, 
the Center for Disease Control reported 
that the number of Lyme cases in Ver-
mont has increased by over 1000 percent 
during the past eight years. Though the 
disease is fairly treatable when caught 
in its early stages, it can become severe 
if patients go a long time without being 
diagnosed, potentially leading serious 
neurological problems. 
Dr. Stephen Phillips, who practices 
in Connecticut, treats many patients for 
Lyme and insisted there is “overwhelm-
ing evidence” that the Lyme bacteria can 
persist after short or moderate antibiotic 
treatment. 
Ellen Read, a victim of chronic Lyme 
disease from St. Albans, Vt., shared her 
story, saying “My recovery was incom-
plete. I went on to develop debilitating 
neurological Lyme disease.” 
Read discussed the impact of the 
disease on her life – as she was unable 
to work – by saying, “I estimate my lost 
earnings to be between $200,000 and 
$250,000.”
Though victims of long-term Lyme 
symptoms look hopefully to the new pro-
cedure, the treatment is still considered 
experimental, and has caused much de-
bate between medical professionals over 
its necessity and effectiveness. Many 
doctors disapprove of the long-term an-
tibiotic treatment because it involves 
an elaborate process, including intrave-
nous administration and surgery. More-
over, there is no concrete evidence that 
the new technique is effective in curing 
symptoms of Lyme. 
Represent George Till of Jericho, 
Vt., said during an interview that studies 
conducted by the National Institutes of 
Health had “not demonstrated any long-
term benefit from long-term antibiot-
ics”. Dr. Robert Wheeler, chief medical 
officer and vice president of Blue Cross 
Blue Shield of Vermont, asserted that re-
peated or long-term intravenous antibi-
otic therapy is “not medically necessary.” 
Extensive use of antibiotics carries 
additional risks, such as widespread evo-
lution of bacteria to develop increased 
resistance. Dr. Harry Chen, the Vermont 
Health Commissioner, has expressed 
concern that expanded use of antibiotics 
could create more “super-bugs”, imper-
vious to current treatments. 
Some people are objecting the gov-
ernment’s role in legislating medical 
decisions. Madeleine Mongan of the Ver-
mont Medical Society openly opposed 
the bill, stating, “we don’t think it is ap-
propriate for the legislature to be legis-
lating the standard care.”
 Karen Allen, a lawyer representing 
the Vermont Association of Justice, said, 
“I’m not saying this shouldn’t be treated 
with long-term antibiotics. I’m saying it 
shouldn’t be legislated. The Legislature 
is not the place to settle this medical sci-
ence controversy.”
Allen argued at a panel in front of 
the House Health Care Committee in 
February, insisting that state law did not 
prevent doctors from issuing long-term 
antibiotics, and that they could not be 
prosecuted by the medical practice board 
for pursuing such treatment as long as 
they “are documenting it and have done 
due diligence.”
In contrast, many view the new bill 
as allowing health professionals greater 
freedom to decide the proper course of 
action for their patients. Susan Chinnock 
of Westford, Vt., a victim of Lyme dis-
ease, believes the bill gives doctors “the 
right to treat as they see fit.”
The bill outlines the necessary steps 
doctors must follow if they wish to treat 
their patients with long-term antibiotics, 
including documentation of diagnostic 
reasoning in addition to obtainment of 
patient consent prior to administering 
a Lyme disease diagnostic test or long-
term treatment. The legislation also 
states that doctors can still be prosecut-
ed if they are found to have violated pro-
fessional standards in other ways. 
17New Bill Targets Lyme DiseaseBy Sarah Koenigsberg
Green Mountain Club Hike in Bristol
Excited to get outside now that the 
weather has started to warm up? What 
better way to enjoy the Vermont outdoors 
than go for a beautiful Bread Loaf Section 
hiking outing! The hike is two miles round 
trip that climbs 960 feet in elevation and 
Champlain Valley. Remember to bring 
poles and microspikes if you have them. 
Meet at the Bristol town green. Contact 
leader H.G. Salome at 802-453-5441 or 
salome@gmavt.net for further details. 
APR. 19, TBD
Local 
lowdown
 | April 17, 2014 Local 7
Jackson Whelan of Pittsford, Vt. reviews his many Lyme Disease medications.
Courtesy Wall Street Journal
“Rent” on Stage at Middlebury
Come on down to the Town Hall Theater 
to see The Middlebury College Musi-
cal Players present the Tony Award-
winning rock musical, “Rent.” Tickets 
will be $12/$10/$6, and are available at 
go.middlebury.edu/measureinlove or at 
443-6433. In the event of a sold-out show, 
there will be a paid waiting list starting 
one hour before curtain. The show will 
also run on April 19.
 
APR. 18, 8 – 10:30 P.M.
NER Vermont Reading Series
Swing by Carol’s Hungry Mind Café this 
Thursday for some readings from the 
New England Review (NER) featuring 
welcomes Vermont writers Emily Casey, 
Don Mitchell, April Ossmann and Ross 
Thurber, who will read from their work. 
These writers have produced essays, nov-
els and poetry and will provide samples 
from their best work. The event will be 
free.
APR. 17, 7 – 8:30 P.M. 
Easter Pancake Breakfast 
in Weybridge
What better way is there to start off your 
Easter Sunday than with a hefty stack 
either! If you are looking for a hearty 
and delicious meal before you begin your 
Easter celebrations this Sunday, come on 
down to the Weybridge Congregational 
Church for fresh-cooked pancakes, crispy 
and delicious bacon, tangy juice and pure 
maple syrup. The event is will be free. 
More information at info@vtrural.org.
APR. 20, 7 – 8 A.M. 
Kids Bike Swap in Middlebury
Are you looking for a bike for your little 
one? Come on down to the Middlebury 
municipal gym to donate or sell your old 
bike and pick up a new one! Bikes will be 
sold on consignment with a $5 consign-
to School program. Prices as marked. For 
more information call 802-388-6562 or 
crbikerepair@gmail.com. 
APR. 19, 10 A.M. – 3 P.M.
King Pede Party in Ferrisburgh
Have you been looking forward to chal-
lenging your friends and neighbors to 
some high stakes card games for ages? 
down to the Ferrisburgh Community 
Center and Town Hall this Saturday for a 
delicious sandwich supper followed by an 
card games. Play King Pede or bring your 
own favorite card game and introduce it 
to the group. The requested donation will 
be $2.50, and the bragging rights will be 
priceless.
APR. 19, 6:30 – 8:30 P.M.
Courtesy Wikipedia
“My recovery was 
incomplete. I went 
on to develop debili-
tating neurological 
Lyme disease...”
Ellen Read
Lyme Disease Victim
Lyme Disease often presents as a red
 ‘bulls-eye’ rash at the site of infection.
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifi-
able events; the use of vulgar language or per-
sonal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article 
that contains any of the aforementioned will be 
removed before publication. Contributors will 
be allowed to reference prior articles published 
in the Opinions section or announcements for 
the public record. If a reference is made to prior 
articles, the submission will be considered a let-
ter to the editor.  The Campus will not accept or 
print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed 
by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as 
reviews, columns, editorial comics and other com-
mentary, are views of the individual contributors 
and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submis-
sions at 800 words or less. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at 
www.middleburycampus.com. To be considered 
for publications, submissions must be received by 
5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic 
year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and busi-
ness offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, 
Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is 
produced on Apple Macintosh computers using 
Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press 
Republican in New York. The advertising deadline 
for all display and classified advertising is 5 p.m. 
Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Mid-
dlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business 
phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribu-
tion concerns to the Business Director. First class 
postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
Faculty, We Want Jobs Too
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kyle Finck
MANAGING EDITOR
Alex Edel 
BUSINESS MANAGER
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Emily Singer, Nate Sans, Ellie Reinhardt, 
Eliza Teach, Claire Abbadi 
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol,  
Edward O’Brien, Isaac Baker
SPORTS EDITORS 
 Alex Morris, Joe MacDonald, Fritz Parker
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Conor Grant
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Isabelle Stillman, 
Emilie Munson
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Ben Anderson, Leah Lavigne 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anthea Viragh, Paul Gerard, Rachel Frank, 
Michael O’Hara
DESIGN EDITOR
Olivia Allen
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Greg Woolston, Maggie Cochrane,  
Ellie Alldredge
COPY EDITORS
Dan Bateyko, Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Ian Stewart, Greta Neubauer
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
When you are looking at summer 
is, of course, money: is it paid or is it 
unpaid. If it is unpaid, you are in trouble 
and will continue to be 
thanks to the  faculty 
vote last Monday. Our 
professors have chosen 
to keep the liberal 
arts divorced from the 
realities of the job market 
and the opportunities 
that a growing number 
of students will need 
to succeed after graduation for the 
foreseeable future.    
industries have been criticized for their 
practices around unpaid internships, and 
production have been sued successfully 
by former interns who claim to have been 
neither educated nor compensated. As a 
result, more and more companies who 
want interns but cannot afford to pay 
them now routinely require college credit 
done by Intern Bridge found that nearly 
50 percent of the 8,939 students they 
surveyed had received college credit for 
their summer internship. Since then, the 
number has only continued to grow. 
Between these developments and the 
faculty decision to deny summer credit, 
Middlebury students are now in a bind. 
While the College does offer transcript 
notations to help students get internships 
with this requirement, the Center for 
Careers and Internships (CCI) notes 
that some employers, particularly in the 
do not accept this as an alternative to real 
credit. 
As seen in the bill proposed at the 
faculty meeting, providing internships 
for credit creates an extra expense for 
the College. In this case, students would 
have paid to support the faculty and 
infrastructure required to sustain their 
summer internship. Although these 
credits would count only for Winter 
Term, students would still not be able 
to opt-out of Winter Term, even if they 
took one off, which would have raised 
the overall Middlebury price tag. Though 
students could have applied for living 
stipends, this plan was a roundabout way 
While questions regarding the ethics 
of internships for credit are being debated 
across the country, this is not even the 
reason that internships for credit failed 
last week. A majority of our faculty is not 
engaged in the conversation, and in fact 
could not be bothered to show up to the 
voting, just a third of the faculty given our 
an alarming portrait of apathy. While 
faculty engagement, offering the idyllic 
image of students attending a dinner 
at a faculty member’s home, we see a 
growing disconnect in the relationship. 
The exchange should go beyond the fork 
to a holistic investment in the student 
body, manifested by a willingness to set 
aside a few hours to consider an issue 
impact on our college experience. 
In recent years, faculty turnout for 
these meetings has been so consistently 
poor that  they have had to reduce 
their quorum requirements in order to 
move anything forward. As it stands, 
internships for credit was killed by the 
bare minimum of professors, despite the 
importance of the issue to the student 
body.
Of those few who did show up, 
many made an increasingly antiquated 
argument that learning happens in 
c l a s s r o o m s 
and ends at the 
door. While the 
conversation 
about how to 
c o m p l e m e n t 
i n t e r n s h i p s 
with classroom 
learning to 
augment their 
e d u c a t i o n a l 
value is 
important, the 
fact that they 
have tabled 
the issue is 
c o m p l e t e l y 
unacceptable. 
The legal 
c o n t r o v e r s y 
o v e r 
internships for 
credit is rapidly evolving. Who knows 
where this issue will be by the time faculty 
are able to reintroduce this prospect. 
Education clearly extends beyond 
that. We are here to learn, to broaden our 
horizons and read the classics, but we are 
also here so that we can get a job in four 
years and pay off Middlebury’s $240,000 
price tag. While there are challenges, the 
faculty is more than capable of developing 
a method for ensuring that summer 
internships are rigorous and educational, 
similar to the winter term internships for 
which we can already get credit. 
As labor laws grow stricter and more 
internships move to require credit, our 
will be increasingly limited, which in 
off our loans and eventually give back 
to the College (as seniors are already 
being asked to do). This issue needs to 
be fasttracked; we call on the faculty to 
critically engage and to show up, the same 
thing we do every day in their classes.
As editors of the Campus, we strive to 
make this newspaper accessible to and rep-
resentative of the student body. We strive 
to encompass all voices on campus and give 
voices to those 
who might oth-
erwise feel mar-
ginalized. This 
has been our goal 
from the start — 
just the opposite 
from what be-
yond the green 
wrote about the 
Campus in last 
week’s issue, 
saying “we are 
motivated to cre-
ate beyond the 
green because 
we feel mar-
ginalized and silenced by the mainstream 
platforms available, including the student 
newspaper, the Campus.” 
Yet, we publish every oped that is sub-
mitted as long as it is not libelous, hearsay 
or vulgar. We respond to all emails when 
students have questions or submit news 
tips. We constantly push ourselves to in-
clude more perspectives and make this a 
representative voice of student body.
We see beyond the green 
a niche by giving a voice and a gathering 
space for the perspectives that are often 
marginalized and are glad they are writing 
a column in our pages to highlight these 
perspectives. However, we question the 
way they framed this need in their oped, “A 
Collective of Middlebury Voices.”
Yes, the Opinions section is not repre-
sentative of the spectrum of opinions that 
exist on this campus, but we have made a 
conscious effort to reach out to a large swath 
of people all year, sitting down to lunch and 
chatting about how we think their voices 
these pages. Even when people do not want 
to submit regular columns, we have worked 
with them to draft opeds and let their voices 
be heard. While these efforts have not al-
ways panned out, we have been constantly 
engaging with all who want to engage with 
us. We also acknowledge the fact that the 
editorial board is not currently representa-
tive of the diversity of backgrounds and ex-
periences here at the College. It is a problem 
that is on every one of our editors’ minds. 
In fact, we just sent out our all school email 
encouraging anyone to apply for editor po-
sitions for the coming year. This is an open 
opportunity and we hope that people who 
believe that the Campus is not representing 
their views to apply and help broaden per-
spectives on the board. 
Given the effort we are putting in to 
create a much more nuanced and repre-
sentative Editorial Board and Opinions 
section, this is a two-way street, and while 
we have tried to reach out, we have not seen 
the same engagement back. We are being 
accused of ignoring a spectrum of politics, 
these politics in the Campus was in this 
oped. What we want in our paper and what 
beyond the green wants for this campus is 
not that different. We want people to feel 
comfortable expressing themselves. We 
want open and inclusive dialogue. We 
want to be a catalyst for change.
beyond the green also wrote that 
our “politics are not transformative,” 
but all year, we have strived to write 
progressive and transformative editorials. 
From looking for ways to bring down the 
comprehensive fee and make the Col-
lege more accessible to decrying the 
normalization of proctoring and giv-
ing recommendations to strengthen 
the honor code to asking It Hap-
pens Here to rethink its advertising 
because their strategy was trigger-
ing for some rape victims, we have 
fought to change this campus to be 
more accessible and safer for every-
one here.
As a student newspaper, we are com-
munity journalism in its  purest sense. We 
can only be as strong as people chose to 
engage with us. We only learn about events 
through word of mouth and can only pub-
lish the opinions that are submitted. We 
want to provide a safe space for discus-
sion on issues plaguing this campus. As 
facilitators, we do not suppress any of the 
opinions we receive. If all is done right, the 
Campus
is happening on campus. If you do not like 
this image, you have no one to blame but 
yourself. Being proactive and not reactive 
requires taking the reins, not only by creat-
ing your own forum but also by engaging in 
existing ones. At the end of the day, we are 
one of the most widely read and distributed 
publications on campus and are able to 
touch a diverse group of people, from stu-
dents and alumni to faculty and staff. We 
want your opinions, but we are not mind 
to see unless you participate.
notes from 
the desk
Hannah Bristol ’14.5 is 
an Opinions Editor from 
Falls Church, Va.
Alex Edel ’14 is the 
Managing Editor from 
Kyle Finck ’14 is the 
Editor-in-Chief from New 
York, N.Y.
(your opinion here)
Nolan Ellsworth
Jena Ritchey
We hope that you are enjoying your 
visit to Middlebury, and that you can take 
some time out to educate yourselves about 
activism hap-
pening on cam-
pus and how 
you can support 
it. In present-
ing the follow-
ing demands 
(which are in re-
sponse to major 
issues students 
we ask you to 
use your buying 
power to change 
the structural policies of this college.
Before presenting our demands and 
asking you to sign on to them, we want to 
tell you who we are. We are a coalition of 
students who have come together to build 
sustained political community on our 
campus. As members of this community 
engaged in multiple initiatives for institu-
tional change, we seek to challenge systems 
of marginalization and oppression that are 
currently operating at Middlebury. We are 
committed to working for a more just, in-
clusive, safe, and supportive environment. 
Part of this work requires drawing atten-
tion to structural issues that negatively 
impact our academic pursuits, well-being, 
and safety in our time here. We are com-
mitted to combining critique with action to 
ensure that the administration is account-
able to the broader community, and that 
students are active participants in shaping 
this institution. We make all decisions in a 
democratic process, and our demands are 
dynamic and responsive to the current con-
ditions. The following are our current de-
mands (for more details and citations see 
1. AAL TO ALL: 
The Coalition demands that the Col-
lege change its Culture and Civilizations 
and less eurocentric approach to studying 
the world (as proposed by Midd Included).
Under the current requirements, the 
college seems to place an emphasis on the 
study of Western cultures and civilizations, 
while minimizing the importance of all oth-
er cultures and civilizations of the world by 
lumping them together into one category. 
Not only are these requirements failing to 
-
tance of the study of different cultures and 
civilizations, but they are also limiting edu-
cational opportunities for students. 
Under the new requirements, students 
1. Two courses, each of which focuses 
aspect of the cultures and civilizations of 
process of comparison between and among 
cultures and civilizations, or a course that 
focus on the identity and experience of 
separable groups within cultures and civi-
lizations.
-
er than a requirement does not mean that 
explicitly region focused, such as literature, 
science, theater, and economics, the mate-
-
an option only means that students who 
wish to study other regions of the world will 
have a greater opportunity to do so, while 
students who wish to pursue the study of 
-
mand that this change be made by no later 
than fall semester of 2016.
2. CREATION OF A MULTICUL-
TURAL CENTER:
 The Coalition demands that the ad-
ministration provide funding and other 
necessary support for a Multicultural 
Center. We, as MANY students before us 
have, demand a space that visually repre-
sents the students it seeks to serve, that is 
-
dents seeking multicultural resources and 
services otherwise unavailable on campus, 
and that educates the entire campus com-
munity on issues of identity and privilege.
While the college has invested in initia-
tives to attract students from diverse back-
lacks initiatives to support the students that 
create a center that supports the students it 
uses to bolster its diversity statistics.
Some might argue that such spaces al-
-
cannot play the role that a Multicultural 
academic resource, which has an ambigu-
ous role on campus seeing as how having a 
center that studies race and ethnicity with-
out any racial or ethnic studies programs 
is akin to having a basketball gym with 
-
NA only serves as an informal residential 
house. 
the support that we speak of. However, we 
diversity and multicultural affairs require 
by boiling it down to simply one of the many 
title that requires at least one person to al-
lot their entire schedule to, working daily to 
support underrepresented students. Most 
few.
the support and resources that a Multicul-
of such space no later than the fall of 2016. 
3.  BAN SODEXO: 
The Coalition demands that Middle-
bury College puts in writing that it will not 
work with Sodexo Inc. because its history 
of violating human rights, infringing upon 
labor laws, and stripping away workers’ 
-
the values of the college. Furthermore, 
we demand that the administration make 
public its current relationship and terms of 
contract, if any, with Sodexo.
specializes in food services, were brought 
-
-
tions in retirement packages and health-
care, as well as elimination of paid sick 
leave and vacation time, a practice they 
have implemented at the University of Ver-
mont with considerable faculty and student 
resistance. Its union-busting techniques 
Watch report, and it has been found guilty 
-
tions multiple times. In 2005, thousands 
of African-American employees of Sodexo 
accused the company of racist practices for 
not offering promotions to people of color 
and segregating the work environment. Ul-
timately, Sodexo settled in an $80 million 
racial bias suit. The Sodexo Alliance is also 
-
teering. It has a seventeen-percent share in 
-
in writing that it will not work with Sodexo 
Inc. and that it make public its current re-
lationship/terms of contract, if any, with 
Sodexo.
-
dreds of prospective students on campus 
presents a unique opportunity to make ef-
fective demands to the administration and 
-
alition of Students, we ask you – prospec-
tive students – to support us (and ultimate-
-
bury.edu; please include your name as well 
as a note that you would like to see these 
changes. We thank you for your support.
Signed by the following students:
Gaby Fuentes , Debanjan Roychoud-
hury , Alex Strott , Alice Oshima 
, Alex Macmillan , Fernando Sando-
val , Ally Yanson , Daniela Barajas 
, Kate McCreary ,  Jackie Flores 
, David Pesqueira , Jackie Park , 
Francys Veras , Maya Doig-Acuna , 
Nicolas Guadalupe Mendia , India Huff 
, Clair Beltran , Victor Filpo , Oc-
tavio Hingle-Webster , Matthew Spitzer 
, Lee Schlenker , Molly Stuart , 
Reem Rosenhaj , Rebecca Coates-
Finke , Janiya Hubbard , Angelica 
Segura , Adriana Ortiz-Burnham , 
Cindy Esparza , Kristina Johansson 
, Anu Biswas , 
Kate Hamilton , Molly McShane , 
Jenny Marks , Anna Mullen , Eric 
Hass , Philip Williams , Lily Andrews 
, Levi Westerveld , Jiya Pandya , 
Robert Zarate-Morales , Keenia Shi-
nagawa , Jeremy Stratton-Smith , 
Klaudia Wojciechowska , Greta Neu-
bauer , Adrian Leong , Feliz Baca 
, Josh Swartz Tim Garcia ’14
Signed by the following alumni:
Adina Marx Arpadi ’13.5, Hanna Mahon 
’13.5, Ashley Guzman ’13, Elma Burnham 
’13, Kya Adetoro ’13, Chris De La Cruz ’13, 
Katie Willis ’12, Jacob Udell ’12
Signed by the following organiza-
tions:
Alianza, Midd Included, Feminist Action 
at Middlebury, Juntos Migrant Outreach, 
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship
| april 17, 2014 9opinions
Mind and Language, in a Nuthatch?
Green Piece
Julian Macrone ’14 is 
from Clifton, N.J.
I watched a video recently of a trio 
of prominent philosophers discussing 
in contemporary 
philosophy. In 
a nutshell, the 
linguistic turn 
marked a move-
ment, beginning 
with Nineteenth-
-
wig Wittgenstein, where philosophers 
got pretty bent up over the new idea that 
mind, consciousness and pretty much ev-
ery other metaphysical topic philosophers 
deal with can only be rightly understood 
monopoly on rationality, that special 
human characteristic (the consensus on 
which has pretty much been on the books 
to our status as users of language that 
stemmed from thought which mirrors or 
represents some logical structure. 
online article from last week, however, 
might help illustrate some of the re-
-
lenge these preconceived notions about 
elsewhere in the animal kingdom. New 
work done with crows, which required the 
animals to learn and then apply tasks like 
picking up stones and dropping them into 
-
els, allowing them to obtain rewards. The 
crows were able to learn to differentiate 
between different variations of the test, 
including instances where they were pre-
sand instead of water, objects that sank 
savvy, as when they were unable to learn 
how to deal with instances where part of 
the testing apparatus was hidden or how 
water rose more quickly in a smaller tube. 
The takeaway from the study is, however, 
that the crows were seemingly conscious 
of the consequences of their actions – in 
a sense, the crows were cognizant of the 
causal relationships that were at play in 
their actions and the tasks they faced. 
-
like the dynamics of human intelligence 
or human mind at play in the heads of 
corvids, they might make us ask whether 
or not our standards for admitting that 
mind and language exist outside of hu-
man interactions are a little too strict. 
human language is that it puts us in touch 
with those outside of us in such a way as 
to make it apparent that they have minds. 
When we speak with someone else, there 
seems to be an aspect of immediacy pro-
vided by the commonality, in a way that 
makes meanings and intentions available 
in a way that might not appear to seem 
possible with non-language users. 
-
knowledge that corvids can perceive 
something like our own notions of causal-
ity, would it really be as controversial to 
make the maybe-not-so-far-fetched claim 
going along with that perception? Two 
weeks ago, when Phi Beta Kappa Visit-
ing Scholar Tyler Burge came and spoke 
about primitive forms of mind, it seemed 
as though he was more than willing to 
admit that some animals might be capa-
ble of rudimentary forms of perception. 
When asked whether or not these same 
animals could be said to have a mind like 
we do, he denied the possibility. 
non-human animals can interact with one 
another socially, or even with us socially, 
why are we still so hesitant to allow that 
these interactions might constitute some 
primitive form of language? Now I never 
lovers out there interact with your ani-
mals. Is the way we train dogs to respond 
to calls or live in a house all that different 
from the way we teach our children how to 
act? The way we intuitively act about and 
live with our pets seems to suggest that we 
-
tionships; at least one thing those three 
philosophers I spoke of earlier were able 
-
ist outside of language. So, it might seem 
relatively straightforward to there con-
-
action, there needs to be language. 
We still, however, seem hesitant to 
mind out there in the world beyond the 
one contained in human heads. I think so 
there are experiencing creatures beside 
acting morally towards non-human life. 
hubris. 
Calling All Prospies
Beyond the 
green
On behalf of “The 
Coalition for Racial 
and Economic Justice” 
and beyond the green, 
represented by the 
undersigned students. 
charlotte fairless
opinions10 april 17, 2014 | 
Notes from 
the desk
Hannah Bristol ’14.5 is 
an Opinions Editor from 
Falls Church, Va.
Donation Manipulation
I was eating breakfast outside Proctor 
on Sunday when I got a phone call from one 
of my friends.
“I’m making calls for the Senior Fund, 
and you’re 
on my list of 
people who 
haven’t do-
nated. The 
money goes to 
a scholarship 
fund, and if 68 
percent of the 
class doesn’t donate, we won’t have much 
money for Senior Week.”
Putting aside the fact that I’m not even 
graduating until next February, a couple 
things here rub me the wrong way:
1.  I know 
there’s evidence that shows that if people 
start giving money right when they gradu-
ate, they are more likely to give money 
when they are older and have real sums of 
money to give. And I know more kids give 
money to their college at Amherst and Wil-
liams. And I know a high percentage of stu-
the U.S. News and World Report rankings 
(which merits its own oped about what goes 
into that formula). But if you don’t care 
about how much we give, just the percent-
age, and you’re raising money for a scholar-
ship fund, this seems misguided. Middle-
bury costs almost $60k a year. Percentages 
alone just aren’t going to get us there. Say 
we all give $5 and say our class has 700 
kids, then we’ve raised $3,500. We can pay 
for 5 percent of one student’s tuition for one 
year. The other goal is far less publicized: 
raising $10,000 for this scholarship fund. 
That number starts to actually put a dent 
in the Middlebury price tag, though still 
not a huge one. The percentage strategy is 
they are employing is all so that we can say 
“more than two-thirds of our senior class 
gave money this year” and so maybe our 
alumni giving will give us that extra boost 
from number four to duking it out at the top 
with Amherst and Williams. 
2. The scholarships ask. -
nitely want all money I would theoretically 
that’s what we voted on supporting, but 
to do. See the math breakdown in point 
one. While we’re on it, in March, all the 
seniors received an email that said if 1,800 
seniors and alumni donated, a board mem-
aid. Subject line: “It’s all or nothing.” That 
means that almost two years of Middlebury 
for a student who couldn’t otherwise come 
here is contingent on other alumni giving 
money. Why are we hedging bets on some-
one’s ability to afford college? If you have 
that much money and you plan on giving 
it to Middlebury, don’t hold it hostage until 
1,800 others pay. Just give the money you 
want and have to give. 
3. So we spent 
more of our budget than planned on 100 
days because we had to hire more security 
because so many people were hurt at 200 
days. All good. I don’t need a cruise on 
Dumore to feel like I’m graduating from 
college. What bugs me here is using se-
nior week as a pawn to get people to give 
to that magic “more than two-thirds.” It’s 
sensationalizing, especially since donating 
doesn’t even mean we have access to more 
money for Senior Week. It just means we 
can begin fundraising other money. The 
money being raised, thankfully, goes to a 
better cause than our pre-grad drinking, 
but incorporating this ask is pretty ridicu-
lous. And the pint glasses we 
received for donating $20.14 
before April 1? Also ridiculous. 
Those glasses probably cost al-
most as much to custom order 
as the amount we donate to get 
one.  And what’s even more sad 
is that this works. I’ve heard 
that donations have jumped 
since Senior Week was worked 
into the ask. If we hit 68 percent, 
spirit” the U.S. News and World 
Reports thinks alumni giving 
shows. It just shows how easy 
we are to bribe.
4. But what bothers me 
most is that -
sonal choice. Maybe I don’t want to give 
because we haven’t divested. Maybe I’m di-
-
tion that doesn’t have nearly the resources 
we have. Maybe money is tight because 
I’m about to graduate and the job market 
is tough. Maybe I do plan to give money to 
Middlebury and just haven’t gotten around 
to it. But these fundraising tactics lose sight 
of the complexity and personal decision 
that is philanthropy. Instead, this strategy 
of fundraising is manipulative and distorts 
the reasons we should be giving money. 
While it still goes to a good cause, the inten-
tions are off. If I give money to Middlebury, 
it’s not for a pint glass that will soon break 
or an open bar that we’ll all promptly for-
get. It’s because of the things I’ve loved here 
and the opportunities I’ve had. It’s because 
I want others to have the same experiences. 
It’s because of everything I think Middle-
bury has to offer. And as we get ready to 
graduate, we shouldn’t 
lose sight of that.
Joanna Rothkopf ’12 wrote a dank col-
umn near the end of her time here, which 
I guess you could call a “feminist column” 
(squirm) called That Thing Down There. 
(I squirm not be-
cause I feel un-
comfortable to 
call myself a femi-
nist, but because 
of how many 
people abandon 
ship when they hear a bright-eyed white-
skinned Middlebury girl say that.  It’s like 
sliding up in your Birkenstocks, whisper-
ing “sustainability” and popping your lib-
eral arts insured booty on the hood of your 
daddy’s Range.  If your rants start to smell 
like pop feminism, if you’re tagged as an ac-
tivism fetishist, if you cannot skillfully walk 
the line between stone cold revolutionary c-
word and really active listener to all voices, 
your take-me-seriously card is revoked. 
Side note: I recently have taken ownership 
of the c-word and I have a lot of feelings 
about it.  Email me if you want to discuss.) 
That Thing Down There used to be a great, 
steady feminist voice on our campus, and I 
wanted to do a mini-homage in my vague-
cloud-column this week with a haphazard 
brush with the discussion of modern con-
ceptions of modesty and immodesty.
So let’s talk about that hair down there. 
Ooooh, touchy subject?  Bush seems to 
make people around here more uncomfort-
able than talking about masturbation (but 
maybe still more acceptable than discuss-
ing anal play?).  For the record, to all you 
-
er Fructis locks with “long hair don’t care,” 
that phrase isn’t about topside mane.  That 
phrase refers to pubes and armpit hair.  Just 
ask Lil’ Wayne.  The ability to hold shame 
and shamelessness in tension is one of the 
most fun feminist pickles to put on the side 
We evaluate our goods and decide what 
we are ok or not ok with presenting to the 
world, instructed by other ‘doms, especially 
Sexdom and Media-dom.  Personally, when 
I get home at the end of the day, I’ll take off 
all of my clothes.  Visitors, friends, strang-
ers; I cannot count how many people have 
seen my Ts.  I’m not about to join a nudist 
colony, but I am pretty cool with being na-
ked.  And since high school, I’ve eschewed 
hair and felt a part of the norm.
Even being cool with being naked 
makes things a lot more complicated and 
body-centric than it seems it should.  How 
many thinkpieces about Lena Dunham and 
-
out mentioning how much she featured her 
naked body on screen.  None of them, as 
many secondary thinkpieces pointed out 
(including the one you’re reading right 
now, sigh).  Censorship of da ladie$ in pub-
lic spaces and forums has become most 
evident to me in artistic venues.  At Maisie 
Ogata ’14’s performance art piece dur-
ing the Symposium last Friday outside of 
the Johnson Memorial Building, I learned 
that you aren’t allowed to be nude in pub-
lic spaces on campus.  A couple days later, 
while helping Lily Miao ’14 install some art 
in the foyer by McCullough Social Space, 
she was not allowed to post a painting with 
full frontal nudity.
Who is ok with what and why are we 
ok with that?  In Istanbul I enjoyed keeping 
it hairless down there.  Often for religious 
reasons, many women (and men) in Tur-
key wax off a lot of their body hair.  Elif, my 
Turkish bikini waxer, once answered the 
worth sorting through the juxtaposition of 
how near someone is allowed to my nether 
just what the deal is.  In traditional Istan-
bul, sex resulted in a kind of invisible or 
internal blemish, a stigma, but to get a full 
Brazilian was part of a ritual maintenance 
of cleanliness.
Our constant body evaluation is cou-
pled with a shifting relationship with how 
much of this we can see on a daily basis 
as well as its connotations to others.  The 
fake math of body economics is relentless. 
If I take my top off on Battell Beach, I am 
technically at risk of getting a citation.  If I 
grow my hair out, I wonder how many boys 
here at Middlebury would pump the brakes 
mid-romantic-entanglement.  If my name 
“bush,” how many job offers have I lost?
Pubic hair seems to have a recent 
comeback in trendiness, even mainstream-
ness, judging by recent articles in New York 
Times Magazine and The New York Times 
itself by Amanda Hess (a dope sex colum-
nist, read up on her) and 
Marisa Meltzer respec-
tively, about a month 
apart in publication. 
But even if the Times 
is glacial in its recogni-
tion of alt trends (Surf-
er chick 70s bush is su-
uuuuuch a thing you 
guys, it was not just 
hippies.  Our moms 
were woooorking it.), it 
does suggest some sort of 
mainstream interest.  As 
Hess notes in her Decem-
ber article and Meltzer in her 
January piece, several celebri-
ties have expressed their ten-
dency to keep it natch, and Ameri-
can Apparel, in their window display in 
Lower Manhattan, manikins posed with 
full bush under their sheer negligé.  When 
I was in Los Angeles, capital city of hair re-
moval down to the follicles, a group of post-
bush.  Turns out that hair is erotic to plenty 
of people out there.  Recent mid-act with a 
signif. other actually left me worried about 
how bare I was down there.
So now I’m growing my own hair out, 
maybe because I’m a trend-chaser.  Or 
maybe, I don’t mind getting less ac-
here because I’m out-
growing Middlebury and 
its teenagers who are 
still learning that bod-
ies are cooler and more 
fun if they don’t look like 
blowup dolls.  Or maybe 
is the only space over which I feel I have 
political power at this point in my life.  No 
matter what I choose to do with my pubic 
hair or how many people have seen my 
areolas, I’d like to think I still have purity 
of heart.  Haha just kidding, I’m a deviant 
who’s going to hell on a River Styx Wet n’ 
Wild water slide.
Public Nudity and Your Mom’s Vagina
Fake Science
Eliza Wallace ’14 is 
from Shepherdstown, 
W. Va.
Reader oped
Written on behalf of 
Divest Middlebury
$50 Mil. is a BFD
The college announced this week 
that it is going to be investing $50 
million in a responsible investment 
fund. This is an 
amazing thing. 
Why? Because 
$50 million 
can make a big 
difference if 
it’s invested in companies with good 
environmental, social and governance 
practices. Because the college is recog-
nizing that its endowment can be a tool 
for positive change and that it should 
reflect the mission of the school. And 
finally because it shows that student 
organizing is working! The school cre-
ated this fund as a consolation prize for 
a hard fought divestment campaign. 
We are really excited about this, but 
we are not the kind of people who settle 
for the goldfish in a plastic bag. Des-
mond Tutu endorsed divestment this 
week, recognizing that climate change 
is not an issue to trifle with. Pitzer Col-
lege divested from fossil fuels this week 
and we are going to follow suit. Wash 
U students continue a sit-in demand-
ing their school cut ties with Peabody 
Coal, and over 100 Harvard Professors 
endorsed divestment in an open let-
Bloomberg. Harvard Professors y’all! 
They are so smart.
We are going for the gigantic, purple 
teddy bear you only get after you’ve 
practiced shooting baskets into a mov-
ing, flaming hoop that is divestment all 
summer, because we think it’s worth 
all the sweat, the tears and the missed 
shots. We like our goldfish, $50 million 
is no joke, but we are not leaving this 
carnival without getting what we came 
for. It is the time to take serious action 
on climate change, and we have the op-
portunity to do so by divesting our en-
dowment from fossil fuels. There is no 
reason why we can’t make this basket.
tamir williams
amr thameen
| april17, 2014 11opinions
Reader oped
Peggy Burns is 
Director of Internships 
and Interim Director of 
the Center for Careers 
and Internships.
CCI Helps Connect the Dots
Last week’s Op Ed piece on “Connecting 
the Dots with CCI” raised some valid points 
but also included some misrepresentation 
of the facts.  The 
invitation from 
The Campus to 
respond and help 
set the record 
straight prompts 
me to take advan-
tage of this space 
to do a little “myth 
busting” and provide a sense of what the 
Center for Careers & Internships is up to 
these days, all in the service of 2500+ stu-
dents who could not be more diverse in 
their four-year paths to their post-gradu-
ate pursuits.   
We get what students want and think 
they need, and we are working hard to de-
liver on that.  But what do we want?   We 
are ambitious for our students and ambi-
tious for our center.  It is our goal to create 
a signature career education planning ex-
perience that is interwoven throughout the 
undergraduate years and provides ample 
guidance and opportunity for exploration, 
looking for students to be partners in the 
process.  To be engaged with CCI early and 
often.  To be open to possibility.  To stop 
deleting e-mails when they may have just 
ignored an opportunity of a lifetime.  To 
understand that it is their future to em-
brace — and that planning for it needs to 
be as much a part of their undergraduate 
journey as choosing their major, studying 
abroad, playing a sport or volunteering.  
We have a deeply committed staff here 
to work with students throughout their 
-
ter to Senior Week (and beyond!) to pro-
vide advice on opportunities; review cover 
letters and résumés; conduct practice in-
terviews; offer self-assessment tools; run 
workshops, career action groups, career 
conversations, and employer information 
sessions; and much more.  In the spirit 
of encouraging independence, explora-
tion and aspiration, we are working hard 
to engage students earlier in their time at 
Middlebury to make the process of per-
sonal and career development less stress-
ful, more intentional and even exhilarat-
ing.  It’s a partnership we are striving to 
develop with each and every student on 
this campus.
President Liebowitz, Dean Collado, the 
Board of Trustees and College Advance-
ment could not be more supportive in 
their commitment to make real-world 
experience a touchstone of a Middlebury 
education.  Three summers ago, the Col-
lege provided approximately $125,000 
in internship funding; this summer it ap-
proaches the half-million-dollar mark. 
And in terms of overall experiential fund-
ing provided directly to students (includ-
ing PCI, URO, academic departments, 
etc.), last year College support hit $1.5 mil-
lion collectively, primarily for summer and 
Winter Term experiences.
There is not a career center among lib-
eral arts institutions in the country that is 
not undergoing or considering profound 
change in how it best serves students 
(and future employers).  Conversations 
about the cost and relevance of a liberal 
arts education are occurring on campuses 
everywhere.  Despite economic recovery, 
graduates still must address an uncertain 
job market.  Students face pressure from 
family members who challenge them on 
“what in the world can  you do with a his-
the way, for a great answer, check out go/
who are the product of a liberal arts edu-
cation but bemoan their lack of practical 
experience and even workplace etiquette 
— not to mention unrealistic expectations 
a greater debt load than ever.  Most faculty 
continue to support traditional pedagogy, 
acknowledging that internships have their 
place — but never as a credit-worthy ex-
tension of the classroom experience.  So, 
what’s a Career and Internship Center to 
do?
Here are a few steps we have taken al-
ready.  Last year, the College created a 
new Director of Employer Outreach & 
Development position, with Jeff Sawyer 
joining us this summer.  We have already 
added 25 new employer organizations and 
125 new “Midd-friendly” opportunities 
to MOJO, ranging from the arts to media 
& entertainment to healthcare.  We have 
developed an in-depth plan for future 
development in this area that addresses 
both the interests of Middlebury students 
and “where the jobs are.”  To complement 
these efforts, we have created several new 
programs.  “UpNext” (which debuted in 
February with a focus on Media & Enter-
tainment), brings together students, em-
ployers and faculty over two days, building 
student awareness of the breadth of path-
ways within various industries and to help 
them prepare to compete for these oppor-
tunities.  The “Field Guide” series works 
with departments to bring back alumni for 
panel discussions on the paths they took 
to a wide range of careers (in the spirit of 
“major doesn’t necessarily equal career”), 
followed by a dinner for further in-depth 
held in March with the Geology Depart-
ment, with one student saying that “this 
event was the single most practically valu-
able experience we have had at Middle-
and mentoring groups that include both 
monthly phone calls and ongoing indi-
vidual summer meetings in New York and 
Boston.  In addition, we’re working with 
up a mentoring program for our summer 
DC interns with young alums.  And we’re 
in the process of setting up two new advi-
sory boards in Technology and Media & 
Entertainment, again to provide a network 
of real-world advice and mentoring.
One initiative in our efforts to meet stu-
dents “where they are” is to hold drop-in 
hours and appointments in BiHall, in the 
Commons and in the evenings.  We have 
also reached out to academic departments 
to meet with faculty to determine how we 
might work together to connect their ma-
jors to career exploration in special eve-
ning working sessions; our work with the 
Psychology Department is a great example 
of such a collaboration.  In September, we 
will be launching a new integrated and in-
clusive advising model, providing students 
with highly individualized and cohesive 
academic and career advising.  This focus 
will increase the depth and breadth of our 
individual advising content expertise, im-
proving the quality and relevance of our 
programming, our outreach efforts and 
our work with faculty and students.  In ad-
dition, a new online appointment schedul-
ing system will enable students to make 
their own appointments with the advisor 
best suited to their needs.  But we will still 
serve those students with the quick ques-
tion and those who are in exploratory 
mode, the many “undecideds,” looking for 
general advice.  CCI will never become a 
place just for those who already have de-
termined their paths.
-
cerns voiced by the Campus:
-
MOJO — and  when do, they are often 
outdated:  We have posted more than 500 
internships this year (a new record) in ev-
“smattering” of postings, with particular 
concern about the lack of media opportu-
nities, yet there were more than 100 post-
ings in Media & Entertainment alone this 
year, including dozens of new ones at NBC 
Universal, ABC Disney, Sports Illustrated, 
CBS, The Christian Science Monitor, PBS, 
and more.  And the comment that MOJO 
postings are often outdated by a few years 
— that’s impossible, as all postings are au-
tomatically deleted from the system within 
two days of the application deadline.
We’re out of touch when it comes to 
internships and student needs in terms 
of funding deadlines:  Over the last four 
springs, we’ve gone from one deadline to 
three to two and now back to one again. 
Despite advice throughout the year re-
garding starting the internship search 
early, so many students wait until the last 
minute.  Because we are responding to stu-
dent feedback for full funding to be award-
ed (i.e., in their bank accounts) by June 1 
to enable them to buy airline tickets, put 
a deposit down on a sublet, etc., we there-
fore need to have hundreds of applications 
reviewed by staff and faculty committees 
and then multi-step paperwork processed 
and pre-departure workshops held — all 
done in time to hit that June 1 goal and 
which necessitated the April 6 deadline.  It 
is no easy feat — and it’s worth noting that 
it was very clear in the Funding FAQs that 
if there were extenuating circumstances, 
a student just needed to e-mail or meet 
with me to discuss — as a result, 20 exten-
sions were granted.  Let’s not lose sight of 
the fact that our funding has more than 
tripled in three years and the number of 
students supported quadrupled.  It is also 
worth noting that paid internship postings 
on MOJO have increased by 50 percent 
in the last two years.  And one last point: 
students who got their unpaid internships 
through MOJO absolutely do not receive 
funding priority as stated in the Campus 
piece.
The deluge of e-mails and why we need 
a weekly newsletter instead:  Two ma-
jor points here:  1)  We do have a weekly 
newsletter — it’s called CCI Connect (visit 
go/connect), and it is sent out every week 
to all students and department coordina-
tors, with all new MOJO postings, upcom-
ing deadlines and events, etc., and is cat-
deluge of e-mails is due to the number of 
deadlines tied to the end of “internship 
hiring season” — and both student surveys 
and  focus groups told us that students 
wanted to be reminded of upcoming dead-
lines three days in advance.  Believe me, 
we would love to eliminate these e-mails 
and all the work they involve and have 
students use their weekly CCI Connect as 
their primary source of information on op-
portunities.  But the fact that the Campus 
editorial board didn’t even know of its ex-
istence demonstrates why the reminders 
are important — and that we need to do a 
much better job in communicating about 
our resources.
CCI has limited effect with the excep-
: Since September, 
we’ve had 2,500+ student visits in drop-
ins and appointments, with interest in ev-
80+ employer info sessions in a variety of 
industries and 29 related special events, 
with more than 400 on-campus inter-
views to date.  Our record number (500+) 
has generated 2,900 applications to date. 
More than 2,600 students have attended 
a variety of dozens of CCI workshops and 
programming, including a series of sopho-
more dinners focusing on summer intern-
ships, LinkedIn workshops, The ABCs of 
Finding Work in the Government, Grant-
Your Finance Interview, The Business of 
the Arts, and many more
We are happy to respond to constructive 
criticism and welcome new ideas on how 
we can better work with students and fac-
ulty to “connect the dots.”  But we ask that 
understanding of what is already in place 
and what lies ahead.  Meanwhile, on behalf 
of my CCI colleagues, I’d like to remind 
students that there is nothing we would 
rather do than work with them throughout 
their time at Middlebury on the creative 
process of inventing their futures.
The Middlebury Campus| April 17, 201412 13features
Timothy Billings
Professor of English and American Literatures
      I asked that question of William Stafford once when he 
came to give a reading at Pomona College many years ago 
when I was an undergraduate there, and his immediate an-
swer was: ‘Lower your standards and keep writing.’  What 
I love about that advice is that it recognizes that “writer’s 
block” is nothing but your internal editor harrying you, 
saying that what you are about to write is not good enough 
– and that what you most need to do is to trust yourself. 
The downside is that Stafford’s many wonderful books con-
tain not a few mediocre poems written no doubt when he 
would otherwise have had writer’s block.  And yet without 
those poems – which many people have enjoyed, I’m sure, 
even if they didn’t do much for me – he might never have 
written the truly extraordinary poems that knock my socks 
off.  Stafford certainly wrote more books than I ever will. 
For a certain kind of person, I think that’s still probably the 
best advice there is, but I’m just not that kind of person. 
What works best for me is to stand up and start talking. 
Whenever I find myself paralyzed because my sentences 
are becoming tangled and intractable, I stand up and start 
talking to myself. I pace back and forth and gesture with 
my hands (probably looking a bit loony, to be honest) ex-
actly as though I were explaining the issues to an interested 
group of fellow scholars or students. Somehow the language 
comes to me that way because if I imagine an audience sit-
ting in front of me I can’t just stand there – I’ve got to say 
something – and the exercise gives me focus.  I then lean 
over my desk and type in what I have just said, sentence by 
sentence, and keep pacing. (It helps to be a good talker, but 
one becomes that by writing.)  So my alternative advice is: 
when the words on the page feel intractable, return to your 
voice; when the ideas in your head feel tangled, remember 
your audience.
Julia Alvarez
Writer-in-Residence
      When the writer William Stafford was asked the same ques-
tion, he replied that he never suffered from writer's block, all he 
had to do was lower his standards.  I don't think he really meant 
that he would settle for schlock, just that part of the block is that 
the writer is getting in the way of the writing by worrying too 
much about performance, and measuring up. At that point, just 
forget about achievement and write to limber up, write as finger 
exercises, write in a journal, write a letter. (Whoever does that 
anymore? I do!)  The point is to keep up the agility, the flexibili-
ty, the practice of the craft. Writing, all creativity, I think, should 
have an element of play, self-forgetfulness, fun.
On the other hand, times when I'm forcing it, I realize that the 
balance is off.  I need to get out, get involved in the things I care 
deeply about, issues in my community and beyond. We are writ-
ers in a context, storytellers in a tribe. To quote another great, 
Charlie Parker, the jazz musician, said, "If you don't live it, it 
ain't going to come out of your horn."  
So there are a few prescriptions for writer's block, courtesy of 
Dr. Alvarez, via Drs Stafford and Parker:  Keep Doing the Writ-
ing but forget about the performance/measurement, and when 
all else fails: go out there and get involved in life itself – fall in 
love, plant a garden, save a forest, work in a soup kitchen, teach 
kids to make balloon animals and then take them over to the 
local assisted living facility. 
Marion Wells
Associate Professor of English and American Literatures
      When I hit a roadblock in writing I have a few techniques:
1. Make a cup of tea. This can take a while, done properly and 
gives the mind a chance to mull things over. 
2. Just start writing – even if the structure and organization of 
the piece as a whole are still elusive, writing a "core" piece of it 
can be very helpful
3. Leave the writing alone and think about teaching instead! 
Using a different part of the brain can help unlock the issues 
causing the block.
MICHAEL SHERIDAN
Associate Professor of Anthropology at Middlebury College
     I think that the key to overcoming writer's block is to start 
writing and let yourself write junk. Now that you've gotten start-
ed, you can keep going and later go back and either fix or delete 
the junk.  The other trick I often use is that I make myself explain 
whatever it is that I'm supposed to be writing about in ordinary 
non-specialist language, as if I was giving an overview of what I'm 
trying to write about to a patient, sympathetic and wholly igno-
rant friend. That sketch becomes the first paragraph (which may 
be junk, and that's OK). The second strategy for curing writer's 
block is to make your writing something that you need to do for 
other people, not just for yourself or the text itself. For example, 
I often propose a paper for an academic conference on a topic 
that I haven't written about yet, and then the conference becomes 
both a deadline and group of people depending on me to deliv-
er. Finally, chocolate never fails to motivate me.  One page done 
means I can have one piece, no exceptions. 
Kathryn Kramer
Visiting Assistant Professor of English and American Literatures
     Have a baby.  There’s nothing like knowing you have only two 
hours of child care to focus the attention. (A descriptive, not a 
prescriptive, remedy.)
There are many devices and prompts, like imagining that the 
world is coming to an end in twenty minutes and what you write 
will be the sole remaining record, or writing without ever using 
the letter e, for example.  But as it’s generally construed, writer’s 
block (which Gilbert Sorrentino calls inspiration’s “idiot broth-
er”) has probably most to do with not wanting to write what you 
think you want to write, like a term paper or a letter of recom-
mendation.  There’s some dishonesty, either of intent or execu-
tion.  So it’s interesting to figure out what that’s about.
Christopher Klyza
Stafford Professor of Public Policy, Political Science and Environmental Studies
       My writing in the years since I've been at Middlebury (I arrived 
in 1990) has primarily been aimed at an academic audience. I've 
written and edited several books as well as articles, book reviews 
and book chapters. In general, I don't get writer's block. But I 
do sometimes have a hard time getting started on a new project. 
When that is the case I make myself start writing — it could be 
something from the middle of the paper (such as a case study) or 
a description of the theoretical framework I will use rather than 
the introduction. I also don't worry so much about the quality of 
the writing, knowing that I will go back and revise it. At the end 
of the day, having 4-5 pages of text often primes the writing pump 
for future productivity. I also tend to think about the overall proj-
ect better when I have done some writing.
Bill McKibben
Schumann Distinguished Scholar 
     It's never been a huge problem for me. I grew up writing 
for newspapers, and that tends to cure you of perfectionism: you 
know that half the job is to get it done on time. I think sometimes 
you have to say: I'm going to write as well as I can right now, and 
when I wake up I'm going to go over it again to make sure it's 
good. Making sure the first time through can be a little daunting.
Christopher Shaw
Visiting Lecturer, English and American Literatures; Associate Director, 
Program in Environmental Journalism
      “Work every day without fear or expectation.” (Somebody 
said that.) Always show up at the desk or notebook, or, god help 
us, computer screen. In fact, if you are stuck I suggest returning 
to the basic and essential physical act of making words on paper 
with a pen – or maybe a piece of burned charcoal from a fire. 
Don't judge, at least for a while. Keep going. Put it aside. Then 
go back and see what you have, if a structure or a point seem to 
be emerging that you can begin building on. Some days it works 
and some days it doesn't. Don't judge. Go back and work again.
It's different for school work and creative work, of course. Dead-
lines are useful even without an assignment. Desperation often 
breaks the log jam.
Stop fighting, stop judging, stop comparing yourself to the great. 
The writing NEVER turns out the way it gleams and beckons in 
your mind. In the draft stage you need to accept being terrible. 
As an editor, I have worked with some of the best full-time dead-
line writers and I can tell you their first stabs are gobbledygook. 
But you need to start. Don't wait.
Vendela Vida 
Keynote Speaker (April) and Class of ’93
      If a scene’s not working or giving you trouble, it can help 
to think about how you’d approach it if you were telling the 
story in a different medium. That is, if you can’t figure out 
how a scene works in prose from, how would you write the 
scene if it was a film, or a play? I find this technique can 
help me a lot when I’m stuck.
Another remedy: try writing first thing when you get up in 
the morning. Before e-mail, before anything. If you write 
right away, before your doubts or second thoughts awaken, 
you can keep them at bay. 
wHAT IS YOUR CURE FOR
Works include...
Articles published in 
the New Yorker, the 
New York Review 
of Books, National 
Geographic, Rolling 
Stone, The Atlantic, 
Harper’s and the 
New York Times. 
by Jessica Cheung, Emilie Munson, & Isabelle Stillman
design by Julia Hatheway | cartoon by Nolan Ellsworth
WRITERS    BLOCK?
14 features | april 17, 2014
By Emma MacDonald
Last Thursday and Friday, April 10 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Spring Symposium Gathers Crowd
-
-
-
-
-
-
Zoolander
-
-
-
the week included every face with either 
-
-
-
-
By Izzy Fleming and Maddie Webb
The Secret 
Life of Narps
EMMA MACDONALD
“Often times the “hard” sciences 
are so isolated from the social 
sciences and humanities. I think 
the symposium could be a great 
way to reintegrate the liberal 
arts by encouraging students to 
share research across academic 
disciplines.”
 simran sabharwai ’14
Search team member
A Bidirectional Blessing
The Neurobiology of Nurture
Arts for Economic Development
Preventative Care in Medicare
Takeaways from Symposium
15featuresapril 17,2014   
If You Like it, Then You Shoulda Put a Label On It
What’s in a name? As Romeo said, a 
rose by any other name would smell as 
sweet. Yet, in this day and age, names, 
and more specifically definitions, defi-
nitely matter. While many modern day 
college students enjoy the benefits of sex-
ual freedom and the influx of information 
on sex, relationships have received much 
of the backlash from all of these changes. 
A few decades ago, the boundaries of 
relationships were very clearly defined. 
People would be “seeing each other,” and 
after a while, if the feelings were mutual 
they would end up “going steady”. While 
the vocabulary might have changed, even 
up until more recent times, people tra-
ditionally would find a boyfriend or girl-
friend first, and then the rest would fol-
low.
But now, many relationships start 
with sex. You meet someone on a drunken 
Friday or Saturday night, and after some 
dancing or DFMOs, you both go back to 
a room, do the nasty and wake up in the 
morning for an awkward good bye, or if 
you are lucky, a relatively pleasant break-
fast and quick hug goodbye. And then, 
you see the person one weekend, the next 
and the next. But generally both people 
are afraid of DTR, defining the relation-
ship. But what do you call the guy or girl 
you sleep with every Friday and Saturday 
night but are definitely not dating and are 
barely even friends with? Is it exclusive? 
Is it going anywhere? Most of the time 
people don’t even really know, they just 
go along for the ride until it fizzles out or 
blows up.
Relationships, therefore, have kind 
of gone by the wayside. Instead, people 
have “things”, as they are often dubbed 
(can there be a more ambiguous word?), 
that pretty much just allow for miscom-
munications and insecurities. But what 
is it that has really changed? I believe 
that people have become more sexually 
expressive, but the requirements for dat-
ing have not adapted with people’s sexual 
activity. While having sex no longer has 
the same stigma, for some reason having 
sex with someone before you are dating 
precludes them from a datable option. 
Perhaps it’s because the idea of dating is 
still relatively conservative: the innocent 
expectations of a boy giving you a ring 
and going steady with him à la Grease are 
still going strong.
Who knows if this change is a good 
or bad thing? All I know is that there 
shouldn’t be a stigma to sex. As sex be-
comes more open, people’s preconceived 
notions need to adapt. And also, more 
importantly, dating should not go away! 
People shouldn’t use simple sexual rela-
tionships as replacements for actual emo-
tional relationships; they aren’t the same. 
And while a consistent drunk hook up on 
weekends, (or even a sober hookup on 
weekdays), may be great, the lack of clar-
ity doesn’t help anyone. 
If girls were noodles, then Hong 
Kong girls would be rice vermicelli and 
the girls from Middlebury spaghetti. 
Why? Rice vermicelli is puny and deli-
cate. It takes on the flavor and color of 
the sauces it is cooked with. In contrast, 
spaghetti always slaps angrily at your 
face when you slurp too hard. Neither 
does it alter in taste or color, no matter 
how and what you cook it with. 
Although I used to be a member of a 
swim team and a long distance runner, 
I have barely moved a muscle beyond 
the motions of walking since I came to 
Middlebury. Back at home, when I was 
training in the pool, I remember one girl 
complaining about the kicking laps she 
has to do — ‘kicking too much will make 
my legs thicker, because I will have too 
much muscle!’ It was interesting that 
she said that, because I thought the same 
way too. Somehow, our notions of femi-
ninity are not so much defined by our 
curves, but by how delicate we look. 
What is being delicate? The delicate 
girl is the pale-looking girl in Oxfords 
and quaint Korean/Japanese fashion. 
The delicate girl is chaste, maybe quiet 
— someone that you would gladly give 
help to if asked. She would also be skin-
ny — not the rawboned and gritty kind 
of skinny, like Rooney Mara in “The Girl 
With The Dragon Tattoo” — but the soft-
er kind of skinny, where fat accumulates 
out of laziness, the way cream stagnates 
into a wintry sheen in a cup of coffee.
Although delicacy is not exactly the 
picture of health, I think I identified 
with this aesthetic, much more so than I 
did with the typical picture of American 
women in my mind. In my mind, a beau-
tiful American woman is a woman with a 
prominent facial structure wearing bold 
red lipstick, regal with several pieces of 
bright colored jewelry. The crooks and 
curves of her body are well articulated 
by formal attire. But she also has another 
facet — the side with her hair pinned up 
as she changes a tire off a truck, or jogs 
through the streets on a winter morning, 
the lean muscles of her body flexing in 
the wind. Compared to Hong Kong wom-
en, American women in my mind are 
fearless achievers, with determination, 
grit and grind. 
As an Asian woman, I can appreciate 
the latter aesthetic. Although these com-
ments may be patronized by feminists, I 
feel much more feminine when assuming 
the visual aesthetics of a delicate wom-
an, allowed to be weak and helped in this 
character role. Somehow this image of 
delicateness strikes a much more natural 
balance between male and female roles 
in society. And yet, as an individual, I 
would like to assume the American aes-
thetic — the bold, assertive woman. Al-
though it assumes a sense of unnatural 
masculinity, I can assume a position 
of power in this role. In the body of an 
American woman, I would have the cour-
age and energy to pursue what I want.
Although I have not run or swum for 
a long while, I remember feeling power-
ful after my two-hour training sessions 
at the pool. Sports are the celebration 
of the power of our own bodies. Preoc-
cupied with our social roles, I think 
Hong Kong women tend to forget that. 
Although our curves can never paral-
lel those of Caucasian women, I think 
we are beautiful in own way, just as rice 
vermicelli or spaghetti can taste as good 
as long as they are cooked in ways that 
match their texture.
By Joy Zhu
’Murica!
Courtesy
This past Friday evening, the Swing 
Space, lighting up the room with energy 
and dance moves. The show, featuring 
nearly 50 dancers with a wide range of 
experience, attracted a full house of stu-
dents and community members. The club 
brought levity and laughter to the crowd, 
leaving the audience with impressed 
smiles and the repetition of, “I wanna 
swing dance!”
The pre-performance process began 
in December when the three co-directors 
shared a MiddRides shift. As Melanie 
Dennis ’14 drove the van, Eleni Polychro-
niadou ’14 and Tim Fraser ’16 alternated 
as driver’s assistants, using the time to 
brainstorm the show, which would take 
place a few months later. Through collab-
oration and hours upon hours of choreog-
raphy, rehearsal and logistics, they pieced 
together The Swing Express. 
When Polychroniadou and Dennis 
-
man fall, neither of them thought that 
they would be sitting in these seats, hav-
ing just completed such a successful pro-
duction.  
“I never anticipated being a swing 
dancer,” Polychroniadou said. She de-
-
mester after discovering swing dance in 
Greece just prior.  Polychroniadou said 
she “fell in love with the movement,” but 
felt that the dance community she had 
found in Greece was lacking on campus.
The club was small in 2010, with a 
core group of around ten people and not 
a strong sense of camaraderie. As she 
took over the club her freshman year, 
Polychroniadou worked to change the 
system to one that fostered stronger re-
lationships. With the implementation of 
biweekly meetings, club dinners and a 
Middlebury community, the club began to 
progress.  Although Dennis has stepped 
down as president of the club this year, it 
is now run by Fraser, Dennis and Lindsey 
welcoming one and all to come join the 
fun.  
Last weekend’s show started to devel-
op this January during the J-term Swing 
Workshop. The workshop advertised both 
the club and the performance and gath-
ered a group of dancers that spanned 
across all departments and campus activ-
ities. Fraser explained that the show and 
club have provided a space for students 
from all sectors of campus to collaborate. 
“That’s the best part about swing,” 
Polychroniadou added. “It brings any-
body and everybody, people who think 
they can’t dance, people who think they 
can and people who would not have any 
other overlap.”
Through word of mouth and a fruit-
ful workshop, the club collected nearly 50 
students for their large-scale production. 
Consisting of 14 routines, the swing 
show proved adaptable to various tunes 
and forms of footwork. From the ‘20s 
Charleston, to Jazz to Fusion dance, the 
three co-directors evenly split the chore-
ography, with the exception of a few per-
formers choreographing their own pieces. 
Part of the choreography included a hand-
ful of elementary school girls from Brid-
port. Dennis and Fraser, the pioneers of 
the elementary routine, visited the school 
in Bridport once a week for six weeks to 
teach the dance. Dennis said that they 
learned faster than they had expected, 
-
ly without having to be taught. The young 
girls’ routine proved to be one of the high-
lights of the evening, and one of Dennis’s 
favorite parts about putting on the show.  
The Swing Club’s value on involve-
ment with the wider Middlebury commu-
nity was demonstrated by the donation 
of all of Friday night’s proceeds to the 
Charter House, Middlebury’s local home-
less shelter. The tie came from Polychro-
niadou’s decision to fuse dance with The 
Charter House’s need for a fundraiser. 
With a nearly sold out show, Polychro-
niadou proudly stated an estimation of 
$1,500 in donations. Fraser explained 
that looking forward, they hope to con-
tinue community engagement through 
frequent visits to local nursing homes, 
participation in Puppets for Education, (a 
investment in local schools.  
So, what’s in the near future for Swing 
Club?  For starters, come one and all to 
McCullough on Monday and Wednes-
day nights at 7:30; Mondays for lessons, 
Wednesdays for free dance.  Then, make 
Fest,” May 2-4.  If you like to dance, and 
even if you don’t, this is another Swing 
Club event you simply cannot miss.  
All Aboard the Swing Express
B
Swing Clubbers hit the stage for a crowd-pleasing showcase of hard work and talent.
eliza margolin
 16Advertising  | April 17, 2014
introducing...
[802] 388-3164
The   new official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
mouthwatering>
GREEN PEPPERS
LOCAL | HANDCRAFTED | FRESHLY PREPARED | AT YOUR CONVENIENCE
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
No
No
-
-
4/19, 3 AND 8 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
Sepomana 
-
4/19 8 P.M., MCCULLOUGH SOCIAL SPACE
Angreji Beat
4/18, 8 P.M., MCCULLOUGH SOCIAL SPACE
A Clock-
work Orange
-
-
-
-
A Clockwork Orange -
-
-
-
-
-
 — 
 — 
-
-
-
-
Se7en -
The Dark Knight, 
Silence of the Lambs.
-
-
-
-
A Clockwork Orange 
-
-
A Clock-
work Orange
-
-
A Clockwork Orange
-
-
A Clockwork Or-
ange -
Clockwork Orange Thrills and Disturbs
A Clockwork Orange. 
courtesy
By Olivia French
A group of 11 students have been com-
bining the rigorous time commitments of 
staging a theatrical production with the 
unique challenges of acquiring a new lan-
guage in the Spring term course FREN 306: 
Study and Production of a Play, and the cul-
mination of their work will be presented Apr. 
18 and 19 at 7:30 p.m. in the basement of 
Le Chateau when they perform Le Malade 
Imaginaire (The Imaginary Invalid) by sev-
enteenth-century French comedic playwright 
Molière. 
The diverse cast hails from Burundi, 
Morocco, Senegal, Japan, France and the 
United States, and these 11 students tak-
ing the course for credit are joined by nine 
students tackling technical and behind the 
scene roles in lighting, costumes, make-up, 
set design and administrative work, as well 
as advising from this year’s French assistant, 
Charlotte Prieu.
Molière, the stage name for Jean-Bap-
tiste Poquelin, polished his comedic abilities 
as an actor before he began writing plays, and 
he was popular with French aristocrats and 
Parisians for both his acting and his clever 
way with words. He is known as one of the 
greatest masters of comedy in Western Lit-
erature, and penned classic works such as Le 
Bourgeois Gentillhome (The Bourgeois Gen-
Le Malade Imaginaire. 
Produced in 1673, Le Malade Imaginaire 
is a three act play originally performed with 
dance sequences and musical interludes that 
follows hypochondriac Argan and the roman-
tic affairs of his daughter, Angelique, while 
heavily satirizing the dependence on doctors 
who, at the time, depended on methods such 
as enemas and bleeding to purge the body of 
impurities.
“In selecting a French play to perform 
before an audience of primarily non-native 
speakers, I give preference to works that al-
low us to take full advantage of non-verbal 
means to complement textual meaning, in-
cluding the use of gesture, intonation and 
other visual and acoustic cues,” Professor of 
French and Director Charles Nunley said. 
“Molière’s theater, and Le Malade Imaginaire 
in particular, is geared toward such adapta-
tion.  Molière’s farcical approach to theater, 
moreover, is an invitation to experiment.  He 
invites us to step outside the ‘sameness’ of 
everyday life and immerse ourselves in the 
richness of human experience.  Such explora-
tion is enhanced by the fact that the language 
Molière uses is that of seventeenth-century 
France which often comes across as delight-
fully strange to the modern ear.”
Aissatou Gaye ’16 is from Senegal and 
will be studying abroad in France next semes-
French language requirement.
“I came across this course and I didn’t 
think twice about it,” she said. “Theater al-
ways captured my attention and I couldn’t 
resist the possibility of diving into it for a full 
semester.”
In Le Malade Imaginaire, Gaye plays 
Toinette, a compassionate, intelligent and 
sassy servant of Argan and his family, acting 
-
ter, doctor and stepmother. Playing the role 
has challenged Gaye to completely step out-
side of herself.
“Although I can identify with a number 
of similar traits in the sense that she really 
-
tivation hard to embody,” she said. “She adds 
a certain dynamism to every scene in which 
she appears and given my somewhat calm 
and shy nature, this is quite challenging.”
Though some students from outside the 
-
nical aspects of production, all of the enrolled 
students are involved in virtually every aspect 
of the presentation.
“I would say that each participant brings 
Nunley said.  “For example, one student with 
experience in vocal performance has created 
a wonderful duet to be sung a cappella in the 
second act by the play’s two young lovers, 
Angélique and Cléante.  The hats worn by the 
doctors in the closing burlesque scene were 
created by a group of students with, to say 
the least, a vivid imagination.  I continue to 
be amazed by the energy and resourcefulness 
keep up with them!”
The necessity for lightning-quick, radi-
cally different costume changes has proven 
hands are needed to assist equally fast actors 
in smoothly making the physical transitions. 
In addition to evening rehearsals, 
screenings and improvisational exercises, 
students enrolled in the course have studied 
the application of Molière’s comedy from 
many perspectives, including examination of 
French philosopher Henri Bergson’s 1900 es-
say on laughter and Eugène Ionesco’s explo-
ration of fear of death in his 1962 absurdist 
play, The King is Down.
Ultimately, Nunley believes that the Col-
lege’s invaluable opportunity for students to 
study French through theater is an extremely 
useful way for learners to critically engage 
with their new language skills.
“There can often seem such a difference, 
at least in perception, between the acquisi-
-
quisition of tools for thoughtful engagement 
with literary texts,” he said. “I believe the col-
lective undertaking of a theatrical production 
in French can be effective in dispelling such 
perceptions.”
Students like Gaye agree that the theater 
possesses a magical quality of teamwork and 
critical thinking.
gives you the platform to connect with your 
partners on a level that you wouldn’t other-
wise,” Gaye said. “My classmates and profes-
sor have made this experience rewarding for 
me.”
Seating is limited, so theatergoers are 
encouraged to arrive early. 
april 17, 2014 | 18arts SCIENCES
Students Practice Comedy in Molière
By Leah Lavigne
By Ben Anderson
you’ve probably heard of the Big Bang. Ap-
proximately 13.7 billion years ago, all of the 
energy in the Universe was concentrated at a 
single point and then suddenly underwent a 
rapid expansion, sending matter, energy and 
the fabric of space and time itself out in all 
directions. The Big Bang is a heuristic con-
cept; we have observed that everything in the 
universe is expanding away from us in all di-
rections, and by running that idea in reverse, 
we hypothesize that everything must have 
started at a single point. It has proven to have 
incredible predictive power — the true test of 
any direct observational evidence of the Big 
until a team working on the Background Im-
aging of Cosmic Extragalactic Polarizations 
on Mar. 17. 
The team, led by John M. Kovac of the 
Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophys-
ics and working at the South Pole, used BI-
CEP2 to look for subtle changes in the cosmic 
microwave background radiation (CMB). 
The CMB is radiation that was released 
when the universe was relatively young — 
only a few hundred thousand years after the 
Big Bang — and is spread uniformly across 
-
mology and allows physicists to study the 
very early universe. The team found patterns 
in the polarization of the CMB caused by 
gravitational waves in the early universe that 
rate of expansion. Polarization indicates the 
orientation of the electromagnetic waves; all 
radiation has a preferred direction of vibra-
tion. This phenomenon comes into play in 
our everyday world any time you wear polar-
ized sunglasses: the glasses block light that 
is polarized in a certain direction and reduce 
glare. 
of a Middlebury student and a physicist at 
NASA’s Gravitational Astrophysics Labora-
tory, came to the College to give a lecture on 
the BICEP2 discovery and give members of 
the College community some insight into its 
importance and the nature of gravitational 
waves. 
“[The lecture] really helped to put this 
discovery into context for anyone who has 
been following the news, regardless of their 
-
sor of Physics Eilat Glikman, who is currently 
teaching a course on cosmology at the Col-
lege.
“This is truly science at the margins,” 
Stebbins said at the start of his lecture. “This 
for over 50 years … Gravitational waves are 
to gravity what light is to electromagnetism, 
Part of Einstein’s theory of relativ-
ity describes time and space not as separate 
concepts, but rather as a larger, intercon-
nected concept called space-time. Gravity, in 
Einstein’s theory, results from a bending in 
space-time caused by the presence of matter 
and energy: the more matter and energy, the 
more space-time is bent. Gravitational waves 
are created when incredibly large masses are 
in motion, causing ripples in space-time that 
propagate just like ripples on the surface of 
a pond. 
about the nature of gravitational waves, and 
then went on to explain in incredible depth 
the experiments in place to attempt to detect 
these waves. 
As gravitational waves propagate 
through the universe, they cause slight varia-
tions in the distances between objects. In es-
sence, the waves are squeezing and stretching 
space-time. In the very early universe, before 
the CMB was released, gravitational waves 
strained space-time and created variations in 
the distribution of energy. Then, as the uni-
-
polarization of the CMB when it was released. 
There are many different ways that grav-
itational waves could, in theory, be detected, 
and Stebbins clearly outlined all methods 
currently being used and methods that are 
more theoretical and may be put into place 
-
ing a binary star system, two stars bound to 
each other by gravity. As these stars orbit one 
another, they will create gravitational waves 
that carry away energy from the system, caus-
ing changes in their orbits. 
Another involves observing variations 
in pulses coming from pulsars. Pulsars are 
incredibly dense, rotating stars that emit ra-
diation we can detect here on Earth. These 
pulses come with incredible regularity, mak-
ing them some of the most accurate time-
keepers in the universe. As gravitational 
waves propagate past a pulsar, their rate of 
pulsing will change, revealing the presence of 
the passing wave.
-
lined by Stebbins is the Laser Interferometer 
-
cated both in Washington and Louisiana. 
Interferometers split beams of light and send 
them down perpendicular paths. The light 
and patterns of interference in the light can 
reveal slight changes in the length of the two 
and some of the smoothest mirrors ever de-
signed and can detect changes in length down 
to one-thousandth the diameter of a proton. 
As gravitational waves pass through Earth, 
the fractional changes in distance. 
So far, we have only found indirect 
evidence of gravitational waves, such as the 
variations in binary star orbits and pulsar 
rotations. It is important to note that even 
BICEP2 did not directly observe gravitational 
waves. Rather, the pattern of polarization in 
the CMB is just a footprint left by these waves. 
The BICEP2 results are the sort of dis-
storm. For decades, scientists have depended 
on and used the theory of the Big Bang and 
teams, they are incredibly robust, with a 5 
of 99.9999 percent. It is a testament to the 
power of science that we are able to look back 
to the earliest stages of the universe and de-
scribe what happened to create the universe 
we live in today.
“The day that the results were an-
nounced, I couldn’t help but think ‘science 
won today,’” Glikman said. “This is the sort of 
discovery that makes me proud of humanity.”
Midd. Parent Talks Gravity Waves Discovery
paul gerard
The cast of Le Malade Imaginaire poses for a group picture during a dress rehearsal with Professor of French Charles Nunley.
19arts SCIENCES
science sp   tligHT:     bihall’s new Telescope Operator
one life left
I had tracked the dragon all the way 
to the outskirts of the Volcano, and now 
it was time for our final showdown. Sul-
furous fumes blew into my eyes, and the 
heat of the air made me grateful for the 
Cool Drinks I had 
brought in my pack. 
I shifted my grip 
on my Gunlance, 
checking it for am-
munition. Breath-
ing heavily to calm 
my shaking hands, I 
stepped towards the beast. It spotted me, 
reared its head back, and roared. I felt a 
hand on my shoulder. “Dude, you have 
to write your article.” How could I write 
the article, I hadn’t played a new game in 
a couple of weeks. “Just review this one, 
you never shut up about the thing any-
ways.” Oh yeah. That is a good idea. 
“This thing” is known as Monster 
Hunter 3 Ultimate (MH3U for those in 
the know). Released on December 10, 
2011 for the Nintendo Wii U and the 3DS, 
it is not exactly a new game, but it has 
utterly consumed my time since I picked 
it up in December. At first glance, MH3U 
might seem like a fairly straightforward 
game: the player hunts monsters, carves 
their bodies up to make new weapons 
and armor, and then hunts stronger 
monsters. Simple, right? As the player 
continues to fight stronger and stronger 
monsters, they can increase their rank 
and progress the single-player story. If 
they want to play with friends, the player 
can head out to the online area to face 
even tougher challenges.
Once you actually get into the game, 
however, it is anything but simple. For 
one, there are twelve weapon types, all 
with unique styles and strategies. Now, 
when I say unique, I do mean unique. 
While some weapons are similar to one 
another, each one operates using differ-
ent controls and combos and is useful 
for very different things. The aforemen-
tioned Gunlance, is a fairly fast hitting 
weapon that can be used to stab a mon-
ster and has short range gunfire built in 
for extra damage. The player moves very 
slowly while holding it and must block 
and dodge appropriately to keep up mo-
mentum. The Hammer on the other hand 
is a weapon without a block, but with 
fairly decent movement speed that is 
based around charging up attacks for one 
high damage smash. 
Does the game explain any of this 
nuance? Not really. To figure out how 
to play I had to spend about 30 minutes 
watching a general tuto-
rial on Youtube that taught 
me the basics of missions 
structure, crafting items 
and gear, and gameplay 
progression. From there, I 
had to watch another video 
to explain how the Gunlance 
worked, and then I felt just 
about ready to begin. The game starts the 
player off slowly by tasking them with 
gathering ingredients 
for items such as Po-
tions, and then ramps it 
up with some easy mon-
ster fights. These fights 
give the player time to 
get a feel for their cho-
sen weapon(s) and stock 
up on some much need-
ed supplies. If all this 
makes MH3U sound like 
a fairly standard RPG, it 
is not. The player charac-
ter does not level up, the 
only things that get bet-
ter are the player’s skills 
and their gear. 
This brings us to the 
main sticking point of 
MH3U: it is really hard 
and really time consum-
ing. Each fight is tough 
and preparing for battle 
by gathering resources 
and crafting new gear 
will take a long time. Add 
that to the time it takes 
to master a given weapon 
and you can see how I 
have 150 hours logged in 
the game since Decem-
ber. The thing is though, 
I am not slowing down. 
If anything I feel like 
the game has only got-
ten more fun as time has 
gone on. I can feel myself 
getting better at it, and 
as I unlock more chal-
lenges and continue to 
hunt these giant beasts 
alongside my friends, I feel compelled 
to keep playing and to keep improving. 
MH3U is a game that epitomizes the ide-
al of “play”. The story is limited in text, 
and really comes down to what you do as 
a player. I never reminisce with my mon-
ster hunting buddies about characters in 
the game or prewritten cut scenes. We 
discuss how we took down the Brachydios 
for the first time, how the Stygian Zino-
gre almost brought us to our knees, and 
that one hilarious time we almost lost to 
a Great Jaggi. MH3U is a game about the 
player and their journey. It takes some 
work to get to that fun, but man oh man 
is it worth it.
This review can apply to pretty much 
any entry in the Monster Hunter series. 
This game is out on the Wii U and the 
3DS right now, but if you want to grab 
one with online play on the 3DS you 
could wait for Monster Hunter 4, or you 
could harken back to games of old on a 
PS2 or PSP. The PlayStation Vita even 
has one of the old PSP games available on 
it if you happen to be one of the few folks 
that owns a Vita. Monster Hunter games 
are not for everyone. They are hard, they 
demand a lot of your time   and for some 
people the lack of meaningful story will 
be a turn off. But if you want to experi-
ence what is close to gaming perfection, 
MH3U might be a good place to start.
BY CHAPIN BOYER
By Toby Aicher
When I tell people I go to Middle-
bury, the second most frequent question 
I’m asked, after “Where is that?” is, in 
its blunt variation, “Why did you chose 
a school in the middle of nowhere?” One 
of my friends from the West Coast once 
remarked sarcastically that he chose to 
come to Middlebury because it’s “cen-
trally located”. But, besides him, most of 
the people I’ve talked to view Middlebury 
as the epitome of remote and many won-
der why someone would select so rural a 
school.
My go-to response is to mention the 
ability to see the stars. Some of my favor-
ite moments here have been star-gazing 
with friends or learning the names of con-
stellations for an astronomy class. Night 
light is the downside of city night life and 
light pollution can make star-gazing in a 
city difficult. 
Star-gazing with the unaided eye is 
an awe-inspiring experience in and of it-
self, but now all students at the College 
will also have the opportunity to gaze fur-
ther into the depths of the cosmos with 
the help of the 24-inch telescope in Mc-
Cardell Bicentennial Hall. The school re-
cently announced that it will start hold-
ing open observatory nights again after a 
yearlong hiatus. 
The recent arrival of Middlebury’s 
new Telescope Specialist, Jonathan 
Kemp, will make the public observatory 
nights possible. Kemp will also work 
closely with astronomy classes and stu-
dent researchers to aid their use of the 
telescope. 
 “In the past, there have been a com-
bination of faculty members who have 
put effort into the observatory” Kemp ex-
plained, “but now the idea is that I’ll be 
dedicated to the observatory and we’ll be 
able to better integrate the observatory 
with both curricular needs and student 
research. We’ll also be able to revive the 
public observing nights, make them more 
frequent, and extend our public outreach 
programs to school visits or local groups. 
There’s a lot of possibility and it’s all 
pretty exciting.”
The first observing night will be dur-
ing preview days. Kemp plans on holding 
more during the summer and next fall. 
During open observatory nights, he will 
operate the large telescope and set up 
four smaller telescopes on the roof of the 
buiding. 
When asked about some of the astro-
nomical objects that he will be showing, 
he said that “there are a lot of possibili-
ties. The moon, though sometimes offen-
sive because of the light pollution that it 
causes, is a great target. People who have 
never seen the moon through a telescope 
before find its surface and craters fantas-
tic. Looking at Jupiter and Saturn and 
Mars is quite interesting. You can see the 
rings of Saturn and the moons of Jupiter. 
Those are all good. And there’s a set of 
deeper sky objects like globular clusters, 
nebula and galaxies that we’ll also look 
at. 
The College’s telescope is the latest 
in a long list of telescopes that Kemp has 
worked with. When he attended Colum-
bia University, he used telescopes situ-
ated around the world. 
“At Middlebury we can do small tele-
scope research but really not such much 
at Columbia because of light pollution,” 
he said. “So when I was at Columbia, 
while we could do some public outreach 
with the telescope, almost all the re-
search was done elsewhere. So I travelled 
to Arizona, Chile and to South Africa to 
use their professional telescopes.”
In 2000, Kemp moved to Hawaii to 
work with the James Clerk Maxwell tele-
scope, the largest telescope that investi-
gates radiation in the infrared and mi-
crowave regions of the electromagnetic 
spectrum. 
“I did a variety of things to help op-
erate the telescope. I observed with the 
telescope, wrote programs and software, 
and did computing support and graph-
ic design. There was always a lot to do 
which is something that I like.”
I was curious to know the place and 
purpose of Middlebury’s telescope in the 
context of the astronomical world. A lot 
of attention is focused on larger tele-
scopes such as the Hubble telescope or its 
future successor the John Web telescope 
but research is done on telescopes of all 
sizes. I asked Kemp where Middlebury’s 
telescope fits in. 
“A lot of people say bigger is better in 
respect to telescope and mirror size, and 
with some science that is true.” Kemp 
said. “There are faint objects in the sky 
such as stars, galaxies, quasars, etc that 
you can’t see with this telescope. But you 
can still do science, and in the move to 
larger telescopes and complexity a lot of 
people who study astronomy don’t get the 
opportunity to operate a telescope and 
when you have a small telescope you have 
an intimate hands on experience of learn-
ing how to operate the telescope. When 
you combine that with a spirit of scientif-
ic inquiring of asking questions and get-
ting data a lot can still be accomplished.”
An additional upside to the observa-
tion nights is that the roof of BiHall will 
be open for naked eye star-gazing. As 
the highest point on campus, the top of 
BiHall provides a spectacular night-sky 
panorama that is unrivaled on campus.  
“There are a lot of things you can ap-
preciate with our 24 inch telescope and 
the smaller telescopes,” Kemp said, “but 
its also great to have that visceral and 
connected experience of just standing 
out in a rural area at night with the Milky 
Way above and identifying the constella-
tions.”
Kemp will be launching a new obser-
vatory website and posting a schedule of 
events in the coming months. Come to 
one of the events to experience one of the 
perks of living in the middle of nowhere. 
monster hunter 3 
Ultimate
| April 17, 2014
Register today: bu.edu/summer
Pub:
Middlebury College
Run Date:
x/xx
Size:
5.94” x 6”
Color:
BW
Summer 1: May 20–June 27 Summer 2: June 30–August 8
Academic excellence
BU is highly ranked nationally and internationally.
Extensive choices
Find more than 700 undergrad and grad courses.
Ideal location
Boston is the top U.S. city for students 
(QS Best Student Cities).
 Why choose
 Summer Term
 at BU?
 | April 17, 2014  20Advertising  | April 17, 2014
  
Planned Parenthood of 
Northern New England
 
Campus Classified 
Newspaper seeks 
talented editors 
to work for 
little pay and 
long hours. 
Passion required, 
talent optional. 
Email us at 
campus@middlebury.
edu.  
Want to come work 
with this guy? 
Well ... you’re in luck. 
The sports section is 
looking for editors 
this coming fall. 
Drop us a line at 
campus@middlebury.
edu. 
After a string of key NESCAC wins last 
week, the Middlebury women’s lacrosse 
team fell to two top-ranked opponents 
this week: SUNY Cortland on Thursday, 
April 10 and Trinity on Saturday, April 
12.
On Thursday the Panthers – going 
into the game ranked fifth in the nation 
– hosted second-ranked Cortland on 
Kohn Field. The game was a back and 
forth battle from the opening whistle. 
Cortland fired first with Red Dragon 
Erica Geremia scoring an unassisted goal 
two minutes into the game. Middlebury 
quickly responded with an unassisted 
goal from sophomore standout Laurel 
Pascal ’16. After another unassisted 
Red Dragon goal following Pascal’s, 
Middlebury went on a three-goal scoring 
streak. Pascal and Liza Herzog ’14 both 
finished goals off of passes from Katie 
Ritter ’15, and Chrissy Ritter ’16 scored 
off of a free position shot. 
Cortland did not relent and answered 
with two goals to tie the game 4-4 with 13 
minutes left in the half. After a scoreless 
12 minutes Chrissy Ritter scored an 
unassisted goal to put the Panthers up 
5-4 going into the half. 
The second half began a game of 
runs for both teams with Middlebury 
maintaining the lead until Cortland’s 
Kristen Ohberg scored off of a pass from 
Emma Geremia to tie the game at 9-9 
with 8:30 left to play. 
Middlebury quickly answered 
Ohberg’s goal with Bridget Instrum ’16 
scoring an unassisted goal a minute 
later. Her effort would not prove to be 
enough, however, as Cortland finished 
the game strong with a trio of goals to 
put the Red Dragons past the Panthers 
by a score of 12-10. 
Katie Ritter led the Panther’s effort 
with four points off of two goals and 
two assists. Panther goalkeeper Alyssa 
Palomba ’14 finished the game with four 
saves over the course of the game. 
The Panther defense suffered against 
Cortland because captain and stalwart 
defender Hannah Deoul ’14 was out with 
a concussion. Her role was filled by first-
years Allie Hooley ’17 and Jessie Yorke 
’17. 
Despite the tough loss, the Panthers 
were forced to quickly regain focus in 
order to prepare for Saturday’s game 
against perennial NESCAC powerhouse 
Trinity College. 
The Trinity game, like the Cortland 
game, was a 60-minute battle with both 
teams scoring back and forth until the 
final whistle. Middlebury was the first 
to fire with Instrum finishing a goal 
unassisted after a scoreless first four 
minutes of the game. This was followed 
by a three-goal streak by Trinity, only to 
be stopped by another unassisted goal 
from Instrum. Middlebury and Trinity 
would go goal for goal for the rest of the 
half. Megan Griffin ’16, Chrissy Ritter 
’16 and Herzog each added a goal for 
Middlebury to make the score 5-6 in 
favor of Trinity going into the second 
half. 
Middlebury quickly tied the game 
three minutes into the second half with 
Alli Sciarretta ’16 finishing a pass from 
Griffin. The goal-swapping continued 
with Middlebury’s taking the lead at one 
point off of a goal from Herzog to put the 
score at 8-7. Trinity responded with two 
goals with 20 minutes left in the half to 
make the score 8-9 in its favor. Chrissy 
Ritter was able to finish a pass from 
sister Katie with 11:38 left in the game, 
but this was not enough to stop the 
Bantams. Trinity’s Molly Cox scored her 
third of the day to put Trinity up 10-9 
with 10:33 left in the game. 
The Panther defense was again 
without Deoul against Trinity, but found 
leadership in Palomba who finished the 
game with 6 saves. 
“I think we need to focus our 
attention on playing a full 60 minutes of 
Middlebury lacrosse and being mentally 
tough in those close games,” Katie Ritter 
said. “We learned a lot from these two 
games and now it’s about applying what 
we’ve learned and moving forward from 
there.”
On Tuesday, April 15, the Panthers 
played host to Union for a non-
conference matchup, defeating the 
Dutchmen 15-8 on the strength of eight 
goals from Pascal.
Middlebury jumped out to a large 
early lead against Union, taking an 11-4 
advantage into halftime. That margin 
would prove too much for Union to 
overcome.
Pascal’s scoring total, which came 
on just 10 shots, is the second largest 
single-game offensive output by any one 
player in program history, and the most 
since 1993.
The Panthers next square off with 
Colby on Saturday, April 19 on Kohn 
field. If they can get past the Mules, 
Middlebury will have a final shot to 
improve their seed for the upcoming 
NESCAC tournament when they travel to 
Williams the following week for the final 
game of the regular season.
 april 17, 2014 | 21SPORTS
Women’s Lacrosse Suffers Shocking Pair of Losses
By Gabe Weismann
Middlebury fours take on in-state rival UVM for the Vermont Cup on Sunday, April 13. 
The Panthers captured the cup for the second consecutive year.
Rachel Frank
CREW TEAMS TAKE THE VERMONT CUP
File PHoto
Middlebury Lacrosse dropped to seventh place nationally after losses to Cort-
land State and Trinity this past week as they prepare for NESCAC tournamnent.
Super Bowl champion Steve Hauschka 
’07 returns to his alma mater tonight for 
a Q&A with Sports Illustrated Senior 
Writer Alex Wolff. Tomorrow night, 
Friday, April 18, the town of Middlebury 
will have the chance to talk with the 
former Panther in a meet-and-greet style 
gathering at Middlebury Union High 
School. 
Thursday’s event is open only to 
Middlebury College ID holders, and will 
be held in McCullough Social Space at 7 
PM. Because a large crowd is expected, a 
live screening will be provided in Dana 
Auditorium for overflow. A joint effort 
by MCAB, which will cover Hauschka’s 
travel expenses, and Director of Athletic 
Communications Brad Nadeau, who 
contacted Hauschka, is bringing the 
current Seahawk and his wife, Lindsey 
Hauschka ’07, to campus. 
“MCAB is really excited to bring Steve 
Hauschka to campus,” MCAB President 
Elizabeth Fouhey ’14 said. “From the 
reactions that we have heard, the student 
body is excited. I am happy that we are 
connecting with a group on campus that 
MCAB does not always reach. I hope 
students from across campus attend, not 
just athletes. Hauschka is one of us ... 
He’s a Midd kid.”
Hauschka began his football career 
as a sophomore after being cut from the 
soccer team his first year. As a kicker 
and punter, Hauschka twice made the 
all-NESCAC team and was named a 
District I Academic All-American by the 
College Sports Information Directors 
Association for his senior year. Hauschka 
owns the Middlebury records for most 
field goals in a single season and in a 
career. 
After graduating from Middlebury, 
Hauschka attended North Carolina 
State, where he became a finalist for the 
Lou Groza award, given to the nation’s 
top place-kicker.
Hauschka’s unlikely rise to fame is 
something that Wolff finds intriguing.
“His journey is unexpected for 
somebody, not just from Middlebury, but 
for any Division 3 athlete,” Wolff said. 
“His athletic experience here wasn’t what 
he planned. It’s a great lesson ... There’s 
no telling what your sports story is going 
to be ... If one door closes, another one 
might be cracked open.”
Wolff also hopes to uncover 
Hauschka’s football heritage.
“I heard a story that [Hauschka’s] 
dad, who played rugby, had a tryout with 
the Cowboys as a kicker,” Wolff said. “I’d 
love to hear that story. If that’s true, it 
surprises me that he didn’t try out for 
football when he came to Middlebury.”
Hauschka showed talent from day 
one, but developed during his three 
years in a Panther uniform.
“He worked hard at his craft when 
he was here,” Football Head Coach Bob 
Ritter said. “You could tell right away he 
had pop in his leg.”
The exposure that Hauschka received 
as a walk-on at NC State during the 
2007-08 season allowed him to get 
tryouts with NFL teams, though he had 
the potential to kick in the pros while at 
Middlebury.
“It’s the same everywhere,” Ritter said. 
“It’s the same in the pros, it’s the same in 
Division I, it’s the same in Division III. 
You’re kicking from that spot, and it’s 
going that far. So at that time [during 
his senior year at Middlebury] it was 
obvious he had the leg.”
During his one year at NC State, 
Hauschka went 25-25 on extra points 
and 16-18 on field goals.
The 28-year old has been on the roster 
of the Minnesota Vikings, Baltimore 
Ravens, Atlanta Falcons, Detroit Lions 
and Denver Broncos, as well as the 
Las Vegas Locomotives of the United 
Football League. Since September 4th, 
2011, Hauschka has been an integral 
member of the Seattle Seahawks, and 
over his three seasons as a full-time 
place kicker has increased his field goal 
percentage each year, tallying a career-
high 94.3 percent in 2013. During the 
2014 postseason, Hauschka went 8-8 
on field goals en route to a Super Bowl 
championship.
“I think there are so many aspects to 
his story that make him unique,” Nadeau 
said. “He’s finally landed. And he’s really 
made a name for himself ... The fact 
that he also was a neuroscience major 
at Middlebury who wanted to become a 
dentist makes the story that much more 
interesting.”
“I could be wrong,” Ritter said, “but I 
think he got into Harvard Dental School 
... So he had some options ... That’s what 
I find so intriguing, to get cut, to not 
make it, to go to the UFL for a year ... 
some of those guys in that league have to 
do that because this is the only paycheck 
they’re going to get ... but he obviously 
had some options, and stayed with it, 
and I’m glad it’s paid off for him.”
The track and field team spent 
Saturday, April 12 in West Point, NY 
where they competed against five other 
teams in the Army Six Way meet, going 
up against a mix of schools that included 
four Division-I programs. The Panther 
squad as a whole took home five event 
victories and completed the day with a 
handful of other top finishes on both the 
men’s and women’s sides. 
The men’s side saw three victories on 
the day, including a win by the 4x400 
meter relay team of Alex Nichols ’17, 
Bryan Holtzman ’14, Fritz Parker ’15 and 
Peter Hetzler ’14. They look to continue 
the success achieved during indoor 
season when they qualified for the NCAA 
finals. The team brought home a decisive 
victory, besting the field by over four 
seconds as they crossed the finish line in 
a time of 3:19.09.
“The relay was pretty tight after the 
first two legs,” Nichols said. “But when 
Fritz got the baton he put a lot of distance 
on the only team that had kept up with 
us to that point. The ultimate goal in that 
race was to run a time that would seed us 
well for NESCACs. We would have liked 
to run half a second or so faster than we 
did, but we’re pretty content with our 
time considering we ran it without having 
someone in front of us to chase.”
Nichols also brought home the win in 
the open 400 meters, where he ran a time 
of 49.28.
“I think I got out a little slow, but I 
was able to make up a little time in the 
second half of the race, and I ended up 
running my fastest college time so far,” 
Nichols said. “I’m pretty happy with how 
well it felt, and I think I’m set up pretty 
nicely for NESCACs in two weeks, which 
is of course when I would like to run my 
fastest time.”
The other men’s victory of the day came 
from Wilder Schaaf ’14.5, who tied for the 
win in the 1500 with a time of 3:54.23. 
Other top finishers for the Panthers 
included Nate Sans ’14, who took second 
in the 5,000 meters in 15:14.73 and 
Hetzler, who finished in second behind 
Nichols with a time of 49.62 for the 400 
meters. 
Holtzman added a third-place finish 
to his day with a 22.55 performance in 
the 200 meters, and Taylor Shortsleeve 
’15 also notched a top-three spot when 
he tied for third in the high jump with a 
mark of 6’ 2.75”. 
On the women’s side, Alison Maxwell 
’15 brought home the victory for the 
Panthers when she won the 1,500 meters 
with a time of 4:37.96. 
“My 1,500 was a lot of fun, but at a 
meet like this, a non-championship meet, 
a win doesn’t mean anything more than a 
little morale boost,” Maxwell said. “I am 
still hoping to drop another four seconds 
this season so I can show up some of my 
times from last year.” 
Lauren Pincus ’14 continued her 
dominant season with a win in the javelin, 
posting a toss of 132’ 9.25”. Other Panther 
women to propel themselves to a top finish 
included Katie Rominger ’14 in the 5k, 
where she ran 18:10.44. Teammate Lottie 
Hedden ’14 ran 18:27.14, a finish good for 
third. Hannah Blackburn ’17 continued 
her successful first-year season with a 
second place finish in the long jump, in 
which she posted a mark of 17’11”. 
“Army was a great opportunity for 
all of us to see some really high quality 
competition for the first time this season, 
and it manifested itself in a number of 
outstanding lifetime [personal records],” 
Maxwell said. “But NESCACs is right 
around the corner, so no matter what, 
everyone has at least one more stellar 
performance in them.” 
The Panthers will return to action 
when they compete this weekend at the 
Albany Invitational before traveling 
to Colby on Saturday, April 26 for the 
conference championship meet.
|  april 17, 2014 22 sports
Super Bowl Champion Returns to Midd.
By Joe MacDonald
Softball Sweeps Cardinals in Extra Innings Thrillers
While most Middlebury students were 
enjoying three days off last weekend, the 
over the course of three days. They swept 
a three-game series with NESCAC rival 
Wesleyan on April 11-12 and split two games 
with Keene State on Sunday, April 13.
series against Wesleyan 6-2 on Friday. 
Kimber Sable ’14, Jackie Stern ’16 and 
tri-captain Emily Kraytenberg ’14 scored 
when Hye-Jin Kim ’17 smashed a three-run 
double, putting the Panthers up 3-0 in the 
third. Wesleyan scored in the fourth and 
Carlyn Vachow ’16, and Kelsey Martel ’15. 
The Panthers won both games of the 
Saturday doubleheader 4-3. The Cardinals 
two early, and their pitcher, reigning 
NESCAC Pitcher of the Week Su Pardo, 
Kim proved key in this game, sending 
home in the seventh. Stern’s run tied the 
game and sent it in to extra innings. The 
game proved to be a nail biter, and neither 
team managed to cross home plate during 
the eighth or ninth inning, forcing the 
teams to start the 10th with a runner on 
second, according to NESCAC tie-breaker 
rules. Wesleyan snuck in a run the 10th, but 
Middlebury fought back, taking advantage 
of a throwing error to tie the game, and 
score, winning the game.
Middlebury rode the momentum into 
with a double to left. The Cardinals worked 
their way back, responding with runs in the 
in the seventh. It was then that Vachow 
stepped up once again to seal the Panthers’ 
victory, this time with a home run. Kim 
sang the praises of her teammate. “Carlyn 
was especially amazing…both behind the 
plate and at the plate,” Kim said. “She’s 
clutch.”
with another double-header, this time 
against Keene State. The Owls got on the 
double on the weekend wasn’t enough for 
Kim, as she smacked yet another one in the 
third, then scored off a hit by Sarah Freyre 
’17. Keene State tied the game in the fourth, 
but Middlebury went full steam ahead, 
and Sable, Christina Bicks ’15 and Kim all 
The Panthers faltered in the nightcap 
the resilient team bounced back when Sable 
hit an RBI triple and Vachow smashed a ball 
to the fence that sent three runners home. 
Siobhan O’Sullivan ’17 and Emily Smith 
’14 added a run each when Kraytenberg 
smashed one in the fourth. The Panthers 
looked like they had the game, but the Owls 
managed to come back in the seventh. It 
was a tie game with two outs when the Owls 
managed to eke out one more run to win 
the game, breaking the Panthers six-game 
winning streak.
Despite being “a little bummed” to split 
with Keene State, Kim was very happy with 
the team’s performance. 
“Our games this weekend were a 
complete team effort,” Kim said. “We never 
were down a couple runs, which was really 
cool.” 
Coach Kelly Bevere also complimented 
her team on doing “an excellent job staying 
mentally tough in some really tight games.” 
The Panthers play Hamilton at home 
this weekend, and Kim feels supremely 
“Hide yo’ kids, hide yo’ wives, and hide 
yo’ brooms because we’re planning to 
sweep Hamilton,” Kim said.
By Sydney Reed
the middlebury
great  eight
8
baseball
Damn it feels good to win. 
We’re streaking!
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Mac’s Mindset
2
Men’s tennis
Number eight in the nation, 
but number one in my heart.
Men’s Golf
I missed the Masters 
because I was watching the 
men at NYU.
3
Softball
I wish I could hit like Hye-
Jin Kim. She’s my fave.
4 
Women’s lacrosse
Two straight losses, but I 
still have faith.
5 men’s lacrosseRolling into the playoffs. 
Keep it up, boys.
7 Women’s golfKeep “chipping” away. Haha
6 Women’s tennisDon’t be mad. You’re really 
like 5b for me.
Middlebury Track Takes on Division-I 
Opponents at Army Six Way Meet
By Fiona Maloney-McCrystle
The Middlebury women’s tennis team 
continued its season over the weekend on 
April 11-13 with two wins against Wesleyan 
and Trinity and losses against Emory and 
Williams. After losing two matches in a row 
against top squads Williams and Emory on 
Friday, the 10th-ranked Panthers came back 
to decisively beat number 15 Trinity and 
Wesleyan both 7-2. The Panthers traveled 
three matches over the weekend, falling to 
the Eagles 9-0. In doubles, Lauren Amos ’16 
and Margot Marchese ’16 fell 8-6, as did pair 
Alexandra Fields ’17 and Jennifer Sundstrom 
’17. Emory swept singles in straight sets to 
shut out the Panthers. Marchese believed 
that the team did not perform as well as it 
could have, but it did not hamper the team’s 
performance the rest of the weekend. 
“We knew that in those two matches we 
lost that we didn’t show Williams or Emory 
our best performance,” Marchese said. 
“We chalked it up to two bad days and told 
ourselves, we still have plenty of chances 
to prove what this team is actually capable 
of. We went into Trinity with the weakest 
elements of our last two matches in mind and 
made a special effort to turn those around. I 
and resilience that the team showed in the 
long weekend.” 
The team continued its weekend with a 
match against Trinity on Saturday, winning 
two out of three doubles matches and all but 
one of the six singles match-ups. In singles, 
Dorie Paradies ’14 and Katie Paradies ’15 won 
with straight sets, while Fields and Kaysee 
Orozco ’17 won in three sets. On Sunday, 
the team traveled to Middletown to face 
strong with a 7-2 win, grabbing all but one of 
contests. In doubles, Sadie Shackelford ’16 
and Lily Bondy ’17 as well as duo Amos and 
Marchese were victorious. In singles, Orozco, 
Bondy, Katie Paradies and Marchese all won 
in straight sets. A three-set victory by Dorrie 
Paradies brought the Panthers up to seven 
points and an 8-4 record. 
“The team’s goal for the remainder of the 
season is to heal up and prepare ourselves 
round of NCAAs,” Marchese said. “All 10 of 
us know that if we walk onto the court with 
the same type of tenacity, sheer will, and 
unity that we saw on Saturday and Sunday, 
the next three matches will take care of 
themselves.” 
The Panthers will host Bowdoin next 
Saturday.
The Middlebury men’s tennis team 
captured three wins in three days with 
victories against Williams, Wesleyan and 
Trinity, bringing its record to 12-2. In the 
matchup against Williams, the Panthers 
swept doubles, with pairs Alex Johnston ’14 
and Andrew Lebovitz ’14, Palmer Campbell 
’16 and last week’s NESCAC Player of the 
Week Brantner Jones ’14, and Peter Heidrich 
’15 and Ari Smolyar ’16 all proving victorious. 
Coach Bob Hansen believes that this was 
instrumental in the win against Williams.
“Sweeping the doubles is a great thing 
and certainly set the table for our win against 
Williams,” Hansen said. “I was very proud of 
all our teams but especially our third doubles 
team of Ari Smolyar and Peter Heidrich who 
fought off a match point before winning 
tiebreaker.”
 In singles, Campbell, Jones and Smolyar 
won again, while the Ephs grabbed three 
points, defeating Jackson Frons ’16, 
Panthers went on to play Wesleyan on the 
road and brought their winning streak up to 
four with a 7-2 win. The teams of Campbell/
Jones and Johnston/Lebovitz put points 
on the board in doubles, and the Panthers 
win by Johnston in the number one singles 
added singles points to bring the Panther 
total to seven. 
On Sunday, the eighth-ranked Panthers 
added another win to the season with an 8-1 
victory. Johnston/Lebovitz and Campbell/
Jones were again victorious in doubles, and 
the Panthers swept all six singles match-
ups for a decisive win over the Bantams. 
Coach Hansen was very positive about the 
Panthers’ weekend. 
“The biggest key to our success both this 
weekend and all season long has been the 
total team effort from top to bottom,” Hansen 
said. “We got key victories from everyone 
this weekend and our motto of ’14, ‘Strong,’ 
was on full display. We are very deep in both 
of this team has been a critical and enjoyable 
aspect of our season.” 
Hansen praised Jones for his leadership 
as well as his play over the weekend as well.
“Brantner Jones had a great weekend,” 
Hansen said, “going 6-0 with three keys wins 
in both singles and doubles. His attitude, 
skill and leadership have been key to our 
recent successes. He has been a great leader 
and his recognition as NESCAC Player of the 
Week was well deserved and he continues to 
impress.” 
The Panthers continue the season on 
April 19 when they host Bowdoin and 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. 
NESCAC Opponents No Match for Both Tennis Squads
 april 17, 2014 | 23SPORTS
Golf Teams Open Spring to Mixed Results
The Middlebury golf teams teed up the 
spring season with a couple road trips south 
last weekend. The men’s team placed second 
at the NYU Invitational and the women 
NYU hosted the men’s competition at 
Forest Hills Field Club in New Jersey, where 
Williams seized an eight-stroke day one lead 
over second-place Middlebury on Saturday, 
April 12. On a phenomenal Sunday, the 
Panther men shaved thirteen shots off their 
Saturday total and shot a combined 289, 
a consistent Williams squad that won the 
tournament by a stroke. The two NESCAC 
powers dominated, as the third place 
behind Middlebury’s second place score.
“We played very solid golf this weekend 
as a team,” John Louie ’15 said. “This was 
preparation for the tournament and turned 
out a great second day. We just had to dust 
some of the cobwebs off.”
Individually, Charlie Garcia ’15 paced the 
Panthers on Saturday with a three-over-par 
74. The other four Middlebury competitors—
Fitz Bowen ’17, Robbie Donahoe ’14, Eric 
Laorr ’15 and Louie — all carded scores in the 
70s.
“The course was great,” Louie said. “It 
required accurate and smart shotmaking. 
There were quite a few holes to score on and 
on the second day we really took advantage 
of that.”
On day two, Louie shot a tournament-best 
with 145 on the weekend — one stroke out of 
the playoff. Garcia shot a 72 to move up to 
ten with a weekend score of 148, good for a 
tie for ninth. Donahoe shot a 75 on Sunday 
for weekend score of 153 and a share of 22nd 
place, while Laorr (77-79-156) tied for 31st.  
“We really focused on staying patient,” 
Garcia said. “The season is so short and the 
weather hasn’t been ideal…so it’s important 
to work on things in moderation. It’s more 
about peaking at the right time and I think 
we are very close do doing that.”
The Panthers will look to build on their 
success in next weekend’s tournament at 
up before the NESCAC championships. 
Middlebury beat the Ephs at the NESCAC 
rn the right to host 
the championships later this spring. 
“Williams played solid golf this weekend 
and we were not surprised by that,” Louie 
said.  “We anticipated a good weekend from 
them after a competitive fall season.”
On the women’s side, the 25th-ranked 
Casperkill Golf Club in Poughkeepsie, N.Y on 
of 665. Fourth-ranked Williams won the 
tournament with a total score of 633, while 
eighth-ranked Ithaca (650), Cortland (658) 
and NYU (662) also went lower than the 
Panthers.  
“Williams and Ithaca played consistently 
well, as they usually do, but Cortland and 
NYU surprised us,” Monica Chow ’16 said. 
“We usually come in second or third, so 
all of us. We know we are a stronger team 
than we showed this past weekend, and I 
think we are all looking forward to redeeming 
ourselves this coming weekend.”
168, tied for 21st and 10 strokes behind 
team leader Jordan Glatt ’15. Glatt carded 
weekend tied for fourth, four strokes behind 
the leaders.
“It was great to begin competing again, as 
we have not had a tournament since the fall,” 
Glatt said. “Even though this season is only 
three weeks long, we hope to make the best of 
it and continue to improve.”
The Panthers were able to improve on 
Saturday’s showing, taking seven shots off 
their score as a team on Sunday. It would 
not be enough as Cortland and NYU jumped 
and fourth, respectively. 
Michelle Peng ’15 was hindered by an early 
strong, shooting 84 and 85 and placing 23rd 
The women’s squad will compete next 
weekend at a tournament hosted by Amherst 
College.
By Colin McIntyre
panther sc0reboard
baseball at Hamilton 
Women’s lax  vs. Trinity 
men’s tennis at Trinity
 softball vs. Wesleyan
Men’s golf at NYU Invitational
The Middlebury nine get off the 
schneid with two wins on the 
Continentals’ home turf.
Well, that was easy.
Big loss in terms of seedings, but 
there’s a good chance these two see 
each other in the postseason.
Twice the Panthers topped 
Wesleyan 4-3 in extras on Saturday. 
second was over in eight.
10-3 W 
10-9 L
8-1 W
4-3 W (8)
591 2nd
2
-2
8
4
Conference wins for baseball this 
lacrosse’s win over Union in the rain 
on Tuesday. That total is the second 
highest in program history.
Minutes for which Trinity held on to a 
in women’s lacrosse on Saturday.
by the Numb3rs
10 
By Emma McDonald
BOWDOIN
I’m going with the Polar Bears. I 
don’t know why.
MIDDLEBURY
I believe that was a “leading” 
question. Middlebury runs the 
table, including beating the Ephs 
for the third spot.
Joe macdonald (30-35, .462)
Pick ‘em: Middlebury vs. Bowdoin 
in a NESCAC women’s tennis 
showdown.
Who will be third in the NESCAC 
women’s lacrosse standings 
going into the conference 
tournament?
Who will lead men’s lacrosse in 
scoring against Colby?
Who will win this weekend’s 
AL East matchup between the 
Orioles and Red Sox?
MIDDLEBURY
I’m not feeling particularly funny 
this week, sorry guys.
MIDDLEBURY
They’ll pip Williams for the spot.
JON BROOME ’16
He seems to score, like a lot.
RED SOX
Picking this was like picking 
between Fritz and Joe Mac.
ORIOLES
Warm weather makes me wish I 
were back in Birdland.
JON BROOME ’16
Broome seems like a safe bet, with 
23 goals in 12 games.
RED SOX
The Patriots’ Day game is always 
my favorite. Last year’s was 
ruined by tragedy. But as a friend 
of mine once said, “This is our 
f****** city.”
editors’ picks
BOWDOIN
The Polar Bears have been hanging 
tought with some of the nation’s 
best teams. The Panthers haven’t.
MIDDLEBURY
The Ephs haven’t played anything 
like the schedule that the Panthers 
have.
JON BROOME ’16
Stephen Seymour ’14 has been 
coming on strong, but Broome is 
still the go-to guy on this team.
Alex Morris (35-29, .549)
Fritz Parker (36-37, .493)
The Middlebury men’s lacrosse 
have learned a lot about ourselves 
Middlebury scored six times; 
were able to extend their lead 
Middlebury as they closed out the 
can’t wait to see where we are as a 
The Middlebury baseball team 
their bats to a win in the rubber 
were exacerbated by some shoddy 
sports 24
By Fritz Parker 
Baseball Secures First 
NESCAC Wins of Year
Jeff Patterson
SUPER BOWL CHAMP 
STEVE HAUSCHKA 
’07 RETURNS TO 
MIDDLEBURY
PAGE 22
SOFTBALL SWEEPS 
WESLEYAN WITH 
TWO EXTRA-INNING 
VICTORIES
PAGE 22in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
serving UP 
SUCCESS 
The men’s and women’s tennis Teams 
breezed past Trinity, improving upon an 
already impressive Spring season. 
See Page 23 for full coverage. 
Jeff Patterson
