According to a report re-
leased by the Federal Securities 
and Exchanges Commission last 
Thursday, April 14, Jay Peak 
owners Ariel Quiros and Bill 
Stenger stole millions of dol-
lars from investors in a massive 
fraud scheme. According to the 
81-page report, the two busi-
nessmen ‘systematically looted’ 
or misappropriated $250 mil-
lion intended for construction 
projects throughout the North-
east Kingdom, in a ‘ponzi-like’ 
scheme that lasted nearly a de-
cade.
Foreign investors were duped 
by the two businessmen through 
a scheme made possible by the 
Federal EB-5 Immigrant Inves-
tor Program. The program is in-
tended to spur development in 
poor areas of the United States 
by securing investment from 
abroad. Under the program, 
foreign investors can fast-track 
their green card applications by 
investing in for-profit projects 
in the impoverished communi-
ties.
Investors in the Northeast 
Kingdom were led to believe 
that their money was support-
ing seven separate construction 
projects throughout the region. 
However, Quiros allegedly si-
phoned off much of the money 
to pay off personal debts, his 
income taxes, purchase a multi-
million condominium in New 
York City and buy an additional 
unrelated ski resort known as 
Burke Mountain Resort.
“Quiros orchestrated and 
Stenger facilitated an intricate 
web of transfers between the de-
fendants and relief defendants 
to disguise the fact that the ma-
jority of the seven projects were 
either over budget or experienc-
ing shortfalls,” reads the SEC 
report. “These shortfalls were in 
large part due to Quiros pilfer-
ing tens of millions of dollars of 
investor money for his own use.”
In interviews given with the 
local press, Stenger insisted that 
he was not aware of what Quiros 
was doing.
Karina Toy Wins SGA Election
April 21, 2016 | Vol. 114 no. 22 | middleburycampus.com
FRADULENT 
DONATONS SPARK 
POLITICAL DEBATE
PAGE 5
THE PITCHFORK 
DISNEY BALANCES 
HUMOR AND FRIGHT
PAGE 14
SECTION OF FAMED 
AIDS MEMORIAL 
QUILT ON DISPLAY
PAGE 12in
sid
e
Ponzi-Like Investment Fraud 
Exposed at Jay Peak Resort
By Will DiGravio
Staff Writer
Last Friday, April 15, students presented research projects in the Spring Symposium. See page 3.
Michael o’Hara
STUDENT SYMPOSIUM
By Ellie Reinhardt
News Editor
Van Jones
To Deliver
Graduation 
Speech
SEE SGA, PAGE 3
SEE PONZI, PAGE 4 
By Harry Cramer
Local Editor
Bill Stenger, co-owner of Jay Peak Resort, a ski resort in the Green Mountains, was accused by the 
Federal Securities and Exchanges Commission of defrauding foreign investors of millions of dollars. 
With the money he paid off personal debts, purchase real estate and buy Burke Mountain Resort.  
Vermontllife.com
The College’s student body 
elected Karina Toy ’17 to serve 
as President of the Student Gov-
ernment Association (SGA) for 
the 2016-2017 academic year.  
“I am so incredibly excited 
and honored to be elected SGA 
President,” Toy said. “Thank 
you so much to the over 1,500 
[students] who took the time to 
vote, I promise I will not let you 
down.” 
Toy, who served as a sena-
tor for three years, received 
573 votes, narrowly defeating 
former SGA Chief of Staff Mi-
chael Brady ’17.5 who garnered 
559 votes. First-Year Sena-
tor Charles Rainey ’19 finished 
third with 336 votes, followed 
by Ivan Valladares ’17 with 51 
votes. 
“I would also like to thank the 
other candidates who ran for of-
fice. I am interested in many of 
[their] ideas and insights,” Toy 
said. “I hope that we can work 
together in the coming year to 
implement some of [their] sug-
gestions.”
As SGA President-Elect, Toy 
plans to begin meeting with in-
cumbent SGA President Ilana 
Gratch ’16 to ensure a smooth 
transition into next year. Toy 
wants to form her cabinet prior 
to the start of summer break, 
and urged interested students 
to be on the lookout for an 
email, early next week, with de-
tails on how to apply for a posi-
tion. She also plans to meet with 
newly elected senators to begin 
discussing goals for next year. 
“I also want to start meet-
ing with staff and administra-
tion about how to execute my 
platform ideas, specifically the 
financial aid survey and the 
student leadership retreat since 
those should occur early next 
fall,” Toy said. 
In addition to the contest 
for SGA President, the election, 
which took placed from noon 
on April 18 to noon on April 19, 
consisted of nine races for 14 
positions.
David Ollin Pesqueira ’17 will 
replace Tiff Chang ’17.5, who 
did not seek re-election, as the 
Student Co-Chair of Commu-
nity Council. 
Aliza Cohen ’17 and current 
SGA Director of Institutional 
Affairs Nikki Lantigua ’17 were 
elected to serve as Senior Sena-
tors, replacing Toy and Pam 
Schulman ’17, who did not seek 
re-election. 
Since the SGA Constitution 
affords rising junior-students 
the option to seek election to 
the senate for only one semes-
ter, in order to accommodate 
individuals who choose to study 
abroad, four students were 
elected to serve as Junior Sena-
tors. 
Last Monday, April 18, the Col-
lege announced that Van Jones, 
CNN political correspondent and 
leader in environmental and so-
cial justice, will deliver the key-
note speech at Commencement 
this May. Jones will address the 
College community for the second 
time this year, following his key-
note address in October celebrat-
ing the fiftieth anniversary of the 
Environmental Studies program.
Jones is the founder and presi-
dent of The Dream Corps, an 
organization which promotes in-
novative policy solutions to bring 
economic opportunities and jus-
tice to disenfranchised commu-
nities through a number of ini-
tiatives, including #YesWeCode, 
#cut50 and Green For All. Jones, 
a Yale-educated attorney, is also 
the co-founder of the Ella Baker 
Center for Human Rights and 
Color Change, two human rights 
organizations. 
As a political activist, Jones 
has advocated for, and success-
fully helped implement, policies 
dedicated to the promotion of 
green jobs. Jones worked on the 
Green Jobs Act, which was suc-
cessfully signed into law in 2007 
and has raised $500 million in 
national funding for green jobs 
training under the Obama ad-
ministration. In 2009, Jones was 
appointed as the green jobs advi-
sor to President Barack Obama 
where he helped lead the inter-
agency process that managed the 
multi-billion dollar investment 
in training and development of 
green jobs.
Jones is also the author of The 
Green Collar Economy and Re-
build the Dream, both New York 
Times best-sellers.
President of the College Lau-
rie L. Patton and the Pruden-
tial Committee of the Board of 
Trustees made the final decision 
to invite Jones to be the keynote 
speaker at Commencement. Their 
decision was made after receiving 
a number of suggestions from a 
selected committee of two profes-
sors, two students and the Pro-
vost, Susan Baldridge. This year, 
the committee included Associ-
ate Professor of History William 
Hart, Viola Ward Brinning and 
Elbert Calhoun Brinning Profes-
sor of Chemistry and Biochem-
istry Jim Larrabee, Biswash Ghi-
mire ’16 and Greer Howard ’16.
“As Middlebury audiences 
know from his prior visits to cam-
pus, he is a dynamic and gifted 
speaker with a deep commitment 
to issues of social and environ-
mental justice,” Baldridge said. 
“His voice enriches our own con-
versation about the most impor-
tant issues facing our nation and 
our planet.” 
Jing He ’17, a physics major with an 
interest in the environment, was recently 
selected to be a Goldwater Scholar by The 
Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excel-
lence in Education Program.  
Each year, 415 four-year colleges nomi-
nate four students each year to apply for 
this prestigious scholarship. From this ap-
proximately 1,150-student applicant pool, 
about 260 students are named Goldwater 
Scholars. This year 252 students were se-
lected.  Each student is awarded $7,500 per 
year to cover books, board, room and other 
tuition expenses. 
The national scholarship was created 
in memory of United States Senator Barry 
Goldwater in 1986.  Goldwater was a sena-
tor for 30 years and championed the study 
of mathematics and science.  The scholar-
ship is designed to encourage students to 
pursue graduate degrees and careers in Sci-
ence, Technology, Engineering and Math-
ematics (STEM).
He came to the College interested in 
studying Environmental Studies. During 
her freshman year while talking with a 
professor, however, she realized that if she 
wanted to do research she should also be 
studying a laboratory science. He became a 
physics major with the hope that she could 
use it as a tool to understand the environ-
ment. 
“I like the idea of applying things I’ve 
learned in my physics classes to different 
systems like the ocean,” He said, having 
taken oceanography and geology classes 
concurrently with physics.  
He hopes to go to graduate school to 
study applied physics in an environmen-
tal field, such as physical oceanography or 
atmospheric science. She hopes to do re-
search while teaching at a small liberal arts 
college. “I could work my whole life and 
not really have much of an impact, but as 
a teacher I could have a much more direct 
impact on the lives of my students,” He 
said.  
He said that her professors at the Col-
lege have inspired her to pursue teaching, 
especially Professor of Physics Noah Gra-
ham and Visiting Assistant Professor of Ge-
ology Tom Manley. Both professors will be 
her thesis advisers.  
He’s thesis will combine her interests in 
physics and the environment, as she will be 
working with a professor at the University 
of Vermont who has built a numerical cir-
culation model of Lake Champlain. He will 
use observational data to work to improve 
the model. She will also use the model to 
simulate the effect of removing a causeway 
in Missisquoi Bay, a polluted tributary in 
Lake Champlain. He said that the pollu-
tion is probably caused by the causeways 
that were built throughout Lake Champlain 
many years ago. Causeways restrict the 
movement of fish and often lead to the ac-
cumulation of pollutants. 
He said that perseverance has been the 
key to her success. She encouraged stu-
dents to engage with their professors and 
with the incredible wealth of opportunities 
and resources available at the College. “You 
never know what doors will open if you 
don’t try,” she said.  
UMOJA, the African Student Organiza-
tion, will be hosting the 2016 AMKA Con-
ference on Saturday, April 23. The annual 
conference will be the fourth hosted by the 
organization and is intended to awaken 
the College community to relevant issues 
regarding Africa — the term “AMKA,” in 
Swahili, means “to awaken.” Each year, 
the conference explores different themes 
relevant to the continent. The theme of 
this year’s conference is “Africa through 
Film.”
The keynote speaker will be Nadia Sas-
so, a Sierra Leonean-American filmmaker 
and digital storyteller. The conference will 
screen her documentary Am I: The Film, 
which explores identity politics and gen-
der in the diaspora. Following the screen-
ing, there will be a question-and-answer 
session with Sasso.
The conference will begin with open-
ing remarks delivered by Natasha Ngaiza, 
a Tanzanian-American filmmaker and 
visiting instructor in the Film and Media 
Culture department. Another talk will be 
held with speakers Sena Vanjouciv ’17 
and his brother Pele ’19, who created the 
short documentary ReVodution focusing 
on their traditional West African spiri-
tual practices in a modern context. After 
screening clips from the film, Sena and 
Pele will be joined by Visiting Professor 
of Visual Art Gigi Gatewood and Vikram 
Kaleka ’16, who also traveled to Ghana and 
documented the spiritual practices.
Last year, the conference theme was 
“Education in Africa.” UMOJA welcomed 
Fred Swaniker, founder of African Lead-
ership Academy and African Leadership 
University. Swaniker spoke about educa-
tional innovations in the continent.
UMOJA believes in the importance of 
reclaiming African narratives and telling 
the continent’s stories from the perspec-
tives of its people. The organization rec-
ognizes that film has been an important 
medium for reimagining Africa’s image, 
which has often been negatively portrayed 
by outsiders.
| April 21, 20162 NEWS
By Will DiGravio
SGA Correspondent & Staff Writer
SGA 
UPDATE
The March 20 meeting of the Student 
Government Association (SGA) began with 
a presentation by Leo McElroy ’18 and Joey 
Button ’17 who asked for the SGA to endorse 
their effort to create a Makerspace on cam-
pus in the Bunker. In short, a Makerspace is 
both an open facility where students have ac-
cess to resources that foster innovation and 
a communal space to help shape ideas. The 
Makerspace would house technologies like 
woodworking equipment and a 3D printer, 
and offer trainings for students on how to 
make use of such equipment. The SGA unani-
mously voted to support the initiative. 
Senators then voted to nominate Sopho-
more Senator Colin Boyle ’18 and Feb Senator 
Rae Aaron ’19.5 to serve on the newly created 
Club Sports Committee. The committee will 
be working with representatives from club 
sports teams and members of the Finance 
Committee to draft a policy recommendation 
regarding the funding of club sports. 
The April 10 meeting of the SGA began 
with an announcement from SGA President 
Ilana Gratch ’16 that the Posse Foundation 
will be conducting a workshop for student-
leaders regarding cultural competency and 
inclusion on May 1 of this year. 
Cook Commons Senator Georgia Grace 
Edwards ’18 sent out a survey to first-years 
and first-year Febs to explore potential hous-
ing options and urged other commons to do 
the same. Atwater Senator Jigar Bhakta ’18 
resigned from his position. 
Speaker of the Senate Reshma Gogineni 
’16 introduced a bill that recommends that 
the administration create a process through 
which faculty members would be able to 
more easily update course descriptions. The 
bill advises that the administration not only 
urge faculty members to keep course list-
ings current, but also encourage professors 
to create more personalized course descrip-
tions that elaborate on course format, con-
centration area, general assessment style and 
teaching philosophy. Senators passed the bill 
unanimously. 
President Gratch proposed a resolution 
to restructure the SGA. Her proposal would 
have made cabinet positions like SGA Trea-
surer and Directors of Academic Affairs and 
Environmental Affairs elected positions. It 
also would have added the position of SGA 
Vice President. Gratch proposed that, rather 
than electing two Class Senators and two Feb 
Senators, each constituency would elect a 
class president to represent them. Each com-
mons would also have a representative. 
The proposal, in short, would have 
merged the SGA Senate and the President’s 
Cabinet into one body, creating “The Student 
Senate” comprised of the aforementioned po-
sitions. As worded in the bill, Gratch believed 
that the new structure would have increased 
the effectiveness of the SGA and increase the 
perceived accountability of office holders. 
The SGA failed to approve the bill, with six 
voting in favor, six voting against and one ab-
stention. The resolution required two-thirds 
of the Senate’s support, as it would have 
amended the SGA Constitution. 
African Students Hosts AMKA Conference 
By Hana Gebremariam
Contributing Writer
Jing He ’17 Selected As  
Goldwater Scholar
Cynthia Packert, Christian A. Johnson 
professor of history of art and architecture, 
was recently honored with the Guggenheim 
Fellowship in South Asian Studies and the 
Fulbright-Nehru Senior Scholar Award. 
With the support of these organizations, 
she will spend the next year on sabbatical 
to round out her five-year long research 
project studying an Indian religious sect 
known as BAPS.
Packers has been studying the art and 
architecture of the group, an offshoot of 
the Hindu sect Swaminarayn, based out of 
Gujarat. BAPS, which broke off in the early 
twentieth century, has “continued to follow 
the teachings of Swaminarayan, but they 
also do it through a particular guru. Under 
the leadership of that guru, particularly 
in the last 20 years or so, they have really 
burst onto the scene because they’ve been 
building all of these temples and religious 
tourism sites,” she explained. 
 The BAPS temples exist not only 
in India, but also in London, Houston, 
Toronto, Atlanta, Chicago, Chino Hills and 
most recently, New Jersey. Packert will use 
four months of her sabbatical to travel to 
India to revisit some of the earliest temples 
that were built under the original founder 
BAPS. 
“They really preserve interesting, 
amazing, artistic assemblages and 
iconographic groupings,”  she said of the 
temples. 
Packet will also study the monument 
complex, Akshardham. “It’s a sort of 
memorial complex,” she said. “It’s 
something that educates people to what 
their mission is all about. They have very 
sophisticated multi-media performances 
like laser water shows and IMAX films. 
So I’m really interested not only in the 
traditional forms, but I’m also interested 
in how they’ve adapted their message to 
keep current with twenty-first century 
technologies.”
In 2010, Packert published a book called 
The Art of Loving Krishna, about the 
worship of the god Krishna in a traditional 
temple town in North India. Her research 
for that book influenced her curiosity in the 
Swaminaraya.
“My interest comes from the fact that the 
Swaminaraya celebrate many of the same 
sorts of festivals and use many of the same 
visual forms, but they have their own way of 
doing things. What I really love about what 
they do is that they are very traditional 
in a lot of ways, but they are also very 
innovative,” Packert details. “They have a 
kind of visual branding. They have these 
By Nora O’Leary
Contributing Writer
Packert 
Honored with 
FellowshipsBy Catherine PollackContributing Writer
Schedule of events 
Opening Keynote: 
Professor Natasha Ngaiza
11:00 - 11:30 a.m. (Opening Remarks)
11:30 - 11:45 a.m. (Question & Answer)
Screening of Am I: The Film &
Discussion with Nadia Sasso
12:00 - 1:00 p.m. 
ReVodution: Sena & Pele Voncujovi 
2:00 - 3:00 p.m. MBH 216
Small Group Discussion
3:15 - 4:15 p.m. MBH 219
Networking Session
4:30 - 5:30 p.m. MBH Great Hall 
Atwater Gala Dinner
Fashion Show & Performances
6:00 - 8:00 p.m.
SEE PACKERT, PAGE 3
MCAB Free Friday Film: “SPECTRE”
Infiltrating a sinister organization, James 
Bond learns of a chilling connection be-
tween himself and the enemy he seeks.
FRIDAY AT 6 AND 9 P.M. IN DANA AUDITORIUM
Zumba
Grab some friends for a night of dancing 
and fitness! Groovy sounds and awesome 
dance moves can be expected, and you 
will not want to miss out.
SUNDAY AT 6 P.M. IN WILSON HALL
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
Jing He ’17 was named a Goldwater Scholar by the Barry Goldwater Scholarship 
and Excellence in Education Program. Approximately 1,150 students applied for the 
scholarship, which awarded only about 260 students from the applicant pool.
College Communications
April 21, 2016 |  3        News
Packert to 
Study BAPS
Toy Elected 
President 
of SGA
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
very distinctive, what I call neo-traditional 
forms, so they have reinvigorated the art of 
temple carving and sculpting in ways that 
no other group has done so consistently, so 
dramatically, and so elaborately.”
Packert is excited by the idea of being 
able to research such a contemporary 
project. When in India, she talks with 
members of the religious community, and 
visits the sculpting studios where work for 
the temple is conducted.
“It makes me think about the past in a 
different way,” she said. “It helps me think 
about patronage, and where artistic change 
actually comes from, and who is making the 
decisions. With a contemporary group, you 
can actually watch that happening.”
At the College, Packert teaches classes 
on Asian Art History, Indian temples and 
historical antecedents of aesthetics and 
religion.
“The fun thing is, all of this research, 
even if I’m not necessarily teaching a 
course on it, enlivens my teaching,” Packert 
explained. “Working on something that is 
neo-traditional, and I hope this translates 
to students, shows that studying a culture 
like India doesn’t belong in the past. It’s 
very much a living tradition.”
Packert’s sabbatical will allow her to 
consolidate the information she has been 
gathering for the past five years and give 
her time to write on her findings.
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2
Students Present Work, 
Research at Symposium
This weekend, seven students partici-
pated in illegal sit-ins on the steps of the 
U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. as part 
of a national movement aimed at end-
ing the corruption of big money in poli-
tics and ensuring free and fair elections. 
The event was coordinated by Democracy 
Spring and Democracy Awakening, two 
organizations that are demanding Con-
gress address these issues through legis-
lative reform. 
 The organizations mobilized a nine-
day march from the Liberty Bell in Phila-
delphia to the Capitol from April 2 to 11, 
and between April 11 and 18. Over 1,300 
peaceful protesters were arrested for oc-
cupying the Capitol Plaza, making it the 
largest civil disobedience action of the 
21st century.
 The movement is comprised of rep-
resentatives from a wide variety of over 
100 organizations, and the daily sit-ins 
focused on different issues, including 
criminal, climate and labor justice. Each 
morning involved a teach-in or workshop, 
march to the Capitol, a sit-in and a rally. 
 Ben Clark, ’16, is the Regional Stu-
dent Organizer for campuses in VT, NH 
and ME, and helped plan and coordinate 
participation in the protests. In his first 
couple of years at the College, he was a 
sustainable food activist on campus. He 
later shifted his focus toward social is-
sues, and was arrested for protesting the 
Keystone XL with the Youth Climate Co-
alition outside the White House. 
 Clark got involved with Democracy 
Spring after doing outreach for the Bernie 
Sanders’ campaign in Georgia last sum-
mer, and said, “One of the reasons that 
this cause and Democracy Spring is so 
inspiring to me is that it is a fundamen-
tally intersectional movement in both its 
approach at strategy and the people and 
causes that were represented there.”
He stressed the focus on bringing to-
gether people from specific causes in an 
effort to rally communities around the 
common effort of equality by getting in-
volved in the political process at the lo-
cal, state, and national level through ac-
tions that are achievable. The coalition 
includes environmental, racial, economic 
and social justice groups which share the 
same fundamental democratic values of 
Democracy Spring.
 Clark emphasized that this is not the 
culmination of efforts, rather another 
step in a long-term effort. He said, “It’s 
what we’re hoping will be the catalyst for 
a more prolonged, sustained movement 
for democracy. The idea is that this is a 
chance for everyone to come to D.C. from 
different groups and places around the 
country and be inspired.”
By Rae Aaron
Contributing Writer
Students Protest Political 
Corruption in Washington
Incumbent Senators Colin Boyle ’18 
and Jin Sohn ’18 will serve in the fall and 
spring semesters, respectively. Serving 
alongside Boyle in the Fall will be Han-
nah Pustejovsky ’18, while SGA Director 
of Publicity Lily Wilson ’18 will serve 
with Sohn in the Spring. 
In the year’s most contested contest, 
Isabella Martus ’19 and Manny Duran 
’19 emerged victorious, from a field of 
seven candidates, to serve as Sophomore 
Senators. They will replace Rainey and 
Kieran Parikh ’19, who did not seek re-
election. 
All five elections to serve as Commons 
Senator were uncontested. Elected to the 
five seats were Jeffrey Ou ’19 (Atwater), 
Kyle Wright ’19.5 (Brainerd), Connor 
McCormick ’18 (Cook), Stephanie An-
drews ’18 (Ross) and Angie McCarthy ’19 
(Wonnacott). 
An amendment to the SGA Consti-
tution to change the name of the SGA 
“Constitution Committee” to the “Stu-
dent Organization Oversight Com-
mittee,” and the title of the “Student 
Co-Chair of Community Council” to “Co-
Chair,” failed to receive the votes neces-
sary to pass. 
In order for a constitutional amend-
ment to be approved, two-thirds of the 
student body must both respond to the 
question posed and, of that two-thirds, 
vote “yes.” According to SGA Director of 
Membership Zak Fisher ’16, two-thirds 
of the student body did not vote on the 
question, therefore nulling the amend-
ment. 
This week’s race marked the first 
campus-wide election with the use of a 
winner-take-all voting system, as op-
posed to a single-transferable-vote and 
instant-runoff voting system. With the 
new process, Fisher said it took him sev-
en minutes to tally and email the elec-
tion results — it proved to be a more ef-
ficient system. 
Fisher, who also chairs the Elections 
Council, estimates that over 1,650 stu-
dents voted, a total lower than last year’s 
election, but higher than anticipated. 
“This year it didn’t seem to me as 
if there was as much buzz on campus 
about the election, in general, as there 
was last year. So I was surprised at how 
close we got to last year,” Fisher said. “I 
was pleased. It’s much higher than the 
national average for the United States 
which is a low bar, unfortunately, to as-
pire to.” 
Middlebury SGA
The College hosted the tenth annual 
Spring Student Symposium in McCardell 
Bicentennial Hall on Friday, April 15. The 
event, which ran throughout the day, fea-
tured an array of oral presentations, posters, 
artwork and other performances by current 
students. Topics ranged from Abraham Lin-
coln’s speeches to Zambian gardening pro-
grams, encompassing a wide variety of aca-
demic disciplines.
Mitchell Perry ’16 delivered an oral pre-
sentation entitled “Down with DOMA: Amer-
ica’s Evolution on Marriage Equality Policy.” 
The presentation, which Perry adapted from 
his Political Science senior thesis, focused on 
the methods by which same-sex marriage 
advocates reshaped public opinion on the is-
sue. Using Vermont, California and Minne-
sota as case studies, Perry determined which 
techniques caused the greatest shifts in pub-
lic support for same-sex marriage.
“As a gay male who grew up in Minneso-
ta, I came out right as Minnesota was voting 
on a ban on gay marriage, and they defeated 
that ban,” Perry said. “And then, six months 
later, they passed same-sex marriage. So for 
me, that shift had a lot of personal reasons 
why I thought it was really interesting. But 
from a political science perspective, the rapid 
shift in marriage equality policy and public 
opinion is just fascinating.”
Perry said he relished the opportunity 
provided by the symposium to showcase his 
work on a larger scale.
“My thesis research allowed me to pursue 
[my interest]. But what the symposium does 
that’s special is give you a venue to share 
something that matters to you personally. 
You’ve spent hours and hours researching 
it, and your friends are genuinely excited 
about the academic pursuit you’re doing. We 
always go to plays, we always go to friends’ 
sports games, but how often do you get to 
applaud somebody or give support to your 
friend for an academic interest?”
Morgan Raith ’16.5 presented her senior 
thesis work for Architectural Studies. Her 
poster,  titled “A New Approach to Middle-
bury,” contained a plan for a new public 
transportation center in Middlebury, featur-
ing indoor play spaces, including a climbing 
gym and dance studio.
“Making the poster was the easiest part,” 
she said. “Putting all of the designs together 
and figuring out how to visually communi-
cate my ideas — that’s always a challenge.”
She continued, “Coming to the sympo-
sium is really fun, because normally we’re 
just presenting our designs in Johnson and a 
couple people come, and it’s relatively quiet. 
But it’s awesome to be placed in an arena 
where so many other amazing research op-
portunities and projects are happening.”
Weston Uram ’18 based his project titled 
“My Emoji” on the Kimoji app recently re-
leased by Kim Kardashian.
“It made over $80 million in a week, and 
it’s baffling that people are actually spend-
ing money and engaging with it,” Uram 
said. “And what does it mean for someone 
to take that body representation and send it 
to somebody else, therefore identifying with 
Kim herself? So I was like, ‘well I can just do 
that — I can just create that application.’”
Uram’s presentation included a television 
screen displaying samples of his work, in-
cluding a stylized depiction of his own wink-
ing face.
Lisa Gates, associate dean for fellowships 
and research, helped organize the event as 
co-chair of the Symposium’s Planning Com-
mittee, and seemed to share the excitement 
of the hundreds of others gathered at Bicen-
tennial Hall.
“Someone once described this as ‘like a 
party about thinking,’” Gates said. “It’s re-
ally an amazing opportunity to learn about 
the diversity of topics and areas our students 
are researching and thinking about. It’s re-
ally impressive to see the kind of work that 
they’re doing.”
“It’s not evaluative — you’re not being 
graded,” Gates said. “So it’s really a chance to 
share, learn from and just to celebrate.”
By Nick Garber
Senior Writer
Over the past decade, the Spring Student Symposium has grown to showcase the 
academic and creative works of more than 300 students annually. Students from all 
classes and all disciplines showcase their work and research.
College Communications
local
In interviews given with the local 
press, Stenger insisted that he was not 
aware of what Quiros was doing.
“There was a lot of stuff in the pre-
sentation that I got on Wednesday that 
I was not aware of,” Stenger said of the 
SEC report. “I can’t go any further than 
that. I’ve got to let it go at that. I’m try-
ing to figure this out as well. I just need 
to deal with it.”
However, it is unlikely that Stenger’s 
defense will hold up in court. The SEC 
report explicitly shot down the notion 
that Stenger could have been unaware 
of Qurios’ theft.
“[Stenger] ... did almost nothing 
to manage investor money,” the report 
reads, “even when confronted with red 
flags of Quiros’ misuse.”
Stenger had previously chided the 
state for what he believed to be overly 
burdensome regulations.
“You can’t drag your feet,” Stenger 
told the Burlington Free Press just days 
before the SEC report was released. 
“You’re in a competitive business. You 
have to move.”
The Commissioner of the Depart-
ment of Financial Regulation, Susan Do-
negan, first began to unravel the scheme 
in early 2015. Her department replaced 
the previously ineffective Agency of 
Commerce and Community Develop-
ment, which investors described as 
“uncooperative” and which “reflexively 
sided with Jay Peak.”
Shortly after taking over the inves-
tigation, Donegan uncovered a web of 
hidden transfers between bank accounts 
in ten different financial institutions. 
Donegan described the transfers as a 
‘spaghetti map’ rather than a clean line.
“We saw a complex web of financial 
accounts that allegedly facilitated the 
improper co-mingling, misuse and di-
version of funds between EB-5 projects, 
related companies and 
personal accounts,” Do-
negan said.
“The alleged fraud 
ran the gamut from false 
statements to deceptive 
financial transactions to 
outright theft,” said An-
drew Ceresney, Director 
of the SEC’s Division of 
Enforcement. “As al-
leged in our complaint, 
the defendants diverted 
millions of EB-5 inves-
tor dollars to their own pockets, leav-
ing little money for construction of the 
research facility investors were told 
would.”
The sheer breadth of the scheme 
is unprecedented in Vermont, and has 
left politicians scrambling to disassoci-
ate themselves from the two fraudulent 
businessmen. Many members of the 
Democratic party, including Governor 
Peter Shumlin, Senator Patrick Leahy 
(D) and Congressman Peter Welch (D) 
had received campaign contributions 
from Quiros and Stenger. In total, the 
Democratic party in Vermont has re-
ceived around $30,000 from the two 
businessmen since 2012.
“The beauty of this program is that 
it is doing so much to create jobs and 
economic growth and is not costing the 
taxpayers a cent,” Leahy said of the EB-5 
program in 2012.
For their part, Leahy and Welch 
plan to donate any money they accepted 
from the accused men to charities dedi-
cated to helping Vermonters find jobs. 
Shumlin has not followed the Senators’ 
lead, despite the fact that he has worked 
closely with the two businessmen. In 
2013, he traveled with Stenger to Asia 
to solicit funds for various construction 
projects in Vermont. 
Shumlin argued that 
his efforts were in good 
faith, and that the EB-5 
program had initially 
showed promise.
“I mean the dream 
that we could finally 
create hundreds and 
hundreds of jobs in the 
part of the state that 
has been struggling for 
jobs is something that 
any reasonable person 
would wish to pursue,” Shumlin said.
Shumlin has been excoriated by 
members of both par-
ties. Democratic gu-
bernatorial candidate 
Peter Galbraith (D) sug-
gested that Stenger and 
Quiros’ business ven-
tures may have received 
special treatment from 
the administration, and 
that the state legisla-
ture should establish 
an independent com-
mission to audit state 
officials. Galbraith also 
called for the state to 
ban corporate political 
donations, and to reach 
out to the affected com-
munities in the North-
east Kingdom.
The seven development projects 
would have meant a lot to the most iso-
lated and sparsely populated area of the 
state. Former state Senator Vince Illuzzi 
(R) told the Burlington Free Press that 
he was shocked by the allegations, and 
that many residents would suffer as a 
result.
“A lot of people pinned their hopes 
and dreams on the area coming alive 
with this massive infusion of funds, new 
and better jobs, better infrastructure, 
essentially a transformation to a more 
secure economic future,” Illuzzi said.
Instead, the financial repercussions 
are rippling through the projects. Ho-
tels and shops constituting a “renais-
sance project” in downtown Newport 
will likely fail. Although the two ski re-
sorts owned by Stenger and Quiros may 
weather the storm, prospects elsewhere 
are grim. 
The most expensive failure will like-
ly be an $110 million Korean biomedi-
cal research facility, which would have 
been the first of its 
kind in the nation. Ac-
cording to the SEC re-
port, the facility oper-
ated “in near complete 
defraud,” and was still 
operational as federal 
agents raided Quiros’ 
newest ski resort on 
Wednesday. According 
to Vermont Public Ra-
dio, the facility would 
have created between 
400 and 450 new jobs, 
roughly half of which 
would gone to local 
Vermonters.
A federal court 
has appointed Michael 
Goldberg, a lawyer from Miami, to han-
dle the properties in question and and 
minimize disruptions at the businesses. 
The status of the green card applicants, 
700 investors from 71 different coun-
tries, is still uncertain.
21
– Continued from Page 1 –
Green Mountain Club Hike in Orwell
Are you looking for an easy six mile hike 
with views of the beautiful Lake Cham-
plain?  If so, join the Bread Loaf Section 
of the Green Mountain Club this Friday!  
Contact leader Jill Vickers at (802) 759-
3227 for meeting time.  If you’re not con-
vinced yet, this hike is also dog-friendly!
APR. 22, TIME TBA
Local 
lowdown
“Seminar” on Stage in Middlebury
 
If you are looking for some comedic 
relief, consider making a trip to the Town 
Hall Theater on Thursday night.  This 
comedy drama challenges four aspiring 
novelists to learn the skills needed to be 
an artist in today’s literary landscape.  
Tickets are $22 at the THT box office.  
Contact (802) 382-9222 with questions.
APR. 21-23, 7:30 PM
Poetry Reading in Middlebury
For all the poetry fanatics out there, 
there will be a poetry reading at the 
Ilsley Library on Thursday afternoon.  
This is part of the library’s National 
Poetry Month Reading Series.  Aneleisa 
Gladding-Hinton ’16 and Bianca Stone 
will be the readers.  For more info, call 
(802)388-4095.
APR. 21, 1:00 PM
Indoor Flea Market and Bake Sale in 
Vergennes
Are you a bargain shopper?  Does your 
sweet tooth sometimes get the best of 
you?  If your answer to either of these 
questions is yes, then drop by the flea 
market and bake sale at St. Peter’s Parish 
Hall on Saturday for lots of bargains and 
tasty treats.  For more info, call (802) 
877-2367.
APR. 23, 9:00 AM-3:00 PM
Courtesy Burlington Free Press, BFP, and SevendaysVT
Clockwise from top: William Stenger stands 
outside a Jay Peak construction site; Attor-
ney General William Sorrell speaks  dur-
ing during a press conference; Quiros and 
Stenger stand together at a fundraiser.
“A lot of peo-
ple pinned their 
hopes and dreams 
on the area com-
ing alive with this 
massive infusion 
of funds...”
Vince Illuzzi (R)
Former State Senator
“You can’t drag 
your feet. You’re 
in a competitive 
business, and you 
have to move.”
William Stenger
CEO of Jay Peak Resort
Spring Into Art Festival in Bristol
If you’re excited about spring or art, then 
come celebrate both at this festival in 
downtown Bristol on Saturday!  Spring 
will be celebrated in artistic fashion 
at this event. With the help of Bristol 
businesses, activities will include open 
studios, art activities, a “meet the artists” 
tea, a Celtic harp concert and an open-
mike poetry reading.  There’s something 
for everyone!
APR. 23, 10:00 AM-4:00 PM
Spring Wildflower Walk in Orwell
If you haven’t taken time to stop and 
smell the wildflowers lately, consider 
joining Amy Olmsted for a wildflower 
walk on Sunday afternoon.  This nursery 
professional will teach you all you need 
to know about finding and identifying 
early wildflowers.  Admission is free for 
children and $5 for adults.  For more 
details, call (802) 759-2412.
APR. 24, 1:00 PM
‘Ponzi-like’ Investment Fraud 
Exposed at Jay Peak Resort
Localapril 21, 2016 | 5
After Northeast Kingdom developers 
Bill Stenger and Ariel Quiros were accused 
of engaging in a Ponzi-like scheme last 
week, Vermont politicians debated about 
how to deal with their campaign contribu-
tions. Quiros and Stenger have been ac-
cused of misappropriating $200 million of 
foreign investment.  
These two men had used the EB-5 in-
vestor visa program to fund their develop-
ment projects.  Over the past five years, a 
large sum of tens of thousands of dollars 
was received by Vermont politicians from 
the fraudulent developers.  
In the past four years, Quiros and his 
wife have donated at least $32,000 to the 
Vermont Democratic Party (VDP). This 
money has since been spent by the party.
“At the time of 
these donations, the 
party wasn’t aware of 
anything that would 
have raised a red flag,” 
Christina Amestoy 
(Communications Di-
rector at the VDP) tells 
VPR.  “These were seen 
as donations coming 
from people who were 
looking to revitalize 
the Kingdom and help 
improve the economy 
up there.”
Although not 
nearly as much money 
was donated to the Re-
publican Party, reports show that Stenger 
did give at least $2,000 to the Vermont 
Republican Party in 2010.  
“From the party’s standpoint, it looks 
like, compared to the Democrats anyway, 
this donation is pretty small,” GOP Chair 
David Sunderland remarked.  “It was sev-
eral election cycles ago.  I think we’re still 
looking at what our next move will be.”
Tensions have sparked between politi-
cal parties and between rivals in the guber-
natorial race who are using their stances 
on this issue to call out and place blame on 
particular political figures.  Among those 
who have announced their stances on the 
issue are Sen. Patrick Leahy (D) and Con-
gressman Peter Welch (D).  These two men 
claimed that they would donate the funds 
they accepted from the accused to charity 
foundations.  
Leahy received $5,800 and Welch re-
ceived $1,500 from Stenger and his wife. 
According to Seven Days, Leahy pledged 
to donate this money to “some charity in 
the Northeast Kingdom that would enable 
people’s jobs.”  Leahy also expressed a de-
sire to reform the EB-5 program to protect 
those who rely on foreign investment for 
their jobs. 
Current Gover-
nor Peter Shumlin 
(D) claimed that 
he would not do-
nate the money, 
and gubernatorial 
candidates from 
both parties re-
sponded with dis-
sent.  Gubernato-
rial candidate and 
former Democratic 
State Senator Pe-
ter Galbraith ex-
pressed frustra-
tion at the amount 
of fraudulent money that went into the 
Democratic Party.  Shumlin had received 
at least $12,000 from Quiros and Stenger 
and their companies in his 2014 reelection 
campaign.  He continued accepting funds 
from them during other election cycles as 
well.  
Republican gubernatorial candidate 
Bruce Lisman hoped that Shumlin would 
hand over the funds to the federal court-
appointed receiver who is in control of the 
assets of the accused.
“Corruption doesn’t belong in Ver-
mont,” Lisman says, according to Seven 
Days.  “The public trust between the peo-
ple of our state and politicians leading our 
state has long been broken. It’s time to ad-
dress these issues head on.”
The criticism for Shumlin’s involve-
ment with the accused parties does not 
end there. An article in VTDigger ac-
cused Shumlin’s administration of delet-
ing e-mails and documents related to the 
Northeast Kingdom scandal right before 
the scandal was made public.  However, 
Shumlin’s administration has denied this 
claim, citing his involvement in the uncov-
ering of the scandal.
“I think it’s a testament to the fact that 
campaign contributions don’t make a dif-
ference that I set up a structure that found 
this out and brought us to where we are 
today,” Shumlin noted in a press confer-
ence on Thursday.   
Scott Coriell, spokesman for Gov. 
Shumlin, also reaffirmed that the issue of 
the Northeast Kingdom scandal and the 
deletion of e-mails by Shumlin’s admin-
istration are certainly not related.  How-
ever, this denial did not prevent guberna-
torial candidates from criticizing Shumlin 
to bolster their campaigns.
“The attempts by the administration 
to destroy e-mails possibly related to this 
scandal days before the SEC filed its charg-
es are wholly unacceptable,” announced 
Bruce Lisman (Republican gubernatorial 
candidate) in a written statement.
The process of totaling and poten-
tially reallocating the funds received from 
Quiros’ and Stenger’s efforts is a compli-
cated one, and will continue to occupy and 
divide Vermont politicians in the foresee-
able future. 
Fraudulent Donations Spark Political Debate
By Rebecca Walker
Local Editor
Courtesy Watchdog.org
Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin (D), who has accepted donations from the accused.
“I think it’s a testament 
to the fact that campaign 
contributions don’t make 
a difference that I set up 
a structure that found 
this out and brought us to 
where we are today.”
 
Peter Shumlin (D)
Governor of Vermont
Students often share anecdotes of 
faulty x-rays and misdiagnoses, paint-
ing Porter Medical Center as a struggling 
hospital unable to attract quality doctors 
due to its rural location and budget con-
straints. Given PMC’s aggressive austerity 
measures earlier this year, including the 
layoffs of 17 employees, including eight 
nurses, and its 2015 annual report stating 
losses over $7.36 million in the previous 
fiscal year and $11 million since 2012, it’s 
easy to believe this: “Porter Hospital is on 
the brink of bankruptcy.”
But last month, an investigation pub-
lished by the Addison Independent de-
bunked this local myth, revealing that 
PMC actually made a $3.7 million “prof-
it” from 2012 to 2015 due to unreported 
revenue. The finding 
fueled outrage from 
the Porter Federation 
of Nurses and Health 
Professionals and 
sparked public confu-
sion on recent auster-
ity measures enacted 
by then CEO Lynn 
Boggs. Boggs resigned 
soon after, just nine 
months into her ap-
pointment. 
Yet Porter’s ser-
vices continue to 
dwindle under interim 
CEO Dr. Fred Kniffen. 
The tough task that 
Dr. Kniffen faces is the 
same one Boggs blundered in solving: how 
to strengthen PMC’s financial situation 
without sacrificing the quality of care – for 
both its patients and employees. These re-
cent changes have the potential to effect 
students who rely on PMC for primary 
care and those sent to PMC for emergency 
care that the Parton Center for Health and 
Wellness cannot provide. 
In response to employee benefit cuts, 
a new compensation system factoring in 
doctor performance and investment in 
controversial “new revenue” sources like 
the Infusion Center for IV therapy, doc-
tors, nurses and providers have left PMC 
at an alarming rate. Most recently, Dr. 
Kniffen announced in an op-ed on April 
11 that Porter Internal Medicine would 
be closing following the resignation of Dr. 
Naomi Hodde. Dr. Hodde is the latest of 
four internist departures in the last six 
months. 
Though most students have primary 
care providers in 
their hometowns, 
students who rely 
on PMC for primary 
care can also expect 
longer wait-times 
and scheduling de-
lays due to inter-
nist understaffing. 
Sandra Robinson, 
Parton’s Supervi-
sor of Nursing, said 
Parton will contin-
ue seeing students 
“for what I would 
consider primary 
care issues”, such 
as acute illnesses, 
basic gynecology 
services, contraceptive care, and immuni-
zations. 
Moreover, all students rely on Por-
ter for emergency care that Parton can-
not provide like IV-fluid hydration and 
MRI/X-ray imaging. This type of emer-
gency care for students, common in cases 
of alcohol poisoning or trauma, may be 
indirectly affected by the closing of PMC’s 
Internal Medicine clinic.
 “The entire Middlebury community 
will have problems 
with accessing primary 
care, so they may use 
the Porter Emergency 
Department (ED) for 
things that could have 
been managed in an 
internal medicine of-
fice,” Parton’s Nurse 
Supervisor Sandra 
Robinson said. “This 
will cause the ED to 
be more occupied with 
primary care issues, 
potentially causing in-
creased wait times.”
Replacing the internists at Porter is 
unlikely to be a quick or easy process. A 
2013 report by the Association of Ameri-
can Medical Colleges, projected shortfalls 
in primary care will range between 12,500 
to 31,100 physicians by 2025. On the flip 
side, demand for specialists is expected to 
exceed supply by 28,200 to 63,700 physi-
cians. 
“Recruiting new, highly skilled [in-
ternal medicine] physicians to locate and 
practice here will take time,” Dr. Kniffen 
wrote. In the meantime, the Ear, Nose and 
Throat (ENT) clinic will relocate to the In-
ternal Medicine office. 
The widening pay gap between in-
ternists and specialists may help explain 
the difficulty PMC faces in hiring primary 
care providers. According to the Ameri-
can Medical Group Association, internists 
have a median salary of $219,000 com-
pared to $377,430 of specialists like ENT 
doctors. Furthermore, physicians in the 
Northeast are most likely to be paid the 
least. 
On the upside, it is true that PMC is 
no longer operating in 
the red, mostly due to 
the 340B Drug Pricing 
Program. This federal 
program, funded by 
large pharmaceuti-
cal companies, allows 
small hospitals to pur-
chase drugs at a dis-
counted price. PMC 
has received roughly 
$9 million in 340B 
funds since 2012.
Though the fis-
cal situation is not as 
bleak as widely believed, PMC is far from 
financially stable compared to other hos-
pitals in Vermont. PMC’s “days cash on 
hand,” a measure of how long the hospi-
tal could operate without generating ad-
ditional revenue, is 84 days, well below 
the state median of 129. Furthermore, 
$3.7 million is a small profit margin given 
PMC’s gross revenues of over $80 million. 
The future of primary care in 
Middlebury looks grim given these na-
tional statistics and PMC’s financial woes. 
However, Kniffen is optimistic.
 “I’d characterize Porter’s condition as 
an acute illness,” Kniffin said in an inter-
view with the Addison Independent. “But 
we’ve stabilized the patient, we’re treating 
the ailments and it’s going to be okay.”
New CEO, Same Struggle: Can Porter 
Hospital Provide Primary Care on a Budget?
By Hye-Jin Kim
Senior Writer
“The entire Middlebury 
community will have 
problems with access-
ing primary care, so they 
may use the Porter Emer-
gency Department for 
things that could have 
been managed in an in-
ternal medicine office.”
 Sandra Robinson
Nurse Supervisor at Porter Hospital
“I’d characterize Por-
ter’s condition as an 
acute illness, but we’ve 
stabilized the patient, 
we’re treating the ail-
ments and it’s going to 
be OK.”
 Dr. Fred Kniffen
Interim CEO of porter Hospital
 This column is written by white 
students and for white students. Each 
week, we will discuss topics or themes 
regarding race, and more specifically, 
the role of whiteness in race relations. 
If you would like to reach out to us per-
sonally to continue these conversations, 
please feel free to do so.
 
“Guilt is not a response to anger; it is 
a response to one’s own actions or lack of 
action. If it leads to change, then it can 
be useful, since it is then no longer guilt 
but the beginning of knowledge.” - from 
The Uses of Anger: Women Responding 
to Racism (1981) in Sister Outsider
 If you are white and have been fol-
lowing our column with some regularity, 
chances are you have stumbled across 
something we have written that has 
made you cringe. Maybe it was a sen-
tence that used the word ‘privileged’ to 
describe you, and made you question 
whether you wanted to read the rest of 
the op-ed – it felt like an attack on you, 
rather than on your whiteness. Maybe 
it was a statistic about racialized po-
lice brutality that demoralized you into 
thinking that there is no hope for change 
in our clearly-not-post-racial society. Or 
it’s possible that you feel a consistent, 
deep sense of guilt and responsibility, 
looking the way you do, for the experi-
ence of non-white individuals in this 
country. This has happened for each of 
us, too. This type of self-hatred can build 
to a point where you start to question the 
productivity of educating yourself about 
white privilege. And that’s what we want 
to challenge, so we can continue engag-
ing with our whiteness in the most effec-
tive way possible.
 Studying race tends to be uncomfort-
able for white people, especially those of 
us who didn’t discuss issues surround-
ing race, or racism more generally, while 
growing up. This silence surrounding 
racism in white communities is par-
tially the result of suppressed, collective 
guilt for that which white people have 
not secured justly. White guilt is that 
gut feeling we get individually when we 
learn that we hold unearned power, just 
because of our skin color. The thought 
might occur: “I didn’t ask to be born 
white.” Well no, of course not, but that 
does not change the fact that we will 
travel through life with institutions on 
our side. It does not change the fact that 
as white people, we are always at risk 
of being or saying something racist, be-
cause we directly benefit from racism 
and may live whole portions of our lives 
in ignorance of its existence. At its worst, 
white guilt can block our ability to talk 
about racism in a meaningful way; at its 
best, it can fuel action.
 Many white people allow the guilt 
they feel about their whiteness to fester 
silently, so that the slightest mention of 
race triggers aggressive defense mecha-
nisms. Outward responses to this guilt 
can take the form of defensive phrases 
that demonstrate that we feel attacked. 
These are the commonplace responses 
wielded by white people in our society: 
“that’s not me!,” “I didn’t mean it that 
way,” “but I have Black friends.” In an 
attempt to absolve oneself of blame, the 
individuals making these statements 
instead delegitimize the person speak-
ing up against systemic racism. The fre-
quency and ease with which white people 
can be nudged into this defensive state 
is known as white fragility. Feeling guilty 
when you are called out for something 
you have done and said is in many ways a 
natural reaction. It shows that you have 
registered the way you hurt someone’s 
humanity. Acknowledging that you feel 
guilty is a critical first step, and there 
are certainly ways guilt can be produc-
tive. However, when you find that you 
react to this twinge of guilt by rushing to 
implicate anyone but yourself in having 
done something wrong, it is necessary 
to critically analyze what is behind your 
reaction and the impact it has on others.
  These defensive reactions put the fo-
cus on us, as we demand the opportunity 
and space to explain what we meant to 
say and attempt to salvage our reputa-
tions, which is entirely counterproduc-
tive to the guilt we feel about already gar-
nering so much attention because of the 
color of our skin. When a person of color, 
or anyone for that matter, points out that 
we have said or done something racist 
and/or oppressive, it is an opportunity to 
learn, to fill gaps in an education shield-
ed by our privilege. By focusing the inci-
dent on us – by crying, getting angry, or 
claiming hurt feelings from being called 
racist – we are ignoring the pain we have 
caused someone. We have diverted the 
conversation from an opportunity to en-
gage with some of the most challenging 
systems of inequality we will contend 
with in our lifetimes, to a conversation 
about us. Ultimately, we have done this 
Last Friday, students gathered in Mc-
Cardell Bicentennial Hall for the Spring 
Student Symposium to celebrate the 
scholarly and creative pursuits of their 
peers. Students in 
all stages of their 
Middlebury ca-
reers presented 
independent proj-
ects, and many se-
niors showcased 
the work of their 
senior theses. In light of the symposium, 
our board discussed the imbalance of 
senior work across departments. Senior 
work is inherently valuable because it 
allows students to ref lect on their years 
of coursework, develop expertise on a 
topic of interest, apply the skills they’ve 
learned in the classroom and to create 
something substantial that could be of 
use in the future. We believe that there 
should be some form of senior work – 
whether that is an independent study, 
thesis or a more creative pursuit – re-
quired by all departments. 
We acknowledge that departments 
may have unique 
requirements that 
ref lect the kind 
of academic work 
that belongs to 
the area of study. 
For example, his-
tory majors write 
two theses be-
cause historians 
consistently con-
duct investigative 
studies. However, 
other depart-
ments’ require-
ments are not necessarily purposeful – 
they are ref lections of limited resources. 
Theses require the time and energy of 
professors, who are often dramatically 
outnumbered by students. For indepen-
dent work in the sciences, it is unrealis-
tic for each student to have time in the 
laboratory. Senior work requires time 
and resources, and many professors are 
concerned that requiring all students to 
have a project would mean a sacrifice 
in the quality of work. However, we be-
lieve that there is a way for all students 
to do senior work without sacrificing the 
quality of all projects. At Bates College, 
a peer institution, 96 percent of seniors 
write theses, which suggests there is a 
way to solve this deficiency. We believe 
that departments should reconsider the 
role professors play as advisors or the 
three-term long requirement. If politi-
cal science did not require its seniors 
to write a year-long thesis, and instead 
shortened the length of papers and had 
students write them during a single se-
mester, perhaps their advisors would 
feel less burdened and more professors 
would be available, and students would 
feel less daunted by the prospect. 
In order to ame-
liorate this re-
source issue, and 
because we be-
lieve senior work 
is highly valuable 
and should be 
open to everyone, 
the board hopes 
that departments 
reconsider the 
entire concept of 
senior work. Stu-
dents should con-
duct a capstone 
project of their choosing. This could 
take the form of a group project, an in-
dependent study, an event or a research 
paper. If we expand the definition of se-
nior work, requiring all students to do 
something should not be a burden and 
we believe it would be a highly valu-
able experience for all involved. Every 
student should have the opportunity to 
apply what they have learned while at 
Middlebury to pursue a topic of interest 
to them, while honing the skills required 
for self-guided research.
 Right now, what it takes to graduate 
with honors is different in every depart-
ment. By creating more options and re-
quiring all seniors to participate, stu-
dents will graduate with a work they are 
proud of – in whatever form that may 
be. 
Conducting senior work is inherently 
beneficial and should be accessible for 
everyone. Likewise, we believe that if se-
nior work requirements were more uni-
form, then the requirements themselves 
would not be a decisive factor when 
choosing a major. You should chose eco-
nomics because you love economics, not 
because you are not required to write a 
thesis and in equal vein, one should not 
be pushed away from the history ma-
jor because they are required to write 
two theses which can be both burden-
some and prevent someone from going 
abroad. 
Middlebury has impressive, yet un-
der-utilized resources like the inter-
library loan system, research librar-
ians and the archives, that all students 
should be exposed to. By making senior 
work obligatory – while expanding the 
definition of what that work may be – 
seniors will feel a sense of community 
and pride in what they will create. We 
have the skills to create extraordinary 
capstones that can be the exclamation 
point of our academic careers. We rec-
ognize that senior work will look dif-
ferent between departments depend-
ing on resources and the number of 
students, and that there are still many 
unanswered questions as to how such a 
requirement would look, but we still be-
lieve that Middlebury should look for a 
solution. Accordingly, we should be en-
couraged to do senior work in whatever 
creative way we see fit, so that every se-
nior graduates with this rich, academic 
experience. 
opinions
editorial board 
The content written within the 
Opinions pages may cause emotional 
distress. Please excercise discretion.
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor. The 
opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions 
section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial com-
ics and other commentary, are views of the individ-
ual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the 
opinions of the newspaper. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.
middleburycampus.com. To be considered for pub-
lications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. 
Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all 
submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
Seniors: Work, Work, Work, Work, Work (Work)
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Claire Abbadi
MANAGING EDITOR
Leah Lavigne
BUSINESS MANAGER
Wyatt French
NEWS EDITORS 
Christian Jambora, Eliza Teach, Phil Bohl-
man, Ellie Reinhardt
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Sara Hodgkins, Francesca Haass, Lauren 
Alper, Nina Colombotos 
SPORTS EDITORS 
Alex Morris, Emily Bustard, Andrew Rigas, 
Will Case, Remo Plunkett
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Rebecca Walker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Emilie Munson, Ethan Brady, Henry Bur-
nett, Renee Chang
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Elizabeth Zhou, Toby Aicher
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel Frank, Ivan Valladares, Michael 
O’Hara, Anthea Viragh, Michael Boren-
stein 
DESIGN EDITORS
Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Boone McCoy-Crisp
ONLINE EDITORS
Maggie Cochrane, Pyone Aye 
COPY EDITOR
Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOST
Nathaniel Wiener
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITORS
 Pyone Aye, Nathaniel Wiener
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
official opinion of 
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Disclaimer: Reader op-eds do not reflect the opinion of The Middlebury Campus editorial board. 
“Students should conduct 
a capstone project of their 
choosing. This could take 
the form of a group proj-
ect, an independent study, 
an event or a research pa-
per.” 
On White Guilt and white fragility
facing whiteness
Juliette Gobin ’16 is from Harrison, NY
Emma Ronai-Durning ‘18 is from 
Salem, OR
Anna Iglitzin ’17.5 is from Seattle, WA
Annie Taylor ’16 is from San Carlos, CA
April 21, 2016 | 7opinions
On White Guilt and white fragility
with the sole intent of proving we are not 
racist to retain our pride, instead of ad-
mitting to or condemning our own words 
and actions. When someone calls you 
out, it is an opportunity to engage and to 
listen, with both humility and humanity.
   We should not jump to defend our-
selves and say that we didn’t “mean it 
like that,” even if we didn’t. We must 
acknowledge that our words or actions 
have hurt someone. We need to ad-
mit these missteps. If we are fortunate 
enough to receive an explanation of why 
what we said was racist, we must listen. 
We should not expect this person to ex-
plain or go into detail about why what 
we did was offensive and problematic 
because we want to move on from the 
conversation feeling like a better person 
who understands how not to be racist. 
We turn to research and new resources, 
other white people, and we reflect. One 
of our writers searched “white privilege” 
her sophomore year, opened 15 to 20 ar-
ticles, and read for hours as her stomach 
churned. We recognize that this kind of 
work takes effort, but it is the work that 
ensures you will not perpetrate the same 
incident again. And certainly we neither 
expect, nor assume, that one sitting will 
be enough time to prevent yourself from 
saying something racially charged again. 
Facing and coming to terms with one’s 
whiteness is a lifelong and ongoing pro-
cess. If it’s hard, take a breath and re-
member that people have done harder 
things (i.e. attempt to survive a system 
that oppresses them daily). It’s a good 
first step.
 
Wonderbread: White Students for Ra-
cial Justice meets for discussion every 
Thursday night at 7 p.m. in Gifford Lec-
ture Hall.
 
What we are reading:
 
1. “White Fragility” by Robin DiAngelo
2. “I, Racist” by John Metta 
(Huffington Post)
 
3. Sister Outsider by Audre Lorde
 
4. “White Fragility is Racial Violence” by 
Amelia Shroyer (Huffington Post)
5. “4 Ways White People Can Process 
Their Emotions Without Bringing the 
White Tears” by Jennifer Loubriel (Ev-
eryday Feminism)
6. How I Learned to Stop Worrying and 
Love Discussing Race — Jay Smooth  
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 6
8 NEWS |april 21, 2016
CARTOONS
Emily COx WIN HOMER
KAITLYND COLLINS
Vaasu Taneja
BOONE MCCOY-CRISP
10features 11featuresAPRIL 21, 2016    | APRIL 21, 2016
A Spring Symposium Sampling
225 students gave a presentation, presented a poster, performed or otherwise highlighted their research or 
creative work at the Spring Symposium on Friday, April 15. This symposium was the tenth annual event of its 
kind. Here is a sampling of a few student works that caught our eye. 
Alex Gimbel ’16.5
History of Art and Religion joint major
Akbar’s Sacred Kinship: Religious Influences and their Visual 
Representations in the Akbarnama
I looked at various cultural and religious influences during the Mughal empire, 
specifically the 16th century under Akbar, that contributed to a new understand-
ing of sacred kingship, and this sacred kingship manifests visually in the history 
of Akbar’s reign. I think the most interesting thing I’ve learned so far is how 
much cross-cultural interaction there was even back in the late 15th century, and 
how genuinely productive respectful curiosity and a desire to learn can be.
Jon Broome ’16
Economics major
The Effects of Streaming Services on Music Piracy
My research sought to identify the particular feature of streaming services that 
entices consumers away from music piracy. Based on the results of my experi-
ment, convenient access to familiar music is the feature that draws listeners away 
from illegal modes of music consumption.
Larson Lovdal ’16.5
Physics major
Constructing a Simple and Versatile Optical Tweezer
I am using a single focused laser to hold or “trap” small plastic spheres. I am 
very impressed by the diverse types of objects from organelles to DNA we can 
manipulate using this technique.
Meena Fernald ’16
Political Science major
Unequal Opportunities: Education Funding Policy and the 
Achievement Gap
My research is a case study analysis that investigates the effects of education 
policy regarding teacher preparation, teacher salary, per-pupil spending, school 
choice and out-of-school opportunities on the achievement gap between Black 
and white students in six states. I think what has shocked me the most is the 
ways in which governors and other state leadership cut the education budget, 
given the overall importance placed on education in our country. 
Halle Gustafson ’16
Economics major
Rethinking the Gender Gap: Gender and Firm Production
My research is studying if men and women perform differently in different work 
environments. Doing this research has opened my eyes to the complexity of the 
gender gap in America and globally. While it is overwhelming how much prog-
ress still remains to be made, doing this research has helped show me that there 
is much more similarity between how men and women make decisions and that 
we respond less to gender norms than I had predicted. 
Katie Chamberlain ’16
Environmental Science and Geography joint major
Climate Change and Migration in the Mekong Delta
My research focused on the connection between climate change and migration 
in Vietnam by first examining how migration trends may reduce or increase 
vulnerability to climate change and second, analyzing the extent to which 
governments will facilitate migration there. What I found most interesting, and 
concerning, is that at the national level, the government is largely ignoring mi-
gration as a potential outcome of climate change and failing to plan for increased 
migration.
Andrew Smith ’19 (pictures may be in folder)
Undecided
The Catholic Church: Adapt or Wither
My research attempts to explain the varying condition of the Catholic Church in 
the US and abroad and compare trends of other Christian denominations with 
the current trends of Catholicism. While many people in the US are leaving the 
Catholic Church for its conservative viewpoints, the Mormon Church is growing 
in the US despite being even more conservative than the Catholic Church.
Oliver Oglesby ’18 
Geography / Architectural Studies joint-major
The (Post-)Apartheid City: Applying Hoyt’s Sector Theory to 
Cape Town, South Africa
My research took Hoyt’s “sector theory” of internal city structure from urban 
ecology and applied it to racial segregation in Cape Town, examining its influ-
ence on both the development of ‘Apartheid City’ form and its relevance for ex-
plaining contemporary segregation in Cape Town. The most intriguing thing I’ve 
learned so far is the remarkable parallels between the Chicagoan sector model 
and conceptual Apartheid planning models.
Sam Hage ’16 (picture attached)
Computer Science major
Regis FILLbin: A Crossword Puzzle Solver
Regis FILLbin is an AI that uses probabilistic constraint satisfaction to solve the 
New York Times crossword puzzle faster than any human. After seven months 
of this project, I dream in crossword clues and everything looks like a puzzle 
grid. I’d like to incorporate backtracking into my solver — basically instead of 
finishing the puzzle with some mistakes, try to go back and fix them.
Written by Ethan Brady, Emilie Munson
Design by Julia Hatheway
Photos by Michael O’Hara and Emilie Munson 
Section of Famed AIDS Memorial Quilt on Display
People paticipating in this year’s “Sleep-Out” will camp at Marbleworks, near the foot of the Otter Creek Falls in Middlebury. 
12 features | April 21, 2016
In 1985, San Francisco gay rights ac-
tivist Cleve Jones had an idea that led to a 
national symbol of loss, love and activism. 
During a local memorial to AIDS victims, 
Jones imagined a giant quilt to honor 
the lives lost in the HIV/AIDS epidemic 
that was sweeping the nation. In the year 
that followed, Jones and other volunteers 
started the NAMES Project Foundation 
and began receiving submissions.
 The Quilt was displayed for the first 
time on the National Mall in Washing-
ton D.C. in 1987 as part of the National 
March on Washington for Lesbian and 
Gay Rights. At the time the Quilt com-
prised almost 2,000 panels. According 
to the NAMES Project, the Quilt, which 
was nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize in 
1989, now contains over 48,000 panels in 
memory of over 94,000 of the lives lost to 
HIV/AIDS in the last 30 years.
As part of the American Studies course 
“Monuments and Memorials,” the College 
is currently hosting a piece of the AIDS 
Quilt, which will be hanging in the Davis 
Family Library until April 29. 
The panel on display, block 00990, 
makes up a small part of the world’s larg-
est community art project. The a section 
of the Quilt eventually found its way to 
Middlebury thanks to Lisa Gates, Associ-
ate Dean for Fellowships and Research, 
and Deb Evans, a Visiting Assistant Pro-
fessor of American Studies. Together, 
Gates and Evans decided to bring a section 
to the College as part of their course with 
the help of a variety of organizations on 
campus. Gates believes it is important for 
the student body to understand the signifi-
cance of the Quilt as a memorial, and the 
magnitude of the AIDS epidemic. 
“[The Quilt is] an important memo-
rial. For young people today, HIV is a 
manageable condition. But in the 1980s 
and early 1990s, it was a death sentence,” 
Gates said. “The gay male community, in-
travenous drug users and hemophiliacs 
were hit very hard. Initially, the federal 
government was very slow to respond to 
the epidemic and the Quilt became part of 
an important surge of activism within the 
gay community to demand resources and 
research to address this health crisis.” 
Both Gates and Evans believe the 
growing nature of the Quilt is fitting for 
a memorial to HIV/AIDS, both because 
of the way medicine evolved in response 
to the epidemic and how public percep-
tion has changed over time. Gates says 
the panel displayed, which was created 
around 1987, reflects how those diagnosed 
with HIV/AIDS felt socially marginalized, 
especially in the early years of the epi-
demic. 
“[The Quilt] reflects both individual 
identity and also protects that in differ-
ent ways,” she said. “You will see panels up 
there that speak very specifically of who 
this person was–when were they born, 
when did they die, you will see pictures, 
you will see things that suggest who they 
were in life, what their roles were, who 
they were connected to. You will also see 
panels that are about representing people 
anonymously.” 
According to Evans, the portion of the 
Quilt in Davis was specifically chosen for 
Middlebury because of the square paying 
tribute to the unnamed Vermonters who 
died of HIV/AIDS. 
Clair Beltran ’16 is a student in the 
Monuments and Memorials class and she 
has appreciated learning about the impor-
tance of the Quilt as a memorial. 
“The AIDS Quilt is cool because I had 
only ever heard of AIDS as a disease and 
did not know any memorials–local [or] 
national–had been donated or devoted to 
it,” Beltran said. “The personal and indi-
vidual effort to memorialize people and 
remember them is powerful in making this 
loss both a personal [and] a collective act 
and memory.”
One of Beltran’s classmates, Nathaniel 
Weiner ’18, had the opportunity to see a 
larger portion of the Quilt before he came 
to Middlebury.  
“I visited the AIDS Memorial Quilt in 
Atlanta in seventh grade as part of a school 
trip. I was able to see the Quilt in storage 
and I was surprised by the immense scale 
of it,” Weiner said. 
Evans believes that because the dis-
play in Davis only includes a small piece, it 
is important for people to understand the 
larger context. “That we are able to bring 
a piece of this memorial to Middlebury is 
very moving. There’s something about be-
ing able to see the handiwork of individu-
als brought together in this way,” Evans 
said. “These panels are so personal–you 
can see in the section we have on campus 
that some blocks are the work of profes-
sional craftsmen, [and] others are more 
homespun. They all are bound by the fact 
that someone wanted to make visible their 
grief and loss.” 
In the spirit of the AIDS Quilt, the 
exhibit invites participation in the form 
of an arts and crafts table in the lobby 
of Davis (the Quilt itself is one floor up) 
where visitors can represent their reac-
tions artistically.
“One of the wonderful things about 
the Quilt is its openness to participation,” 
Gates said. “We wanted to both honor that 
openness and create a kind of dialogic 
space around the Quilt. So much about 
HIV/AIDS is different than it was 30 years 
ago. But loss, memory, grief—those have 
not changed. We wanted to invite reflec-
tion from those seeing the Quilt about 
whatever this means to them, here and 
now.”
Gates hopes that students, staff and 
community members will take time to 
visit the display. “I hope visitors will be 
inspired to learn more about the AIDS 
epidemic in the US in the 1980s and 1990s 
and the realities of HIV/AIDS globally to-
day,” she said. 
“[The] political value [of the Quilt] 
may have been of a particular historical 
moment, but its human value continues. It 
is a reminder to us all of the importance of 
compassion and love. Looking at the land-
scape of HIV/AIDS today, there is so much 
work still to be done.”
“So much about HIV/
AIDS is different than it 
was thirty years ago. But 
loss, memory, grief — 
those have not changed. ”
Lisa gates
Associate dean for fellowships and research
A section of the AIDS Memorial Quit, which consists of over 48,000 panels, has been 
on display at the Davis Library since April 11 and will remain until the month’s end.
By Sarah Asch
Contributing Writer
Middlebury college
ACROSS
1 Vegas Palace
7 Baseball’s Doubleday
13 Montana’s capital
14 Parental request in a 
religious household?
15 All the news and blogs, 
in Canada
16 Those who reveal skel-
etons
17 Appliance brand 
founded in Schenecta-
dy
18 “No alcohol provided,” 
briefly
19	 “That’s	fine”
21 Non-alcoholic cock-
tails
26 ___-Dixon Line
27 Hercules’ daughter
28	 Racial	profiling	of	
black drivers, say
30 “Illmatic” rapper
31 Type of cast-iron stove
34	 Greek	prefix	meaning	
“primeval”
35 Patron saint of desper-
ate cases
36 Like some shots
38 Kids in the fam
40 Rocky Balboa’s greet-
ing
41 Ctrl-___-Del
42 Cam Newton does it
46 Displays for old TVs
48 “Sunday Night Foot-
ball” airer
50 John Deere soil-turner
51 Of or relating to The 
Way
52 N.L. East team, on 
scoreboards
54 F.D.R. medium
56 “Ice Age” sloth
57 Cartoon Great Dane, 
for short
59 Doughnuts hailing 
from Winston-Salem
62 Nev. neighbor
63 Unimpressed utter-
ance
64 Called Northern Rho-
desia, once
65 Fish by letting the bait 
bob
66	 Financial	aid	profile
67 Rand who wrote “Atlas 
Shrugged”
68 Elihu and family
DOWN
1 Group of Charlies, for 
short
2 Virgil epic, abbr.
3 Catullus, e.g.
4 Home for gators and 
turtles, some say
5 Clue on “Jeopardy!”: 
abbr.
6 Sun god
7 Richard Strauss opera
8 Cook’s leaf
9 Dec. 31
10 Enlist, in England
11 Took a chance on
12 Impose, as a tax
14 Expert F.Y.I.
16 Karyotype for an extra 
male chromosome
18 Traitorous eggs dish?
20 In addition to, say
22	 Prefix	for	a	ship,	in	
Australia
23 Sacred lily
24 Irving’s “A Prayer for 
Owen ___”
25 World War II hero 
George
29 Boxing contests
32	 Omahan,	by	definition
33 The other smarts
37 Trivia items
39 Weather the ___, in 
Ireland
42 Locale of “The Inter-
view”: abbr.
43 Burglar deterrents
44 Governing groups
45 Kanye West’s seventh 
album, once
47 ___ ___ side, as con-
joined twins
49 What a Breathalyzer 
measures, abbr.
53 Where John Fogerty is 
stuck again
55 Butt of jokes, on Red-
dit
57 Replaced with a shield
58 Ruth around bases
60 ___ Boost 350, for ft.
61 A.F.C. East team, on 
scoreboards
Crossword Puzzle by Ethan BradyFood Network
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE
APRil 21, 2016   13features 
Good Ol’ Campus: Student Government Elections
With SGA elections occurring this 
week, the Good Ol’ Campus turns to an 
election debate of yesteryear. In the Oct. 
10, 1934 issue, the Campus’s letter to the 
editor discusses the ‘inter-fraternity 
politics’ and ‘backstabbing ’that marred 
the elections. The editors argue for a 
general election style, similar to what 
the SGA follows now. 
Last week the first of this year’s stu-
dent elections were held, and, as is usu-
ally the case, general dissatisfaction with 
the situation is evident. The manner in 
which certain elections on both sides of 
the ‘hill’ were conducted has met with 
an undercurrent of disapproval as well 
as outspoken objection. It seems more 
obvious than ever before that the pres-
ent system, or lack of system, must be 
improved upon. And, although minor 
changes in the election procedure may 
superficially improve matters, we feel 
that no real solution to the question can 
be arrived at unless a general election 
day is adopted for Middlebury.
Under our present slipshod system, 
class elections and the election of the 
presidents of the student government 
association and the undergraduate as-
sociation are carried on each at a dif-
ferent time, and usually upon very short 
notice. Attendance at these meetings is 
often extremely poor; they are held, as 
a rule, either immediately after lunch 
or soon after dinner. The post-luncheon 
time is most inconvenient, particularly 
for those who have afternoon classes and 
for the students who wait on table, and 
the evening meetings are very poorly at-
tended for obvious reasons. Quite often 
a quorum is not attained, and the people 
who bothered to attend are naturally re-
sentful. Under the general election day 
system, all class officers and the two col-
lege undergraduate presidents would be 
elected on the same day, with sufficient 
advance notice. To do away with the dif-
ficulty of setting a time when all would 
attend and vote, polls could be held open 
for most of the day—let us say from 9 a. 
m. until 3 p. m.
Instead of having hand-picked nom-
inations made in supposed secrecy, or 
instead of having nominations made 
from the floor at the meeting, nomina-
tions could be held open to any student 
eligible for two weeks before election. A 
petition might be required. 
Of course, politics would not be 
eliminated under the proposed system-
we know of none under which they can 
be eliminated; they are the result of 
those who operate a system, and not of 
the system itself. But at least a certain 
degree of frankness might be attained, 
with a minimum of back-stabbing. 
By Grace Levin
Contributing Writer
Kendo Demonstration Highlights Feudal Martial Art
On Tuesday April 19 in the Mahaney Cen-
ter for the Arts Dance Theater, the Boston 
Kendo Kyokai and Boston Shufukai groups 
performed a gripping demonstration of one of 
the oldest and most celebrated Japanese mar-
tial arts, Kendo. Kendo means “the way of the 
sword” and is similar to modern fencing. Ken-
do originates from Japan’s past feudal societies 
and despite its bloody heritage, now focuses on 
instilling courtesy, humility, self-control and 
fighting spirit in its participants. Kendo fight-
ers are trained through mental discipline and 
rigorous work-outs. This demonstration was 
sponsored by the Department of History of Art 
and Architecture. 
Photos by Anthea von Viragh
Photo Editor
JOIN OUR TEAM! 
Apply to write for the Middlebury Campus! Accepting contributing 
writers in all sections. Email campus@middlebury.edu.
90 percent of the time, books have 
some quality time on my shelf before I get 
to read them. My existing “to read” list is 
always longer than reasonable, and books 
sometimes sit in my bedroom for years be-
fore I have a chance to crack them open. 
After I bought Patrick Rothfuss’ book The 
Name of the Wind 
on the suggestion 
of a couple friends, 
it was consigned to 
waiting on my dorm room bookshelf for a 
semester while I dealt with dozens of plays 
and articles to be read for class each week 
and tried to stick with shorter, lighter 
reading for pleasure. In the few months 
that it sat there, at least three people saw 
it, immediately asked me about it, and 
upon learning that I hadn’t yet read it, 
insisted that I read it immediately before 
anything else. Perhaps the fact that after 
only a few chapters I completely failed 
to do my homework or anything else one 
Saturday because I couldn’t put it down 
proves they were right.
The Name of the Wind – the first in 
an ongoing trilogy – is a fantasy novel 
that seems at once familiar and strange. It 
starts off with a scene that seems to be typ-
ical of the beginning of almost everything 
fantasy/sci-fi: a quiet little town where 
no one really believes in ancient magic or 
monsters and are all shocked and skepti-
cal when it seems that they were wrong, 
except for the one secretive old man who 
realizes the past is finally catching up to 
him. At this point, I was still doubtful of 
the praise this book has elicited. Although 
this mythic backstory has been used effec-
tively and impressively many times over, it 
is also the definition of a tired cliché, and I 
had really been hoping for more out of the 
gate with this novel.
However, af-
ter sticking it out 
through the first 
couple chapters, it suddenly became clear 
that this was not the start of a story at all, 
but rather it appeared to be the end of one. 
Instead of the secretive old man leading an 
innocent and well-intentioned protagonist 
out into the world, another man named 
the Chronicler appears, and coaxes the old 
man – whose name is Kvothe – into tell-
ing the story of his life. The majority of the 
book is Kvothe’s autobiography.
My major criticism of this novel is 
that it moves too slowly. The beginning 
took slightly too long to move to the more 
original material and style. Then, there 
seemed to be long stretches of the story 
where very little was actually advanced 
plot-wise, and only slightly more in terms 
of character building. The latter problem 
was augmented by the fact that for the first 
two thirds of the story, there are few sup-
porting characters that are well developed 
and present for long periods of time. Thus, 
while we get a great deal of Kvothe’s inner 
reflections and watch his personality de-
velop, we don’t get very many people who 
complement that growth or offer a change 
of pace. This changes in the last third of 
the novel, when Kvothe begins to attend 
the University, but at 
that point so many 
important side char-
acters are introduced 
all at once that it feels 
a bit overwhelming, 
especially in contrast 
to the story up until 
that point.
On the other 
hand, Rothfuss has 
such skill for engag-
ing narration that I 
was never once bored. 
While people and 
events that seem like 
they should be major 
plotlines may not be 
pursued until hundreds of pages after they 
are introduced, everything in between still 
captivated my attention. Kvothe’s narra-
tion moves naturally and smoothly from 
the telling of an epic to more personalized, 
relatable, human moments. He finds him-
self unable to describe the girl he falls in 
love with and he admits it – yet he insists 
that he try anyway, and ends up speaking 
hesitantly in short, confused phrases, all 
of which together gives the reader both a 
much stronger impression of the girl and 
of Kvothe’s feelings, past and present, to-
wards her. The short chapters that leap 
forward to where the book opens, with the 
Chronicler noting down Kvothe’s story, 
always seem timed 
perfectly to give you 
a break while leaving 
just enough suspense 
to make sure you con-
tinue reading when 
the first-person nar-
ration resumes.
I am not sure I 
felt as passionately 
enthusiastic about 
The Name of the 
Wind as the people 
who ordered me to 
read it without de-
lay. If this one sits on 
your bookshelf for a 
few months or even a 
few years, you’re probably not missing the 
next Harry Potter. However, I’d definitely 
recommend taking it down and dusting 
it off when you find yourself with a free 
Saturday. And with the final installment 
of the trilogy hopefully arriving this year, 
it might be a good time to put it on your 
reading list.
arts & sciences
don’t
miss
this
The Sound Investment Jazz Ensemble
The Sound Investment Jazz Ensemble is the College’s 
swingin’ big band, featuring great musicians play-
ing the music that’s been dubbed America’s National 
Treasure. In previous appearances at 51 Main, the 
band played to full houses that didn’t want the music 
to end. 
4/22, 8 P.M., 51 MAIN AT THE BRIDGE
The Bernoulli Family and their Math Creations
Baldwin Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philoso-
phy Peter Schumer will present a mathematics seminar 
talk on the Swiss Bernoulli family. The family included at 
least eight prominent mathematicians and scientists. He 
will discuss a bit of their family history and  then give a 
brief overview of some of their interesting mathematics.
4/26, 3:15 P.M., WARNER 208
Heidi Rehm ’93 Genetics Lecture
With the plummeting cost of sequencing, ge-
netic data is becoming increasingly available for 
use in the diagnosis and treatment of disease. To 
ensure successful use of genomics in medicine 
will require the community to come together to 
share data for clinical and research use. 
4/22, 1:45 P.M., MBH 216
The Pitchfork Disney stupefied, 
disgusted and enticed audiences at the 
Hepburn Zoo from April 14-16. Written 
in 1991 by Philip Ridley, the often dark, 
sometimes grotesque comedy was direct-
ed by Kristin Corbett ’16.5 and produced 
by Alexander Burnett 
’16 as his senior the-
sis work. The show 
began with a masked 
figure closing the door 
to the Hepburn Zoo 
stage and locking no 
fewer than seven bolts. 
This proved only the 
beginning of the iso-
lation, fear and anxi-
ety brought on by The 
Pitchfork Disney.
The play chroni-
cles a slice of the lives of Presley and Hal-
ey Stray, portrayed by Burnett and Mad-
eleine Russell ’19. The 28-year-old twins 
live very much like children, arguing over 
everything from chores to chocolate. 
Their fixations on oblivion, an imaginary 
apocalypse and violence, however, soon 
reveal that their childishness is more per-
verse than it is endearing.
Haley and Presley, whose parents 
died of mysterious and unknown causes, 
live cooped up together in their London 
home, subsisting mostly off of candy and 
stories spun from their past, their imagi-
nations and their dreams. After Haley 
falls into a drug-induced sleep that lasts 
the majority of the play, the twins’ dis-
turbing yet simple life is flipped on its 
head: a stranger dressed like a ringmas-
ter, Cosmo Disney, played by Cole Merrell 
’19, comes into their home and promptly 
vomits on the floor.
What unfolds thereafter is a crusade 
of fear through the minds of the charac-
ters and the audience members, as Pres-
ley and Cosmo detail their lives in twisted 
and shocking detail. The tension is not 
so much broken as it is supplemented 
by the bizarre humor stemming from the 
strange dynamic between the child like 
Presley and the devilish Cosmo.
Even before Cosmo explains his cir-
cus-like act by eating a cockroach, the au-
dience can sense the 
palpable surrealism 
in this nightmarish 
play.
“This play is 
a safe space for 
dangers (not from 
them), a place to 
commune with the 
things we run from 
but secretly love,” 
Corbett stated in the 
Director’s Note.
If this summary 
sounds strange, it is because the story 
is strange. Beginning its run for London 
audiences in the 1990s, The Pitchfork 
Disney is responsible for inciting the 
British “in-yer-face” theatre movement. 
Audiences were shocked by the events 
onstage, with some people walking out 
or even fainting from the disturbing and 
graphic images.
These reactions were both the goals 
and the side effects of the dark script. The 
story is a tale of fear, if fear could walk 
around and knock on your front door. 
The events of The Pitchfork Disney un-
spool our fears in a way that appeals to 
the slimy places within us.
“The Pitchfork Disney is about fears 
on many different levels,” Russell ex-
plained. “I think Cosmo touches on this 
idea a little bit: our instinct to enjoy being 
afraid.”
She is referencing the unnerving ap-
pearance of a character called Pitchfork 
Cavalier, played by Daniel Fulham ’18 
– a masked, cloaked and lurching figure 
whose apparently deformed face is never 
shown. Cosmo calls attention to the audi-
ence’s hunger for repulsion.
Themes of fear are approached 
through the eyes of childlike characters, 
those most prone to loss, phobia, night-
mares and weaknesses. In his numerous 
monologues, Presley spins visceral and 
agonizing tales of violence, isolation, fear 
and the subject of his recurring night-
mares: a serial killer called the Pitchfork 
Disney.
The tone dances between hilarious 
and menacing, though often hovering in 
both realms at once. Presley’s story of the 
snake he bought with his allowance mon-
ey and subsequently fried and ate turns 
our stomachs, but also intrigues us. Cos-
mo’s description of Pitchfork’s horrible 
features frightens us, but also pulls us in.
“The journey of bringing this play to 
life has been equal parts terrifying and hi-
larious,” Burnett wrote in his Producer’s 
Note. “In rehearsals, we would frequently 
break down in laughter at its absurdity.”
Although unsettling, the perfor-
mances were sharp and entertaining, the 
plot engrossing and fantastic. In many 
ways, to watch The Pitchfork Disney is to 
test the limits of what one can bear to wit-
ness — and yet still enjoy every moment 
of it.
 
Pitchfork Disney Indulges in Grotesque
By Finne Murphy
Staff Writer
“This play is a safe space 
for dangers (not from 
them), a place to com-
mune with the things we 
run from but secretly 
love.” 
-Kristin Corbett ’16.5
Michael Borenstein
booking it
By Gabrielle Owens
Senior Columnist
Rothfuss has such a skill 
for engaging narration 
that I was never once 
bored. While people and 
events that seem like they 
should be major plotlines 
may not be pursued until 
hundreds of pages after 
they are introduced, ev-
erything in between still 
captivated my attention.
The name of the wind
The Pitchfork Disney provocatively investigates our attraction to the grotesque.
April 21, 2016 | 15arts & SCIENCES
This Friday, April 22, the College’s 
swingin’ big band, the Sound Investment 
Jazz Ensemble (SIJE), will make its an-
nual spring appearance at 51 Main from 
8 to 10 p.m. The joint is always jamming 
and the SIJE’s music is sure to keep fin-
gers snapping and toes tapping. To get 
the scoop on the group and its musicians, 
I caught up with guitarist Zak Fisher ’16 
and drummer Stuart Warren ’17 with a 
few questions.
What role does music play for 
you?
Stuart Warren (SW): It provides a 
context in which to have fun, connect with 
people, express myself and take a break 
from words.
Zak Fisher (ZF): In Twilight of the 
Idols, Nietzsche says, “Without music, life 
would be a mistake.” I think he’s right. To 
me, music alone adequately reflects the in-
tense “is-ness” of living, the constant pro-
gression and change of being alive. Simi-
larly, life can be understood in music. We 
live in movements; we fall or rise in often 
magnificent cadences; the legato pulse of 
the wind on an open field or the staccato 
harshness of being reprimanded by an 
“authority” figure are fundamentally musi-
cal experiences. If music were to leave my 
life — if all of the joy, sorrow and grandeur 
that come along with music were somehow 
ripped away from me — I have no doubt 
that I would want to die.  
What do you try to do with your 
performances?
ZF: I don’t know that I’m always “try-
ing” to do anything. In SIJE, though, I defi-
nitely am. I am constantly striving to sup-
port the whole of the piece.  If, for example, 
my dude Drew is laying down a greasy, 
disgusting solo over those wacky changes 
on “Brother Mister,” I’m going to be trying 
my best to make sure beats one and two in 
every other measure are strong and reso-
lute so that he can complete each phrase 
with the strength he needs to ensure maxi-
mum stank quotient. On the other hand, if 
Goblin-Mike is delicately playing his line in 
“In a Mellow Tone,” I want to lay down a 
higher-register texture that gives him lots 
of space to tip-toe through that beautifully 
curvy shred.
How does playing in a jazz en-
semble differ from your other per-
formances, such as those at WOMP?
SW: At WOMP, I only have myself to 
listen to, and only one vision to fulfill. In 
jazz ensemble, I focus on others’ sound 
and the overall band’s vision. I am never 
in charge of the groove. Rather, I facilitate 
temporary groove agreements within the 
band. Except during my solos, listening to 
and supporting others is the priority.
ZF: At the end of the day, it’s all ba-
sically the same. That being said, I usually 
have absolutely no idea what I’m going to 
play at WOMP until I get up on stage. Usu-
ally the words and music are all improvised. 
In SIJE, there are a lot of parameters I’m 
better off following. There’s a certain free-
dom in total freedom, and likewise there’s a 
certain freedom in having limitations. Mu-
sic has a lot to do with freedom, but free-
dom can mean lots of things.  The WOMP 
performances are also more likely than the 
jazz performances to feature profanity.
 
Any other thoughts on music, 
performing and artistic expression?
ZF: I might be wrong on this, but it 
seems to me that we can’t count on a do-
over. When we die, we probably will not be 
able to make any more music. There are 
lots of people who are really rich, or have 
really attractive sex partners, or have re-
ally big houses, or are CEOs or presidents 
or whatever, but something tells me that 
— if they’re fortunate enough to have a 
moment for reflection on their deathbeds—
they won’t be regretting not having more of 
those things. Whether they can articulate it 
this way or not, they will regret not having 
made the world more beautiful and reach-
ing out to the souls of their fellow human 
beings; they will regret not having made 
more music.
Why is 51 Main the place to be on 
Friday night?
SW: The band has not played live for a 
while and I think we are hungry for an au-
dience. We will deliver a high-energy, joy-
ful performance to show our appreciation 
to everyone there.
ZF: The tunes will be hot, the solos will 
be greasy and the guitarist will be single.
 
The Sound Investment Jazz Ensemble 
uses the traditional mix of saxes, trom-
bones, trumpets, piano, guitar, bass and 
drums, supplemented on occasion by other 
instruments and vocalists. In addition to 
their work with SIJE, both Warren and 
Fisher play in a number of different groups 
and venues. Say hi to them after their set on 
Friday and make sure to ask Warren about 
the new lo-fi concept album, Antediluvian, 
that their group, Languisher, just released 
on bandcamp. And as always, swing by 
WOMP around 9:30 p.m. on Wednesdays 
to let Fisher bust your stress away.
By Connor Forrest
Senior Columnist
Performing Arts Sp    TLight: 
Sound INvestment Jazz Ensemble 
 
Middlebury College Performing Arts Series
The Sound Investment Jazz Ensemble, the College’s student jazz band, will perform at 51 Main this Friday from 8 to 10 p.m.
The term “colorblind casting” may 
not be familiar to people outside the the-
atre world, but the issues that pertain 
to colorblind casting are ever pervasive 
and relevant in society today. Color blind 
casting, also known as color-conscious-
ness or non-traditional casting, is the 
consideration of actors of all races and 
ethnicities for production roles. This 
form of casting can be controversial, as 
the intent behind casting individuals for 
certain roles may be misconstrued or 
considered offensive.
Last year, Kent State University in 
Ohio put on a production of The Moun-
taintop that featured a white male as 
Martin Luther King Jr. In an article pub-
lished by The Root, the play’s creator 
Katori Hall described the portrayal of a 
white King as “committing yet another 
erasure of the black body.” Additionally, 
he stated that this casting decision put 
forth “a pervasive misconception that 
plays with roles for black protagonists 
are not good enough, won’t sell or don’t 
even exist.”
Dominique Morisseau, a renowned 
African American playwright whose 
works investigate the experiences of Af-
rican Americans in Detroit and New York 
City, helped clarify the issue in a Skype 
interview with a group of Middlebury 
students. According to Mrs. Morisseau, 
the term “colorblind” is a facile simpli-
fication. Instead, she prefers the term 
“color-conscious casting,” as it more ef-
fectively captures the nuance of race is-
sues in theatre.
Every individual in a given commu-
nity has access to the dominant culture 
– in our case, white America. This in-
evitably lends itself to a disproportionate 
number of stories focused on Caucasians, 
and subsequently fewer roles for actors 
of color. Morisseau explained that the 
lack of exposure to minority cultures fun-
damentally prohibits white actors from 
accurately portraying those roles, as they 
lack sufficient exposure to the culture. 
People of color, on the other hand, are 
perpetually surrounded by the domi-
nant culture, as well as their own culture. 
They can inherently connect with both of 
them.
Issues concerning both race in the-
atre and the disproportionate number of 
stories focused on white America show-
cased itself very recently in this year’s 
Oscars. Nicknamed #OscarsSoWhite, the 
88th Academy Awards stirred up con-
troversy for its lack of diversity amongst 
the nominees in the 20 major acting 
categories for the second consecutive 
year. Spike Lee, Jada Pinkett Smith Will 
Smith, Lupita Nyong’o, George Clooney, 
Idris Elba and Viola Davis were among 
the celebrities who voiced their dissatis-
faction. 
Many believe that African Ameri-
can actors in movies such as Beast of 
No Nation, Straight Outta Compton, 
Concussion and Creed were overlooked. 
Some even went so far as to use the word 
“snubbed.” President Barack Obama per-
haps reached the heart of this contro-
versy when he voiced his opinion of this 
year’s Academy Awards nominations: “I 
think that California is an example of 
the incredible diversity of this country. 
That’s a strength. I think that when ev-
eryone’s story is told, then that makes for 
better art, it makes for better entertain-
ment, it makes everybody feel part of one 
American family, so I think as a whole 
the industry should do what every other 
industry should do, which is to look for 
talent, provide opportunity to everybody. 
And I think the Oscar debate is really just 
an expression of this broader issue. Are 
we making sure that everybody is getting 
a fair shot?”
The discussion of colorblind cast-
ing has frequented Middlebury’s campus 
in the past. An article published in The 
Campus on Nov. 13, 2013 described an in-
cident on Oct. 28 of the same year, when 
Associate Professor of Theatre Claudio 
Medeiros wrote and sent an email titled 
“Invitation to African, African-American 
and Latino Women,” in search of ac-
tresses for the role of Elizabeth in Sarah 
Ruhl’s In the Next Room. Many voiced 
their concern and discomfort in response 
to a message targeting women of color, 
and accused Medeiros of typecasting 
for the role of a wet-nurse or slave. Me-
deiros was acting in concordance with 
Morisseau’s ideas on the exposure and 
comprehension of different cultures. In 
response to the criticism, he stated, “It 
would change the role dramatically to 
have a white woman play that part. It is 
therefore important to try to honor the 
intent of the playwright.” 
Playwrights on their plays 
By Andrea Caroti
Ishan Guha
Jabari Matthew
Maddie Pronovost
Contributing Columnists
16 arts & SCIENCES | April 21, 2016
Drop-In Dance Explores Resiliency
During your daily trek to classes, the 
library or your favorite dining hall last 
week, you may have encountered an un-
usual sight – people making interpretive 
movements while donning headphones 
and wandering around a public space. 
If you stayed for long 
enough, you probably 
noticed that the ordeal 
seemed entirely un-
planned: over the course 
of an hour or so, ran-
dom passersby would 
occasionally jump in, 
receive a pair of wire-
less headphones and a 
written prompt, partici-
pate in a spontaneous, 
improvised performance 
for several minutes and 
then continue on with 
their day. Some people 
simply stood by and 
watched, while others 
walked past the scene 
without a second glance.
Also known as drop-
in dance performances, 
these informal, audience-based produc-
tions popped up twice last week, once in 
the Great Hall of Bicentennial Hall and 
once on the patio outside Ross Dining 
Hall during the lunch rush. The heavy 
foot traffic around these venues allowed 
for a large number of students to observe 
and potentially engage with the perfor-
mances.
A third art installation took place 
within the Warner Hall Greenhouse on 
Wednesday evening, April 13, though 
this one did not involve audience partici-
pation. Students and trained performers 
danced around inside as random pass-
ersby observed through the glass.    
These improvisational performances 
stemmed from the Movement Matters 
program, a two-year residency through 
the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and 
Middlebury College Dance Program that 
uses movement to explore the intersec-
tionality across disciplines. The team 
consists of choreographer and performer 
Maree ReMalia; sound designer David 
Bernabo; choreographer, dancer and 
educator Jil Stifel; creative director Da-
vid Cherry and visual artist Blaine Sie-
gel. Based in Pittsburgh, they meld their 
different artistic fields together through 
participatory events in an exploration 
of connectivity, sustainability and resil-
iency. 
“The very 
nature of these 
drop-in events is 
that it’s not nec-
essarily a viewer 
who is sitting and 
being danced at,” 
Stifel said. “It’s 
something that 
you happen upon 
the same way you 
happen upon a 
flower. It’s some-
thing to be en-
gaged with and 
interested in be-
fore moving on.”
R o d - b a s e d 
installation piec-
es marked both 
performance ven-
ues. Constructed 
by Siegel and placed artistically through-
out the space, these flexible physical 
structures were available for participants 
to interact with, destroy and rebuild.
To complete the scene, each drop-in 
performance was set against a score of 
sounds from the organic farm and select 
locations on campus. Created by Berna-
bo and audible only to the headphone-
wearing participants, the audio served 
as both the ambience and inspiration for 
physical expression. This phenomenon is 
commonly referred to as “silent disco” – 
the experience of dancing to music that 
only one person can hear.
To initiate the self-improvised per-
formances, each participant was offered 
a written prompt. These statements 
ranged from straightforward (“Yell at the 
space,” “Start a movement and repeat it 
with growing intensity” or “Swirl”) to sil-
ly (“Find a happy dance in your feet and 
get groovy”) to abstract (“Decorate the 
air with your movement” or “Respond 
to the architecture with textured move-
ment”). Individuals reacted to these 
prompts with a wide array of physical 
gestures, drawing curious glances from 
passersby all the while.
The Movement Matters team rec-
ognized that the significance of inter-
pretive dance may not be immediately 
apparent to viewers – or to performers, 
for that matter. Nevertheless, they ex-
pressed hope that, whether knowingly 
or not, participants benefited from these 
spontaneous, non-verbal expressions of 
the self.
“During our event at BiHall, we were 
asked by a student why what we are doing 
is important. It’s a good question – es-
pecially in an environment that runs on 
assignments, discourse and evaluation,” 
Stifel said. “Through research, we know 
some of the ways that we can foster re-
siliency in our brains are through mind-
fulness, exercise and social connection. 
By taking time to move our bodies with 
other people following specific prompts, 
we are engaging all of those practices 
at the same time. In this way, the act of 
dropping into a movement exploration is 
an artful way of strengthening our pow-
ers of resiliency.”
That is not to say that everyone felt 
quite ready to engage, however. Some 
people turned around and walked the 
other way when they saw the installa-
tion, not wanting to cross through the 
space. Others talked to the facilitators of 
the event as they walked by, but did not 
participate. This hesitancy may speak to 
the perceived inaccessibility of dance – 
an abstract medium of expression that 
often leaves viewers feeling more con-
fused than enlightened.
As such, in orchestrating these im-
promptu events, ReMalia acknowledged 
the importance of meeting individuals 
where they are and not pushing them too 
far past their comfort zones.
“It’s a process,” she explained. “For 
someone who doesn’t encounter dance 
or move in a certain way very often, even 
coming upon it can be the first step.”
Thus, the goal of Movement Matters 
is not necessarily full engagement from 
all audience members, but rather an ex-
ploration of the ways in which physical 
expression can liberate, challenge and 
shape us. By shedding new light on fa-
miliar spaces, the drop-in events pushed 
viewers and participants alike to reimag-
ine their interactions with the environ-
ment, themselves and each other. 
Due to the non-verbal nature of 
dance, it is often challenging – perhaps 
even impossible – to close the gap be-
tween the performers’ vision and the au-
dience’s interpretation. Within the con-
text of Movement Matters, this becomes 
further complicated by the fact that the 
“performers” – voluntary participants 
who began as random passersby –  per-
haps did not fully understand what was 
happening either. But maybe that is the 
point of it all: in an exercise of physical 
vulnerability, there is no right or wrong, 
no such thing as a “correct” interpreta-
tion. For many, it is the self-reflection 
that takes place during and after the act 
that renders it worthwhile. 
This became clear in the post-per-
formance reflections of drop-in partici-
pants, many of whom expressed appre-
ciation for the spontaneous exercise.   
“Freeing, and I smiled the whole 
time. It didn’t matter what others were 
doing, just what I felt moving through,” 
one person wrote.
“It was interesting seeing all around 
me and being fully visible yet having 
physical constraints,” another stated.
And finally: “I had a baby four 
months ago and all throughout preg-
nancy and early infancy, my body was 
a principle factor in day to day life. Not 
so much recently. Finding a ‘happy place 
in my feet and getting groovy’ felt really 
good. Thank you.”
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
Warner Hall Greenhouse served as the venue for an improvised dance performance.
Michael O’Hara
Shannon Bohler
Movement Matters seeks to explore the intersectionality across disciplines while evoking themes of resiliency and connectivity.
“The very nature of these 
drop-in events is that it’s 
not necessarily a viewer 
who is sitting and being 
danced at. It’s something 
that you happen upon the 
same way you happen 
upon a flower. It’s some-
thing to be engaged with 
and interested in before 
moving on.”
-Jil Stifel
Choreographer, dancer and educator 
Missing a few upperclassmen, the 
Middlebury Panthers traveled down Route 
114 to face the New England College Pilgrims 
for a double-header on Wednesday, April 13. 
Sarah Frye ’17 and Ande Troutman ’19 
helped score the first two runs with back-to-
back doubles in the top of the first. The Pan-
thers’ offense was just getting started. The 
Pilgrims scored a run in the bottom of the 
frame, but in the third inning, the bats ex-
ploded for Middlebury and they tallied seven 
runs to extend their lead 9-1.
In the fourth inning, the Panthers’ added 
five runs to the frame after a two-run double 
by Jackie Stern ’16 and back-to-back home 
runs by Kati Daczkowski ’18 and Troutman. 
The Pilgrims could not stem the flow of runs 
produced by the Panthers and the game end-
ed in the fifth with a final score of 15-2.
Troutman led the first game with a 4-4 
performance, including a home run, double, 
three RBIs and three runs scored.
The second game was just as relentless as 
the Panthers scored 13 runs in five innings 
off of 14 hits. Middlebury sent three balls 
over the porch including Carlyn Vachow ’16, 
who recorded her third career home run.
“The weekday games were awesome, said 
Vachow. “We were a little nervous going into 
them. We were missing four of our upper-
classmen and didn’t know much about New 
England College.”
In the end, it didn’t matter. In two games, 
the Panthers tallied 28 runs on 31 hits and 
their pitching staff dominated the circle.
“We played hard and our offense was 
devastating. We hit seven home runs and did 
an awesome job of capitalizing on the other 
team’s mistakes,” Vachow said.
It was great momentum heading into the 
weekend for the Panthers home NESCAC se-
ries against the Wesleyan Cardinals.
On Friday, April 15 the Panthers battled 
the Cardinals but dropped the opening game 
2-1. Both teams were held scoreless until 
the bottom of the fourth when Erin Giles ’17 
blasted a solo home run over the left-center 
wall.
Neve Stearns ’16 pitched a gem into the 
top of the seventh. A leadoff walk and sac-
rifice bunt followed by an error put runners 
on the corners for the Cardinals. A Wesleyan 
single tied the game, which was followed by 
a go-ahead double to center field. Cardinals’ 
pitcher Su Pardo retired the final three hit-
ters and Wesleyan took the first game of the 
series.
“[Stearns] did a great job pitching in the 
first game, and although we got five hits in 
the game, we never strung them together to 
win,” Vachow explained.
Following the Friday loss, the Panthers 
played the Cardinals twice on Saturday. In 
the first game of the double header, zeros 
fed the frames until the bottom of the fourth 
inning when the bats exploded for the Pan-
thers. They earned four runs on four hits led 
by Emma Hamilton ’17. The Panthers tacked 
on two runs in the bottom of the sixth and 
the Panthers shut out the Cardinals 6-0. Alli-
son Quigley ’18 threw a complete game shut-
out, allowing four hits and no runs.
Vachow was extremely excited for her 
team and proud that they were able to dis-
play resilience after a tough loss the day be-
fore.
“We poured our hearts into the second 
game,” Vachow said. Our defense and of-
fense were really impressive and Allison 
[Quigley] did an amazing, rock star job.”
Siobhan O’Sullivan ’17 also commented 
on the resiliency of her teammates after the 
Friday loss.
“This weekend our team did a really great 
job bouncing back from a tough loss. We 
were able to start Saturday with a lot of ener-
gy and held on to it for a much needed win.”
In the final game, the Panthers could not 
jumpstart their offense as they did in the 
previous game. The Cardinals scored four 
unearned runs in the top of the fourth and 
the Panthers could not rally and fell 6-3. 
Wesleyan won the series 2-1 and improved 
to 4-5 while the Panthers unfortunately fell 
to 1-4 in the NESCAC.
“Something we need to improve on as a 
team is being more consist with our hitting,” 
O’ Sullivan commented. “We’re always able 
to hit well, but it just comes down to capi-
talizing in important situations. Mid week 
games are very important as they’re e a great 
way to get us prepared and amped for anoth-
er NESCAC series.”
The Panthers swept a doubleheader at 
home against St. Lawrence on Tuesday, April 
19, 9-7 and 6-5, and Head Coach Kelly Be-
vere earned her 200th career win.
Middlebury now stands at 13-8 overall 
on the season, but only 1-4 in the NESCAC. 
The team will return home for a tough three 
game series against the Hamilton Continen-
tals this weekend, April 23-24.
April 21, 2016| SPORTS 17
The second-ranked Middlebury 
women’s lacrosse team faced a tough 
double header against 10th-ranked 
Trinity and 11th-ranked Hamilton this 
past weekend. The Panthers took on 
Trinity on Saturday, April 16 in a regular 
season matchup, falling by a score of 13-
9. The team rebounded the following day, 
defeating Hamilton 14-4 after the team’s 
original April 6 contest was rescheduled 
due to poor weather conditions. 
Head Coach Kate Liversay described 
both games as team efforts.
 “Hollis Perticone ’18 and Bridget 
Instrum  ’16 had great weekends for [the 
Panthers],” Livesay said. “Hollis really set 
the tone with draw controls on Sunday and 
Bridget was a force on attack both days,” 
she commented. 
The first match of the weekend kicked 
off on a beautiful Saturday afternoon on 
Kohn Field against the Trinity College 
Bantams. The stands were packed, the 
crowd was loud and the competition was 
tough; however, the Panthers were unable 
to edge past Trinity and recorded their first 
loss of the season. The game was a vicious 
battle to the end with both teams trading 
leads throughout the contest. 
Laurel Pascal ’16 opened the game with 
a quick tally for Middlebury only seconds 
into regulation. Trinity responded shortly 
after with two goals in quick succession to 
gain a 2-1 lead over the Panthers.  Instrum 
was quick to respond with two goals in 
less than a minute, bringing the score to 
3-2 in favor of Middlebury. The two teams 
traded off leads for the next four goals with 
goals scored by Mary O’Connell ’17 and Alli 
Sciarretta ’16.  
Trinity then went on a 2-0 run to amass 
a 7-5 lead with just under five minutes 
remaining in the half. The Panthers did 
not stop fighting as they notched two more 
goals by Megan Griffin ’16 and Pascal to 
conclude the half with a 7-7 tie. 
After halftime Trinity came out strong, 
scoring four goals before the Panthers 
could respond giving Trinity a 11-7 lead 
with roughly 22 minutes left in the contest. 
Instrum once again valiantly tried to 
bring the Panthers back with another two 
goal performance. Despite Middlebury 
outshooting Trinity 27-18, Trinity went 
on to win 13-9, handing the Panthers their 
first loss of the season.             
Katie Mandingo ’16 was solid in goal for 
the Panthers, tallying five saves in the loss. 
Instrum piloted the Panther offense with 
a team-high four goals, followed by Pascal 
who contributed two goals of her own along 
with registering a team-best six ground 
balls. Sciarretta added one goal and two 
assists, while Perticone and Chrissy Ritter 
’16 each had three forced turnovers. 
The Panthers had little time to dwell on 
their loss, due to their quick restart against 
Hamilton the following day. The Panthers 
were first on the board 3:21 into the contest 
with a goal from Sciarretta off an assist 
from Pascal. While Hamilton responded 
with another quick goal, both Sciarretta 
and Pascal helped carry the Panthers back 
to a 4-2 lead. Hamilton strained to fight 
back with another score at 16:12 but was 
unable to gain an advantage in the first 
half. The Panthers dominated the rest of 
the half, scoring the next 10 goals to lead 
11-3 heading into the intermission.  
Bea Eppler ’17 kickstarted a powerful 
run for the Panthers, converting on a feed 
from Perticone late in the second quarter. 
The offense continued to dominate, with 
Instrum adding four goals in addition to 
two from Pascal.             
The Panthers entered the second half 
with a dominant lead and never let up. 
Starting with two goals by Griffin followed 
by one from Ritter ’16, the Panthers took 
a prevailing 14-3 lead. Despite a final goal 
from the opposing team, Hamilton fell 
against the mighty Panthers by a final 
score of 14-4.
Instrum’s four goals, three draw 
controls and one helper guided the team 
to victory.  Pascal finished with three goals, 
one assist, three ground balls and two 
caused turnovers. Griffin had two goals 
and two assists while Sciaretta finished 
with three goals and an assist. Perticone 
had two assists, four draw controls and 
a pair of caused turnovers. Guarding the 
net, Mandigo made six key saves for the 
Panthers, many of which came in the 
second half. Once again, the Panther 
defense was a strong on the day, forcing 
28 turnovers, winning 12-19 draws and 
holding a 25-14 shot advantage over the 
visiting Hamilton team. 
Reflecting on the game, Coach Livesay 
noted, “our goals moving forward are to get 
better with every game. We learned a lot 
from a double-header NESCAC weekend. 
We will focus on our composure and poise 
as we head into this important phase of the 
season.  Every game is critical at this point 
so we will stress fixing the little things,” she 
noted.
On Tuesday, April 25, Middlebury 
defeated Union 15-7. Instrum scored her 
99th and 100th career goals, Pascal scored 
four of her own to lead the Panthers.
The Panthers return to action at home 
on Saturday, April 23 against Colby. Last 
year, the Panthers squeezed past Colby 
with a 7-5 win. Colby is currently ranked 
ninth nationally. 
Coach Livesay commented on the 
upcoming weekend, stating: “Colby will be 
an important test this weekend.  They are a 
good team and have been very consistent in 
the NESCAC. They have a great defensive 
unit so our preparation will be geared 
around creating a lot of ball movement on 
attack.  We will work on different defensive 
sets so that we can change things up and 
keep them from feeling comfortable on 
offense.”
By Christine Urquhart
Senior Writer
Women’s Lacrosse Drops First of the Season to Trinity 
High-Powered Offense Propels Softball Win Over Wesleyan 
By Sebastian Sanchez
Contributing Writer 
The Women’s Club Water Team 
defeated Boston University 8-6 on 
Sunday, April 17 to win the New 
England Division Championship 
for the first time since 2013. The 
team is now qualified to represent 
Middlebury at the National Colle-
giate Club Championship tourna-
ment in Santa Cruz, Calif. on May 
6-8.
Women’s Club Water Polo Wins New England Division Championship
photo by Hannah Grotzinger
The Middlebury track and field teams 
were in full force this past weekend 
at Dragone Track as they hosted the 
Panther Invitational. Both teams had 
fantastic finishes in the the Panthers’ 
lone home meet of the spring season, 
winning both the men’s and women’s 
meets out of the field of six teams. The 
teams trailing Middlebury included 
Bowdoin, which is a great sign for the 
Panthers as they head into the NESCAC 
Championship meet in two weeks. With 
all of the track runners back and rested 
from the Indoor NCAA Finals, this was a 
great showing of what the team will look 
like heading into their more important 
meets of the spring season. 
On Saturday, April 16, Middlebury 
not only welcomed beautiful weather 
but also two new school records for 
the women’s team. Carly Andersen ’17 
bested her previous mark of 142’11” in 
the javelin by over two feet, reaching 
a new distance of 145’1” to raise both 
the school and facility record. Her new 
javelin distance is good for sixth place 
in all of Division III this year. Alexandra 
Morris ’16 also beat the standing facility 
record on Dragone Track, winning 
the 400m by over three seconds and 
lowering the facility time from 57.85 to 
57.23. 
The record setting day for the women 
was accompanied by victories in five 
additional events, including a win by 
Halle Gustafson ’16 in the 800-meter 
run (2:22.27), Katherine MacCary ’19 
leading the pack in the 5,000 meter run 
(18:20.59), and Paige 
Fernandez ’17 finishing 
first in the 400-meter 
hurdles (1:06:09). Jane 
Freda ’17 also tied for 
the win in the long jump 
competition, recording a 
distance of 16’10.75” on 
the day. The sprinters 
continued their success 
as the 4x400 relay 
team of Fernandez, 
Perri Silverhart ’16, 
Gustafson, and Morris 
finished victoriously 
with a time of 4:03.70.
The women’s team 
outdistanced the next 
closest team, Southern 
Maine, by nearly 50 points with a final 
tally of 226 compared to the next-best 
score of 177.
While the women had a record setting 
day, the men’s team had even more 
event victories, leading them to a narrow 
victory over NESCAC rival Bowdoin. 
Alex Nichols ’17 won the 200-meter dash 
with a time of 22.03, Jimmy Martinez ’19 
won the 400-meter dash with a time of 
49.82 and to finish the sprinters’ success 
Michael Pallozzi ’18 won the 110-meter 
hurdle title with a time of 14.82 seconds. 
In the distance races, Ascencion Aispuro 
’18 led the pack in the 3,000 meter 
steeplechase (9:50.11). The relay team of 
Martinez, Brandon Cushman ‘16, Tyler 
Farrell ‘18, and Nichols 
won the 4x400-meter 
relay in 3:23.64. In 
the field events for the 
men, John Natalone 
’19 cleared 13’11.25” in 
the pole vault, Tyler 
Chaisson ’17 won the 
shot put with 46’11.75” 
and Deklan Robinson 
’16 threw the javelin 
169’7” to claim the win.
The men’s team won 
by just 11 points over 
Bowdoin (288-277), but 
with all of their runners 
back and rested from 
the long winter season, 
the victory is evidence 
of the Panthers’ ability to compete 
against other NESCAC schools. 
“Both teams look strong [...] and 
should give everyone in the conference 
a run for [their] money,” said Coach 
Martin Beatty ’84. 
The track and field teams will return 
to competition next Saturday at the 
UAlbany Spring Classic in New York. 
The teams will utilize the opportunity to 
fine tune their events in preparation for 
the upcoming NESCAC meet.
| april 21, 2016 18 sports
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKING TEAM
Rigas’ Reasoning 
2
women’s tennis 
They beat the top team in 
the nation and went 3-0 this 
week. That’s it.
men’s tennis 
The Polar Bears were 
undefeated and now they’re 
not. Plus, they still have room 
to improve in doubles.
3 track & field Both teams protected the 
home turf.
4
baseball 
Midd Baseball has more 
NESCAC wins this year than 
total wins last year. They’re 
over .500 in the conference.
5
7
golf
Will says the men’s team is 
going to win NESCACs again 
I’ll take his word for it.
6
women’s lacrosse
Tough loss to Trinity, it took 
some serious grit to bounce 
back at Hamilton.
men’s lacrosse  
Two more games and two 
more wins, but they were 
not particularly impressive.
Softball
They’re doing worse than 
baseball is in the NESCAC 
this year. Yikes.
Track and Field Teams Place 
First in Panther Invitational
By Colby Morris
Staff Writer
Coming off a stinging 6-0 home loss 
to St. Michael’s, the Middlebury baseball 
team won two games in a three-game se-
ries against division rival Hamilton. The 
Panthers brought their conference re-
cord to 5-4, placing them second in the 
NESCAC West and ahead of defending 
champion Wesleyan (3-3).
 During their first game of the series 
on Friday, April 15, the Panthers explod-
ed at the plate for a 14-12 win over the 
Continentals, scoring 10 runs in the fifth 
inning alone. The first inning saw a good 
start from both teams, with each scor-
ing two runs. Hamilton’s pitcher cycled 
through the Middlebury’s lineup for the 
next three innings, and at the plate the 
Continentals managed one run in the 
second and four in the fourth.
Trailing 7-2 in the top of the fifth, the 
Panthers capitalized on four Hamilton 
errors to strike for 10 runs. Joe MacDon-
ald ’16 and Max Araya ’16, playing in his 
100th career game, each hit RBI singles, 
Drew Coash ’18 hit an RBI triple and 
John Luke ’16 had two RBI singles. Raj 
Palekar ’18 capped those off in the sixth 
inning with a solo home run.
Conor Himstead ’19 recorded his first 
career win as the second of four Panther 
pitchers. Sam Graf ’19 also had a momen-
tous game, making two diving catches in 
right-center field on clutch plays.
The Continentals struck back with 
a three-run homer in the seventh, and 
then an RBI single. The  score remained 
at 13-12 for the next two innings. Mid-
dlebury’s MacDonald singled in the top 
of the ninth to drive home Johnny Read 
’17, giving the Panthers a two-run buffer 
that they sealed on the field.
The Panthers returned to the field in 
Clinton, N.Y. for a double header, los-
ing the opening game 4-3 but decisively 
winning the nightcap 12-6. Middlebury 
grabbed an 2-0 lead in the fourth inning 
of the first game. MacDonald singled 
home Araya, and Graf sent Luke home 
on a base hit. In the sixth, Graf made it a 
3-0 game with a solo home run.
Hamilton rallied back in the bottom of 
the sixth, tallying two as Ryan Wolfsburg 
and Andrew Haser knocked two solo 
home runs over the fence. In the seventh 
inning, the Continentals won the game 
in walk-off fashion: Cooper Halpern hit 
a pinch-hit single, scoring two runners to 
secure a 4-3 win over Middlebury.
In the second game, the hosts came 
out in front with a ground-out run in the 
bottom of the first. In the second inning, 
the Panthers benefited from an infield 
error that allowed MacDonald to score 
from second. The Continentals knocked 
in two runs on base hits in their half of 
the second.
But the Panthers responded with two 
more runs to make the game 3-2. Araya 
sent Read home on a deep sacrifice fly, 
and one batter later Luke sent a double 
off the right-field fence to drive home 
Jake Turtel ’18.5. Hamilton evened the 
game at three in the fifth on a ground 
out.
The seventh inning was the turning 
point for the Panthers. Araya opened 
with a solo home run, and Graf followed 
with a two-run triple. With Middlebury’s 
lead at 6-3, Coash plated Graf with a 
single, and Read hit a two-run double to 
drive home Palekar and Coash.
In the seventh inning, the Conti-
nentals managed one run before the 
Panthers closed the inning on a double 
play. In the eighth, Middlebury added 
three insurance runs on a sacrifice bunt 
by MacDonald and a single by Brendan 
Donohue. Hamilton scored twice in the 
bottom of the eighth, but Jake Stalcup 
’17 closed out a 12-6 win.
Araya was a perfect four-for-four at 
the plate, racking up two RBIs and two 
runs scored. His first hit of the game 
was his 100th hit as a Panther, his sec-
ond career milestone reached during the 
series. On the mound, Colin Waters ’19, 
who tossed a two-hit shutout for his first 
collegiate win against Norwich on April 
11, worked a scoreless sixth inning in 
the nightcap and allowed only a scoring 
lead-off walk in the seventh.
“We are playing solid defense and 
pitching soundly but our offense is the 
phase of the game where we are not as 
successful. That showed in the two mid 
week games this week vs. Norwich and 
St. Mikes. Both modest teams,” said 
Head Coach Bob Smith.
Middlebury, now 5-4 in conference 
and 8-12 overall, returns to the diamond 
on Wednesday, April 20, with a 4:00 
p.m. game at Plattsburgh State before 
hosting Amherst for a three-game series 
on Friday and Saturday, April 23 and 24, 
and Skidmore for one game on Tuesday, 
April 26.
Baseball Adds Pair of Wins Against Hamilton 
By Sebastian Sanchez
Staff Writer 
while Luke Trinka and Luke Tercek beat 
Noah Farrell ’18 and Ari Smolyar ’16 8-5 
in the first slot. Hamid Derbani ’17 and 
Palmer Campbell ’16 kept the Panthers 
within reach with an 8-2 win in the sec-
ond slot.
Derbani kept it going in singles by 
overpowering Roddy 6-1, 6-2 in the fifth 
slot.
“I wanted to start my match with a lot 
of energy, which helped me take the lead 
early on,” said Derbani. “My game plan 
was to take advantage of every short ball 
by putting pressure on my opponent and 
coming to the net. I was able to ride the 
momentum all match long, without los-
ing my focus at any time.”
Energy seemed to pick up after that, 
as the Panthers called out breaks and 
started to build on that momentum. 
No. 24 Smolyar also dominated his op-
ponent in straight sets, beating No. 30 
Trinka 6-2, 6-0 for his seventh win in 
his last eight matches after losing two of 
his first three this spring. Campbell won 
for the second time on the day 6-4, 6-2, 
and just like that, Middlebury was ahead 
4-2. Bowdoin was not done though, as 
Jerry Jiang defeated de Quant 6-4, 2-6, 
7-5 and Grant Urken beat Timo van der 
Geest ’18 6-7 (7-9), 6-2, 6-4 to tie the 
match at four.
It all came down to a matchup be-
tween the country’s top individual Far-
rell and 10th-ranked Tercek in a rematch 
of the 2015 USTA/ITA Division III Men’s 
New England Regional Championship 
when Farrell won in straight sets. After 
they split the first two sets, Farrell took 
the third set and the match 7-5, 4-6 and 
6-2 to seal a Panthers’ victory over the 
second-ranked Polar Bears.
“Being 2-1 down after doubles, we 
knew we had to fight very hard in every 
single spot in singles in order to have a 
chance to win,” Derbani said. “We were 
able to do it against Tufts last week and 
Wesleyan earlier in the season, and we 
were confident we could do it again.”
By defeating the Polar Bears, the Pan-
thers became the only team undefeated 
in the NESCAC and improved to 6-0 in 
the conference and 10-2 overall. The 
men’s team will host fourteenth-ranked 
Amherst on Saturday, April 23, then 
travel to Connecticut College on Sunday, 
April 24, to play the Camels and Nichols.
tennis teams combine for an undefeated weekend at home 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20
6
15
Runs scored in the seventh inning to push 
Middlebury baseball past Hamilton by a 
score of 12-6 in Saturday’s doubleheader.
Strokes taken off the women’s golf 
team’s day one score in their second day 
of play at the Jack Leaman Invitational 
hosted by Amherst.
by the Numb3rs
4
Overall ranking for men’s tennis player 
Noah Farrell ’18 in national singles play.
Overtime games for the men’s lacrosse 
team this season. The squad is 2-2 in 
contests decided in extra time.
1
“Both teams look 
strong [...] and should 
give everyone in the 
conference a run for 
[their] money.”
Martin Beatty ’18
Head Coach
 
april 21, 2016| 19SPORTS 
YES KATHARINE FORTIN ’18 ONE RAPTORS 
editors’ picks
YES
Remo, you should put comments 
after your picks.
KATHARINE FORTIN ’18
Because Will knows a lot about golf.
PACERS
They’ll set the pace.
(ha ha)
FIVE
Hopefully she can help the 
Panthers overtake Hamilton in the 
NESCAC standings.
Emily Bustard (68-77, .469)
Alex Morris (100-94, .515)
Andrew Rigas (45-34, .570)
Men’s Tennis: Will the Panthers 
continue their roll with a win against 
the Lord Jeffs at home on Sunday?
Who ya got?: Pacers-Raptors 
tonight at 7:30 in game three 
of the Eastern Conference 
Playoffs?
Women’s Golf: Who will be the 
Panthers’ low-scorer in their final 
tournament of the season this 
weekend at Williams?
Women’s Softball: Closest to: 
Number of strikeouts thrown by 
senior pitcher Neve Sterns ’16 
during this weekend’s three-
game series with Hamilton?
YES
I can’t see them dropping these 
games.
MONICA CHOW  ’16
Dare to be different y’all.
SEVEN
She threw a barnstormer last 
weekend. (is that a saying?)
RAPTORS
I once was a ball girl for the 
Raptors so I gotta stay true.
YES
They remain undefeated at home 
and its going to be hard to stop their 
momentum.
KATHARINE FORTIN ’18
She had a pair of 79s in two rounds 
at Taconic last fall
SIX
Just above her season average.
PACERS
This series will go down to the 
wire, but Pacers steal back home 
court in game three.
YES
Nice analysis Will.
LILIA EVERSON ’19
Sleeper pick, she shot the lowest 
score in the last tournament of the 
fall. I see a pattern developing.
EIGHT
Anything above eight and I’ll win.
RAPTORS
Interesting move by Remo to not 
explain any of his picks.
REMO PLUNKETT (58-54, .517)
         Will Case (20-15, .571)
Golf Teams Compete in Invitational Events
The men’s and women’s golf teams 
were back in action last weekend, April 
16-17. The women’s team headed down 
U.S. Route 7 to Amherst, Mass. to 
play on Amherst’s home course at the 
Hickory Ridge Golf Club for the annual 
Jack Leaman Invitational. The women’s 
team put together a fantastic second day 
at Hickory Ridge and shaved 15 strokes 
off the team’s first round score. Its 338 
first day total and second day team 
round of 323 earned the team a third 
place finish and put them within six 
strokes of second-place Williams for the 
weekend. The hosting team, Amherst, 
won their own tournament with a 
weekend total score of 637, 18 strokes 
better than the runner-up Ephs.
The Panthers’ second day score was 
two strokes better than its round of 325 
on the same course in what was a one 
day tournament last season.
The highlight for the Panthers last 
weekend was, once again, Katharine 
Fortin ’18. Fortin bounced back from 
a tough first round, in which she shot 
an 84, with the fourth-lowest individual 
round of all participants competing 
when she shot a 76 on Sunday. Fortin 
finished 12-over for the tournament, 
and in third place on the individual 
leader board. Her third place finish is 
especially impressive considering that 
she went to the clubhouse Saturday 
evening in a tie for 14th.
“The first day my putting was all 
over the place and I made some mental 
mistakes that caused the strokes to add 
up,” said Fortin. “Today, I was one-over 
par with three holes to go and managed 
to bogey those last three holes, so I still 
have improvements to make on finishing 
out a good round. Nonetheless, I was 
pretty happy with how I played the first 
15 holes today.”
Fortin attributes her day-to-day 
improvement to a little help from her 
dad. “He influenced my success a lot,” 
Fortin said, as he reminded her “to keep 
steady on my putts and to remember 
my swing fundamentals. Then, I just 
went out there, made some birdie putts, 
focused hard on every shot and played 
the best round of my collegiate career.” 
Another Panther who put together an 
excellent second day at Hickory Ridge 
was Hope Matthews ’18. Matthews 
shot an 85 on Saturday, which put 
her in 16th on the individual leader 
board, but responded on Sunday with 
a 79. Matthews’ Sunday round was her 
lowest of the four she has played so far 
this spring and shows her continued 
improvement and tenacity after a 
frustrating second round at the Vassar 
College Invitational two weekends 
ago, April 9-10, when she shot a 93. 
Matthews’ brilliant play on Sunday 
vaulted her to eighth place on the 
individual leader board.
Team captain Monica Chow ’16 also 
put together a good weekend for the 
Panthers. Chow shot an 82 on Saturday 
and an 83 on Sunday.
Two weeks ahead of the much 
anticipated NESCAC Championship 
they will host at Ralph Myhre Golf 
Course from April 30-May 1, the men’s 
team took a four-and-a-half hour ride to 
Cranston, RI, to partake in the Johnson 
& Wales University Wildcat Spring 
Invitational. A theme for Middlebury 
over the course of last weekend, the 
men’s squad also managed to shave 
strokes off of their opening round score 
–from a 323 team total on Saturday 
down to a 315 on Sunday. Their 638 
two-round total was good for a fifth-
place finish and eight strokes back of 
Williams’ tournament-winning total of 
630. However, after the Ephs struggled 
to hold down the fort in the fall with 
their best players studying abroad, the 
Panthers will not have to worry about 
them at the NESCAC tournament.
Phil Morin ’19 once again led the way 
for the Panthers, as his two day total of 
154 put him in a fourth-place tie on the 
individual leader board.
“My game on a day-in, day-out 
basis is getting back to where it was 
in the fall,” said last weekend’s low-
scorer for the Panthers. “Throughout 
the course of the two rounds I was 
definitely getting frustrated with the 
tough wind conditions on Saturday and 
some unfortunate bounces on Sunday. 
My game was in a good spot and I was 
hitting a lot of good shots. I didn’t score 
as low as I could’ve on Sunday, but I 
battled hard and tried to give the team a 
chance to win.” 
Rodrigo Andrade ’17 returned to the 
course for the Panthers for the first 
time in competitive play this spring and 
shot a 161 for the weekend and was five 
strokes better on day two with a round 
of 78.
Reid Buzby ’19 and Bennett Doherty 
’18, who competed for the Panthers two 
weekends ago at the NYU Invitational, 
also competed for the Panthers 
and last weekend and tried to build 
toward playing their best golf when 
it counts the most at the conference 
championship. Buzby shot a shot a pair 
of 82s for a weekend total of 164, while 
the co-defending NESCAC individual 
champion Dougherty shot a 169.
One of the underlying stories of the 
weekend was the return of the team’s top 
player in its back-to-back conference 
championships the last two seasons, 
Fitz Bowen ’17, who has a chance to not 
only guide his team to a three-peat as 
NESCAC champions, but also to three-
peat as the conference’s individual 
champion. Bowen spent the fall abroad, 
so this was the first competitive action 
he saw for the Panthers since NCAAs 
last season.
Bowen shot a 160 on the weekend, 
but shaved eight strokes off his Saturday 
round of 84 to shoot a 76 on Sunday.
For Bowen, Saturday’s round was 
about getting back into the competitive 
mindset he and his teammates will need 
over the next two crucial weeks.
“On Saturday the wind was gusting 
around 30 mph and I struggled to get 
back into the competitive mindset,” 
Bowen explained. “A couple of errant 
shots led to some big numbers. On 
Sunday, I stayed patient and let things 
happen, instead of trying to make them 
happen.” The Panthers’ star player and 
one of the conferences’ most dominant 
players of the decade says he is on 
schedule with how he expects to get 
back into the swing of competition.
“My game is right where it needs to be 
at this time,” said Bowen. “A few things 
I need to brush up on before NESCACs, 
but I don’t feel any different after the 
hiatus.”
With his improvement on Sunday 
and the quality of his teammates’ play, 
Bowen and the rest of the Panthers feel 
they are well positioned to defend their 
NESCAC title.
“I think guys are starting to figure 
out where their games are at and how 
they can contribute to the team in 
different ways,” added Morin. “We are 
all definitely looking to find our best 
golf in the coming weeks to take home 
the hardware at NESCACs and go back 
to nationals.”
Both the men’s and women’s teams 
will be back in action this weekend, 
April 23-24, at Williams’ home course at 
the Taconic Golf Club in Williamstown, 
Mass. The men’s squad will continue to 
prepare for the NESCAC Championship 
and the women’s team will look to finish 
its season on a high note.
By Will Case
Sports Editor
Middlebury men’s golfer Phil Morin 
’19 shot a two day total of 154 on 
his way to a fourth-place tie at the 
Jack Leaman Invitational hosted by 
Amherst. 
Jeff patterson
 
The tenth-ranked Middlebury 
men’s lacrosse team took down 
conference rival Trinity on 
Saturday, April 16. In doing so, 
the team extended its winning 
streak to five straight games, four 
of which came against NESCAC 
opponents. The Panthers, who sit 
at 9-4 overall on the year and 6-2 
in the league, erased a four-goal 
deficit against the Bantams in the 
fourth quarter to force an overtime 
decision. Senior midfielder Tim 
Giarrusso ’16 capped his six-goal 
performance with a tally in extra 
time to give the Panthers an 11-
10 victory. The team will head to 
Colby on Saturday as they look 
to extend the streak while the 
Bantams welcome Skidmore at 
home on Tuesday, April 19.
The game started slowly with 
only one shot finding the back 
of the net in the entire opening 
stanza when Jack Rautiola ’16 
converted on a Jon Broome ’16 
feed. The assist for the latter 
extended his point streak to 12 
straight games. The Bantams 
came out with their foot on the 
gas pedal in the second, however, 
as a Seth Bird goal sparked what 
would become a five-goal run for 
the home team. Bird set up fellow 
attackman Ben Knaus at the 
10:28 mark to give Trinity their 
first lead of the game. Jack Gould 
’19 managed to stop the bleeding 
with 5:29 left in the half to bring 
the Panthers within three and at 
the same time score his twentieth 
goal of the season.
Coming out of the half trailing 
5-2, Middlebury went on a little 
run of their own sparked by a 
quick goal from Giarrusso just 
2:12 into the half and finished off 
by Gould’s second of the day three 
minutes later. After another three 
goal flurry from the Bantams, 
Giarrusso scored his second of 
the day with only 26 seconds left 
in the half and the game headed 
into the final quarter with Trinity 
up 8-5.
After Trinity came out firing 
yet again, this time with another 
Knaus goal. The Panthers 
responded viciously with a 
five-goal run. Yet again, it was 
Giarrusso driving the Panther 
offense forward as he picked up 
the three during the surge. Henry 
Riehl ’18 and Kyle Soroka ’16 
each added a tally as the Panthers 
regained their momentum in the 
final minutes of play. Despite the 
Panther rally, Trinity managed 
to force overtime with a Michael 
McQuiston goal with just 2:17 
remaining in the contest.
After each side had a 
possession, Giarrusso continued 
his stellar performance, which 
was capped-off with a game-
winning goal from the right side 
of the crease assisted by Riehl. 
Giarrusso scored six times for the 
Panthers  and now has a team-
high 25 goals on the season. Gould 
contributed a pair of goals, while 
Riehl had a goal and an assist. 
John Jackson ’18 went 15-25 at the 
faceoff and scooped up six ground 
balls. Middlebury goaltender Will 
Ernst ’17 finished with 11 saves 
on the day to earn the win for the 
Panthers. Middlebury held a 57-
34 advantage in shots and also led 
in ground balls, 30-26.
The team will look to extend 
its streak and add another in-
conference win when they travel 
to Colby on Saturday, April 23.
sports 20
OUTDOOR TRACK AND 
FIELD DOMINATES 
AT PANTHER 
INVITATIONAL
PAGE 18
GOLF TEAMS TEE 
UP AT MID-SEASON 
INVITATIONAL 
TOURNAMENTS
PAGE 19in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
By Trevor Schmitt
Senior Writer
Tennis Teams Continue 
to Defend Home Courts 
Men’s Lacrosse Extends 
Strong Winning Streak
The men’s and women’s ten-
nis teams certainly made state-
ments this weekend at home. 
The seventh-ranked nationally 
women’s team defeated Emory 
5-4 – the top-ranked team in 
the nation – on Friday, April 
15, sixth-ranked Bowdoin 7-2 
on Saturday and Skidmore 9-0 
on Sunday, while the fourth-
ranked men’s team toppled pre-
viously unbeaten and second-
ranked Bowdoin 5-4 in its only 
match last weekend.
Emory entered the match on 
Friday without a loss to a Divi-
sion III opponent this spring 
and defeated Williams, who 
defeated Middlebury earlier 
this spring, 5-4 on March 30. 
The Eagles also have six play-
ers ranked in the top-50 na-
tionally and two doubles pairs 
ranked in the top-20. However, 
Middlebury jumped out to an 
early lead on the Proctor Ten-
nis Courts as the doubles pair of 
Ria Gerger ’16 and Lily Bondy 
’17 pulled out an 8-6 victory in 
the first slot. Emory’s pair of 
Bridget Harding and Katarina 
Su defeated Kaysee Orozco ’17 
and Sadie Shackelford ’16 9-7 in 
second doubles, but Christina 
Puccinelli ’19 and Alexandra 
Fields ’17 answered right back 
with a 9-8 (7-4) victory in the 
third slot.
Emory tied the match again 
when Madison Gordon beat 
Orozco 6-2, 6-0 in sixth singles. 
Molly Paradies ’19 won her 
match in straight sets (6-3, 6-0) 
in the fifth slot, but Emory’s Mi-
chelle Satterfield overwhelmed 
Fields 6-2, 6-1 in the second 
slot and Taylor Cosme came 
from one set behind to knock 
off Bondy 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 in the 
third slot.
Down 4-3, the Panthers 
needed to win both of the last 
two singles matches to win the 
team match. After losing the 
first set, Gerger battled back 
to win the next two sets and 
her match (3-6, 6-4, 7-6). With 
the match on the line Pucci-
nelli also came back and won 
her match 4-6, 7-6, (2-7), 6-2 
to knock off the top-ranked 
Eagles for the first time since 
2012. Emory beat Middlebury 
in the NCAA Quarterfinals last 
season, during the 2014 regular 
season and twice in 2013—once 
in the regular season and once 
in the NCAA quarterfinals.
After such an enormous win, 
it seemed quite possible the 
Panthers would be susceptible 
to a let-down against Bowdoin 
the next day. The pair of Puc-
cinelli and Fields bucked that 
quickly, smacking Pilar Giffenig 
and Maddie Rolph 8-0 in third 
doubles. Orozco and Shack-
elford backed that up with a 
thrilling comeback, winning 
six straight games after falling 
behind 7-3 to win 9-7 in sec-
ond doubles. Gerger and Bondy 
fell 8-6 in the first slot, but the 
Panthers took a 2-1 lead into 
singles.
Bondy and Gerger bounced 
back in singles by dominat-
ing third and first singles 6-0, 
6-1 and 6-3, 6-2, respectively. 
Samantha Stadler handed it 
to Shackelford 6-4, 6-4 in the 
sixth slot to bring the Polar 
Bears within two matches 4-2, 
but Fields clinched the victory 
for the Panthers with a 3-6, 6-3, 
6-1 win. Puccinelli won 6-4, 
3-6, 6-1 to move to 10-1 on the 
spring season, while Paradies 
closed out the match with a win 
by the score of 7-6, (7-9), 6-3, 
10-3.
The Panthers put an excla-
mation point on the weekend by 
shutting out Skidmore 9-0. The 
pairs of Gerger and Bondy, Oro-
zco and Shackelford and Pucci-
nelli and Fields swept doubles 
and Gerger, Fields, Bondy, Puc-
cinelli, Paradies and Shackel-
ford did not surrender a set in 
singles.
With the wins, the Panthers 
improved to 5-1 in the NES-
CAC and 9-3 overall this sea-
son. The women’s team will be 
on the road this weekend when 
they will travel to 14th-ranked 
MIT on Saturday, April 23, and 
Connecticut College on Sunday, 
April 24.
The Bowdoin men’s ten-
nis team was ranked ninth be-
fore the season began and no 
one could have predicted they 
would be undefeated entering 
their match with Middlebury, 
especially considering they 
played Claremont-Mudd-
Scripps and Amherst before 
this Sunday. But they were and 
they proved their formidability 
in doubles action on the Proctor 
Tennis Courts, taking two out 
of the three matches and lead-
ing entering singles play. Chase 
Savage and Gil Roddy over-
whelmed the sophomore pair of 
Kyle Schlanger ’18 and Will de 
Quant ’18 in third doubles 8-2 
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor
Eliot vanvalkenburg
Eye on the Prize
The Softball team narrowly lost its series 1-3 against 
NESCAC competitor Wesleyan. The team is now 
reaching crunch time to make it to the Championship.
Read more on Page 17.
CONTINUED ON PAGE 18
