Students crowded into 
Crossroads Café on Monday night 
to hear from the three candidates 
running for Student Co-Chair to 
the Community Council (SCOCC) 
and the four candidates running for 
Student Government Association 
(SGA) President in two rounds of 
debates. In a dramatic shift from 
last years’ uncontested elections, 
the debates brought to the forefront 
a variety of concerns that focused 
on calls for change and a stronger 
campus community.
Both races are attracting 
attention for what moderators 
Kyle Gerstenschlager ’15 and Naila 
Jahan ’15 called a divided “insiders 
and outsiders” status. In the race 
for SGA President, candidates Josh 
Berlowitz ’16 and Ilana Gratch ’16 
are current members of the SGA. 
Caroline Walters ’16 and Stuart 
Warren ’17 entered the race without 
any prior experience on the SGA.
In the race for SCOCC, Durga 
Jayaraman ’16 currently sits on 
Community Council (CC), Tiff 
Chang ’17 was a member of CC last 
spring and Zak Fisher ’16 enters 
without prior experience on CC.
Experience, typically considered 
an asset, was challenged in both 
debates in light of rising student 
apathy towards both the SGA and 
question after opening statements 
addressed this apathy. Gratch, 
Walters and Warren spoke to the 
importance of recognizing  issues 
that students care about and 
making changes.
Gratch referenced her platform, 
which proposes a weekly dinner 
with the SGA President and six 
student leaders on campus; Walters 
called for more transparency and a 
restructuring of the SGA; Warren 
applauded various social justice 
organizations on campus and 
encouraged the SGA’s “power to 
combat oppression.”
Berlowitz dissented and 
defended the accomplishments of 
the SGA this past year.
“Even activists see the SGA as a 
conduit for change… People go to 
the SGA when they want to make a 
change,” he claimed.
The SGA debate then moved to 
the issue of inclusivity in terms of 
marginalized identity and fostering 
a stronger campus community. 
After a bill passed by the SGA, 
funding was allocated to hire a 
new counselor for the Health and 
Wellness staff, passed a resolution 
on sexual respect and created the 
Director of Sexual and Relationship 
Respect position. However, all four 
candidates still pointed to a lack of 
support for marginalized groups in 
many areas of the College.
upon the candidates to re-evaluate 
their use of the words diversity and 
inclusivity: “Too often inclusivity 
and diversity are used as empty 
euphemisms,” he said. He referred 
to his platform, which outlines a 
plan to make the campus more 
accessible for students who are not 
able-bodied, creating a community 
of sexual respect and making 
mental health issues a community 
concern. Warren’s desire to combat 
oppression and marginalization 
remained the backbone of his 
arguments throughout the debate.
Berlowitz spoke next and 
outlined a number of concrete 
plans for combatting a lack of 
inclusivity. He proposed a more 
program, a student-run pub night, 
and a renovation of McCullough. 
“I’m running on community. 
Fostering community and forging 
connections with each and every 
Middlebury student,” he said.
In her response, Gratch 
promoted the community 
support section of her proposal, 
which includes creating cultural 
competency resources on campus. 
She also maintained that the “SGA 
can be utilized as a microphone 
to give a voice to students who 
have been working tirelessly on 
these issues.”
She added: “It’s not my job to 
co-opt the activism that’s been 
going on for years here, but I feel 
incredibly strongly that I can 
provide a microphone.”
Finally, Walters outlined a plan 
to engage more students. 
“There are three priorities that 
we need to focus on,” she said. 
April 30, 2015 | Vol. 113 no. 24 | middleburycampus.com
DISTINGUISHED 
POET READS AT 
VERMONT BOOK 
SHOP 
PAGE 5
ORATORY SOCIETY 
HOLDS CONTEST
PAGES 11
SEPOMANA TO 
BRING ELECTRIC 
LINE-UP
PAGE 21
in
sid
e
Community Council
Votes Down Use of 
Security Cameras 
By Ellie Reinhardt
News Editor
By Phil Bohlman
Community Council voted 
on Monday against a proposal 
to install security cameras in 
the hallways where bags are left 
outside of dining halls, with the 
intention of deterring and mon-
itoring theft.
Graffiti protesting the in-
stallation of cameras appeared 
Monday morning at a number 
of locations on campus. One 
message outside Atwater Din-
ing Hall read: “Who watches 
the watchmen?” alongside the 
image of a rat cutting the cord 
to a security camera. A similar 
rat image surfaced earlier this 
semester in March on graffiti 
that appeared outside Warner 
Hall, McCardell Bicentennial 
Hall and the Mahaney Center 
for the Arts. 
On Thursday, April 23, Com-
munity Council hosted a forum 
to discuss surveillance cameras. 
Lisa Burchard, director of Pub-
lic Safety, framed the cameras 
as a way to deter criminals and 
to aid in an investigation. 
“When things start to go 
missing, [security cameras are] 
one investigative tool that’s 
missing for us that other insti-
tutions have … If someone were 
to report, ‘I left it at 11, came 
back at noon and it was gone,’ 
that period of time would be 
looked at to see if we could see 
where that bag was, could we 
see anything of value that may 
help us understand how that 
bag ended up leaving the dining 
hall,” Burchard said.
Solon Coburn, Telecom Man-
ager and Tech Support Special-
ist for Public Safety, empha-
sized that there would be strict 
guidelines as to how and when 
footage could be reviewed, and 
that they would most likely only 
be used in victim crimes like 
property theft or assault. 
“We’re talking limited use in 
public areas with a really strict 
guiding document. All of our 
peer institutions have similar 
documents about when they can 
be reviewed, who can ask them 
to be reviewed, what kind of 
situations trigger a review, and, 
when they’re pulled up, who are 
the actual people looking at it. 
That’s what we’re thinking of, 
a very narrow scope of use,” 
Coburn said.
The first effort to install se-
curity cameras began in the 
spring of 2006, when 22 people 
reported thefts, most of which 
were wallets with identification 
and credit cards from jackets 
and backpacks. That fall, Public 
Safety, with the police’s help, 
was able to arrest the person re-
News Editor
(pictured above) and Bicentennial Hall protesting video surveillance of students, police brutality and 
dan celik
GRAFFITI VANDALISM
Sga elections: spring 2015
go / vote Cast your vote by noon today!
SGA President:
Candidates for
Student co-chair of community council:
Candidates for
Ilana
Gratch ’16.5
go/ilana
Caroline
Walters ’16.5
go/caroline
Stuart
Warren ’17
go/stu
Josh
Berlowitz ’16
go/josh
Zak
Fisher ’16
go/zak
Tiff 
Chang ’17.5
go/tiff 
Durga
Jayaraman ’16
go/durga
evan gallagher
SGA Candidates Debate
SEE SGA, PAGE 3
SEE COUNCIL, PAGE 2
sponsible. The person was not a student 
or staff member.
Most years see five to eight property 
crimes occur at the dining halls. There 
have been 38 this year. Now, as opposed 
to 2006, thefts involve more objects of 
value, such as laptops. 
Burchard noted that most thefts this 
year have occurred in Proctor dining 
hall, rather than Ross, which could in-
dicate the effectiveness of Ross’ key card 
entry in preventing theft.  
Some believed that students should 
be more aware of their property, leaving 
bags unattended in dining halls at their 
own risk.
“For me, I think it’s more a matter of 
personal responsibility. Keep your stuff 
with you if you can’t replace it. If you can 
and want to take that risk, go ahead, but 
you’re exposing yourself to the conse-
quences,” Alex Muck ’17.5 said.
In an email to the Campus, Student 
Co-Chair of Community Council Ben Bo-
gin ’15 emphasized the need to consider 
all options for preventing property loss.
“I think that it’s a complicated is-
sue. The cameras have the possibility 
to drastically reduce theft, but a num-
ber of people have also told me that the 
costs outweigh the benefits. During the 
conversation, a few people said that stu-
dents should start bringing their belong-
ings into the dining hall, which seems 
like a good start to me. I think it’s impor-
tant that we look at all of our options,” 
Bogin wrote.
Other students objected that surveil-
lance would detract from the sense of 
trust and community in spaces that cam-
eras are installed.
“To me the thing that really makes 
Middlebury special is our rock solid 
sense of community … The cornerstone 
of that is that this is a place where people 
trust one another.  Obviously bad things 
do happen … this is a place where we 
trust one another and that extends to 
the dining hall and to spaces that are not 
purely student-owned or that you need 
key card access to get into. To put even 
a few cameras like we’re suggesting here 
so very much erodes that sense of trust 
that it is something I’m really against,” 
Zak Fisher ’16 said.
Fisher also voiced concern about 
the ease with which cameras could be 
installed in other spaces, like the fre-
quently vandalized vending machine 
in Ross, once the precedent is set with 
dining halls.
Durga Jayaraman ’16 suggested that 
installing cameras was pragmatic, as it 
would not only deter crime but would 
also make students feel secure in leaving 
their belongings. 
“If surveillance cameras deter peo-
ple from stealing… and [we] regain our 
ability to leave out stuff without think-
ing about it outside, would we not want 
that?” Jayaraman said. “We’re saying 
that the feeling of distrust [caused by se-
curity cameras] is outweighing wanting 
accountability for people who have had 
their stuff stolen.”
Sierra Jackson ’18 emphasized the 
need to be empathetic to students for 
whom security cameras and notions of 
policing cause anxiety. 
“[Alex] even talked about cameras in 
her high school… I’m from Chicago and 
so there are definitely communities with 
police cameras around… these are real 
issues for people. They bring up a lot of 
anxiety. We really need to be conscious 
of who we’re talking about when we’re 
talking about [this] Middlebury com-
munity and include those voices too,” 
Jackson said. 
The room was divided on possible al-
ternatives to prevent or deter theft. Hav-
ing a student monitor or Public Safety 
officer attend the bag area was deemed 
ineffective—it would be difficult for 
one person to remember what property 
belonged to each student with the con-
stant flow of people in and out of the 
dining hall. 
One idea, proposed by Fisher and met 
with support, was a poster campaign 
that would inform students of the num-
ber of thefts this year and would encour-
age them to look out for their and their 
friends’ things.
“Whether that’s the message we in-
tended to send… you’re not trying to say 
‘we don’t trust Middlebury students’. 
[But,] that’s the message you get when 
you see a surveillance camera,” said 
Fisher.
On Tuesday, April 21, students, faculty 
and members of the community gathered 
in Mead Chapel to hear Middlebury College 
Activities Board’s (MCAB) spring speaker, 
veteran Democratic political strategist 
Donna Brazile, in her talk titled “Political 
Outlook: A Comprehensive Picture of 
What’s Going On in Washington.”
Brazile is the vice chairwoman of the 
Democratic National Committee as well as 
an author, syndicated columnist, television 
political commentator and adjunct 
professor at Georgetown University. 
She has worked on every presidential 
campaign from 1976 to 2000, and was the 
presidential campaign when she served as 
Al Gore’s campaign manager in 2000.
Brazile opened her speech by presenting 
the audience with background information 
on her own life and the events that 
sparked her interest in politics, noting the 
assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, 
Jr. as a turning point. Even though she was 
only eight years old at the time, it inspired 
her to get involved in her community and 
to use her voice to make sure that political 
opportunity is open to all people.
This, she explained, remains her goal. 
And she stressed that even though the 
mold was broken with the election of 
Barack Obama in 2008, there is more to 
be done. She spoke of the ills of a hyper-
partisan Washington that often results 
time the American people are tired of it. 
She claimed the U.S. is looking for new 
leaders and values.
Brazile spoke on the upcoming 2016 
potential candidates for the Republican and 
Democratic parties, as well as those who 
have already announced their candidacy. 
The Republican primary, she predicted, 
will be especially interesting to watch 
because of the sheer number of candidates 
including Jeb Bush, Scott Walker, Rand 
Paul, Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio. She also 
stressed that top-tier candidates will be 
those who are well-positioned in the polls, 
will raise a lot of money, and will be able to 
mobilize their bases. 
On the Democratic side, Brazile spoke 
highly of Hillary Clinton, but also cited 
Joe Biden, Lincoln Chaffee, Jim Webb 
and Vermont’s Bernie Sanders as possible 
contenders for the nomination.
A large portion of Brazile’s talk centered 
expressed her opinion that we, as citizens, 
should demand that candidates disclose all 
of their donors, and that Super PACs are 
“destroying our democracy.” 
Lauren Alper ’16, a political science 
major, appreciated Brazile’s focus on 
Citizens United.
“We are spending billions of dollars 
on anonymous attack ads, inhibiting 
politicians without the same resources to 
get their voices heard,” Alper said. 
She added: “Brazile reminded us 
that this money could be going to 
infrastructure, education, healthcare and 
much more. Currently, elected politicians 
are usually the ones with the most money, 
not the ones with the best ideas or the ones 
who represent the people.” 
Charlotte Boghossian ’16 echoed 
Alper’s sentiments.
“I liked that she focused on campaign 
on those policies,” Boghossian said. 
However, the overarching theme of 
Brazile’s talk was not the work she has 
done in politics or her predictions for 2016. 
Rather, it was the issue of millennials’ 
apparent unwillingness to run for public 
“We need you,” Brazile said at numerous 
times throughout her speech, “If you’re 
you’re willing to stand up for what’s right, 
we need you.”
She urged those students in the 
to serve at some level in their community.
said, explaining that we need new ideas 
and new people who are willing to sit 
around the table.
Brazile ended her talk with a call 
to action.
She said: “So go out there and give 
them hell. Stir it up. Don’t be afraid to 
step on some toes. It’s your nation. Why 
you? Because there’s no one better. And 
why now? Because tomorrow is not 
soon enough.” 
There was then a question and answer 
segment, in which Brazile responded to 
student inquiries on issues ranging from 
key senate races in 2016 to Hurricane 
Katrina. In response to a question 
regarding Hillary Clinton’s campaign 
announcement video and use of social 
media, Brazile emphasized that Clinton 
had won the most votes in 2008 but did 
not have the most delegates.
Because of this, Brazile explained, she 
believes Hillary needs to be on the ground, 
talking to people and hearing their ideas, 
in this election cycle.
“She’s running the right kind of 
campaign,” Brazile said.
The SGA meeting on April 19 opened 
with an announcement from President 
Taylor Custer ’15 that the recently passed 
proposal Coffee Hour would take place at 
8:30 p.m. every remaining Tuesday of this 
school year, in either Davis Family Library 
or Bicentennial Hall. 
Next, Director of Membership Nick 
Warren ’15 gave an update on the upcom-
ing elections. As of April 19, there were no 
uncontested races and still more candidates 
were announcing their interests in running. 
At the April 19 meeting, one act and one 
resolution were passed. The Senate Reform 
Act sponsored by President Custer was vot-
ed on and passed unanimously. It will make 
slight changes to the procedure of the Sen-
ate and its outreach to the student body.
Additionally, the Resolution on Sexu-
al Respect was discussed and eventually 
passed. Sponsored by Senators Josh Ber-
lowitz ’16 and Georgia Grace Edwards ’18, 
this resolution established the Senate’s sup-
port of changes around campus to promote 
sexual respect. Some changes were made to 
the resolution in response to the original 
discussion of it the week prior, such as in-
It passed 16-0-1.
On April 19, Warren announced that 
the Student Liaison on Endowment Affairs 
needed to be selected for the 2015-2016 
academic year. The SGA then nominated 
a committee of senators to review the ap-
plications and choose three of the strongest 
applicants to be interviewed by the Sen-
ate at the April 26 meeting. A week later, 
the Senate interviewed the candidates and 
then voted to enter “Executive Session” 
which excluded the public from discussion 
and selection of the SLSEA. They selected a 
candidate unanimously and will announce 
their choice soon. 
At the April 26 meeting, a group from 
JusTalks presented their resolution to 
years. The resolution was sponsored by 
Senators Naila Jahan ’15 and Kyle Gerten-
schlager ’15. It supported the instituting of 
seminars that would be led by two JusT-
alks facilitators. Each week the discussion 
would have a different theme, and the se-
mester-long curriculum would promote the 
discussion of justice and diversity issues in 
the modern world. 
“With an SGA resolution in hand we 
have a lot more legitimacy towards our 
cause,” JusTalks member Jiya Pandya 
’17 said.
There was some resistance to the idea 
of making this discussion mandatory and 
overloading the First Year Seminar curric-
ulum, but ultimately the resolution passed 
with a vote of 11-4-1. 
Today, in addition to deciding the races 
for next year’s Senate, SGA President and 
Community Council Co-chair, students will 
vote on a proposed amendment to the Hon-
or Code that has been brought forward by 
members of the SGA. 
The amendment to the Code has two 
Standards to the Honor Code, making 
the Code a broader statement on commu-
nity integrity than its current incarnation, 
which focuses only on academic honesty. 
The proposed amendment has a provision 
that would enact a biennial referendum on 
the Honor Code. If the amendment passes, 
every other year students will vote on the 
Honor Code with the option to maintain, 
revise or eliminate the Code. The amend-
ment requires 2/3 of the student body to 
vote in favor in order to pass.
By Claire Treesh
Staff Writer
SGA
Update
| April 30, 20152 NEWS
Donna Brazile Speaks at Middlebury
By Lily Sawyer
Staff Writer
Vice Chairman of the Democratic National Committee Brazile addresses students.
rachel frank 
Council Votes Against Surveillance Cams
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Walters asserted the importance of 
program, allocating more resources on 
campus for students in need of mental health 
support and the importance of following 
through with the SGA legislation made on 
sexual respect.
The next question asked the candidates to 
describe their top priority. Gratch outlined 
more plans for community support including 
a peer counseling service, Walters called 
again for transparency, Warren reiterated his 
desire to combat oppression and Berlowitz 
emphasized ensuring that all of the College’s 
resources are available to every student.
The candidates also responded to more 
on campus, their experiences as leaders, 
how they plan to branch out and reach a 
wide variety of students, what plans they 
have for addressing environmental issues, 
position on the use of surveillance cameras.
concerns about communication between 
the SGA, the administration and students. 
Warren captured the attention of the 
candidates and the audience when he asked, 
“Why do so many students not want to listen 
to the SGA? I would suggest it’s because 
they believe that it doesn’t have the power to 
make the changes on issues that they actually 
care about, so they listen to other clubs 
and organizations that are more related to 
their interests.”
He added later: “I think what we should 
actually do is try to make the SGA deal with 
issues that students value intrinsically and 
are not coerced to go talk about extrinsically.”
Gratch, Walters and Burlowitz echoed 
each other in their defenses against Warren’s 
claims that the SGA does not represent 
marginalized students and cannot garner 
diverse student opinions.
The SCOCC debates also addressed issues 
of inclusivity and communication. The 
SCOCC debate began with a discussion about 
the purpose of the CC, a group of faculty, 
staff and students that meet weekly to 
discuss non-academic issues on campus. All 
three candidates pointed to the importance 
of diversity on the board.
“In an ideal world, the committee would 
be able to get a whole opinion of the campus 
community by having people from cultural 
organizations and sports teams and NARPS 
and everything. The point of the committee 
is to let students weigh in on what they 
think would be good for Middlebury,” 
Jayaraman said.
Later, Jayaraman spoke to the importance 
of inclusivity again.
 “Sometimes what I’ve struggled with and 
what we struggle with in decision-making 
is not having all parties on this campus 
represented,” she said.
She continued:“I think if people are given 
a platform to voice their opinions, they will. 
Its just that people don’t know that platform 
exists now.”
Fisher agreed with Jayaraman and 
added: “I don’t think I need to remake the 
wheel, I just need to let people know that the 
wheel exists.”
Chang also spoke to inclusivity and 
outlined a cultural competency plan that 
includes competency training for faculty, 
mandating JusTalks and distribution 
requirement reforms including a new 
“dynamics and differences in power” 
requirement.
The SCOCC debate also addressed the 
issue of surveillance cameras. Earlier on 
Monday, the CC had voted down a proposal 
to draft a guidelines document for the 
possible implementation of surveillance 
cameras in limited areas. Fisher rejected the 
idea of security cameras: ”We have a rock 
solid sense of community,” he said.
He added: “It’s important that we have 
a place where everyone is comfortable and 
everyone can trust each other.”
Jayaraman, who had voted yes to the 
proposal earlier that day, defended her 
position and claimed that the cameras could 
help limit the number of thefts on campus, 
some of which have been linked to people 
outside of the College who are not held to 
the same community standards as members 
of the College. She voted yes to “a more 
informed position,” she said.
Chang offered a mixed opinion. “In 
general, surveillance cameras erode a sense 
of trust, but really what it comes down to 
“What I asked them to do is bring in all of 
the stakeholders, I wanted them to bring in 
the people of color, the people who would 
be most affected by this particular cost of 
the cameras.”
The candidates also spoke about the 
distribution requirement, the role of the CC 
in promoting staff needs and how to make 
the CC a more effective tool for carrying out 
and implementing proposals.
Both of Monday’s debates garnered 
attention on social media, including YikYak. 
the contentious nature of this year’s election 
and indicate that it will not go unnoticed. 
Listen to an audio recording of the debate at 
middleburycampus.com
April 30, 2015 |  3        News
Students Speak with SGA Candidates
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
This year, two Middlebury College stu-
dents, Maddie Orcutt ’16 and Kate Hamilton 
’15.5, were selected to receive the prestigious 
Truman Scholarship.
The Truman Scholarship is a $30,000 
grant awarded to a select number of college 
juniors interested in government and pub-
lic policy with the purpose of assisting them 
in attending graduate school and providing 
them with networking and internship oppor-
tunities. In order to be selected, an applicant 
must write a proposal advocating a change in 
a particular policy. Those who are awarded 
the scholarship pledge to work for at least 3 
organizations. For the year of 2015, only 58 
students were awarded the scholarship out of 
688 candidates; the College was one of 8 in-
stitutions to have multiple scholars. 
Orcutt, a junior at the college and na-
tive of Wyoming, is double majoring in Po-
litical Science and Gender, Sexuality, and 
Feminist Studies. 
Among the organizations that Orcutt is 
involved in on campus, she is particularly 
passionate about It Happens Here, an orga-
nization started at the College that addresses 
sexual violence on campus and the ways in 
which the administration handles incidents 
of assault.
For her particular policy proposal, Orcutt 
examined the possible ways in which the fed-
eral government can reform the current U 
Visa system.
“U Visas are afforded to immigrant vic-
tims of domestic crime and largely victims 
of domestic violence and sexual assault,” she 
said. “So my proposal looks at how we can 
reform those processes so that local jurisdic-
tions aren’t given such arbitrary power and so 
that we can standardize these processes in a 
-
eral level.”
As for law school, she said that she is 
“looking at a school with a really strong fam-
ily law and immigration law program since 
[her] interests sort of straddle the line be-
tween both in the sense that [she is] looking 
at interpersonal violence but also its intersec-
tion with immigration.”
When asked what she plans to do during 
she said: “The Truman is unlike a lot of other 
fellowships or scholarships in that it does ask 
the Truman scholarship, even if I wouldn’t 
have won the money, was a really valuable 
process for me in that it… really made me 
-
terests that I have developed at Middlebury.”
As for her long-term goals, she said that 
so far, much of her work has been focused on 
sexual assault in university communities.
“The fact of the matter is that women ages 
18 to 24 are at their highest risk of sexual 
violence if they are not attending university. 
And so I’d really like to see us build upon this 
current campus awareness to look at other 
happening elsewhere, how we can prevent 
these sorts of violence, and also what sort of 
legal responses are helpful and supportive,” 
she said.
Hamilton, a Political Science major and 
native of Washington D.C., became inter-
ested in public policy when she was 12 years 
old after reading several books on income in-
equality. This prompted her to join City Year 
Young Heroes, a service learning corps for 
middle-schoolers in D.C.
President Obama’s reelection campaign in 
2012, she realized “that the wealth and edu-
cational inequality that I had seen in City 
Year also translates to civic inequality.” 
For the scholarship, she wrote her policy 
proposal on “zero tolerance discipline poli-
cies in U.S. public schools.” These policies, 
she explained, began after Columbine as a 
way of expelling students who brought weap-
ons to school, but soon evolved to include 
discipline for discretionary reasons such as 
tardiness and insubordination.
“A lot of times they are applied in ways 
that are not fair and they disproportionately 
affect African American students, which ends 
up with African-Americans being expelled 
and suspended at rates that are really not 
proportionate with the rest of the country,” 
Hamilton said. “This kind of discrimination 
-
ment that I’ve seen carried out through City 
Year and it’s… not a way for our schools to 
play an inclusive role in our democracy.”
Hamilton is involved in a variety of or-
ganizations on campus. She is an Opinions 
editor for the Campus, the head of MiddVote, 
a student member of the Academic Judicial 
Board, a peer-writing tutor, and a research 
assistant to Political Science Professor Mat-
thew Dickinson.
After she graduates, she plans to work for 
a 2016 presidential campaign before going to 
law school. After law school, she intends to 
practice civil rights law and eventually work 
for the Voting Section of the Department 
of Justice.
Students Earn Truman Award
By Holden Barnett
Contributing Writer
Truman Scholarship winners Kate Hamilton ’15.5 and Maddie Orcutt ’16.
college communications
The Classics department received a 
lecture series, professorship, and sum-
mer programming. The department will 
be renamed the Eve Adler Department 
of Classics.
Donations such as this are normally 
named in honor of the donor, as with the 
Albert A. Mead Professorship of Biology 
and the John G. McCullough Professor-
ship of Chemistry. Since the donation was 
made anonymously, the department chose 
-
ure in its history.
Eve Adler worked at the College for 
over 25 years, and is credited with revital-
izing the department during three differ-
ent College presidencies.  Originally ap-
pointed in 1977 to develop new programs 
in Latin, Greek, and Classical Hebrew, 
Adler chaired the Classics department for 
16 of those 25 years.
in the way she approached everything and 
Professor of Classics Marc Witkin said. 
“She was somebody who had a tremendous 
breadth of interests and abilities. She saw 
that courses on Classics in translation ap-
pealing to students in all disciplines at the 
College held the key to the survival of the 
Greek and Latin programs at Middlebury. 
In the decades since her chairmanship, the 
to follow her curricular design.”
The donation has a framework for how 
much of the yearly income can be used for 
different purposes. So far, the department 
has established the Eve Adler Memorial 
Fund for Summer Study in Classics/Clas-
sical Studies and an annual Eve Adler Me-
morial Lectureship. 
According to the Fund for Summer 
Study application,  “The fund is intended 
primarily to support students who wish, 
during the summer, to study Greek and 
Latin language, literature, and art, or to 
Classical site.”  
The site says that priority will be given 
to Classics/Classical Studies majors and 
minors, but that all students with inter-
ests related to Classics may apply. Five 
students have already received grant 
funding from the department for study 
this summer.
 With the endowment funds, the Clas-
sics Department also hopes to bring at 
least one named lecturer a year to Middle-
William R. Kenan, Jr. Professor of Gov-
ernment at Harvard University, delivered 
When asked about whom the Depart-
ment will invite to give the Memorial Lec-
ture, Witkin said the Lecture will make 
Classics accessible to many disciplines. 
“We’re open to having people outside 
the Classics,” Witkin said, “but we’re go-
ing to try as much as possible within the 
are well known and who can bring Clas-
sics to a lot of different people in a lot of 
In addition to summer funding and ac-
ademic-year programming, the donation 
will secure  a second endowed professor-
ship for the Classics Department. While 
Witkin said that the department’s overall 
enrollments and the number of Classics 
and Classical Studies majors are stronger 
than ever, administration claims that the 
tendency of today’s students to “shy away 
from text-based materials” has led some 
professors to worry that Classics at the 
College might be dismantled or defunded 
in the name of irrelevance.
“[The donation] means that in the fu-
ture it would be harder for some adminis-
tration to say, ‘Can’t afford to have a clas-
sics department,’” Witkin said.
Classics
Renamed
By Henry Burnett
Contributing Writer
Glenn Lower ’84 does a little bit of ev-
erything to make the Co-op run smooth-
ly. When asked what he does as general 
manager, Glenn Lower ’84 replied, “My 
kids—when they were small—used to say 
I sign my name 
a lot…they’d 
come upstairs 
and I’d be sign-
ing checks.” 
Despite the fact 
that some days 
it may appear that Lower just checks, 
his role as General Manager of the 
Middlebury Natural Foods Co-op en-
compasses a wide variety of tasks.
“I’m kind of all over the place.  I’ll fill 
in wherever is needed. For the past nine 
months, we haven’t had a deli manager 
for our prepared foods department so 
I’ve been the interim deli manager…I’ll 
sweep floors, I’ll do whatever it takes,” 
Lower said.
Though he is the one general man-
ager, Lower does not work in a vacuum.
“I also have to think about the 4,300 
households that are member-owners 
and how are we serving them…And then 
I have 11 bosses, which are my board of 
directors, and they change. Every year 
they have a couple of new people.  It’s 
kind of interesting to have bosses who 
are always in flux,” Lower said.
“They [the board of directors] give me 
two kinds of policies,” Lower explained. 
One kind of policies are the missions: 
“healthy foods, and a vibrant local com-
munity, and doing environmental things 
right, and being a democratic co-op, and 
also doing a lot of education,” Mr. Lower 
said. The other kind of policies from the 
board are boundaries.  
These “make sure we’re paying our 
bills, paying our taxes, treating people 
well,” Lower said. He spends consider-
able time reporting back to the board 
about accomplishing the mission within 
the given boundaries. The board then re-
ports back to the member-owner house-
holds. Lower has a circular diagram that 
explains the complex, two-way relation-
ships between member-owners, staff, 
the general manager, and the board.  
His jobs include overseeing Co-op 
expansions and monitoring what foods 
the store sells. Choices made about the 
store are based on community wishes. 
“The primary emphasis is on organic 
and local,” Lower said, referring to the 
mission established by the board of di-
rectors.
“28 percent of our sales are Vermont-
made products, a lot of them from Ad-
dison County,” Lower said. “That’s what 
our member-owners want the most.”
Lower explained that not all co-ops 
are also natural food stores. As a natu-
ral foods store, the Middlebury Natural 
Foods Co-op upholds a commitment to 
selling organic products by abiding by 
these criteria.
A c c o r d i n g 
to the buying 
criteria sheet, 
products con-
taining certain 
i n g r e d i e n t s , 
such as high 
fructose corn 
syrup, artificial preservatives or colors, 
or bovine growth hormones (rBST), are 
not allowed to be sold at the Co-op.
Not only is it expensive to source 
food from myriad local suppliers, but it 
is expensive to buy foods that fit the buy-
ing criteria.
“It’s a challenge for us not to have a 
price image problem,” Lower said.
Lower currently lives in New Haven 
with his wife, Cheryl Whitney-Lower ’84. 
They have two kids, one who is a junior 
at the College and the other who will be 
attending Tufts University in the fall.  
Lower was born in California, and 
grew up in Virginia. His first encounter 
with Vermont was when he came to the 
College as a student in 1980.  
“In some ways, I went to Middlebury 
College because al-
most nobody in Vir-
ginia knew about it,” 
Lower said. He want-
ed to get away from 
the schools where 
so many of his peers 
went, such as the 
University of Virginia 
and the University 
of North Carolina. 
Lower was a biology 
major.
“ A f t e r 
Middlebury, I did en-
vironmental educa-
tion for a while, but 
then became a high 
school biology teacher for about five 
years,” Lower said. At that time, he was 
living in the Boston area with his wife, 
Cheryl Whitney-Lower ’84.  
Because they ultimately did not want 
to live in the Boston area, Lower and his 
wife travelled around the world for a year 
before putting down roots elsewhere. 
During this year, they spent three weeks 
canoeing in Alaska, north of the Arctic 
Circle with two friends from college. 
Upon returning from their travels, 
they decided that Whitney-Lower, who 
was working in higher education admin-
istration, would look for a job first, and 
then Lower would look for a teaching job 
wherever they moved for her job.
Whitney-Lower, who now works as a 
Career Adviser at the CCI, originally got 
a job working as the Assistant Director of 
Student Activities. Lower, however, did 
not find work here in Middlebury so eas-
ily. He worked as a substitute teacher, 
while furthering his teaching certifica-
tions. There are only so many biology 
teachers needed in a sparsely populated 
area such as Addison County. All of the 
area biology teachers 
were about his age, 
so there appeared to 
be no prospects of a 
job opening any time 
soon. 
After working for 
a year as a long-term 
substitute, the ques-
tion surfaced again as 
to what work Lower 
would do once the 
teacher for whom he 
had been subbing re-
turned from materni-
ty leave. A job opened 
up in the produce 
section at the Co-op. 
The Saturday to Monday schedule per-
fectly complemented Whitney-Lower’s 
schedule, which was convenient given 
that their first baby was on the way. Soon 
after beginning that job, the produce 
manager left, and Lower moved into 
that position. After three years there, the 
general manager position was changing, 
so Lower applied for and got that posi-
tion, which has been his role at the Co-op 
for the last 17 years.
Over the past two decades at the 
Co-op, Lower has seen considerable 
changes, most notably to the size of the 
operation. From its founding almost 40 
years ago, the Co-op has expanded sev-
eral times.  
In 1994, the Co-op underwent its 
first major expansion within the gray 
building that now houses its offices.
“When we expanded that time, we 
thought, ‘Oh my gosh, we are set for life.’ 
We’ve got so much space now, and every-
thing is modern.”
“By ’98, we said, ‘Oh my gosh, we’re 
running out of space, we don’t have 
enough room,” Lower said. At this point, 
the Co-op surveyed its members with 
three options: do nothing, move to a big-
ger location south on Route 7, or expand 
in the current location.  Support for ex-
panding in the current location was over-
whelming, which came as a surprise to 
many, as many co-ops do not like change 
or expansion, according to Lower.
“New England towns were already 
struggling with big box stores coming on 
the outside and pulling sales from the 
towns out and the downtowns …  dying 
or becoming boutiques,” Lower said.  
The loss of downtown businesses in 
many New England towns made keeping 
the Co-op in town all the more important 
to many of its member-owners.
In order to expand in its current site, 
the Co-op had to ask three different land 
owners to sell them different parcels of 
land so the Co-op could have a contigu-
ous piece of land big enough for a new 
building, according to Lower. The new 
building was funded through a half a 
million dollars in loans from the mem-
ber-owners, not donations.
“It was a great community project,” 
Lower said of the 1998 renovations.
“It’s still a challenge to be in a down-
town location and try to run a grocery 
store,” Lower said. 
He explained that their growth was 
different than that of a traditional gro-
cery store. Rather than a wide building 
visible from the street with extensive 
parking, the Co-op renovation took the 
shape of most other businesses in a 
downtown setting with a narrow front 
and parking hidden behind, so as not to 
create a strip mall look.
“We were breaking a lot of grocery 
rules about how to run a grocery store,” 
Lower said of their choice to renovate 
without becoming a box store.  Between 
1998 and now, the Co-op has grown from 
about $2 million in sales to $12 million. 
Another major shift has been from 
about 20 percent organic and 80 percent 
conventional to the opposite: over 80 
percent organic. The staff has also grown 
from 20 to over 70.
Looking forward, the Co-op is trying 
to have an even greater vision for the fu-
ture than before.
“It’s not just ten years.  Well, what 
are we doing for 20 to 50 years? You 
can’t just always get bigger. We can 
probably get a little bit bigger here, but 
then that’s it,” Lower said. “It’s not being 
driven by profits, it’s being driven by the 
fact that the community says this is what 
we want. So we’re always trying to figure 
out, what is it that the community wants 
the most?” Lower said.
Lower sees the Co-op’s role in the 
Middlebury community as showing what 
is possible in terms of feeding ourselves 
locally. 
“I think a lot of local producers have 
said over the years…we got started be-
cause the Co-op was here, because that 
was the place we could sell stuff and 
get…our feet on the ground,” Lower said 
of the Co-op’s role among the producers.
“Food is a terrific economic develop-
ment tool, and I think the co-op plays a 
big role in that. We’re sort of like a hub in 
some ways, lots of food coming in, we’re 
figuring out how it goes out,” Lower said.
By Alessandria Schumacher
This diagram graphically explains the relationship between the board of direc-
tors, the general manager, the staff, and the member owners at the Co-op.
Courtesy MiddleBury Natural Foods Co-op
Local Editor
-
Glenn Lower ’84
General Manager, Middlebury Natural Food co-op
local
One in 8,700
Where the personalities of Middlebury proper are celebrated
Meet 
General Manager 
Middlebury Natural Foods Co-op
The store-front of the Middlebury Natural Foods Co-op, of which Glenn Lower 
’84 is the general manager, has gone through several renovations over time.
Alessandria Schumacher
Last Thursday, David Huddle – who 
is currently a Fellow of the Vermont 
Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a 
distinguished poet and novelist with 
eight published poetry collections and 
11 works of fiction to his name – drew 
quite a different portrait of form in poet-
ry through his lecture “Formal choice as 
the Path to Fresh Possibility” at a packed 
audience at the Vermont Book Shop. 
The lecture – the second in a series 
titled “Poets and their Craft” – was orga-
nized by the Sun Dog Poetry Center. For 
each lecture in the series, each poet is in 
charge of choosing their own topic. 
Based in Jeffersonville village in 
north-central Vermont, the Sundog Po-
etry Center works to promote poetry and 
create audiences for the poets based in 
Vermont. The center, whose name origi-
nates from one of Tamra’s poems titled 
“Parhelion,” is focused on ways to share 
poetry throughout the Vermont commu-
nity. 
Tamra Higgins, who is co-president 
of the center along with Mary Jane Dick-
erson, explains that this lecture series 
grew out of a desire to have a dialogue 
with poets about the many aspects of po-
etry that is typically excluded from the 
opportunity to discuss in a public forum. 
For Professor Huddle – who has 
been teaching at the University of Ver-
mont for over 40 years– making a formal 
choice does not necessarily mean impos-
ing a standard form on your stream of 
thoughts. He explains how he has been 
making formal choices in the context of 
free verse poetry throughout his writing 
career. 
“They include decisions like where 
one breaks a line or adds a three line 
stanza,” he explained. “They are little 
things that you do not pay attention to.” 
As Huddle sees it, formal choices are 
not only for the writer. As an example, 
he had an audience member read out 
a poem of his chronicling the days of 
his father’s last illness. The second to 
last line of the poem ended with an en-
jambment that forced the reader’s eyes 
to continue without pause. This format 
created a sense of breathlessness, and 
forced the reader to make conscious de-
cisions about the poem should be read. 
Huddle also explained that formal 
choices do not have to be conventional 
either. He referenced with delight a 
number of poems of his in which he tried 
to make all the lines come out exactly the 
same length in typewriter space. He had 
varying success.
Emphasizing how poetic form 
should have a purpose, Huddle describes 
how form should move the reader, rath-
er than merely showing off the writer’s 
skill. As an example he mentioned shape 
poems, in which the physical arrange-
ment of the words in the poem play an 
important role in conveying the intended 
meaning of the poem. In Huddle’s view, 
shape tends to become much more the 
point than the content itself. 
To further depict how he views form, 
Huddle compares poetic form to the way 
a jazz musician interacts with accompa-
nying musicians; where the accompani-
ment is a steady rhythm with some chord 
changes, the jazz musician who is impro-
vising weaves the melodic story into the 
background music. 
As Huddle describes, the process is 
“something steady and solid under a line 
that can meander all over the place.” 
Shedding light on his creative pro-
cess, Huddle explains how form and con-
tent overlap in his mind simultaneously. 
He describes how while writing the poem 
he can “almost step back and let the two 
[form and line] talk.” 
Huddle then explains how he draws 
inspiration from that that specific mo-
ment of overlap. 
“When I am writing and suddenly I 
put down a word or two, a line or a sen-
tence that I had no idea I would write.”
Alongside expansive events like this 
lecture series, the Poetry Center also or-
ganizes periodic retreats to Fielder Farm 
at the base of Camel’s Hump in Hunting-
ton. Higgins and Dickerson are currently 
preparing for a ‘Poetry and Healing Re-
treat’ on April 17-19  for people inter-
ested in exploring poetry as a means of 
dealing with loss or difficult events. 
Although Dickerson recognizes that 
the SPC still has a lot to do for the en-
couragement of young poets in Vermont 
going forward, the Center at large has re-
ceived a positive response from the Ver-
mont community. The organization has 
grown significantly since its inception. 
Higgins mentioned the tremendous 
encouragement they have received from 
local bookstores throughout Vermont, 
many of which have taken up the center’s 
cause and cooperated extensively for the 
organization of the long-running lecture 
series. 
This current lecture series will run 
until October 8. For more details and full 
event listings, visit sundogpoetry.org. 
Last week, David Huddle lectured at the Vermont Book Shop to a packed crowd 
as part of the Sundog Poetry Center’s Poets and Their Craft Lecture Series.
Courtesy Sun Dog Poetry Center
Sun Dog Poetry Reading 
Comes to Vermont Bookshop 30
Local 
lowdown
Local 5
This hike will be a 2.5-mile round trip trek 
on Buck Mountain with a few moderately 
steep ascents and some awesome views of 
-
tain Club Bread Loaf Section. Meeting 
place and time TBA. For more informa-
tion contact leader Brenda Ellis at (802)-
388-0936.
MAY 2
Do you like movies but hate their sounds? 
Kate Butcher ’15 is right there with you. 
Then head on over to the Brandon Town 
Hall and Community Center on Route 7. 
As part of the Brandon Town Hall’s sum-
-
lin’s best short comedies will be shown 
along with live musical accompaniment 
by Jeff Rapsis. 
MAY 2, 7:00 PM 
one of the state’s preeminent professional 
-
cert in Brandon this saturday. They will 
perform work from the late 19th century 
-
ed reservations can be bought at (802)-
247-4295 or info@brandon.music.net.
MAY 2, 7:30 PM 
then you will love the Middlebury Maple 
Middlebury Regional EMS on the Porter 
Hospital campus. This will be Middle-
bury’s seventh annual half-marathon. 
middleburymaplerun.com.
MAY 3, 9:00 AM
The Middlebury middle school musical 
marching band will march in Middlebury 
school marching band. They will start 
Cross Street Bridge and end on South 
Pleasant Street. 
MAY 6, 6:00 PM
 | April 30, 2015
By Bilal Khan
-
topher Fowler and you want to discuss 
Street at Crown Point Road. The Bridport 
book club is inviting all interested readers 
(802)-758-2858.
MAY 6, 7:00 PM 
Contributing Writer
NEWS, LOCAL, OPINIONS, FEATURES, SPORTS, ARTS & SCIENCES
IT’S ALL THERE. LOG ON TODAY.
  THE CAMPUS + THE INTERNET
MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM   
(WHILE YOU’RE AT IT, GIVE US A LIKE AT 
FACEBOOK.COM/MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS)
Advertisements6  | april 30, 2015
It is easy and natural to have a 
strong emotional reaction to issues 
of privacy and security. As skeptical, 
educated adults, we are quick to react 
whenever we feel our 
autonomy is being vio-
lated — as demonstrat-
ed by the incidents of 
graffiti on our campus 
commenting on the 
proposed cameras — 
or when we feel that 
the administration is 
overstepping its bounds. We advocate 
almost universally for the right to be 
treated with as much respect and dig-
nity as we would expect any adult to be 
given. The question of whether to in-
stall surveillance cameras is this kind 
of an issue. 
On Monday, Community Council 
voted down the installation of surveil-
lance cameras in front of Ross and 
Proctor dining halls. It is a prevalent 
narrative: we want to be trusted, and 
surveillance cameras seem to impinge 
on that trust. We value the uniqueness 
of Middlebury’s open and safe commu-
nity and we don’t want to see it lost to 
constant surveillance. We at 
the Campus, however, see 
surveillance cameras as an 
effort to protect that com-
munity and trust, not de-
stroy it. 
The first important re-
striction that makes this 
the case is that the cam-
eras would be used only 
as an investigative tool 
— not for monitoring mi-
nor misdemeanors. If a 
student comes to them 
with a report of a seri-
ous crime such as theft 
or assault, Public Safety 
will be able to pinpoint 
that time and study the 
recording to try to catch 
the perpetrator. If they 
see any minor infractions 
in the same tape, they would 
disregard them. No citations should 
result from installing these cameras. 
There would have to be a strict guid-
ing document that details who can re-
view footage, how much footage they 
can see, and which footage it will be. 
This restriction makes the purpose of 
the cameras much more a defense of 
students than an infringement on their 
autonomy and is at the heart of an im-
portant distinction.
As it stands, students are feeling 
less and less comfortable leaving their 
things outside the dining halls, with a 
total of 38 thefts this year. The camer-
as are here to rectify this situation, not 
exacerbate it. Middlebury has always 
valued the relaxed atmosphere we en-
joy in the midst of Vermont where we 
can often leave our possessions un-
guarded as we go eat lunch. Many of 
the opponents argue that this is what 
we are giving up by installing cameras; 
we at the Campus feel that this is what 
we are trying to protect. In this case, 
we need to think of our community 
members who have had their posses-
sions stolen and see the surveillance 
cameras as a safeguard for them and 
for ourselves. The goal is to make the 
campus feel safer. Surveillance camer-
as should not be seen as a sign of bro-
ken trust between administration and 
students but as an effort to protect the 
trust that we all expect from and give 
to each other.
Many people now have strong anti-
policing attitudes, and while this is a 
relevant and important viewpoint, stu-
dents must consider the differences of 
intent between these cameras and oth-
er types of policing. There is a large di-
vide between a police state and install-
ing surveillance cameras to protect 
students’ belongings. Because of the 
investigative nature of these cameras, 
and their limitations to reviewing only 
victim crimes (i.e. theft, sex-
ual assault), even the recent 
graffiti artists could not be 
caught on camera. The rea-
son we support these cam-
eras is because we want to 
see them keep our sense of 
community intact, not to 
direct the cameras at mem-
bers of our community or 
in anyway impinge on free 
speech or expression.
Surveillance cameras 
will allow us to catch the 
right person with concrete 
evidence rather than possi-
bly biased speculation and 
second-hand stories about 
who might have done it. 
They will protect students 
who cannot afford to re-
place their things and, if used 
judiciously, can protect the open 
and trusting culture for which many 
of us chose to come to Middlebury. In 
situations like these, it is necessary to 
look beyond our first emotional reac-
tion and explore the rationale and in-
tention behind the policy. If the cam-
eras are used responsibly in order to 
protect the dignity and property of our 
community members, then we at the 
Campus fully support them.
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful dia-
logue on substantive issues. With this in mind, The 
Campus reserves the right to deny publication of 
all or part of a submission for any reason.  This in-
cludes, but is not limited to: the making of assertions 
based on hearsay; the relation of private conversa-
the use of vulgar language or personal attacks. Any 
segment of a submitted article that contains any of 
the aforementioned will be removed before pub-
lication. Contributors will be allowed to reference 
prior articles published in the Opinions section or 
announcements for the public record. If a reference 
is made to prior articles, the submission will be con-
sidered a letter to the editor.  The Campus will not 
accept or print anonymous letters. The opinions ex-
pressed by contributors to the Opinions section, as 
well as reviews, columns, editorial comics and other 
commentary, are views of the individual contribu-
the newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submissions 
at 800 words or less. Submit works directly to the 
Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@middlebury.
edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.middlebury-
campus.com. To be considered for publications, 
submissions must be received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The 
Campus reserves the right to edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
-
located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury College. 
The Middlebury Campus is produced on Apple Ma-
cintosh computers using Adobe InDesign CS5 and is 
printed by the Press Republican in New York. The 
advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the following week’s 
issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury Campus, 
Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 
05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. Please ad-
dress distribution concerns to the Business Director. 
First class postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
A New Angle: In Support of Cameras
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Why I Refuse To Smile For The Cameras
This year in May, key provisions in 
the Patriot Act that allow the bulk col-
lection of pri-
vate data and 
i n f o r m a t i o n 
are set to ex-
pire. In light 
of that, I find 
it particularly chilling that within Mid-
dlebury’s ongoing micro-debate about 
security there is an erroneous proposal 
to increase surveillance by installing 
new security cameras outside of dining 
halls in an attempt to address concerns 
about theft.
This is not the first time the subject 
has been broached at Midd. In fact, 
similar discussions took place in 2002, 
2005 and 2006. However, thus far 
Middlebury has thankfully remained – 
with the exception of the WRMC studio 
and the art museum – camera-free.
My main concern is that though the 
administration may claim our dining 
halls are public spaces, any student 
that has ever dragged themselves into 
Proctor sporting a t-shirt and pajama 
pants would beg to differ. Frankly 
I don’t see any space on campus as 
“public,” given that we go to a school 
of 2,500 students in rural Vermont, a 
place that we as students call “home” 
for 9 months a year. If someone is go-
ing to film me in my house I at least 
want a syndicated reality TV series so I 
can get royalties from it.
And beyond the question of privacy 
lays a perhaps more important ques-
tion of efficacy. We tend to assume 
that our privacy is being given up as 
payment for the “security” that these 
cameras provide. But you might be 
surprised to learn that a great deal of 
research shows cameras actually fail 
to decrease the incidence of crime, in-
cluding theft. The United Kingdom has 
an extensive net-
work of 40,000 
cameras that 
were deployed in 
an effort to re-
duce crime in ur-
ban areas, but a 
2005 comprehen-
sive meta-analy-
sis by two crimi-
nologists, Martin 
Gill and Angela 
Spriggs, found 
that cameras had no overall effect.
The story is the same on this side of 
the Atlantic. A study conducted by the 
USC School of Public Policy, Planning 
and Development, found that LAPD’s 
COMPSTAT figures from before and 
after the introduction of security cam-
eras show no statistically significant 
impact on crime. A 1995 study by Rose-
mary Erickson, a Ph.D. in Forensic So-
ciology, found that not only do cam-
eras fail to deter theft, but according 
to a series of interviews, most would-
be and have-been criminals don’t care 
about the presence of cameras in the 
areas where they commit their crimes.
And then there is the “peace of 
mind” argument that, cameras, though 
ineffectual, somehow make us feel 
more secure. Ignoring the logical fal-
lacy within that line of argument, 
there is also extensive evidence to sug-
gest that cameras do not make people 
feel more secure. The Gill and Spriggs 
study mentioned earlier found that 
cameras had zero effect on perceived 
safety. That is to say, in return for a 
gross violation of 
our privacy, not 
only do cameras 
fail to provide se-
curity, they don’t 
provide peace of 
mind either.
The underly-
ing problem is not 
a lack of surveil-
lance, but a lack 
of trust. Ben Bogin 
(the Student Co-
Chair of the Community Council) said 
last year during the April SGA discus-
sion that to limit dorm damage and 
theft, we should focus on a social hon-
or code to build a culture of integrity 
instead of installing security cameras. 
And he’s right; cameras build a culture 
of paranoia. Even if you close your eyes 
and wish really hard, the tiny red lights 
on cameras will never start blinking “I 
trust you” in Morse code.
So when you walk in and out of the 
dining halls today, breathe a sigh of 
relief knowing that you’re not being 
recorded and you can be yourself. Be-
cause in the end, the sense of trust at 
Middlebury is one of the things that 
makes this school great. I refuse to give 
up trust in my fellow students. Camer-
as have no place at Middlebury.
reader op-ed
Jackson Adams ’17 is 
from Towson, Md.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Joe Flaherty
MANAGING EDITOR
Conor Grant
BUSINESS MANAGER
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Claire Abbadi, Phil Bohlman, Ellie Rein-
hardt, Christian Jambora, Eliza Teach
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Blackburn, Lawrence Dolan, Kate 
Hamilton, Edward O’Brien, Erin Van Gessel
SPORTS EDITORS 
Emily Bustard, Joe Macdonald, Alex Morris, 
Fritz Parker, Remo Plunkett
LOCAL EDITORS 
Isabelle Dietz, Annie Grayer
Alessandria Schumacher
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Hye-Jin Kim, 
Emilie Munson
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio, Leah Lavigne,
Elizabeth Zhou 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel Frank, Anahi Naranjo, Michael 
O’Hara, Ivan Valladares
DESIGN EDITORS
Evan Gallagher, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITOR
Jerrica Davy
COPY EDITOR
Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Jessica Cheung, Michelle Irei
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR
 Olivia Jurkowitz
“A 1995 study ... found 
that not only do cameras 
fail to deter theft, but ac-
cording to a series of in-
terviews, most would-be 
and have-been criminals 
don’t care about the pres-
ence of cameras.”
Charlotte Fairless
  8 april 30, 2015| opinions
 “Hey, how are you?”
         “Fine, but I have so much work 
to do.”
How many times have you heard this 
e x c h a n g e ? 
Presumably, 
too many to 
count. We at 
Middlebury 
are perpetu-
ally busy, 
treading water in a proverbially stormy 
(and decidedly cliché) sea of academic 
and extracurricular pressure. We com-
plain frequently – so frequently that to 
do so has become merely customary, 
rather than declarative.
But I’m not sure we wholeheartedly 
dislike being so busy. I think we derive 
a twisted sense of comfort from the fact.  
As New York Times contributor Tim 
Kreider writes, “[Busyness] is, pretty ob-
viously, a boast disguised as a complaint. 
And the stock response is a kind of con-
gratulation: ‘That’s a good problem to 
have,’ or ‘Better than the opposite.’ No-
tice it isn’t generally people pulling back-
to-back shifts in the I.C.U. or commuting 
by bus to three minimum-wage jobs who 
tell you how busy they are; what those 
people are is not busy but tired. Exhaust-
ed. Dead on their feet.” 
Middlebury is self-imposed. The con-
straints placed on our leisure time are 
voluntarily sought. We chose to join 
that extra club, we chose to register for 
that rigorous course. We once chose to 
attend this very institution. I will not 
argue that, on some level, it isn’t dif-
of time and energy it takes to dig in and 
succeed at this college. I also will not ar-
gue against the somewhat rigid nature of 
the academic grind, losing precious mo-
ments of leisure and spontaneity along 
the way. But I will argue that, as much as 
we may occasionally (or regularly) resent 
the high expectations placed upon us at 
Midd, I think we are much more afraid 
of where we’d be without them.
Busyness is the most comfortable 
of complaints. What it not-so-humbly 
indicates is a lack of other, much more 
uncomfortable states of being  – insecu-
rity, loneliness, uncertainty, boredom. 
We have a tendency to do too much, per-
haps because we are so afraid of having 
nothing to do. Washington Post con-
tributor Brigid Schulte writes, “Some-
where around the end of the 20th cen-
tury, busyness became not just a way of 
life but a badge of honor. And life, soci-
ologists say, became an exhausting ever-
dayathon ... People compete over being 
busy; it’s about showing status.” 
However, such productive intentions are 
conducted at the University of London 
found that “constant emailing and text-
messaging reduces mental capability by 
an average of ten points on an IQ test ... 
For men, it’s around three times more 
than the effect of smoking cannabis.” So 
if you’re constantly checking your Snaps 
while working on that problem set, take 
note – you’d legitimately be more func-
tional if you were high.
more nuanced phenomenon than meets 
the eye. Students at this school who 
spend a semester taking three classes 
frequently describe how relieved they 
feel, how thoroughly they are able to im-
merse themselves in their coursework, 
how pleasantly surprised they are to dis-
cover that a genuine love of learning lay 
dormant, formerly smothered by sheer 
volume of work. The difference between 
three and four classes, it seems, can be 
likened to the difference between swim-
ming and treading water. An age-old 
platitude holds true – less is (or can be) 
more. 
So, what’s the solution? Four classes 
a semester is obviously the norm. The 
need to do more pervades. Our classes 
and extracurriculars will continue to de-
mand our attention. This fact is out of 
our control. What’s within our control 
is the power to start giving one another 
step in addressing any problem, big or 
small, is developing awareness. We at 
Midd are caught, collectively, in a cycle 
of work-related woe. We announce how 
either a) others around us are equally as 
busy or that b) busyness is indicative of 
our own import. Both represent attempts 
to reassure ourselves that busyness is an 
unquestioned good. Somewhere along 
the way, we forget to step back and actu-
ally calm down.
Leisure time is important. Carve it out 
whenever possible. As Schulte writes, 
“Even as neuroscience is beginning to 
show that at our most idle, our brains are 
most open to inspiration and creativity ... 
we resist taking time off ... In the Middle 
the opposite of sloth – was one of Ca-
tholicism’s seven deadly sins.” I certainly 
would not attempt to belittle or under-
mine the value of hard work. But I would 
call for moments of peace, whether they 
consist of an hour-long walk through the 
organic garden, a 20 minute conversa-
tion with a friend that has nothing to do 
with school or 30 seconds spent staring 
into space. Try to remember that the op-
portunities provided by Midd are just 
that – opportunities. Don’t let busyness 
turn into a crutch.
Busyness: The Eighth Deadly Sin
Brash 
menagerie
Sara Hodgkins ’17.5 is 
from Cincinnati, Ohio.
In the April 23 issue of t he Campus, 
the editorial board of the paper chose to 
publish a politi-
cal endorsement 
regarding the 
SGA elections. 
The paper put 
their support be-
hind SGA presi-
dential candidate 
Caroline Walters. The editorial outlined 
Walters’ various credentials, celebrated 
her non -SGA background and highlight-
ed her platform points. As I read through 
the article, I learned a lot about Caro-
line Walters and her campaign...but I 
couldn’t help but wish I could read about 
the other candidates and their vision for 
Middlebury. The editorial board opened 
their endorsement by mentioning that 
every candidate had come to t he Campus 
n ewsroom for an interview.
The paper, then, has a wealth of in-
formation about the various platforms, 
resumes and ambitions of those running. 
To my knowledge, no one else on campus 
every candidate into the same place for 
interviews and platform presentations. 
The Campus, as the only student-run 
paper at Middlebury, has a monopoly on 
this kind of access to interaction and in-
formation. Why, then, would they choose 
to pick a favorite and air an opinion, rath-
er than use their valuable interviews to 
provide the student body with unbiased 
reporting on e very c andidate? Of course, 
the platforms and credentials of the can-
didates are accessible beyond the paper 
via the go links and posters each of them 
have used in campaigning, but that isn’t 
the point. The Campus i s a student news 
source, making it inherently more trust-
worthy than campaign materials. The 
perception of the Campus a s unbiased is 
what creates this trust between the stu-
dents and the journalists. This trust is 
valuable to both parties, and the Campus 
should always strive to maintain it.
Long before the paper declares its loy-
alties, this forum should function as a 
source purely for information. The duty 
of journalists is to provide fact, with clar-
ity and without adulteration, so that the 
public can think and act as fully informed 
spaces for discourse, and I fully appreci-
ate the tradition of opinionated writing in 
the news. My issue does not lie with the 
editorial boards’ decision to publish an 
endorsement – newspapers around the 
nation have done so for centuries –  it lies 
with their failure to preface their opinion 
with thorough, unbiased reporting on all 
the candidates. The opinion of a newspa-
per is only valid when it comes along with 
all the information. To give us simply one 
perspective and expect us to be satis-
an editorial board expressing their own 
opinion, as long as they empower every-
one else to judiciously craft their own. 
Credibility is what is at stake here, and 
unfortunately t he Campus l ost a little bit 
of it in my mind. 
Letter to 
the editor
Katherine Brown ’18 
is from Dayton, Ohio.
information should accompany endorsements
Phil Hoxie’s column “Unions and 
Unfunded Pension Liabilities” blames 
middle-class 
workers – 
t e a c h e r s , 
nurses, bus 
-
their organi-
crises that are 
now plaguing 
many large cities. Hidden behind a ve-
neer of economic “common sense,” his 
argument is actually political in nature. 
So is ours.
The economic crises he mentions are 
manufactured events, highly orches-
in power. Scott Walker’s government 
in Wisconsin, for example, cut taxes on 
large corporations to such an extent that 
adequate wages for union teachers, nurs-
-
fordable.” Hoxie mentions Illinois as an 
example of union malfeasance. But the 
state’s governor, Bruce Rauner, is widely 
known to have manufactured a budget 
sector unionism in his state by ending the 
existing corporate tax structure. He also 
takes up the case of Detroit. But Detroit 
prospered when unions were at their 
peak. Virtually every economic hardship 
that has befallen city can be attributed to 
industry—rising inequality, the disap-
pearance of the middle class, the decline 
of the public sector.
If Hoxie is sincerely concerned about 
the health and wealth of the American 
economy, he should pay less attention to 
monetary incentives and more to history. 
American union membership peaked 
during the prosperous postwar decades. 
It has declined precipitously ever since. 
Myriad explanations exist, but the as-
-
ness lobby is paramount.
Today only about 7% of US workers 
are union members, which is a serious 
problem for our economy. No less an au-
thority than the International Monetary 
Fund now agrees that unions, especially 
those in the fragile public sector, are nec-
essary to maintain economic stability, 
assure decent wages, and protect work-
ers from political elites. No country has 
ever gotten rich without a strong public 
sector.
Strong labor unions are the most ef-
fective way to raise wages for those 
at the bottom and middle of the 
scale, boost aggregate demand, 
and create more jobs. Given 
the sorry state of “labor law” 
and court biases against 
workers, unions are practi-
cally the only way to address 
pay discrimination, wage 
theft, and unequal treat-
ment of women and 
people of color in the 
workforce. Places 
where workers have 
retained strong col-
lective bargaining 
rights are slower to 
drift into crises and 
quicker to come out 
because they temper 
the instability of the 
business cycle. The 
economic crisis of 
2008-2012 was felt 
least in states with the 
highest union densities.
Hoxie seems upset that unions give 
campaign contributions at election time. 
But contrary to popular opinion, and 
his article, unions receive very little in 
return for their hefty donations to both 
parties (about 40% of union members 
voted Republican in the last election). 
For example, Andrew Cuomo, the Demo-
cratic Governor of New York, received a 
$37,800 dollar donation from the health 
care workers’ union despite his anti-
union stance. Clinging to the Democrats 
has long been a losing strategy for labor.
If Hoxie were seriously concerned with 
the burden of taxpayers, he would write 
to sup-
port the campaigns currently transform-
ing the fast food industry and the retail 
sector, so that taxpayers no longer need 
the poverty wages paid by large Ameri-
can corporations. Instead, he reserves 
his vitriol for public transit workers in 
the Bay Area, a predominantly black 
workforce that is responsible for safely 
getting millions of people to and from 
work each day. By contrast, he predicts 
he will make a paltry $30,000 as a Con-
gressional staffer when he leaves Middle-
bury. If it is any consolation, we point out 
fastest growing skilled occupation in the 
US—a home care aide—who is 
charged with the physically and 
emotionally exhausting work of 
caring for our parents, grandpar-
ents, and sick loved ones. This low 
salary is in part due to the fact that this 
aside from the recently growing National 
Domestic Workers Alliance, and unions 
play a large role in uniting workers to 
improvements. There is power in (orga-
Hoxie repeats a well-worn trope of the 
business class—assert the indomitable 
-
sis, and use it to justify further conces-
sions against the middle class. But the 
reality is quite different. An alternate 
future for our economy requires that 
-
ish and win. Labor unions, at their best, 
improve working conditions, but also are 
-
ing for working-class power, social jus-
tice and a more egalitarian society. 
Unions Are The Solution
Reader op-ed
Alice Oshima ’15 is from 
Brooklyn, N.Y.
Jamie McCallum is 
an Assistant Professor of 
Sociology.
Jena Ritchey
| april 30, 2015 9opinions
Campus Cartoons
Boone Mccoy-crisp
Nolan Ellsworth
Win Homer
editors’ Note:
Since last week’s issue, some students have voiced concerns regarding the editorial board’s endorsement of Caroline Walters for SGA President and Durga 
Jayaraman for Student Co-Chair of Community Council. We would like to explicate the process by which the editors came to this decision.
 
Process
·      Students running for SGA President and SCOCC came to the newsroom for an interview with the editorial board. The board (which is made up of over 20
        people) debated the strengths and weaknesses of each candidate extensively for over three hours spanning both Sunday and Monday night.
·      On Monday night, the board members voted for their preferred candidates in separate votes for President and SCOCC. Walters and Jayaraman received the
       most votes. Many editors voted for different candidates.
·      The Campus is in good company when endorsing a candidate in a student election: countless college newspapers nationwide do the same.
Editorial Analysis
·      It should be noted that an endorsement is not intended to function as a mere reprinting of each candidate’s platform and ideas.
·      Space is not available in a concise editorial piece to detail the pros and cons of each individual candidate. Their platforms and experience are readily available
       online and in person for those students willing to seek them out.
·      The role of journalists and editors is to question everyone, particularly those in positions of authority. We are responsible for holding representatives 
       accountable to what they have (and have not) done. As the student newspaper, we would not be doing our job if we did not hold our student government’s
       feet to the fire. Those who attempt to convince you otherwise or to manufacture controversy regarding this fact are wrong.
·      We encourage anyone who has concerns about the Campus’ criticism to read the statements of intent written by those running for SGA President. Multiple 
       candidates have voiced strident criticism of this year’s SGA — criticism that is practically identical, in tone and in substance, to ours.
Go/vote
·      Having students vote, discuss and participate in this election and in student government are far more important to this board than any individual candidate’s 
       success.
·      Vote in the election at go/vote. Polls close at noon today.
april 30, 2015| opinions
The Socially Responsible Invest-
ment (SRI) Club’s mission is simple: 
we believe that Middlebury’s $1 bil-
lion endowment should reflect our 
College community’s values. This 
process must be as transparent and 
inclusive to all stakeholders as pos-
sible, and we work closely with the 
administration to bring about the 
change we believe is necessary. 
The SGA can have an important 
relationship in working with the ad-
ministration, as we do, to help Mid-
dlebury become the institution we 
say we are: one with strong values 
and principles. Regardless of which 
candidate wins the election, it is our 
hope that all SGA representatives will 
support what we would like to see the 
SGA address next year.  
1. Align Institutional Values 
with our Endowment: Our current 
approach to investing our endowment 
implies that where we get the revenue 
to fund our school and its programs 
is separate from our schools’ values. 
Simply put, what funds the Environ-
mental Studies department, which 
aims to create the next generation 
of environmental leaders, is distinct 
from the endowment, invested in oil 
and gas. Investing with our values 
in mind doesn’t mean reduced re-
turn, especially since some environ-
mental, social and governance (ESG) 
concerns are material risks that can 
greatly affect the value of an invest-
ment. We need to put our money 
where our mouth is and divest from 
fossil fuels, explicitly incorporate 
ESG investing principles, and find 
more ways to invest with positive so-
cial impact. 
2. Transparency in our Endow-
ment and decision-making: This is a 
basic aspect of good governance that 
we look for in the companies our club, 
through RISE (Research and Invest-
ment in Sustainable Equity), invests 
in as well. Middlebury needs to start 
by allowing us access to more infor-
mation about what our endowment is 
used for and invested in. More broad-
ly, this transparency should also ap-
ply to all decision making processes 
the College administration utilizes 
that affect students.  
3. Student Involvement in 
I n s t i t u -
t i o n a l 
Decision-
m a k i n g : 
T h e r e 
are many 
c o m m i t -
tees and 
boards on campus that greatly affect 
student life, from tuition and financial 
aid to housing. The recent changes to 
the Board of Trustees structure saw 
the introduction of a college-specific 
Board of Overseers, with one student 
Constituent Overseer. We believe this 
position needs to be reformed by add-
ing a second student with an overlap-
ping term and changing the selection 
process to rely on students to choose 
the person in one of the very few po-
sitions with direct contact to Trust-
ees and high level of decision mak-
ing. Another aspect of the new board 
structure are the standing commit-
tees that deal with a specific subject 
area, from Resources to Risk. Includ-
ing student perspectives on these 
committees is an important piece as 
well since most recommendations to 
the Board comes through one of these 
committees. 
4. SGA Support for Student Or-
ganizations’ Collaboration with the 
Administration:  The SGA can contin-
ue to improve the connection between 
administration and student organiza-
tions, such as ours. A strong, working 
relationship between our next SGA 
President and incoming President 
Patton is vital, and we hope that the 
issues brought up will include those 
expressed by students in the Presi-
dential Brief, organized by Maeve 
Grady of SRI, with contributions 
from 12 other student organizations, 
who all share an interest in making 
Middlebury a better place. The SGA 
can also facilitate greater expression 
of student interests through improv-
ing surveying processes with more 
consultation of student organizations 
for questions and allowing student 
organizations to run their own sur-
veys with incentives for participation. 
Reader op-ed
Virginia Wiltshire-Gordon 
’16 is from Wilmette, Ill.
Sophie Kapica ’17 is from 
Chatham, N.J.
SRI Platform Presentation
Campaign Finance Re-evaluated
swing vote
Erin Van Gessel ’17.5 is 
from San Rafael, Calif.
  People worry about campaign finance, and rea-
sonably so. There’s something unsettling about mil-
lions of dollars being 
shuffled around during 
political campaigns, espe-
cially when the process is 
so opaque to the public.
         What really both-
ers me, though, is the opportunity cost – I’ve taken an 
economics class too, Phil – involved with these cam-
paign donations. In the 2014 midterm elections, Sen-
ate and House candidates accrued $1,648,471,891 in 
donations. That’s over one billion dollars that could 
have gone towards public school funding, food pro-
grams or some other charitable program to benefit 
Americans!
Some would argue that donating to a campaign is 
an indirect way to help America, though – that when 
you make a donation, you sponsor someone who 
you think will make positive changes to the national 
agenda. Phil seems to view this as part of the motiva-
tion for unions and other organizational donors. His 
article last week suggested that these groups, which 
he believes lean Democratic, donate because they be-
lieve that their money can make a difference.
Well, not only is Phil incorrect in his conviction 
that unions and other campaign contributors have an 
unfair influence on policy setting, but he also painted 
a flawed partisan picture.
As Frank R. Baumgartner, Jeffrey M. Berry, Marie 
Hojnacki, David C. Kimball and Beth L. Leech point 
out in their book Lobbying and Policy Change: Who 
Wins, Who Loses, and Why, the wealthy and those 
donating to political campaigns often do not see 
their desired results in Washington. The authors, 
after completing an in-depth, long-term study over 
the Clinton and Bush presidencies, concluded that 
60 percent of recent lobbying efforts have failed be-
cause Washington favors a system of the status quo. 
In short, although some members of the political elite 
– like Tom Steyer, as Phil mentioned – might have 
high hopes for the effects of their campaign dollars, 
because of the bureaucracy and separate but shared 
powers system of the American government, cam-
paign donations will only maintain current politics 
rather than instigate sweeping changes.
Furthermore, to address the specific issue of 
unions that Phil latched onto – unions make up one 
of the smallest portions of the interest-group com-
munity. In the aforementioned study, the authors 
created a sample group of 1,244 lobbyists represen-
tative of the real-life interest-group community. Of 
these lobbyists, only six percent reported to unions. 
Therefore, while I won’t challenge Phil’s findings in 
salary differences between union workers and gov-
ernment employees who do not belong to public sec-
tor unions, I will challenge his suggestion that this 
disparity can be attributed to lobbying and campaign 
finance.
Because in reality, unions might receive abundant 
media attention, but they do not gain much political 
sway. Phil’s suggestion that the political contribu-
tions of unions lead to increased influence and there-
fore higher salaries is thereby impractical. He says 
that a Bay Area Rapid Transit worker earns more 
than a congressional staffer. This might be true, 
but perhaps it is because BART functions thanks to 
a combination of tax revenue and busi-
ness revenue (when people buy tick-
ets) rather than Congress, 
which works on a pre-
set budget from 
the national 
government. 
Phil’s argu-
ment lacks 
p e r s p e c t i v e 
and research.
Lastly, Phil’s article last week deceived readers in 
another regard. He wrote that Tom Steyer and Mi-
chael Bloomberg, two Democratic-leaning moguls, 
were the top individual donors to the 2014 mid-term 
election campaigns. This is true  – I took his sugges-
tion and went on opensecrets.org – but it is also true 
that overall, Republican House and Senate candidates 
received more money in campaign contributions 
than Democrats did, a fact that Phil left out. While 
Democrats in the House worked with $450,776,626 
in donations, Republicans had $585,606,851. In the 
Senate, Democrats saw $285,218,602, but G.O.P. 
candidates raised $315,898,295. Thus, two of the 
top campaign donations came from Democrats, yes, 
but they were joined on the list of top contributors 
by many Republicans, and in total, the Republicans 
outspent the Democrats on political campaigns.
In conclusion, neither party is innocent (although 
members of the G.O.P. do seem to have a higher flow 
of cash than do the Dems), but that is not really what 
matters. As I have noted in this article, and many po-
litical scientists have stated, campaign contributions 
do not have much influence.
A better approach to changing government might 
be to do so incrementally. That could mean starting 
a grassroots campaign to change a specific govern-
ment policy, like water usage to reference Phil’s and 
my debate on the drought a few weeks ago, or it could 
mean that constituents start pressur-
ing their representatives to take a 
stronger stand on issues cur-
rently facing Congress. 
Whatever the most 
effective path to al-
ter policy setting 
may be, it certainly 
does not involve do-
nating large blocks 
of money to politi-
cal candidates, so 
both parties should 
lay off there.
  10
Enjoy The Moment
Echoes
Alex Newhouse ’17 is from 
Stonington, Colo.
It’s been a hard winter and a hard 
spring semester. We grow restless as the 
cold weather 
drags on long 
into April, and 
we’re given 
only a few of 
the most tan-
talizing warm days to enjoy. Project upon 
test upon essay upon book piles up before 
us, each clamoring to be completed and 
each weighing down on our mind. The 
libraries are packed until closing time ev-
ery night. We sometimes are challenged 
to hide itself away. We sometimes lose our 
motivation and our thoughts move else-
where, to greener and warmer pastures. 
We struggle to make sense of tragedy and 
heartbreak.
The year gradually draws to a close with 
what feels like a lethargic and worn-down 
approach. May is upon us. The promise of 
summer comes closer. At least for myself, 
to be here on campus. Sometimes, any-
where’s better than here and the pressure 
and stress and anxiety that comes with it.
But as hard as it is, I can’t let myself go 
down that road. I can’t let my mind be-
come even more burdened with the desire 
to leave. I can’t let my homesickness and 
my exhaustion build up any more. It’s all 
I can do to keep my head up and focused 
in class sometimes, but all I can do isn’t 
enough.
that motivation to break out of the lethargy 
and go make a moment of joy for myself. 
Even when the winter creeps into April 
and lingers long past when it should al-
places to go that make me happy. I must 
altogether too short instances of joy that 
make this – all of it – worth the struggle.
I don’t know much about the mind or 
mental health. But I do know the feeling of 
mental exhaustion and the weight of stress 
and anxiety that can bring you down. I 
know how that shadow feels, and I know 
the pall it casts over all of your experiences. 
And I, at least, have managed to keep it at 
bay, some of the time.
-
ments to change my outlook. They’re 
rarely longer than an hour at most, and the 
shortest are only a second. But they’re mo-
ments when the metaphorical clouds part 
and you feel yourself lighten a little bit. The 
anxiety disappears for just a little bit, but 
that makes all the difference.
I’ve found that it isn’t all that construc-
tive to hope to just try to eliminate that feel-
ing in one go. I can’t aim for “happiness” 
as a general state, hoping that my life will 
take on a quality of joy as its characteris-
tic. Rather, I work to make a single instant 
joyful, or illuminating, or even just peace-
ful. I aim to break down my life into short 
way, each little piece I can work to change 
as it comes. And because it’s so small-scale, 
I don’t have to worry about reaching for joy 
in life, just for joy in the moment. As this 
happens, the things that make me feel hap-
py become so much smaller. In the winter 
I might step outside into the cold, blowing 
snow, take a deep breath, and appreciate 
the feeling of the snow against my skin. In 
the spring, I could look out at the Green 
Mountains and just stand in wonder for a 
half-second at the beauty that millions of 
years of geological evolution have brought 
for me to see.
What I realized was, these weren’t new 
feelings. I had always appreciated the snow 
and the mountains. I had not, however, fo-
cused on those senses and separated them.
It’s hard. It’s still not second nature 
for me. I still have to consciously remind 
myself to notice what’s around me and to 
appreciate it, however small it is. But over 
time it has helped me, and I think now I 
know why.
I believe that it helps because it is such 
a uniquely human ability to break down 
each day into its individual moments and 
to notice those things that exist outside of a 
routine. We are an incredible species solely 
in that we can stop in the midst of our daily 
responsibilities, stand still, breathe and 
beautiful events that color our lives. I’ve 
of the tunnel vision of routine lets you feel 
more alive, and to even more fully appre-
ciate what it means to live. After all, even 
when you’re feeling down, in a sense that 
feeling is still unbelievable in that it is a sig-
nal that you’re alive, you’re breathing and 
you possess a mind capable of sadness and 
stress, but also joy and passion.
So even when the spring isn’t as warm 
as we would like and even when the work 
piles up in front of us, let’s all just take a 
moment every so often and breathe. Just 
stop in the middle of walking to your next 
class and take twenty seconds to breathe in 
deeply and to gaze out at the land around 
us. Take a moment in the evening and 
spend a couple minutes just standing out-
side and looking up at the stars. I’ve found 
that these small escapes do a lot to help you 
feel a little bit better and a little more alive. 
vaasu taneja
B
“Ethos. Pathos. Logos. Till our last 
breath.” Thus reads the heading on Middle-
bury College’s Oratory Society website. The 
juxtaposition of Greek philosopher Aristo-
tle’s “three persuasive appeals” followed by 
the latter colloquial phrase encapsulates the 
unique undertaking of the Oratory Society. 
Faculty director of the group, Visiting As-
sistant Professor of Theatre Dana Yeaton 
described the Oratory Society as “making fun 
of ourselves as we do something we think is 
important.”
few years ago, but truly came to fruition last 
year in Yeaton’s 2014 Winter Term course, 
Oratory: A Speechmaking Studio. 
Yeaton had noticed an overwhelming 
nostalgia for oratory practice beyond Middle-
bury’s campus. He referenced a recent alum-
ni poll that illustrated a desire for classes on 
rhetoric at the College. The results of the poll 
showed that public speaking was the skill the 
College prepared them for the least. Ironi-
cally, the poll also showed that speechmaking 
was the skill alumni found most important in 
the professional world. Yeaton responded 
to this absence of and yearning for rhetoric 
by applying for a grant to establish Oratory 
Now, a comprehen-
sive program that in-
volves speechmaking 
trainings and work-
shops. 
“[I wanted] the 
Oratory Society to 
seem as if it had been 
around forever and 
call attention to a skill 
that has always been 
a part of a liberal arts 
education but has 
faded,” Yeaton said. 
“Oratory might be the one thing that busi-
ness people and people devoted to the liberal 
arts agree on. They all believe that speaking 
is critical.”
Committed to making voices heard, 
the Oratory Society’s mission is simple and 
compelling. Beyond improving public speak-
ing skills, the group has a social purpose. 
As articulated on their website: “We believe 
that when people speak their minds, their 
strengthened.”
On April 22, the Oratory Society’s dedi-
cation to proving the importance of rhetoric 
to make a persuasive social argument was 
demonstrated in its “My Idea to Save Amer-
ica: A Speech Contest.” Originally nineteen 
students auditioned and seven were selected 
’15.5, Dominick Tanoh ’18, Andrew Plotch 
’18.5, Nadine Nasr ’17.5, Hannah Blackburn 
’17, Charlotte Massey ’18.5 and Conor Simons 
’15. Coordinator of the contest Alex Brockel-
man ’18 explained the purpose of the theme 
was to give students an opportunity to utilize 
their oratory skills while presenting an aca-
demic and personally founded idea. 
“My hope is that with this prompt, re-
gardless of who wins, trying to tackle the 
larger problems our society faces with con-
crete solutions is a useful thought exercise 
and a great opportunity to practice speech-
making,” Brockelman said. 
Member of the Oratory Society Debanjan 
Roychoudhury’s ’16 opening speech playfully 
announcing to the audience they were “wit-
nessing a contest only the Classical Greeks 
could compete 
with,” as well 
as the addition 
of a trumpet 
comically in-
troducing each 
speaker, the 
event both an 
entertaining 
and thought-
provoking ex-
perience. 
Speeches 
were judged by three Middlebury faculty 
members: Russell Leng ’60 Professor of In-
ternational Politics and Economics Allison 
Stanger, Professor of Classics Marc Witkin 
and Visiting Assistant Professor of Dance 
Trebien Pollard. The judges based their eval-
uations on three criteria: originality of idea, 
of argument. The competition also involved 
“celebrity respondents” after each speech. 
Associate Professor of Theatre Alex Draper, 
Assistant Professor of Dance Christal Brown, 
and President Emeritus of the Conversation 
Law Foundation John Kassel were respon-
sible for providing feedback. 
All of the competitors proposed engag-
ing youth in political action. Before monetary 
prizes were awarded, Tanoh was announced 
the winner of the People’s Choice Award, 
which had been determined minutes earlier 
by a secret vote from the audience. 
The judges selected Blackburn as the 
In Blackburn’s speech she argued that “the 
American Anti-Corruption Act has the po-
tential to stop corruption in our government. 
Starting with cities and other smaller juris-
dictions, the movement can build to states 
and then Congress.”
 Tanoh received second place for his 
by electing a candidate who places a focus 
on the truly poor, even if it is not politically 
expedient.” 
Third place was awarded to Beyer for her 
idea, the Heartland Project “a YouTube Series 
that motivates more Americans to care about 
the environment by telling better stories.” 
Beyer expressed feeling a hunger to continue 
to pitch her idea after receiving such valuable 
feedback from the respondents. 
“As I sat on deck battling pre-presen-
tation nerves, I had one of those moments 
where I looked around and thought, ‘Gosh. 
The places Middlebury will lead you,’” Beyer 
wrote in an email.  “I just feel so lucky for the 
opportunity to participate in something like 
this.”
Overall, Yeaton sees the future of rheto-
ric at the College in its students. 
“The faculty and the administration 
agree that oral expression is essential to a 
Middlebury education. But if you look at the 
popularity of The Moth, TEDxMiddlebury, 
Verbal Onslaught, Poor Form Poetry, etc. 
it’s clear the real energy is with the students. 
They want to work on their speaking. They 
want to hear each other speak.”  
Oratory Society Holds Annual Speech Competition 
“As I sat on deck battling pre-
presentation nerves, I had 
one of those moments where 
I looked around and thought, 
‘Gosh. The places Middlebury 
will lead you.”  
alexa  beyer ’15.5
contest finalist
olivia heffernan
Medalists Dominick Tanoh ’18, Hannah Blackburn ’17 and Alexa Beyer ’15.5 pose 
Earth Week Festivities Promote Activism & Awareness
11features | april 30, 2015
The smell of burgers sizzling on the grill 
permeated the cold afternoon air in front of 
Proctor dining hall. Students representing 
various campus groups stood by tables and 
bulletin boards with colorful posters, tubs 
of ice cream, and an assortment of cookies 
fresh from the Weybridge House oven to 
engage students strolling around the terrace 
checking out the displays. 
At one station, attendees bedecked 
themselves with temporary tattoos depict-
images. Beside this, some made pledges to 
writing it down on a whiteboard and posing 
for a picture with it. A crowd had gathered 
to enjoy the celebrations comprising the 
Earth Week Festival, the highlight of last 
week’s Earth Week events.
According to Karina Toy ’17, a member 
of the seven-person CSC energy subgroup 
that envisioned and planned the event, 
raising awareness about contemporary en-
vironmental issues and ways to be more 
sustainable. 
“We thought it’d be a great way to get 
everyone together and talking,” she said. 
groups to tie in the Earth Week theme to 
their usual events to raise its relevance to 
other people who may not come on Friday.” 
Toy’s teammate, Kathleen Wilson ’18, 
emphasized the importance of bringing 
together as many individuals and groups 
across campus as possible, rather than 
just activist organizations, under the Earth 
Week banner. 
Sponsored by the Campus Sustainabil-
ity Coordinators (CSCs), Earth Week con-
sisted of multiple events involving around 
20 student organizations. It began with an 
environmentally-oriented session led by the 
informal guided meditation group, Prajna, 
on Monday night. 
On Wednesday evening, the Mountain 
Club screened “An American Ascent”. The 
documentary portrayed the challenges con-
-
tion to the peak of Denali, North America’s 
highest point. The nine-person team aimed 
to inspire inner city kids to embrace the 
outdoors. That same evening, Sierra Jack-
son ’18 ran a photography exhibit named 
“eARTh Day: A Progression of Black Re-
sistance and Its Relation to Environmental 
Justice,” to honor the thousands of black 
people who have been killed in the recent 
past from environmentally-related injus-
tices.
Additionally, Faculty Member at Ben-
nington College and Senior Associate at The 
Center for the Advancement of Public Ac-
tion, David Bond, delivered a presentation 
called “Ethical Oil: The Moral Economy of 
Nature and Culture in the Tar Sands of Al-
berta” at Thursday’s Environmental Studies 
Woodin Colloquium. The idea for celebrat-
ing Earth Day germinated from another 
CSC, Esteban Arenas ’18. After scrapping 
their original plan of asking the College 
community to limit their power consump-
tion that day, the CSCs brainstormed an 
intimate week-long celebration unlike 
any other from recent years. It required 
two-and-a-half months of preparation to 
reach out and coordinate dozens of student 
groups.
One student who stopped by at the be-
ginning of the Earth Week Festival, Camille 
“It was pretty laid back and informa-
tive,” she said. “The people whose experi-
ences were being showcased were really en-
thusiastic to talk about their work. I thought 
it was a cool opportunity to check out what 
people have been doing on campus, espe-
cially since with my major and interests, I’m 
not usually all that involved with environ-
mental activism here.”
The Earth Week Festival took place on 
a late Friday afternoon. It featured a song 
by the ASL Club, as well as performances 
by  the Paradiddles, Mchaka Mchaka, 4:30 
Jazz Combo, On Tap, RIDDIM and Capoei-
ra. In addition, Prajna conducted a medita-
tion session at the event and Middlebury 
horticulturalist Tim Parsons led a campus 
tree tour. This year’s Environmental Grant 
recipients gave presentations on their proj-
ects, and the Sunday Night Group (SNG) 
talked about the Keystone Pipeline and di-
vestment. Weybridge, the Middlebury Col-
lege Organic Farm (MCOF), and Queers and 
Allies (Q&A) also hosted tables on various 
environmental and social issues. 
The ground was too wet for planting 
at the Spring Planting Festival organized 
by MCOF on Saturday evening at the farm. 
Still, the outdoor oven was hot, baking pizza 
long after the sunset, and listened to perfor-
mances by Iron Eyes Cody and Mt. Philo. 
On Sunday night,  an Earth Week Pic-
nic dinner at the Xenia house, and a spe-
cial Sunday Night Group (SNG) meeting, 
rounded up the week. 
“[Environmental problems] are shared 
by everybody,” event coordinator Lily Wil-
son ’18 said. “It really is supposed to be a 
we all have the power to change something.”
B
VISUAL THINKER AND IN-DESIGN GURU?
WE WANT YOU! APPLY FOR DESIGN EDITOR AND LET YOUR CREATIVITY 
RUN WILD. INTERESTED? EMAIL US AT CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
jessican chen
Students made pizza at the Organic Gar-
den at spring planting festival Saturday. 
Written by Emilie Munson
hye-jin kim and jessica cheung contributed reporting. 
Design by Julia Hatheway & cartoon by gloria breck
          
 Highly-educated. Self-motivated. Hard-working. Unpaid. 
 These adjectives describe a growing proportion of the current national 
work force: the undergraduate intern. 
providing practical learning experience for beginners in an occupation or profes-
sion that lasts a limited amount of time.”
 According to Neil Howe, author of several books of American generational 
trends including Millennials Rising, prior to the 1990s formal internships were 
rare. Yet, the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) reports that 
from 1980s to mid-2000s, the percent of college graduates participating in at least 
one internship rose from 10 percent to 80 percent. 
 In 2013, NACE reported that only 63 percent of graduating students who 
had held paid internships received a job offer by graduation. As for unpaid intern-
ships, students who have them are today hardly more likely to get a job offer (37 
percent) than those who have no internship at all (35 percent). 
 Director of the Center for Careers and Internships Peggy Burns cautions 
the College are more likely to participate in. The percentage of students participat-
ing in internships, therefore, is likely to be even higher.
 So what has precipitated this increased participation in internships, es-
pecially considering scanty statistical evidence that they lead to jobs? The limited 
 As internship season comes to a  close at the College, the Campus investi-
gates how the rising trend of internships has affected students here.
 
Trends at the College
 In 2014, the CCI estimated that 600 stu-
dents, or 24 percent of the student body, interned 
that year. Burns estimated that about 70 percent of 
students had least one internship before gradua-
tion while 40 to 50 percent had two or more. This 
places students at the College above the NACE aver-
age in terms of rate of participation in internships. 
 According to applications for CCI summer 
internship funding, the number of students partici-
pating in unpaid internships has remained rela-
11 percent of the student body. 
 Burns says that students at the College have traditionally interned in the 
says students are increasingly expanding into more industries, including non-
funding in 2015 indicate that students are participating in unpaid internships 
and certainly the types of internships that students are interested in pursuing are 
really varied now.” 
-
A New Market Trend
 Assistant Professor of Sociology Jamie McCallum, who studies labor and 
responding to the economy’s need for cheap domestic labor. 
‘solution’ to this problem.” 
 According to Business Insider, unpaid internships save corporations over 
two billion dollars a year. But most of these unpaid internships are illegal. The 
 Attorney Maurice Pianko at Intern Justice told the New School Free Press: 
Today, the Internet means hiring managers may receive many more applications 
for positions than they otherwise would, increasing competition among appli-
cants. 
New York 
Times
online, and it is so easy for an employer to get thousands and thousands of applica-
tions.” 
 Furthermore, as children of Baby Boomers, the largest generation to date, 
Millennials face increased competition due to sheer population size.  
stiffer,” Burns said. 
 Additionally, Associate Professor of Sociology Linus Owens sees a chang-
 Burns also recognizes the 2008 market 
recession as an event that looms large in the 
memories of students anwd their families, caus-
ing them more job-anxiety. 
 The free labor intern economy, as Mc-
Callum describes it, is a self-perpetuating cycle. 
Students describe that previous experience is 
now often a prerequisite for the internships that 
they seek.
 Nitya Mankad ’16, who interned with 
Goldman Sachs last summer, highlighted this ca-
veat as the reason she began to apply for intern-
ships sophomore year. 
-
year couldn’t hurt.”
The Pressure to Intern
 In interviews, most students agreed that it was personal pressure, not pa-
rental pressure or pressure from the College, that made them seek out internships.
be a doctor,” Chris Diak ’18.5, who has completed many internships doing medical 
that will help me become a good applicant to medical schools, somebody else will. 
There’s a strange balance I have to strike between wanting these experiences and 
knowing I should have them on my resume.” 
 Some students do think, though, that the student culture at the College 
contributes to the pressure to get an internship.
a summer internship when in reality, that’s not true. I honestly feel like a lot of 
sophomores end up not having an internship.”
-
beth Zhou ’18, who is interning with Bosnia Initiatives for Local Development this 
summer.
Open to Everyone?
 Though valuable experience, unpaid in-
ternships can often prove prohibitively expensive 
for students. 
perpetuate economic inequality,” McCallum said. 
to get a foot in the door in a way that other people 
simply can’t afford to do, no matter what is on 
your C.V. or resume.”   
 The CCI has been working to address this 
problem through the establishment of its Summer 
Internship Grants four years ago and its First Year Explorer Grants, new this year. 
 Additionally, the CCI is working to increase the number of paid internship 
opportunities available on MOJO. This year approximately 60 percent of intern-
ships on MOJO were paid positions, up from about 50 percent last year. 
 Still, for many students, it is personal connections, not MOJO, that make all 
New York, it was really helpful that I have my parents and through my high school 
-
ship there this summer.”
 International students also face unique challenges in getting internships, 
outside of the cost of shouldering an unpaid internship. 
-
ployers discriminating against them based on their accent,” Martin Naunov ’17, a 
native of Macedonia who has completed two internships in Macedonia and this 
summer will intern with the United Nations in New York City, said. 
students to intern in the US. International students are only allowed to participate 
in a paid internship in the US by opting into an Optional Practical Training (OPT) 
paid internship during a 12 month period of time. Furthermore, students must ap-
ply in advance for approval and pay a $380 application fee to opt in.  
 Many universities give credit for internships, to help international stu-
dents skirt these constraints, allowing them to legally participate in many unpaid 
internships. However, by a decision of the faculty last year, the College does not 
give credit for summer internships. 
-
tional Student and Scholar Services, for their efforts to help international students 
negotiate tricky visa situations, Naunov believes that the College’s administration 
could be doing more. 
of international students, then we better be able to give the international students 
the same opportunities as other students,” Naunov said. 
Effect on the Undergraduate Experience
participate in at the College and causing some students to describe the internship 
to what I wanted to do this summer, which probably detracted from my ‘liberal 
dictates many people’s extracurricular activities. For example, people interested in 
as most alumni will ask if students are involved.” 
 Incorporating the search for internships into the 
undergraduate experience is part of the CCI mis-
sion.
after Middlebury is part of that undergraduate 
sport, a club or an organization that you belong 
to,” Burns said.   
 McCallum argues, however, that this attitude 
towards internships has serious consequences for 
a liberal arts education.
than how you study it. And I’m not sure that people realize that.” 
Econ, they also tell us, which is another way that undergraduate students and 
institutions subsidize companies who don’t want to take responsibility for training 
workers,” Owens said.
-
atic ways. 
generations have not been. That’s not to say that they’re passionate about it, 
necessarily, but that the obsession with being busy and what seems like a compul-
issue in your lives.”
 Largely, McCallum observes in his studies this career-focus diminishing 
how much people value leisure. 
that a commitment to leisure as a fundamental part of a healthy life is important. 
Will this Change?
 Owens is not optimistic that the current intern economy, in which highly 
can be easily altered. 
sorts is under attack, where even ‘good jobs or careers’ for an educated elite are 
 McCallum agreed that any kind of change will be long-term. For now it 
seems, the millennial and the internship will have to learn to be friendly co-work-
ers. 
 
one can even speak of something that could be 
‘good jobs or careers,’ competition for those 
Linus Owens
Associate Professor of Sociology
12features The Middlebury Campus| April 30, 201513
Of intern supervisors 
for summer funding 
applicants indicated 
that they would be 
interested in hiring a 
Middlebury 
graduate.
98%
Are the most popular 
locations for intern-
ships (From appli-
cation for summer 
funding and Burns). 
NYC, DC &
Boston 
70%
Of the student body have done at 
least one internship. 
Of the 2014 graduating 
class was employed at the 
time of graduation and
43%
Of students partici-
pating in unpaid in-
ternships, which  has 
remained relatively 
constant in the last 5 
years. 
11%
-
stitutions in the US in terms of international 
students, then we better be able to give the 
international students the same opportunities 
as other students.”  
Martin naunov ’17
the rise 
millenial
of the
intern
61.9%
3 months later.
In 2013, seven sophomore students 
organized around a cause that they felt 
was lacking the attention it needed: lo-
cal food security. Middlebury Foods was 
central Vermonters can pre-order month-
prices, made possible by cutting super-
market overhead costs.
The business has grown to other ar-
eas of Vermont. This spring, the founders 
graduate from the College, leaving behind 
a team of underclassmen to expand the 
business: Emma Bliska ’18, Tevan Gold-
berg ’18, Charlie Mitchell ’18 and Filippos 
Papageorgiou ’16. 
nutrition is physical access; Middlebury 
Foods delivers food to accessible sites 
in Vergennes, Burlington, North Ferris-
burgh, and, most recently, Brandon, VT. 
Middlebury Foods got economic sup-
port when it earned a $25,000 grant from 
the University of Wisconsin and the How-
-
dreds of graduate schools, like MIT, to 
was a milestone in a long road of fundrais-
campaign, MiddChallenge and other 
grassroots funding initiatives. 
More delivery sites demand better or-
ganization. With more than twenty active 
volunteers this year, the group ramped up 
responsibilities, which range from driving 
vans to making calls to ordering directly 
from producers each month. 
“We’re past the trial phase,” said Oli-
ver Mayers ’15, one of the founders.“We 
know the ins and outs of the business it-
self. We know it works. It’s really just a 
matter of where we want to take it.” 
Emma Bliska ’18 seeks to partner 
with local schools.
“We know that food insecurity dis-
-
der the age of 18 lives in a food insecure 
household. I would like to see Middle-
bury Foods getting more connected with 
schools and childcare centers in the area, 
so that these kids don’t grow up believing 
that food is a limiting factor, because it 
doesn’t have to be.”
Nearing graduation, a lot of student 
organizations at the College are confront-
ing organizational change. Middlebury 
Foods is one of them.
“We have a very informal model 
of leadership, which has been fun and 
worked decently well up to this point,” 
Tevan Goldberg ’18 said. “Right now, 
much of the planning and execution of 
goes to whoever steps up that particular 
month. (…) Streamlining the internal 
workings of Middlebury Foods will allow 
-
tomer base.” 
The roles of future organizers are not 
yet determined, but “Middlebury Foods is 
one. It’s a real, living business with real, 
living consequences. Those stakes are mo-
tivating and thrilling,” Mitchell ’18 said. 
“The true value of Middlebury Foods 
learned that] every person and group is a 
-
ger.”
“There’s a real opportunity for Mid-
dlebury Foods to become a national orga-
nization,” Harry Zieve-Cohen ’15 said. “In 
fact, it’s already happening.”
14 features  april 30, 2015   
Obeidallah Cracks Islamophobia with Comedy
By Izzy Fleming and Maddie Webb
Senior Columnists
This week, the NARP duo decided to 
take on the ultimate beast— intramural 
soccer, known colloquially as “IM”. Some 
friends of ours started a team, and know-
ing our athletic prowess, have been begging 
us to join for weeks. This week meant the 
it was time to bestow upon the IM world 
our soccer-related gifts. Izzy’s extensive 
-
shoot proved incredibly valuable and Mad-
die claimed to be the reigning MVP of her 
“backyard soccer team” circa 2003 (actually 
a computer game). 
After an early dinner full of leafy greens 
and lean proteins (haha jk!), our squad 
headed towards Virtue Fieldhouse. With 
our portable speaker blasting “Hot in Here”, 
we wanted to make sure that our opponents 
knew exactly who they were dealing with. 
As per usual, Maddie won this week’s fash-
ion mishap: dressed in neon spandex, she 
looked like a Crayola Crayon...on steroids. 
She said she was “just trying to compensate 
for the dreary weather.” 
-
ized that intramural sports are, in fact, 
still sports. People based their entire self-
worth on the outcome of these 30-minute 
games. Players were wrapping, taping, ic-
ing, stretching and warming up for their 
enough?) Our NARP-y team stopped dead 
in our tracks, as Izzy broke the tension with, 
“Guys. Not only do they have a goalie, but 
he has gloves.” 
After hesitantly asking to borrow a ball 
to warm-up, we formed a circle and gos-
siped as we passed from person to person. 
High on our chatting agenda was determin-
ing when our intramural screw your team-
mate would take place. Isn’t that the main 
purpose of a team anyway? 
Eventually, we met up with our oppo-
nents, the Wrecking Balls. We decided that 
the best strategy to recruit boys would be to 
while making eye contact with the desired 
target. Although we didn’t have the skills to 
brag or anything, but he had really nice 
gloves. 
All of the gals (plus Ian) got into a team 
huddle. Maddie began reciting the game 
time speech from “She’s the Man”: “Some 
are born great. Some achieve greatness. 
Some have greatness thrust upon them.” 
-
other player, Meg, stepped in and began to 
recite the “Miracle on Ice” halftime speech. 
Finally, it was time to “Bend It Like Beck-
ham”.
The following thoughts occurred 
throughout our game: Wow, what is the 
carpet! Why do I have sand in my shoes? 
Oh, the other team says they are “turf 
turds.” Ok. Apparently, my boobs aren’t just 
useful for feeding my future children, they 
can help me pass the ball too! Do I need to 
of breath. Sub me out. Seriously, sub me the 
f*ck out. Do I get a red card for cursing?
Celebration was in order when our very 
own NARP, Izzy Fleming, scored a goal! 
Her footwork was so precise, and she only 
fell twice. Our team screamed so loud in 
celebration that it distracted a goalie on the 
Sorry buddy.
Honestly, this may have been one of 
our most successful missions yet. In ad-
dition to Izzy’s beautiful goal, we got ap-
proached by another team to have a little 
“mixer.” With our overwhelming amount of 
social success, the score isn’t even necessary 
to paint a positive picture. However, if you 
really feel it is essential, one team scored 
six goals and the other team scored one. 
We don’t want to embarrass anybody so we 
are going to let you interpret who was who. 
Arab-American Comedian Dean Obeidallah joked he could convert the entire 
audience to Islam by the end of his act in Mead Chapel last Thursday night. 
Middlebury Foods Takes on New Leadership
By Hye-Jin Kim
Features Editor
Rachel Frank 
By Victoria Pipas
Contributing Writer
 “There are so many POC students in 
here,” Shannia Fu ’17 whispered as I set-
tled into a pew in Mead Chapel last Thurs-
day, waiting for stand-up comedian Dean 
Obeidallah to perform.
“What’s a POC?” I asked. The opening 
act, Narinder Singh, a Sikh-American co-
median from New York City, in a large red 
turban took the stage.
“People of color,” she said. 
I hadn’t noticed. I looked around; 
she had a point. In the usually Caucasian-
dominated Middlebury bubble, a diverse 
crowd of faces erupted in laughter as 
Singh cracked one self-deprecating joke 
after another. 
In addressing the clash between Mus-
lim-American identity and Islamophobia, 
“We wanted to make the audience as broad 
as possible and reach out to as many dif-
ferent groups and sponsors,” said Mariam 
-
dent Association (MSA) which organized 
the event.
his Indian immigrant childhood (includ-
ing his limited edition cologne, Chanel 
Chicken Curry No. 5), Dean Obeidallah 
took the mic.
Obeidallah, an Arab-American law-
yer-turned-comedian, has been featured 
Mead Chapel: “At the end of the show, 
you’re all gonna be Muslims. I’m going to 
convert you … in a church.” 
“The MSA board heard about Dean 
this winter when we got an e-mail from 
his representa-
After watching 
his documentary, 
“The Muslims 
are Coming”, the 
MSA was con-
vinced he was 
worth bringing 
to campus. With 
the help of the 
MCAB Speakers 
Committee, they 
organized this event.
“We believed that Dean’s mission of 
using humor to increase awareness about 
Islamophobia fell perfectly in line with the 
Muslim Monologues is an event where 
students and professors share stories on 
Muslim identity in America today. 
Obeidallah’s jokes touched on this, 
describing his experience as a member of 
a persecuted minority group. 
“Whenever you’re a minority, you 
have to answer for the worst group of their 
kind or the sins. Like, ‘What do you think 
about beheadings?’” Obeidallah rolled his 
eyes. “If anything bad happens, I’m always 
thinking, please don’t let them be a Mus-
lim. Remember the Hudson River event? 
When I found out, I was like, please don’t 
let the geese be trained by Al-Qaeda.”
“Right now for Muslims, we’ve never 
been in more of a precarious position,” 
Obeidallah began. “Last week in Oklaho-
ma, these bigots put bacon on the door of 
a mosque. Here’s 
the thing, we’re 
not supposed 
to eat pork, but 
pork is not kryp-
tonite to us. Nor 
is pork garlic, like 
we’re vampires. 
That’s not going 
to keep us out of 
there. If you put a 
pig on our prop-
erty, we’re going 
to take it and sell it to non-Muslims. We’re 
an ignorant bigot, that’s the worst. At least 
Because Obeidallah is light-skinned, 
he said most people did not believe he 
him. When he told them, he joked this was 
Arab? How many terrorists are there?” He 
paused. “I said 83.”
He also gave some professional ad-
vice on breezing through airport security 
despite his Muslim identity. “Here’s my 
Dress brown, you won’t leave town.”
After his stand-up act, Obeidallah 
hosted a question and answer session for 
attendees, where he was asked about his 
opinion on modern religious issues, like 
Zionism.
“I really enjoyed that part at the end 
of the show. Sometimes comedians can be 
-
edy] act. Sometimes they just have to 
make a joke about everything,” Fu said, 
“but Dean was must more real than a lot of 
other comedians.”
Obeidallah had dinner with MSA 
members in Proctor before the show where 
they discussed Muslim-American identity, 
especially inside the Middlebury bubble. 
“I really loved Dean’s openness about the 
importance of representing Islam posi-
“In the media today, the image of 
Muslims that is promoted polarizes and 
said. “Through humor, personal analogies, 
and experience, we hope that members of 
the Middlebury community enjoyed Dean 
Obeidallah’s perspective as much as we 
did.”
A native of New Jersey, Obeidallah 
said, “But it’s easier to get people to like 
Muslims than New Jerseyans. We have 
two websites, newjerseysucks.com and 
newjerseysucks.net.” 
“If anything bad happens, I’m 
always thinking, please don’t 
let them be Muslim. Remember 
the Hudson River event? I was 
like, please don’t let the geese be 
trained by Al-Qaeda.”
Dean Obeidallah
comedian
15features
Great Sexpectations: Q&A with @middsogyny 
Instead of publishing student sto-
ries this week, I’m using this space to 
write about student activism on Twitter. 
This column will continue to serve as a 
platform for your personal narratives, 
so please keep on sharing them! At the 
same time, however, I think our expecta-
tions surrounding sex in college are also 
the product our engagement with cam-
pus culture more broadly. I’m convinced 
that what happens — or does not happen 
— in our dorm rooms is only a small part 
of the story. 
I’m hoping that hearing from @mid-
dsogyny this week will help us all think 
about the ways in which (s)expectations 
function on a broader scale, especially 
discursively. This week, I sat down with 
one of the feminists behind @middsogy-
ny to discuss just that.
MO: How did you come up with the 
idea for @middsogyny?
@middsogyny: In class, we were 
discussing the ways in which feminism 
can be mobilized via Twitter. In our 
class, we talk about how social media is 
used as a site of bullying, and how per-
ceptions of bullying are often racialized. 
We thought that the name @middsogyny 
would start some really interesting con-
versations. More than anything, we were 
scared about our profile picture, and 
drawing a penis over Old Chapel. 
MO: What are your hopes for the 
project?
@middsogyny: I think that the 
Twitter headline is “critiquing Middle-
bury 1 moment of misogyny at a time.” 
That sums it up pretty well. People see 
and hear misogynist things happening, 
and now there’s 
a platform for 
people to call 
out their peers. 
For me, when I 
talk about sex-
ism and racism 
at Middlebury, 
people want 
proof of my op-
pression. Now 
we have it. Be-
cause it’s pub-
lic, we hope that other people will tweet 
at us and use the hashtag to join the con-
versation. 
At the end of the day, I don’t think 
that this Twitter page is dismantling pa-
triarchy, but I think that it’s a step in the 
right direction. Knowing is half of the 
battle. 
MO: What’s the most misogynist 
thing that you’ve ever overheard at Mid-
dlebury?
@middsogyny: For me, I used to 
wake up early enough for breakfast on 
Saturdays, and I would overhear these 
bros in Proctor rating vaginas “the 
morning after.” They developed this 
whole scheme for talking about their 
conquests, including rating “tightness.” 
#middsogyny
Also, a year ago, when beyond the 
green was being started, some of us be-
came aware of an Atwater party entitled 
“Predator/Prey.” 
Some athletes 
had a party where 
they specifically 
targeted new Feb 
girls. The girls 
were supposed  to 
come dressed as 
animals, and the 
guys were sup-
posed to be the 
hunters. That’s 
SO misogynist. I 
hope that @middsogyny is a place where 
we can continue to call these sorts of be-
haviors out.
MO: This column is about exploring 
the spectrum that is sex in college. Does 
misogyny at Middlebury influence our 
sex lives, and if so, how?
@middsogyny: This project is 
such a baby project right now that it’s 
really hard to say what direction it will 
take. I’m hoping that @middsogyny will 
become a feminist YikYak. 
I also remember some of our ear-
lier attempts to queer YikYak, and they 
would get voted down in three seconds. 
I hope that our Twitter page is a space 
to continue having these important con-
versations.
Interview by Maddie Orcutt
Contributing Writer
 | april 30, 2015
“At the end of the day, I don’t 
think that this Twitter page is 
dismantling patriarchy, but 
I think it’s a step in the right 
direction. Knowing is half the 
battle. ”  
-@middsogyny
feminist twitter account
Can You Do the KenKen®? 
Maddie orcutt
A screenshot taken by writer Mad-
die Orcutt in Middlebury last Fall. 
The KenKen ® Puzzles were invented by Japanese Math 
teacher Tetsuya Miyamoto. The rules straight from KenKen®:
1. Fill in the numbers from 1 to grid size
2. Do not repeat a number in any row or column.
3. The numbers in each heavily outlined set of 
squares, called cages, must combine (in any order) to 
produce the target number in the top corner using the 
mathematical operation indicated.
4. Cages with just one square should be filled in with 
the target number in the top corner.
5. A number can be repeated within a cage as long as it 
is not in the same row or column
Level: Easy
KenKen Designed by Casey Watters ’15
Find the Answer Key on middleburycampus.com 
under the Features tab.
JOIN OUR PACK
WRITE FOR THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE INTERESTED, EMAIL CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
Carol’s Hungry Mind Cafe has just been selected to be a distributor of marijuana.
Advertisements 16  | april 30, 2015
Congratulations to nescac champs 
john louie and the mens golf team
Melissa MacDonald ’15’s directorial ad-
aptation of Martin Crimp’s play Fewer Emer-
gencies, Emergency 1A, was presented April 
23-25 in the Hepburn Zoo. Above all, it is 
driven by stories.  There is no true plot.  The 
characters, in all of their variations, lack a 
history or true identity.  Instead, each charac-
ter, like their audience, interacts with stories. 
Narration is not a vehicle for content, but is 
an endpoint in itself.  The greatest surprise in 
this production is discovering how affecting 
and exciting these stories are.
Having premiered this past weekend, 
MacDonald’s Emergency 1A is notable for 
taking an experimental approach to what is 
already a heady, abstract piece.  The central 
concept behind MacDonald’s senior thesis 
work is to produce two versions of the same 
work, back to back.  While sharing the exact 
same text, two productions, one labeled “1,” 
the other “A,” differ in every other respect: 
cast, set, approach, sound design, costumes. 
The intention behind this approach was to 
show audiences how different performers 
interpret and play with the text in different 
ways.
“Seeing a piece twice shows what the text 
actually gave and what the people who made 
it actually gave,” MacDonald said.  “There’s 
the idea that things don’t have to be stuck in 
one meaning, the idea that there isn’t just one 
understanding of things.”  
setting and characters, as there was only one 
setting and its characters were consistent 
from scene to scene.  Relative to the second 
production, there was a more cohesive sin-
gle story, primarily concerning a group who 
awaken amid the remains of a party and turn 
to a dense, freewheeling discussion of hypo-
-
rated a background in dance training into 
their blocking and monologues.  Greg Swartz 
greater physicality of the production.  As each 
character dug  into poetic monologues, their 
physical motions would punctuate their ru-
minations, adding an element of dynamism 
and movement to scenes otherwise devoid of 
action.  
 “Cast 1” was driven to a greater extent by 
an overarching concept and setting. 
“I came into it with a small pole of an 
idea that we then built out of … we had a cen-
tral image we were working from,” MacDon-
ald said. 
She further explained that the physical 
element came as an addition due to the train-
ing and skills of the actors, but also as a result 
of MacDonald’s personal interest in working 
physically through theater.  
“I found that I really enjoyed using the 
easier way to access thoughts and impulses.” 
For this particular production, Mac-
Donald felt the rhythmic nature of physical 
the complex and rhythmic nature of the text.
production gave shape to a staging that was 
otherwise static.  It offered a compelling con-
trast to the “Cast A” production, illuminat-
ing particular facets of Crimp’s text that the 
other production did not.  Both productions, 
however, were anchored by a song, either 
performed or played near the end. Here, for 
Cast 1, a recording was played as the charac-
ters posed, pausing for long enough to give 
the impression of snapshots.  
At the close of this production, the actors 
exited the stage, the lights dimmed to black-
in dress akin to HAZMAT suits entered with 
was led down into the Hepburn Lounge, here 
repurposed to appear like a bomb shelter. 
Facemasks and programs, written in com-
puter code-like gibberish, were handed out, 
and we were directed to put the masks over 
our faces.  Half of the group, myself included, 
were led out of the lounge and down into the 
basement, then up again before reentering 
the theater.  The other group stayed behind 
their hands.  By the time we returned to the 
had been thoroughly disoriented, plunged 
into a chaotic, post-apocalyptic world, paral-
lel to but distinct from our own.  From here, 
“Cast A” began their performance.
Gleefully anarchic, “Cast A’s” produc-
tion was not tethered to a single setting, nor 
a single cast of characters.  Firmly split into 
three distinct sections, neither setting was 
rooted in the real or tangible, but rather the 
associative, perhaps familiar, but ultimately 
the furniture draped in protective linens.  As 
one character, played by Forrest Carroll ’15, 
gazed into what could assumedly be a win-
dow, he offers commentary on what he ob-
serves.  Here, the stories are given a physical 
point of entry.  
There is a distinct break between this 
and the next scene, when the lights are 
dimmed, the set is slightly altered, and char-
acters change costume as Pete Seeger’s “Little 
Boxes” plays, acting as perhaps the only tan-
gible allusion to the play’s thematic concerns 
in all of the production.  Our three heroes, 
bound by straightjackets, gather on a couch, 
staring into a television-like box, offering 
commentary on what they observe.  Here, 
the central monologue is delivered by Tosca 
Giustini ’15.5, which is identical in content to 
by Gobin, but rendered completely distinct 
by its context and delivery.
Following another, similar transition, 
the third scene begins.  The set is perhaps the 
most abstract yet.  No magic box or window 
offers an entry point for the story.  Instead, 
Arnav Adhikari ’16’s character, prodded by 
Carroll’s character, delivers an increasingly 
disturbing monologue that may or may not 
of “Cast 1,” is bookended by the same song; 
here, it is performed by Adhikari’s charac-
ter.  The play closes as the three characters, 
stripped to their underwear, carry what ap-
pears to be a cloth-covered boat out of the 
theater.  
While abstract and challenging, “Cast A” 
offered an always engaging experience.  The 
by the scene changes, elucidated elements of 
the text that may have been less of a focus 
in the production of “Cast 1.”  The anarchic 
elements created a sense of endless discov-
ery; ultimately, the production seemed more 
concerned with suggestion and emotional 
impact than a rigid metaphorical rendering 
of the text, creating a visceral and energizing 
experience.  
This contrasted beautifully with the 
insight into the text.  Through a more tan-
gible and narrow vision, it creates a strong 
narrative arch.  The text and physicality of 
the actors contextualizes the setting, creat-
ing the momentum of the play.  The second 
production, in lacking consistency of setting 
and character, relies on other expressive ele-
ments.  
The overall impression of the production 
is one of bewilderment, vibrancy and inten-
tional chaos.  This speaks to MacDonald’s 
goals going into the show.  
“What I really enjoy as an artist is ex-
panding our ways of seeing, having a bigger 
experience,” she said.  “By the end, what I re-
ally wanted people to take away was that just 
because you don’t understand something or 
know what its meaning is, doesn’t mean it’s 
-
rience of being lost.”  
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
The Sound Investment Jazz Ensemble
The College’s big band swings into spring with a concert 
might just be dancing in the aisles! Sponsored by the De-
partment of Music. Free.
5/2, 8:00 P.M., MAHANEY CENTER FOR THE ARTS, CONCERT HALL
Stray Dogs
father ekes out a living as a human billboard on the 
busy streets of Taipei, while his children wait out 
their days in supermarkets before joining him in an 
abandoned building to sleep. Free.
5/2., 3:00 P.M. & 8:00 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
Self Comes to Mind
A live performance of “Self Comes to Mind,” 
a cello and percussion piece inspired by the 
work of neuroscientist Antonio Damasio, will 
accompany video of brain scan images. A pan-
el discussion on creativity and neuroscience 
will follow. Free.
Emergency 1A Experiments and Amazes
Annie Ulrich
By Luke Linden
Staff Writer
Annie ulrich
Despite the polarization of politics, Re-
publicans and Democrats continue to unite on 
at least one issue: National Institute of Health, 
or NIH, funding. I was pleasantly surprised 
by Newt Gingrich’s Op-Ed, “Double the NIH 
Budget” in the New York Times last Wednes-
day, in which he argued in favor of raising the 
NIH budget to 60 billion dollars because in-
vestment in biomedical breakthroughs would 
offset future health costs.
Other Republicans have also rallied 
around the cause of NIH funding. Presiden-
tial candidate Jeb Bush, former House Major-
Party member Matt Salmon, U.S. Represen-
tative for the 5th district of Arizona, have all 
enthusiastically called for increases in the NIH 
budget.
upwelling of political support. NIH funding 
is politically low hanging fruit; it looks good 
on a candidate’s resume, and no representa-
Health resonates with everyone because it is 
Salmon explained why he supported NIH 
funding, saying, “As a conservative Republi-
one of the most critical issues long term. But 
friends to cancer, and I don’t want to see an-
other person succumb to this.”
I’m cautiously optimistic about the future 
of the NIH. Although its funding has stagnated 
for the past 10 years, and it’s easy to pay lip-
service to biomedical funding without actual 
action, there appears to be a genuine growing 
push to increase its funding. 
I think increasing NIH funding is impor-
tant and should be celebrated, but I’m not as 
-
-
for improving American health care, ignoring 
many nuances. In particular, we have to ad-
dress ballooning health costs, increase funding 
already spends 15 
percent of its GDP 
(roughly the GDP of 
France) on health 
care, and by 2020 
healthcare expendi-
tures are expected to increase to 4.6 trillion 
healthcare costs are an aging U.S population 
and increasing drug and medical device prices. 
I hope Newt Gingrich is right, and that new 
cures for ailments that are currently expensive 
to treat. It’s also possible that biomedical re-
search will only lead to new, expensive devices 
and drugs that only marginally increase life ex-
pectancy while driving up health care expen-
ditures to the detriment of other important 
causes. We have to make sure that new medi-
cine not only increases our life expectancy, but 
is also affordable. With an aging society, we 
have tough decisions ahead about how much 
money we are to spend on age-related illnesses 
and end-of-life care.
While biomedical research has undoubt-
edly contributed to the increase in life expec-
tancy from 70 years to 80 years in the past 
half-century, advances in medicine have also 
radiology, engineers gave us prosthetics and 
medical devices and computer scientists have 
given us electronic medical records and bioin-
formatics, to name a few examples. But despite 
to medicine (not to mention all their other 
applications), their funding has lagged in the 
recent decades. National Science Foundation 
funding has stagnated around 8 billion dollars, 
and since 1996, math-
ematics, the physical 
sciences, engineer-
ing and computer 
science have all seen 
a decrease in their 
share of academic 
research and development funding. Congress 
shouldn’t just focus on the NIH to the detri-
ment of other basic sciences.
Systemic problems within the biomedical 
research community also exist, which won’t be 
solved by increasing funding. An environment 
of hypercompetition exists where scientists are 
having a harder time funding their research 
and grant success rates hover around 20 per-
cent. Only 15 percent of postdoctoral research-
within six years.
Hypercompetition has negative conse-
quences and has harmed the research commu-
nity. Less bold and creative ideas are funded 
because scientists and grant-review panels 
are more likely to stick to old, less risky ideas 
that have worked in the past. Scientists rush 
to publish in prestigious journals like Nature 
and Science because it means a greater likeli-
hood of getting grant money in the future and 
evidence shows that in recent years this has led 
to greater fabrication of evidence and the cut-
as many retractions in 2010 as there were in 
2000. In a competitive environment, scien-
tists are also less likely to work together for 
becomes slower. 
Increasing funding wouldn’t solve the 
doubling of the NIH budget from 1998 to 2002 
did little to stop the plummet in grant success 
-
it the number of biomedical graduate students 
and postdocs in the United States. Currently, 
labs train more graduate students and post-
docs then there are research jobs because they 
lead to greater publication output. But this 
Malthusian system leads to too many people 
competing for a limited number of job open-
ings. Instead, permanent staff scientists could 
replace many graduate students in labs. Larger 
labs would be forced to shrink, and grant fund-
ing would become less competitive and be dis-
tributed to more projects.
Fixing biomedical funding doesn’t just 
concern the community of biomedical re-
searchers; it is an issue we should all be con-
cerned with because it ultimately determines 
United States has led the way for cures in the 
past, and it’s in our best interest to support a 
strong biomedical research community so we 
can continue to make headway in improving 
our nation’s health.
-
ter, Spring Awakening, will usher in a 19th-
century tale of sexuality that proved to be 
far ahead of its times. Written by German 
dramatist Frank Wedekind in 1891, the play 
offers a harrowing perspective of suicide, 
themes, which frequently led to the banning 
or censorship of the play during the author’s 
-
censored production in English took place in 
directly with these complex issues, under the 
-
ture audiences only.
Spring Awakening follows a group of 
adolescents in a small town in late-19th-cen-
tury Germany. Within their sexually repres-
sive culture, they experience an awakening 
into sexuality. But in a world where people 
still believe that storks bring babies, this 
pubescent transformation holds scandalous 
implications. As such, Medeiros described 
the premise of the play as “living the tension 
between those emotions and desires and the 
ideology of the time.”
performances, cast members conducted re-
Professor of German Bettina Matthias. With 
student production team, the making of this 
show has proven to be no small feat. In con-
trast to the small cast of his last faculty show, 
Medeiros chose Spring Awakening for its 
wide breadth of roles. 
“Directors have lists of plays in their 
heads that they would like to do in the fu-
ture,” he stated. “Each time you direct, you 
have to take into consideration the students 
who are available and the roles that you can 
offer for those students.” 
While casting last semester, Medeiros 
was extremely upfront regarding the sensi-
tive and potentially triggering content of the 
play. During the reading process, he chose 
run through so he could read their level of 
comfort as they confronted the full extent of 
the show’s material.
Later on in the production process, fol-
lowing the devastating loss of one of the Col-
lege’s students, Medeiros felt it was neces-
sary to discuss the mature subject matter of 
Spring Awakening with the administration, 
and to question whether or not to proceed 
with the production.
“In light of recent events, some on cam-
pus were concerned about what impact the 
play might have on the community and, in 
particular, on vulnerable members of the 
community who might be struggling with 
their own reaction to recent events,” Andrea 
Lloyd, Vice President for Academic Affairs 
and Dean of the Faculty, explained. 
“You start questioning what you are do-
ing,” Medeiros stated. “But we always felt 
that the demonstration was taking great care 
to look at the issue and think about it very, 
very carefully.”
heavily. A small group of faculty, including 
Medeiros, engaged in an open dialogue with 
the senior administration about the complex-
ities of the show. Ultimately, it was decided 
that the play should go on, with a clear warn-
ing to all audiences about the mature content.
“I hope that members of the commu-
nity make informed choices about whether 
attending is the right thing for them,” Lloyd 
said. “And I applaud the cast members for the 
work they have done grappling with very dif-
Indeed, the controversial nature of 
Spring Awakening ought not to overshad-
ow the meticulously passionate work of the 
cast and crew in bringing this piece to life. 
Medeiros chose British playwright Edward 
Bond’s translation of Spring Awakening, as 
he preferred the economy of the text over the 
overwritten quality of other versions. Last 
Power and Sexuality Onstage, proved inte-
gral in helping him unravel certain scenes of 
the play. Meanwhile, in rehearsals, the cast 
has demonstrated an unprecedented chemis-
try in piecing together this thought-provok-
ing work.   
work with. Usually you try to do a lot of en-
semble-building. But they created an ensem-
ble practically on their own,” Medeiros said. 
-
ment that was playful and comfortable. I was 
really fortunate.” 
In particular, he lauded the initiative of 
Adam Milano ’15 and Chelsea Melone ’15, 
who play the challenging roles of Melchior 
and Wendla, respectively.
“I would come in and shape the mate-
would come up with on their own.” 
not come without its challenges. Students ini-
tially struggled to grasp the sense of sexual ig-
norance that embodied the era. Additionally, 
the poetic nature of the text has posed both 
theoretical and technical demands for the 
-
ing of the dialogue understood and articulat-
ing the words so that they are clearly heard, 
tricky situation for acoustics. 
moves forward to listen better, some of the 
effects are already drained,” Medeiros ex-
plained. In terms of the nature of the text, he 
stated, “It’s more expressionist than realist. 
Instead of representing life as it would hap-
pen outside the theater, the playwright is try-
ing to represent the essence of experiences, 
not all the contours in detail. So the language 
is somewhat poetic, elevated. It’s not people 
sitting at a table having coffee and chatting. 
art.” 
that the dialogue is understood not only for 
its surface meaning, but also for what is un-
derneath it.
Structured as a poem, the play is com-
posed of scenes that juxtapose each other but 
concept is minimalist, with an abstract ma-
terial space that clearly suggests a real place. 
Lighting shines down upon the same set to 
evoke scenes within a house, a forest or any 
number of different settings. As Medeiros 
put it, the space is “more of a surface that 
suggests something, but that resonates dif-
show, the visual focus falls mostly on bodies 
in space, lights and costumes. 
In contrast to previous renditions of 
Spring Awakening, Medeiros chose to incor-
choreographed movements, Artist-in-Resi-
dence in Dance Scotty Hardwig will portray a 
opening up a physical language onstage.
transcending modern times to an era of op-
pression and scandal, the cast and crew of 
this production have worked diligently to do 
justice to the original text. 
“For us, it has been pleasurable work,” 
Medeiros said. “It is an artful play.”
Spring Awakening 
debuts tonight at 7:30 p.m. at Wright Memo-
May 1-2 will also take place at 7:30 p.m. Run-
ning time is approximately two-and-a-half 
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
Chelsea melone
Funding the
National institute of health
‘Spring Awakening’ Poetic and Probing
By Toby Aicher
18 arts SCIENCES april 30, 2015 | 
SC ENCE
soc etyand
akhila khanna
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio ’15 and Chelsea Melone ’15 discuss pride, abuse and boys.
April 30, 2015 | 19arts SCIENCES
Bach Festival Concert presented a thrilling 
-
-
-
versary, the Bach Festival has established a 
any other musical event at the College. 
-
val organizers, Music Together and voice 
-
-
chestra and early music chorus based in San 
Francisco.
-
-
nationally syndicated classical music radio 
Houston, San Francisco, Austria, England, 
others. 
Arriving on Monday, April 20, Thomas 
-
-
“What’s really nice about this particu-
-
-
entities,” Thomas said.
Though the Festival Concert is the pin-
two interest sessions on Bach and a chamber 
music showcase on Sunday contributed to 
-
-
tered on Bach.
-
-
the world and they tend to engender audi-
they see this as a pilgrimage to hear those 
In previous years, the Festival Concert 
move to the Concert Hall, which is at once 
-
soloists and ensembles, instruments and 
voices.
the Brandenburg Concerto No. 5 and Bach’s 
as a chamber ensemble without conductor. 
Cynthia Huard on harpsichord centering the 
piece, the concert began on a lively, incred-
-
sional vocal soloists throughout.
In addition to bass Buettner, tenor 
Adam Hall and mezzo Lindsey Warren, so-
prano Lisa Wooldridge ’16, soprano/mezzo 
Annie Beliveau ’18 and baritone Tevan Gold-
berg ’18 sang in the Collegium during both 
-
Special attention must be paid to so-
prano Lisa Wooldridge ’16, a singer whose 
-
-
-
the leads in the Middlebury College Musical 
Normal. 
Additionally, Emily Luan ’15 lent her tal-
ents as a violinist to the chamber-style per-
violin in the Festival Orchestra, while Tevan 
Goldberg ’18 played the harpsichord. 
the Festival Orchestra, College Choir and 
Bach’s early cantatas, ‘Actus tragicus” and 
-
they are much more smoothly engineered. 
-
-
-
cades to come.
Festival Demonstrates Versatility of Bach
By Leah Lavigne
Arts & Sciences Editor
BY DEVIN MCGRATH-CONWELL
for the rec   rd
In 1980, Billy Joel was established 
as a global superstar in the music world. 
Turnstiles, which brought him well into 
the public eye with anthems such as “New 
-
the mega-popular The Stranger, which 
included such Joel standards as “Only 
 52nd Street, 
This success did not leave him im-
mune to criticism. Music critics and his 
peers began to comment that Joel was a 
-
-
lenge and his response was 1980’s Glass 
Houses
can throw his stones. The reception to 
the album was overwhelmingly positive. 
-
-
he wanted to. Now, in celebrating its 25th 
Piano Man. 
shattering glass to introduce “You May 
Be Right,” a none-too-subtle stab at those 
who would doubt him. Joel sings “You 
may be right/I may be crazy/But it just 
one can’t help but understand that he 
-
-
ing punch to the 
by a steady guitar 
and a Joel staple 
Following it up is “Sometimes a Fan-
tasy,” which stays directly with the drive 
but they both give the man a chance to let 
the microphone. 
was undoubtedly aimed at those who 
Television On,” where he gives more time 
“Sometimes a Fan-
tasy.” While each 
roll he sang about 
-
rection, they all have the common thread 
-
than as a showcase on its own, which 
Nonetheless, a Billy Joel album 
wouldn’t be a true Billy Joel album with-
virtuosity by incorporating a solo closer 
Be Alone,” but he slows it down more 
-
tributed to Joel’s deteriorating marriage 
at the time to Elizabeth Weber Small. In 
contrast, “Through the Long Night” is a 
touching song about staying around even 
-
ers. He sings “No, I didn’t start it/You’re 
ago/Oh, the way you hold me/Is all that 
wait/Through the long night with you 
with you,” and on that line, Joel seems 
appeal, Glass Houses
would score a resounding success with 
An Innocent Man in 1983, but that album 
the pop and soul he grew up on. For avid 
to be heard and discovered but the aver-
age listener who judged him only on his 
Glass houses
billy joel
Todd Balfour
april 30, 2015 | 20arts SCIENCES
Few things give me more satisfaction 
than experiencing peers’ and professors’ 
work. Sometimes 
it’s too easy to get 
lost in the sys-
tem of Middle-
bury and forget 
the passion and 
purpose driving this 
college experience. 
So many students are 
working on so many in-
credible things that we 
often take our friends for 
granted. 
This Friday and Sat-
urday at 8:00 p.m. in 
the Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 
Center for the Arts (MCA), 
four seniors offer the final 
culmination of their stud-
ies and a last hoorah before 
graduating in a few weeks. 
Stevie Durocher ’15.5, 
Doug LeCours ’15, Sarae 
Synder ’15 and Afi Yel-
low-Duke ’15 have spent 
months examining the 
intersection between 
dance and their vari-
ous unique areas of 
study, from creative 
writing to Chinese. 
Each student has cho-
reographed pieces that 
map this intersection 
in mesmerizing, ephem-
eral movement.  To help 
quench my fascination with 
what students are doing 
on this crazy campus, 
each artist spoke to 
me about the impor-
tance of dance in his 
or her life.
Durocher’s piece began with re-
search for her thesis for the English 
and American Literature depart-
ment, The Lies They Tell 
Our Daughters, 
where she ex-
amined per-
c e p t i o n s 
of the 
dancer in 
children’s litera-
ture. Durocher is 
focused on ideas 
of body image and the ideals 
society puts forth r e g a r d i n g 
beauty to both the i n d i v i d u a l 
and the collective. 
We can’t fully a p p r e c i a t e 
children’s literature without also 
realizing the effect is has on its 
readers. Durocher began with 
the focus of cho- reographing a 
piece as a direct manifestation 
of this research, but the project turned 
into an expression of her own story – 
that of her childhood in today’s world. 
Through dance she was able to put 
herself into her research, to en-
gage and discover her own iden-
tify and how society has influ-
enced her, specifically her ideas 
of beauty and belonging. Though 
she was classically trained and 
doesn’t “look like what a ballerina 
is supposed to look like,” she said, 
“Dance has always been the 
one time I feel com-
pletely myself. 
I’m some-
o n e 
w h o 
d o e s n ’ t 
like to be seen, b u t 
when I take a ballet class, I 
wouldn’t care if the whole 
world saw me.  That’s some-
thing I’ve been able to take 
with me everywhere I go.”
Durocher has the great 
fortune of being a Feb, so 
she is not yet “consumed by 
post grad plans,” but she 
hopes to work in children’s 
publishing after leaving 
Middlebury.
“Dance is something 
that will be part of my 
life forever, as it is an 
immensely important 
part of who I’ve always 
been, but I don’t see 
it being my career,” 
Durocher said.
LeCours is a 
Dance and Cre-
ative Writing 
double ma-
jor who sees 
film as a 
m e d i a - tor between 
movement and text. His piece 
focuses on his interest in what happens 
when the queer male body is asserted in 
the narrative of sad girls. 
Specifically, he asks the question, 
“What happens when we investigate the 
power and agency within a queer male 
figure embodying some of the ideas of 
these tragic women I keep finding my-
self coming back to….” 
“Dance is, at its best, a space for 
radical transformation,” LeCours said. 
“It has been one of the most important 
things in my life for fourteen years. I 
guess it’s what I know best.” 
With this thesis work, LeCours takes 
the enjoyment and release he finds in 
movement and combines it with an ex-
ploration of his identity. 
“Dance opens up new ways of view-
ing the world and my own experience, al-
lowing for a nuanced approach to every-
day life and relationships to self, other, 
and earth,” LeCours said. “Without mak-
ing and performing dance I wouldn’t be 
able to view or confront my education as 
critically as, I hope, I do.”
Following his graduation from 
Middlebury, Doug will be moving to 
New York to perform and choreograph.
Sarae Snyder is working on two 
pieces. The first is a duet between two 
Middlebury students, sourced from one 
of Snyder’s solo performances and fo-
cusing on the unique humanness of the 
dancers. She is collaborating on the 
second piece with a senior from Ben-
nington College featuring much stricter, 
practiced movements progressing into 
spontaneity and chaos. On a basic level, 
Snyder is interested in how she can cre-
ate two distinct pieces though she is the 
choreographer of both while also simul-
taneously navigating the roles of chore-
ographer and dancer.
As with the other dancers, to Snyder 
the significance of her studies touches 
beyond the stage.
“My studies in dance have opened 
up my awareness of the politicization 
of bodies,” Snyder said. “[Dance] has 
provided me with a new lens for view-
ing culture and history. It has made me 
more aware of the power in seemingly 
trivial aspects of human behavior. It has 
turned me into an aspiring artist.” 
Yellow-Duke’s piece is an investiga-
tion of both her personal relationship 
with society and the creation of systems 
that create and respond to fear. She 
looks at events of panic in the U.S. such 
as the Cold War and 9/11 and hopes to 
question and poke fun at the systems we 
put in place to “protect and placate our-
selves.” 
She believes fear and uncertainty 
have been “mobilized to unite us as 
Americans but have also allowed 
us to contest and redefine who 
deserves the title of American.” 
Such categorizing can “further 
push people to the margins and 
reinforce systems of power.” 
Through movement and sound, 
Afi “hopes to link her his-
tory with panic attacks 
to this larger cultural 
framework of anxiety.”
After attending the 
Fall Dance Concert, I 
cannot wait to witness 
the inspiration and 
weight of these pieces 
and enjoy an evening as 
diverse and layered as the art-
ists’ intellectual pursuits. Doors 
will open at 8 p.m. in the MCA Dance 
Theatre. Tickets are $6 for students; 
$15 for faculty, staff, alumni, and other 
ID card holders; $20 for general public. 
Check with your Commons Office for 
discounts! Visit go/boxoffice or stop by 
one of the offices.
alan kimara dixon
Four students will take part in the senior 
thesis dance performance on Friday and 
Saturday, May 1-2. Pictured left to right 
-
cher ’15.5, Sarae Snyder d’15 and Doug 
LeCours ’15.
BY CONNOR FORREST
All sections are hiring new writers for Fall 2015. Email 
campus@middlebury.edu if you want to build a portfo-
lio, improve your writing skills, and talk to people across 
campus — from Old Chapel to the athletic complex.
april 30, 2015 | 21arts SCIENCES
Sepomana to Bring Eclectic Line-up
In an interview with Vans, Montreal 
DJ extraordinaire Lunice proclaimed about 
his own music, “what I’m trying to really 
build up this year is to really make it very in-
volved, in a sense where it doesn’t need to be 
a statement that could very well double as 
WRMC’s organizing principle for this year’s 
Sepomana, the station’s annual spring fes-
tival/dance party/blowout end-of-year cel-
ebration occurring on Saturday, May 2 at 
9:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall.
Lunice holds down this year’s lineup as 
headliner, with opening sets coming from 
experimental New York hip-hop trio Ratk-
ing, psychedelic guitar masters Yonatan Gat 
and Middlebury’s own folksy favorite Iron 
Eyes Cody. Hot off the heels of last year’s 
show, the highest attended concert ever in 
Wilson Hall and a display of kaleidoscopic 
-
a wild, genre-spanning explosion of energy.
Lunice may best be known as one half 
of pioneering maximalist trap duo TNGHT 
(along with Hudson Mohawke), a rare 
group whose popularity reaches all the way 
— synths rise, fall and reverberate, bleeps 
and bloops drop in and out and hip-hop-in-
spired beats keep the whole enterprise mov-
ing forward. His varied catalog can sound 
like anything from the most hype hip-hop 
track to slinky electronic weirdness like 
Shlomo. 
His live show, featuring constant danc-
ing and interaction with the crowd, is fre-
quently touted as one of the most engaging 
in all of electronic music, with commenters 
on reddit heaping on praise such as,  “he 
honestly reminded me of Kanye when he 
-
ing of original songs and mixes as well as 
music from cutting edge scenes like jersey 
club, are all composed with the intent of the 
most involved live performance. 
“The reason is then to write music for 
the performances rather than make mu-
sic for music, it’s making music, almost 
Magazine.
Lunice’s pan-genre dabbling and focus 
on high-octane performances resonate with 
his immediate opener, one of the hottest 
and most dynamic current hip-hop acts, 
Ratking. Ratking translates all the energy 
and vibrancy of New York City’s hip-hop 
heyday into an electric and eclectic sound, 
techno to Latin grooves, mixing woozy brass 
samples with voices pitched up out of rec-
ognition and synths that pop like lights on 
the city skyline. Street poetics rain down in 
distinctively off-kilter vocals, all over wavy 
reverbs. Their live performances mix genres 
as much as their music. 
“Punk sounds great live but it can often 
come up short on record. Rap sounds great 
but is not the dopest thing to see live. We’re 
a rap group but we want to be part of the 
the Guardian.
Ratking’s sure-to-be raucous set will be 
preceded by equally wild antics. New York 
by way of São Paulo by way of Tel Aviv free-
wheeling psychedelic rock group Yonatan 
Gat has built up a reputation for insanity, 
performances situated on the ground in 
the middle of the crowd. They’ve collected 
praise from Vice, the New York Times, the 
-
enced Delicate Steve, and if there were not 
such constant rock-n-roll riffage the entire 
time one might be convinced they were a 
jazz band, given how much the band shifts 
grooves so effortlessly throughout songs.
Though it will venture from Israel to 
New York to Montreal, the night begins 
fun of Iron Eyes Cody, kicking off the night 
with their signature foot-stomping tunes. 
-
tix, and $8 at the door. Travelling through 
a dynamic mix of sounds and genres, Se-
year’s wildest party. 
By Charlie Dulik 
Contributing Writer
courtesy lunice
We've been here in Middle-
bury since 1982 specializing in 
mouth-watering food. Our goal 
has always been to offer a fresh, 
quality, price sensitive meal to 
the whole family whether you 
dine in or take out. And it’s not 
just pizza: try our pasta, na-
chos, wings, and calzones!
802-388-3164 10 Washington StreetMiddlebury, VT 05753
The Middlebury baseball team won 
twice and lost twice last week , defeating 
St. Michael’s and St. Joseph 7-2 and 4-2 
respectively before falling to Trinity in a 
doubleheader 4-2 and 8-0 on Saturday, April 
25. The 2-2 record on the week brings the 
Panthers to 3-19 on the season.
Tuesday, April 21, Middlebury fell behind 
erupted for a seven run second inning on 
would prove to be more than enough to earn 
the win.
MacDonald ’16 led off the second with a 
Brendan Donohue ’18 drove in another run 
on a single to center, and two more defensive 
miscues gave the Panthers a three run lead. 
Dylan Sinnickson ’15 kept the inning going by 
continuing to do what he has done all year by 
driving in two more on a double into the left 
center gap. MacDonald made it a 7-1 game in 
With a six run cushion, Truss seemed 
to settle into a groove, shutting down St. 
an impressive stat line of six innings, six 
hits, one run, no walks, and four strikeouts. 
Cooper Byrne ’15 took over in the seventh and 
save of the year.
Dylan Takamori ’17 took the hill at home 
against St. Joseph on Thursday, April 23. 
Takamori answered his coach’s call with his 
most complete pitching effort of the season 
Once again, the Panthers fell behind 1-0, 
but they were not easily discouraged and 
came right back in the bottom of the second 
with three runs of their own. Sticking with 
trends, MacDonald sparked the rally for the 
second straight game with a leadoff single. 
Jason Lock ’17 and Palekar followed up with 
singles of their own to tie the game at one, 
on a groundout to the shortstop. Donohue 
added on with a single of his own to make it a 
3-1 in favor of Middlebury after two.
The Fighting Saints cut the lead to one in 
the fourth with a double in the right center 
gap followed by a single to center. Takamori 
hits while striking out four. Smith smartly 
employed his bullpen over the last four 
innings. 
“I love coming in and giving everything I 
have for 1-3 innings,” Byrne said, “it has made 
pitcher.” 
Tucker Meredith ’17, Eddie DeArias ’15 
and Byrne shut the Saints out over the last 
four innings. Byrne earned his second save 
in as many games after Sinnickson provided 
the eighth as Middlebury won its second in 
a row, 4-2.
The Panthers were not able to replicate 
their success as they reentered NESCAC 
play at NESCAC East foe Trinity as their bats 
failed them in both games on Saturday, April 
25.
roles, striking immediately with two runs 
Araya ’16 led off with back-to-back walks and 
John Luke ’16 plated them with a double. The 
when Adam Moossmann smacked a home 
run to give Trinity a 3-2 lead. The Bantams 
tacked on an insurance run in the sixth, and 
Middlebury couldn’t muster any more runs 
It was much of the same in the second 
game of the day as Trinity outmatched the 
Panthers in every facet of the game on the 
way to an 8-0 win. The Bantams tallied four 
in the bottom of the second, three more in the 
continued to cost Smith’s squad as four of 
Trinity’s runs were unearned. 
six-day span this week, the Panthers hope to 
end their season on a good note as three wins 
will mark an improvement upon last year’s 
record of 5-24.
The third-seeded Middlebury men’s 
lacrosse team fended off a strong sixth-
seeded Williams side in a NESCAC 
Alumni Stadium on Saturday, April 25. Not 
only did the victory mean that the Panthers’ 
round — a matchup with second-seeded 
Tufts at Amherst on Saturday, May 2 — but 
it means the squad successfully exacted 
revenge on a Williams team that had handed 
them a loss to end the regular season only 
three days before.
After each side scored to open the game, 
Middlebury went on a four-goal run started by 
Cal Williams ’15, who, after losing defenders 
with quick cuts in the heart of the Williams 
defense, tossed in a backhanded shot at 7:47. 
Naturally, however, the Ephs refused to go 
down easily and ended the quarter with a 
two-goal run of their own, the second of 
who would go on to score seven on the day 
for the visitors — with a mere 13 seconds left 
to play.
Middlebury answered right back to start 
the second quarter when Sean Carroll ’16 
converted in a man-up situation at 9:32 — a 
trend that has not always held true for the 
hat trick, answered right back with two more 
to close the quarter and set the score line at 
6-5 in favor of the Panthers at halftime.
Just as the game had started, the second 
half began with the two sides scoring one 
apiece until Middlebury began to pull away, 
this time to the tune of three unanswered 
goals. 
Cleary ’16 shook the defense by dodging left, 
something he rarely does. After Carroll’s 
second on the day, the Panthers held a 
comfortable four-goal lead that would last 
for mere minutes. Williams answered with a 
trio of their own — marked by another from 
Panther turnover in their own zone — and 
one more from the senior, this time a simple 
dump-in on the crease with 22 seconds left, 
to end the quarter at 10-9 Middlebury.
In almost expected fashion, the historic 
NESCAC rivals yet again traded goals to open 
side up by two at 14:06 until the answer at 
to one. 
Following the goal, the imposing John 
Jackson ’18 — who earned NESCAC Player 
of the Week honors after two stellar games 
against the Ephs — stepped up for the 
Panthers to win yet another faceoff and 
groundball. On the day Jackson set career 
highs in each category by winning 27 of 30 
faces for a ridiculous 90 percent success rate 
and scooped up an equally phenomenal 20 
ground balls. 
After Jackson took it all the way to score, 
Middlebury followed with two more as Henry 
the decisive mark, off of a Jon Broome ’16 
feed with 7:01 left in the game. 
seventh with 1:56 left to keep the game close 
was goalie Will Ernst’s ’16 turn to step up as 
range look off a set play. After Ernst made 
the crucial save with only 30 seconds left, the 
advance to the semis. 
Middlebury advances to play Tufts 
tournament. The Panthers fell 17-10 to the 
Jumbos in their season opener way back 
on Feb. 28. Since then, the Tufts squad — 
after winning the national championship a 
year ago — has fallen slightly in the national 
rankings after losing to both Bates and 
top-seeded Amherst during the regular 
season. The Jumbos were 15-12 winners 
over seventh-seeded Hamilton in another 
|  april 30, 201522 sports
Men’s Lacrosse Notches 14-13 Win over Ephs
By  Trevor Schmitt
Contributing Writer
Michael O’HARA
Saturday, April 25, winning 14-13 to advance to the NESCAC semifinals.
Panther Baseball Drops Pair of Games at Trinity 
By  Andrew Rigas
Senior Writer
SEMIFINAL
At this point my percentage is so 
shot, all I have left is my humor. 
TWO
Two weeks left. I think I’m about to 
lose my mind.
How far will the women’s 
tennis team go in the NESCAC 
championship?
Pick One: Which horse will win 
the Kentucky Derby
How many runs will Softball 
concede in their playoff matchup 
with Tufts?
Will the Women’s 4x400m relay 
run under 3:58 at DIII New 
England’s
FINAL 
Big upset last week. Momentum is 
strong. Crush those lemons. 
Wild guess. Going with it. Go Alex! 
MUBTAAHIJ
Unpronouncable. But remember 
his grandaddy from the Derby in 
Shameless self-promotion. Go me.
beast.
editors’ picks
REMO PLUNKETT (42-32, .567)
Fritz Parker (77-71, .520)
I’m so concussed. Just going with middle answer. Horses!
Emily Bustard (34-36, .485)
FINAL
Leggo Panthers!
ONE
Midd pulls the upset.
Joe macdonald (52-69, .429)
I’m going with the underdog 
My grampa once told me to always 
bet on the favorite.
NO
Maybe 3:59, but no way 3:58.
SEMIFINAL
The conference is stacked this year.
FIVE
Tufts can play...
NO
Sorry, Alex.
Alex Morris (59-58, .504)
On a sunny, breezy day in western Mas-
sachusetts, the track teams competed in the 
NESCAC Championships, hosted by Wil-
liams College on April 25. As the one true 
team competition of the year, the winning 
team retains bragging rights for an entire 
year. When the dust settled after over 8 
hours of competition, the Williams women 
and Tufts men emerged as victors.
scoring 98 points, while the men were fourth 
with 73 points.
The competition started with the men’s 
10,000m. Jake Fox ’15, making his debut at 
seventh place in a time of 31:52.22 and scor-
ing two points to start the day.
Not to be outdone, Adrian Walsh ’16 led 
the charge in the women’s 10,000m, im-
mediately taking control of the race. As the 
race progressed, though, Amherst junior 
Lexi Sinclair slowly worked her way up to 
Walsh, eventually passing her in the waning 
kilometers to take the lead and ultimately the 
a time of 37:01.60, running a very smart race 
for the entire distance.
42.82 seconds. The team of Sam Rives ’15, 
Mike Pallozzi ’18, Fritz Parker ’15 and Will 
Bain ’15 was only bested by the quartet from 
Williams, which featured the seventh-ranked 
100m runner in Division III. Parker conclud-
ed his four-year career on that relay with two 
In the women’s 1500m, Sarah Guth ’15, 
Alison Maxwell ’15 and Robin Vincent ’18 
were able to score a combined 18 points. 
-
ished in 4:39.37 for third, and Vincent — 
running just her second race of the spring 
season — hit 4:41.33, a personal best by over 
six seconds.
In the morning, the men were able to 
-
-
lor Shortsleeve ’15, who was the morning’s 
best time of 15.10. Rookies Pallozzi and Tyler 
times of 15.35 and 15.44, respectively. 
On a tough day for 400m running due to 
-
’18 took sixth from an unseeded section with 
a personal best time of 49.93.
In the men’s 800m, rookie Kevin Serrao 
1:53.50. Serrao was not intimidated by na-
tional champion Mitchell Black of Tufts, 
handling the quick early pace.
In the 400m hurdles, Paige Fernandez 
-
ish third and Jackie Kearney ’16 ran 66.46 
for seventh. Defending champion Wood 
55.33.
Maxwell doubled back to win the 5,000m 
in 17:31.82, running comfortably behind the 
she put 10 seconds between herself and sec-
to easily win the race. Alyssa Taylor ’17 qui-
etly put together a personal best of over 10 
“My plan was to keep my head in the 
game and be very aware of how each race 
was playing out so that I could sit back and 
wait until the end of the races to make my 
move,” Maxwell said. “That didn’t work out 
so well for me in the 1500, which was a lot 
faster than I expected, but was great for the 
5k, a race that I have little experience in and 
needed to not be too aggressive in.”
Two relays concluded the meet: the 
4x400m and 4x800m. The men’s 4x400m 
-
ished fourth in a season best 3:24.25 while 
their women’s counterpart of Halle Gus-
tafson ’16, Fernandez, Kearney and Morris 
took third in 3:58.54, also a season best. The 
men’s 4x800 of Luke Carpinello ’16, Sam 
Klockenkemper ’17, Sam Cartwright ’16, and 
the women’s team, comprising Lauren Bou-
gioukas ’16, Nikki Schachman ’16, Vincent, 
and Guth, took second by combining for 
9:19.80.
The most impressive showing for 
Middlebury came in the women’s javelin. 
Carly Andersen ’16 won the event by throw-
ing a huge personal best of 42.15m and Dev-
40.81m. 
-
ing fourth with a throw of 50.69m, a person-
The men’s pole vault also stepped up with 
Conor Simons ’16 vaulting 4.30m for second 
place and Jared Whitman ’17 clearing 4.15m 
for third place. One of the most unpredict-
-
thers combined for more points in the event 
 The teams will regroup to compete in the 
Division III New England Championships 
hosted by MIT on May 1 and May 2.
The Panther men’s golf team won its 
weekend, April 25-26, on their home Ralph 
Myhre Golf Course. The victory clinches a 
trip to the NCAA Division-III Champion-
ship tournament at the Grandover Resort 
in Greensboro, North Carolina to take place 
from May 12-15.
The Panthers played host to Williams, 
Trinity and Hamilton – the three other 
teams that made the cut for the NESCAC 
-
end with a team total of 595, a 14-shot cush-
ion over second-place Williams.  Trinity and 
Hamilton spent the majority of the weekend 
of 624 and 633 respectively.
When all was said and done after play 
concluded on Sunday, Fitz Bowen ’17 and 
Bennett Doherty ’18 shared the crown of 
individual NESCAC champion after shoot-
ing 147s. Bowen shot a 75 on day one, good 
enough to go into the clubhouse tied for sec-
ond with teammate John Louie ’15. Bowen 
had the low score, a 72, on the second day to 
repeat as the individual champion. Doherty’s 
74 on day one locked him in a three way tie 
with teammate Charlie Garcia ’15 and Wil-
liams’ Jake Goldenring. Doherty improved 
was one stroke behind Bowen and Trinity’s 
Nick Buenaventura for the low score of the 
day and allowed him to stake his claim to the 
NESCAC individual crown. 
“Golf is a crazy mental game, and I think 
the many hours we put into mental prepara-
tion was as important as anything,” Doherty 
said. “Once the tournament came, we were 
able to play our own game, and ultimately 
just have fun with it.”
The Panthers shot a 298 on day one, 
Williams. On day two the Panthers shot a 
297, a stroke improvement despite tough 
weather conditions. Williams was unable to 
close the gap on the Panthers, as they reg-
istered a 306, three shots worse than their 
of play two shots better than day one with a 
311 for a two-day total of 624, and Hamilton 
shaved seven strokes off its day one total and 
Despite the cool and damp conditions, 
Williams’ Grant Raffel was tied for the low 
round of the day on Sunday with Trinity’s 
Buenaventura and Bowen, as all three shot 
148, while Buenaventura used a strong day 
two to rebound from shooting an 80 on day 
Louie, Garcia and Eric Laorr ’15 each 
-
score of a 150 after shooting a 75 on both 
days. Garcia was unable to follow up on his 
-
-
ished in a tie for 14th after being bitten by 
several unlucky shots on day one when he 
shot an 82. However, he rebounded on day 
“This is by far the most satisfying win 
for us as seniors,” Garcia said. “I couldn’t 
ask for anything more. It was a great way 
to end a great career. Winning three out of 
four NESCACs was amazing but the group 
of guys we have on the team is what makes 
it special.”
The Panther women wrapped up their 
season last weekend, April 25-26 when they 
played in the Williams Spring Invitational 
in Williamstown, Massachusetts. The team 
the weekend. Finishing behind two teams 
from Williams, the Panthers shot 324 on 
day one, and were neck and neck with the 
two Williams squads and Amherst, each 
of which were within eight strokes of each 
strokes off of their day two score, registering 
a 319 that put into perspective just how well 
the Williams A-team played on day two. Jor-
dan Glatt ’15 and Michelle Peng ’15 played 
Glatt, who took home the individual honors 
in the tournament at Amherst two weeks 
shooting an 83 on day one with a 77 on day 
two, carding a 160 to wrap up her career. 
day one with a brilliant 74 on day two, one 
stroke off of Williams’ Phoebe Mattana.
Track Teams Third, Fourth at NESCAC Championships
 april 30, 2015 | 23SPORTS
Men’s Golf Victorious at NESCACs
By Will Case
Senior Writer
4
147
2
8
Number of unanswered goals scored 
by women’s lacrosse to win 9-8 
against Amherst.
Final score for the joint NESCAC 
golf champions Fitz Bowen ’17 and 
Bennett Doherty ’18. 
Number of individual champions for 
Middlebury at the NESCAC track 
Championships: Carly Anderson ’16 in the 
Javelin and Alison Maxwell ’15 in the 5k.
Winning streak for the Men’s Tennis 
team before their loss to #4 Amherst this 
weekend.
Percent of faceoff attempts won by 
NESCAC men’s lacrosse Player of the 
Week John Jackson ’18.
by the Numb3rs
81
By Bryan Holtzman
Senior Writer the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Alex’s Assertions
2
Men’s Golf
They came, they saw, they 
conquered.
Women’s Lacrosse
guts.
3
Men’s Lacrosse
This team could go all the way in 
the NESCAC Championship.
4 
Track & Field
Panther family, you’ll always 
have my heart. #CACs
5
Women’s Tennis
Scrapy win that shows they 
7
6
Men’s Tennis
Brought back down to reality 
after Emory.
Softball
Despite the loss, these ladies are 
heading to championships.
Baseball 
:(
By  Kelsey Hoekstra
Contributing Writer
up their busy regular season this week by 
winning a double header against Plymouth 
regular season 19-9.
defensive battle, with the only run coming 
in the third inning. Kat Maehr ’16 scored 
the lone run on two wild pitches and a two 
out single by Erin Giles ’17.  Plymouth State 
runners on base every inning except for the 
fourth, but was never able to plate a runner. 
Neve Stearns ’16 recorded the shutout win 
for the Panthers, improving her record to 
7-3.
Middlebury’s bats came alive in the 
inning. The hosts continued to dominate 
inning to take a commanding 7-0 lead. 
Plymouth State scored its lone run in 
the sixth inning when Rachel Morrissey 
singled, advanced to second on a walk, 
and came home off a single by teammate 
Nicole Abreu. The Panthers did not let this 
by scoring two more runs. Maehr opened 
by a single by Carlyn Vachow ’16. Siobhan 
O’Sullivan ’17 brought Maehr home, and 
Ali Della Volpe ’18 brought in Vachow on 
the win, striking out seven to bring her 
record to 12-3.
Later in the weekend, the Panthers 
season, a makeup game against Wesleyan. 
Reilly Wieners of Wesleyan brought in 
both of the Cardinals’ runs with a two-run 
The lone run for the Panthers came in the 
fourth inning when Sarah Freyre ’17 plated 
Jackie Stern ’16, who was pinch running for 
the circle for the Panthers, giving up two 
Middlebury’s playoff destiny depended 
on the outcome of the Williams-Hamilton 
series. Luckily for the Panthers, Williams 
swept the series, so the Panthers head into 
the playoff season with the second seed in 
the NESCAC West. They will face Tufts, the 
top seed in the NESCAC East.  
While the Jumbos might seem like an 
intimidating opponent, Christina Bicks ’15 
pull the upset.
round of NESCACs on Friday,” Bicks said. 
“They have been a challenge for us in the 
past, but the competition only encourages 
us to work that much harder this week 
in preparation. Throughout this season 
our team has come together to win big 
games, and we see this weekend as a great 
opportunity to do just that.”
Williams and Bowdoin will face each 
the double-elimination playoff tournament.
Postseason Berth for Panther Softball Team
After a tough loss to Trinity 
last weekend, the Panthers came 
ready to fight on Wednesday, 
April 22 against Williams and 
Saturday, April 25 against 
Amherst. 
On Wednesday, the team 
fought fiercely throughout the 
game with several lead changes. 
Bridget Instrum ’16 scored 
a career high six goals and 
Catherine Fowler ’15 earned a 
game-high six draws. These two 
efforts were assisted by several 
other contributions, which 
helped the Panthers to a 13-11 
victory against Williams. 
The win over Williams 
solidified the Panthers’ second 
seed in the NESCAC playoff 
tournament, setting them up 
for a quarterfinal matchup with 
the seventh-seeded Lord Jeffs 
of Amherst. The Panthers were 
9-5 winners during the teams’ 
lone regular-season matchup 
back in March.
Saturday against Amherst 
was once again a blood battle 
for the Panthers. This NESCAC 
quarterfinal game, played on 
Kohn Field, concluded with a 
9-8 victory for Middlebury. The 
game started out with a quick 
goal from Mary O’Connell ’17, 
giving the Panthers a 1-0 lead 
that was answered by a pair of 
goals by Amherst before Megan 
Griffin ’16 scored to make it a 
2-2 tie.  The half followed by 
two more goals from Amherst 
and 3 more from Middlebury by 
Laurel Pascal ’16, Katie Ritter 
’15 and Hollis Perticone ’18. 
The Panthers went into the half 
leading 5-4.
Amherst, scoring four 
unanswered goals in the first 11 
minutes, dominated the second 
half. The Lord Jeffs lead 8-5 
with 19:10 left in the game. 
At that point, Ritter scored 
an unassisted goal which 
was the catalyst to lockdown 
defense and fearless offense by 
the Panthers.  
Alli Sciarretta ’16 followed 
with a score to bring the score 
to a one-point deficit. Perticone 
finished what Ritter had started 
with two goals to lead the 
Panthers to a 9-8 wins over 
Amherst. 
Although the Panthers had 
fewer shots on goals, their draw 
controls were unmatched by 
Amherst, which helped send 
them to victory. Perticone led 
the team with three goals while 
Maddie Kinker ’16 once again 
played a stellar game with six 
saves in the net.  
“Despite being down three 
goals with 15 minutes left to 
go, we found a way to refocus 
themselves and never let each 
other think we were going to 
lose the game,” Pascal said. 
“We did that by playing off each 
other’s energy and carrying that 
momentum into the next play 
when it counted.”
The Panthers head into the 
semifinals against Bowdoin this 
Saturday, May at Trinity. 
“We played a great game 
against Bowdoin in the regular 
season but there were definitely 
a few things we wanted to work 
on after our first game against 
them,” Perticone said. “We 
know what type of team they are 
and what it takes to beat them.” 
If they win, the Panthers 
will advance to play either top-
ranked Trinity or fourth-ranked 
Tufts on Sunday at Trinity. 
“This week we are really 
focusing on decision-making 
and how to play smart in certain 
situations,” Pascal said. “We 
are also trying to perfect our 
offensive plays and how to play 
to each other’s strengths.”
Both the Middlebury men’s 
and women’s tennis teams 
faced NESCAC rival Amherst on 
Saturday, April 25, as both teams 
concluded their regular season 
schedules. The men dropped 
Lord Jeffs on the road, falling to 
16-3 overall and breaking their 
eight-match winning streak in the 
play. The women earned a narrow 
home victory over the third-ranked 
visitors, improving to 9-5 overall 
and 5-2 in the NESCAC. The two 
squads return to action this coming 
weekend when they host the 
NESCAC Championship.
The sixth-ranked men’s team 
the season, falling 9-0 at the hands 
of fourth-ranked Amherst. 
The tandem of Ari Smolyar ’16 
and Noah Farrell ’18 were unable 
to secure a point in the second 
score of 8-3. The top duo of Palmer 
Campbell ’15 and Peter Heidrich 
doubles match saw Chris Frost ’15 
and William de Quant ’18 fall 9-8.
The day’s singles competition 
continued to tilt in favor of the 
Lord Jeffs. Middlebury’s Jackson 
Frons ’16, Campbell and de Quant 
all fell in their respective matches as 
Amherst picked up the big lead.
The three remaining matches 
were decided by third-set super 
tiebreakers, with Farrell ultimately 
falling by scores of 6-1, 4-6 and 
2-6 and battled back with a 6-4 set 
before falling 11-9 in the match’s 
lost a hard-fought match to round 
out the competition.
Despite the loss, the Panthers 
sit at 16-3 on the season with a 
lone NESCAC loss to Amherst in 
Middlebury will return to the courts 
this weekend as they host a myriad 
of NESCAC Tournament matches 
from Friday to Sunday, May 1-3.
The women’s team, ranked 
eighth nationally, earned a tight 
home victory over third-ranked 
Amherst to conclude its regular 
season. 
The Panthers struck early in 
the match, racing out to a 2-1 lead 
following doubles play. Lauren 
Amos ’16 and Alexandra Fields ’17 
secured an 8-3 victory to even the 
match score at one apiece heading 
Bondy ’17 went up 9-7 to secure the 
crucial third point for the Panthers.
In singles play, Gerger gave 
the Panthers a 3-1 advantage after 
Amherst’s number one retired from 
the match. The back-and-forth 
momentum of the match continued 
as Amherst’s number two posted a 
6-4, 6-4 victory over Fields. With 
Amherst within a point of tying, 
Bondy took the court and earned a 
6-3, 6-4 decision in the third slot to 
put Middlebury up 4-2.
The Panthers led Amherst by 
a score of 5-3 heading into the 
made an attempt to rally, with their 
number-six player earning a 7-6, 
0-6, 6-2 victory over Katie Paradies 
’15 to conclude the day’s action.
With the narrow win the 
Panthers improve to 9-5 on 
the season and 5-2 in NESCAC 
competition. The team will return 
to action this weekend as they 
host the NESCAC Championship 
matches from Friday to Sunday, 
May 1-3.
sports 24
By  Remo Plunkett
Sports Editor
Men’s Tennis falls to 
end regular season
TRACK TEAMS 
COMPETE AT 
NESCACS
PAGE 23
MEN’S LACROSSE 
ROLLS PAST 
WILLIAMS IN 
QUARTERFINAL
PAGE 22in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Women’s Lacrosse Comeback 
By Christine Urquhart
Contributing Writer
 Courtesy Jeff Patterson
Rachel Frank
women’s lacrosse’s 9-8 victory over the Jeffs on Saturday, April 25.
Par for the course
team won the NESCAC Championship on home turf at the 
Ralph Myhre Golf Course on Sunday, April 26 with a 14 stroke 
lead over Williams. See page 23 for full coverage.
