A faculty meeting was held on 
Tuesday, April 28 to address height-
ened student stress as the semester 
comes to a close. Out of what some 
have called an “emergency meet-
ing” emerged a community-wide 
conversation on short-term meth-
ods to mitigate anxiety and the 
acknowledgement that long-term 
goals and sustained conversation 
should be had on better supporting 
student mental health. 
Though academic stress is acute 
this time of year, the meeting came 
as a reaction to what has been an 
College community mourns the 
loss of student Nathan Alexander 
’17, staff member Kelly Boe and fac-
ulty members Robert Prasch and 
Young Hie Kim.
“Members of the faculty, admin-
istration and staff were recognizing 
that this has become a very stress-
ful semester on campus...but also 
right now. There are events hap-
pening in the United States that are 
stressful; there are earthquakes in 
Nepal that are stressful and tragic...
And then we had Nathan’s death 
which I think really focused energy 
on that fact that people are feeling 
overwhelmed, which only height-
ened that anxiety and stress,” said 
Executive Director of Health and 
Counseling Services Gus Jordan.
“Every spring semester has an 
energy to it, a crescendo of stress 
-
tinct. It feels different and it feels 
urgent. We have talked about it a 
lot in smaller groups. I spend a lot 
of time talking to Commons deans, 
counseling staff, Scott center staff, 
others student life members about 
the fact that the number of students 
who are seeking support from 
Commons deans or counseling staff 
is at an all time high,” said Dean of 
the College Katy Smith Abbott.  
A Strain on Resources: Ver-
mont’s Psychiatric Care Cri-
sis 
Students have been seeking sup-
port from Parton counseling servic-
es and the Counseling Services of 
Addison County (CSAC) at higher 
levels than ever before. Jordan esti-
week, all year, have come in for 
counseling support compared to 
last year. Higher demand has put a 
tangible strain on resources. 
“There is currently a psychiatric 
care crisis in Vermont,” said Jor-
dan, referring to the limited num-
ber of trained psychiatrists in the 
state. 
College students are currently 
given priority for CSAC appoint-
ments and psychiatric evaluations, 
thanks to a contract between the 
College and CSAC that goes back 
many years. Students are typically 
offered appointments within a 
week to ten days, though wait times 
can be longer depending on student 
class times and schedules.
Hannah Quinn ’16, co-founder 
of the Resilience Project, a project 
Gratch Elected SGA President
Following a voting period 
that saw the highest level of 
voter participation in recent 
years, Ilana Gratch ’16.5 was 
elected President of the Student 
Government Association (SGA) 
for the 2015-16 academic year.
“I look forward to an SGA 
that engages in meaningful 
conversation that translates to 
tangible change,” Gratch said in 
an email interview following the 
announcement of her election.
Results for this year’s election 
were announced in an email sent 
by former SGA Elections Council 
Chair Nick Warren ’15. Originally 
planned for release around 6 
p.m. on April 30, election results 
were not released until 12:08 
a.m. on May 1. Warren attributes 
this delay partly to the high level 
of voter participation. In an 
email to the Campus, Warren 
indicated that 1,783 students 
voted, marking a 136.47 percent 
in increase from last year’s 
presidential race, in which only 
754 students voted.
Gratch, who previously 
held roles as Treasurer and 
Press Secretary of the SGA, ran 
alongside three other candidates: 
Josh Berlowitz ’16, Caroline 
Walters ’16.5, and Stuart Warren 
’17. This comes as a sharp 
contrast to last year’s election 
cycle, in which Taylor Custer ’15 
ran an uncontested race for the 
presidency.
Warren’s email, which 
included detailed rundowns of 
may 7, 2015 | Vol. 113 no. 25| middleburycampus.com
STUDENT CREATES
MOBILE 
CLASSROOM FROM 
SCHOOL BUS
PAGE 5
LIEBOWITZ GOES 
FOR A SPIN WITH 
OUR CAR
COLUMNIST
PAGE 14
ARTS & SCIENCES 
REVIEWS SPRING 
AWAKENING
PAGE 17
in
sid
e
Student Stress, 
Anxiety Sparks 
Conversation
By Claire Abbadi and Phil 
Bohlman
By Christian Jambora
News Editors
News Editor
The Middlebury Campus 
previously sat down with 
College President Ronald D. 
Liebowitz in the fall to discuss 
his time at the College. This is 
of the conversation, which took 
place prior to and after the 
announcement of Laurie L. Patton 
as the College’s 17th President. In 
this edition, Liebowitz discusses 
what it takes to be a successful 
College President, the nature of a 
presidential transition, and what 
is next for him after July 1. You 
can read Part One of The Exit 
Interview at middleburycampus.
com. 
Middlebury Campus (MC): 
Does a college president associate 
with other college presidents, 
such as at a NESCAC conference? 
Do you talk to them and ask 
about what’s working, what’s not 
working?
Ronald D. Liebowitz (RL): 
Well, yes. And no. The yes is that 
NESCAC, which stands for the New 
England Small College Athletic 
Conference, is what is called a 
“presidents’” conference, meaning 
presidents are the ultimate 
deciders on the place of varsity 
athletics among the 11 conference 
institutions. Athletics, then, brings 
us together three or four times a 
year to discuss athletics policy. 
I love athletics and understand 
good athletics program. At the 
same time, it would be nice if the 
presidents got together to discuss 
other issues more frequently. 
Generally, college presidents hold 
things close to themselves; we 
don’t share much with colleagues 
even though we know each other 
pretty well—I suspect nobody likes 
to project any kind of weakness 
in his or her institution. The only 
time I recall in my 10-plus years 
as president where my fellow 
presidents were a lot more open 
to discussing things was during 
especially the 2009-10 meetings 
as ones where, during our breaks 
and lunch, we did discuss what 
we were doing and how well each 
campus was responding to the 
challenges. But in general, college 
presidents tend not to share 
because I think it might project 
institutional weakness and we all 
are so competitive.  Not that it’s 
right or productive, but…
MC: Did you have any input on 
the presidential search process 
or was it completely within the 
committee? Would they have been 
open to you saying, ‘I know a great 
provost or a great administrator 
at another college, why don’t you 
look at them?’
RL: No, the tradition is that sitting 
presidents are kept at arm’s length 
from presidential searches for a 
whole host of reasons, all good. 
It is interesting that in most 
professions the outgoing CEO, 
at least the ones that are in good 
standing, has a lot of input into 
who will be his or her successor. 
It’s not that way in the academy.
The extent of my involvement 
was helping to get the search 
committee together with faculty 
representation. I didn’t choose 
the faculty members, but worked 
with faculty council and the faculty 
at large to get those four people 
and it was a great group—a great 
mix of backgrounds, perspectives, 
and disciplinary expertise. I then 
worked with Sunder Ramaswamy 
at Monterey to select the staff 
person, Bob Cole, and the faculty 
member Laura Burian (both are 
great, too) to provide a Monterey 
perspective to the search. The only 
other thing I did in the search was 
to meet with the committee early 
on and give an overview of what 
I saw from my vantage point as 
President of where the institution 
is now, what issues and challenges 
are ahead, and what the committee 
ought to know as they started 
the 17th president of the College.
MC: Time for a little advice for 
your successor — if the next 
President of the College asked you, 
pulse of what students are thinking 
about?’ what would you say?
RL: Try to be as active in the 
community as possible. Pop into 
Proctor, Atwater, and Ross. I 
have found students to be very 
seat and sit down with students, 
As spring turns to summer, the College will have a new President in Old Chapel beginning July 1. 
Ivan Valladares
THE KEYS TO OLD CHAPEL
SEE SGA, PAGE 2
The Exit Interview, Part Two:
A Final Word with Liebowitz
By Joe Flaherty 
Editor-in-Chief
SPECIAL feature
SEE MENTAL HEALTH, PAGE 2
SEE LIEBOWITZ, PAGE 3
SPECIAL REPORT
SGA ELECTION TURNOUT
1,143
voted in this year’s election
students
1,484
SeNators
7541,783
in 2014 in 2013 in 2012
Brainerd RossCookAtwater WonnacoTT 
Daria Cenedella Jewel Chen Georgia Grace Edwards Trisha Singh Lisa Han
Sophomore Junior Senior
Jin Sohn
Colin Boyle
Pamela Schulman
Divesh Rizal
Madeleine Raber
Reshma Gogineni
phil bohlman
| may 7, 20152 NEWS
By Emma Dunlap
Senior Writer
Community 
council
Mental Health on Campus
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
On Monday April 27, Community Coun-
cil continued discussing security cameras, 
a controversial topic that was the subject of 
dining hall, Atwater dining hall and BiHall 
that morning. Vice President for Student Af-
fairs and Dean of the College and Communi-
ty Council Co-Chair Katy Smith Abbott said 
that new issues the council may have not yet 
considered came up in the recent open forum 
on security cameras on campus.
“(The meeting) showed the limited extent 
that we have been examining the impact on 
individuals that already have a particularly 
strong opinion on security cameras,” said 
Abbott. 
“Issues of race and gender” were present-
ed in the meeting according to Abbott.
“What level does that leave us open to tar-
geting members of the community that are 
not members of the majority… what are we 
opening ourselves up to if human beings are 
reviewing this tape and they are looking for 
something to go off on…like suspicious be-
havior?” she asked.
Telecom Manager and Technology Sup-
port Specialist Solon Coburn reiterated that 
if a proposal to request security cameras on 
campus passed the council, there would be 
strict guidelines similar to those of peer insti-
tutions, that would indicate who could view 
them and in what circumstances. 
It is “the very experience of being viewed 
or having a camera on you when already your 
very identity on campus is always on cam-
era…always scrutinized” that made some 
students at the forum voice against security 
cameras, said Abbott.
 “What it means for students particu-
larly every time they go into a dining hall to 
be having those questions…stops me in my 
tracks a little bit,” she said.
Landscape Horticulturist Tim Parsons 
worried that if the College does not use the 
cameras to keep student’s personal items 
safe in light of the increased number of thefts 
this year that losing an item such as a laptop 
“for some students who go to school here it 
Durga Jayaraman ’16 talked to three peo-
ple that live in her social house that have had 
their personal belongings stolen on campus. 
The students told her they would have been 
against the idea of security cameras but that 
being the victims of theft changed their view. 
Blake Shapskinsky ’15 motioned for the 
council to vote on a proposal to have the se-
halls only, monitoring where students place 
their backpacks outside of the dining area. 
The proposal also asked for guiding prin-
ciples and that the cameras be only reviewed 
on case by case bases. The motion failed, with 
six for, nine against and two abstaining.
The council is going to continue discuss-
ing the issue and a proposal to strongly en-
courage students to bring their personal 
items into the dining halls with them.
Several students including President of 
’15, President of Tavern Eli Jones ’16, and 
Vice President of Tavern and of the IHC 
Kevin Conroy, as well as Associate Dean of 
the College and Director of Public Safety Lisa 
Burchard attended the meeting to discuss 
a proposal pertaining to social house walk-
Abhari presented a proposal requesting 
under three conditions: if the house is on 
probation, if Public Safety receives a distur-
while on their normal patrol. 
The council heard about this issue earlier 
in the year. Students again voiced their con-
cern over walk-throughs that are occurring in 
their houses on weekdays almost daily with-
out any cause, in their opinions. Students 
were also concerned why their seemed to be a 
lack of inequity pertaining to walk-throughs, 
when the Atwater suites and other non- 
walking through their living spaces as often. 
against and four abstaining.
aimed at bringing conversation and aware-
ness to mental health issues on campus, 
shared her own story on struggling with de-
pression earlier this year.
“I posted a story on Facebook when I felt 
like there was a complete lack of conversation 
about mental health issues on campus and 
it’s something I have always felt the need to 
hide,” said Quinn.
“I wanted to open up the dialogue and see 
if there was a better way to address these is-
sues,” she added. 
“What’s the hardest thing you’ve ever 
-
age and encourages stu-
dents to share their own 
stories of triumph and 
trauma and to engage in 
a much-needed conversa-
tion on how we process 
mental health and stress 
as a community.
institutional changes she 
would like to see in order to better support 
students, she points to a lack of resources and 
to culture. 
“It’s frustrating. Parton is always strapped 
and so is CSAC in town. There is a much 
higher demand than there are resources right 
now,” says Quinn. 
However, though the faculty meeting last 
Tuesday only looked at short-term solutions 
for getting through April and May, the impor-
tance of having an ongoing conversation on 
the community culture was emphasized. 
“The meeting was an opportunity for 
those of us who had been considering this 
question to propose some changes faculty 
could make during the rest of the semester. It 
wasn’t meant to be prescriptive and it wasn’t 
meant to be all or nothing. It was like, ‘Here’s 
a menu of things you could consider,’” said 
Smith Abbott.
Some options the faculty considered are 
-
signment optional or opening up their class-
rooms for conversations about student stress. 
“We sometimes forget how impactful a 
single conversation between a student and a 
faculty member can be. I think faculty know 
that, but we are awash in the busyness of 
teaching, of publishing, of committee work 
and to just stop collectively and say, ‘Don’t 
forget the power of a conversation,’” added 
Smith Abbott. 
Busyness: The Trademark of
this Generation 
D. Liebowitz pointed out at the meeting that 
this isn’t a new issue. In 2007 he convened 
a forum between students and faculty mem-
busyness of student lives, a trademark on this 
generation. 
“Students come to us masterful in being 
busy all the time. Some of that is amazing 
dedication to academics, which was true in 
high school and remains true here, but I think 
almost every student I know was incred-
ibly busy in high school and probably before 
hour and I think some students, certainly not 
all, feel at sea when they are not busy all the 
time,” said Smith Abbott.
What differentiates this semester from 
the calmest of students into disarray, is the 
sentiment of loss and grief. 
“The thing I have felt most acutely this 
spring is that when you are really good at be-
ing busy, it can be true that you are not good 
at making space to take in the magnitude 
of an event like a suicide or a tragic death 
or an earthquake in Nepal or astonishingly 
discouraging outbreak of rioting and racial 
tension sweeping the country. That you just 
don’t have the space to step back and say, 
‘This is really affecting me.’ I think the inabil-
ity to make that space is a stressor as well,” 
concluded Smith Abbott.
As the semester wraps up and the senti-
ment of sadness sits heavy on us all, the fac-
ulty, staff and students seem more engaged, 
willing and energized than ever to make this 
issue a priority. 
“I think there is enough energy and con-
versation among all of Middlebury’s con-
stituencies, including, students, staff and 
faculty, that this will be an ongoing conversa-
tion about what we are seeing on campus and 
what we can do about it,” said Jordan. 
Looking to the Future
Any conversations about student mental 
health will likely extend into the next aca-
demic year, given that the conversation has 
only begun toward the end of this semester.
Because of the steps that some faculty 
have taken in their courses 
in recent weeks to mitigate 
are contemplating what long-
term pedagogical adjustments 
might aid in creating a health-
ier environment. 
To some, it means reevalu-
ating what ‘rigor’ means when 
assigning coursework. 
“A fruitful conversation [to have] is our 
-
demic excellence,” said Tara Affolter, assis-
tant professor of Education Studies. 
“I think it’s lazy thinking to say that rigor 
means, ‘I’m going to pile on as much work as 
looking at? How deeply are you looking at 
this? How are you making connections across 
texts, across classes?’” she said. 
Charles A. Dana Professor of Political 
Science Murray Dry thought that what is re-
quired of students is fair. 
“I don’t think the expectations are unrea-
sonably excessive here, and my sense is that 
most students know how to balance a set of 
courses,” Dry said. “I know I’m on one ex-
treme in terms of expectations but I don’t 
think I’m unreasonable and I think that the 
students who take the courses are able to do 
good work, and fortunately, I guess, no one’s 
required to take my course.”
Professor of Psychology Barbara Hofer 
stated that she did not believe courses have 
become more demanding. She suggested 
constant social connectivity as a recent devel-
opment that not only takes 
up a student’s time but also 
contributes to their stress, 
as they are “always on,” with 
“To a person, I haven’t 
met a faculty member who 
says they’re assigning more 
work than they did ten years 
ago. Most people have had a 
fairly steady sense of what is 
appropriate here and what their syllabi look 
like, but students are reacting much more 
strongly [to the workload],” Hofer said.  
Multiple professors in interviews with the 
Campus spoke about junior faculty some-
times feeling their syllabi are scrutinized for 
rigor during the tenure process.
“If senior faculty feel as if you’re not seri-
enough, there is a tendency to dismiss you 
as not a good teacher,” said Laurie Essig, as-
sociate professor of Sociology and Gender, 
Sexuality and Feminist Studies. She sees the 
pressures on junior faculty from senior facul-
ty as systematic in higher education and not 
unique to the College. 
with junior faculty that they’ve felt pressured 
to cover a great deal of material,” said Senior 
Gould. Gould also emphasized that students 
can get more intellectual rewards out of a 
seemingly less voluminous workload even 
though the perception might be that a profes-
sor is reducing a course’s rigor.
Stress is not only a product of class work 
-
cial burdens and the search for employment 
after graduation are common sources of anxi-
ety for many students at the College. 
“It’s clear to me that this is a tough time 
to think about jobs after college. You’ve got 
pressures now, you’re anticipating pressures 
of the future, and for a number of students 
debt,” said Larry Yarbrough, Pardon Tilling-
Improving mental health will be the re-
sponsibility of many constituencies across 
the College community. Pedagogical adjust-
ments are in focus now because of the faculty 
meeting, but a student culture of overwork 
and the spectra of the indomitable “MiddKid” 
is perceived by many as areas where social 
and academic pressures overlap.
“I think the ideal MiddKid is someone 
who doesn’t struggle academically, doesn’t 
struggle socially…and the only sort of weak-
ness they’ll show is saying, ‘Oh I have a ton of 
work’,” Drew Jenkins ’15 said. 
Julia Shumlin ’17.5 expressed a similar 
sentiment, and believed that change would 
have to come from within the student body. 
“I think a lot of it falls on the students 
and the atmosphere that we have here and 
the fact that we put a lot of pressure on our-
selves,” Shumlin said. “I do think a lot of it 
is on the students to create a less competitive 
atmosphere and to value ourselves for more 
than just our academic selves.”
It is not only academic pressure that 
weighs on students. Many are heavily in-
volved in one or more extracurricular activi-
ties that demand their time and energy. Nev-
ertheless, Katy Svec ’15 sees her involvement 
as valuable.
“For me [stage managing] is more re-
warding because I know that’s exactly what 
I want to do when I graduate. I really enjoy 
the change of pace that I get from [doing] 
theatre. It is simultaneously more rewarding 
and more stressful than any of my classes. I 
spend more hours in one week stage manag-
ing a show than I will for any other class for 
the rest of the semester,” she said.
Some faculty called into question how 
the demands of student’s extracurricular ac-
tivities compete with time for class work. Dry 
suggested that non-academic over-involve-
ment was a habit learned in high school. 
“We have encouraged it by the weight that 
we as an institution give 
to extracurriculars in 
high school,” Dry said. 
Others, like Gould, called 
into question their per-
ceived importance. 
“What pressures are 
[students] putting on 
themselves that they 
could change? I see it 
mostly in extracurricu-
lars where students feel like they have to take 
a ton of extracurriculars because somehow 
that matters for their future. It often does not 
matter at all to employers,” Gould said.
Nevertheless, Gould said that neither stu-
dents nor faculty can solve the problem on 
their own, emphasizing that it is a commu-
nity concern.
Gould is currently engaged in a new book 
project entitled Spacious. She is insistent on 
-
mands of modern life, while being critical of 
an American culture of busyness.
Many would contend that a culture of 
overwork is observable at the College. It is 
is driven by student exceptionalism and how 
much of it is a product of pedagogy. That cul-
ture is built on a network of expectations — 
those of parents, professors, coaches, peers 
and potential employers. 
Vice President for Academic Affairs and 
Dean of the Faculty Andi Lloyd emphasized 
improving student mental health an as op-
portunity to pose sweeping questions to our 
community. 
“What does it means to live life at the pace 
at which we’re all living life? What does it 
the election results, revealed that votes 
for the presidency were counted in three 
rounds, each of which saw the removal of 
the candidate receiving the least amount 
round after receiving 9.2 percent of votes, 
followed by Walters with 19.7 percent, and 
held a majority in each round, respectively 
receiving 44.4 percent, 49.4 percent, and 
62.0 percent of votes.
Gratch’s platform includes opening 
Proctor Dining Hall from 10-11 p.m. for “10 
o’clock Proc,” creating a student-run bar 
on campus, and forming a peer counseling 
service.
“I am deeply committed to fostering 
a student government that is relevant, 
transparent, and approachable. It is my 
hope that through leading in a thoughtful 
and purposeful manner, I will be able to 
not only listen carefully to what students 
want to see happen at Middlebury, but 
also advocate effectively on their behalf,” 
Gratch said.
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Students Elect Gratch to Lead SGA
“There is a much 
higher demand than 
there are resources 
right now.”
Hannah Quinn ’16
“I think the ideal 
MiddKid is someone 
who doesn’t struggle 
academically, doesn’t 
struggle socially...”
Drew Jenkins ’15
may 7, 2015 |  3        News
Vandalism Raises Controversy On Campus
As the latest addition to the wave of 
No Cameras” 
Who Watches 
the Watchmen?” and “Cut the Cord!” were 
F*** Cameras.” 
“
One anonymous post on the popular 
Hall noted that many students witnessing 
appears and dissipates seemingly when 
“Where was the support when students 
over and over again that people are more 
 Other students have also shown support 
and have agreed that the matters presented 
One of the themes perpetuated by the 
although the original reasoning behind 
someone has been repeatedly vandalizing 
Hall noted that students have other 
improperly in a way that hurts other people is 
By Caroline Agsten
Senior Writer
The Campus Speaks With Outgoing President Liebowitz
of SGA is very valuable and is something 
natural and manage to your personality and 
MC
RL
do the institution well by helping the new 
president understand and navigate through 
MC: How to maintain a good relationship 
RL
great natural tension between what appears 
and yet you are doing nothing to help your 
that it’s better to be 
damned for doing 
believe strongly that 
what’s good for the 
College is good for 
town being vibrant 
MC
RL
number of foundations and donors who 
MC
RL
Whittington and our board have followed 
MC: Did the 
previous College 
you upon your 
RL
situation was 
was already on the 
MC
RL
MC
both the Dean of the College and College 
RL
positions should not be viewed as anything 
MC: Although you have probably been 
you depart the College in the summer?
RL
bridge the apparent widening gap between 
some previously unseen tensions or at least 
is due to the pedagogies that our students 
they often do not see in most liberal arts 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
“Laurie and I have been in 
communication regularly...
which helps with continuity 
and increases the chances 
of a smooth transition come 
July 1.”
Ronald D. Liebowitz
President Of The College
As of this Friday, in addition to de-
licious pastries, a visit to the town of 
Vergennes can include a perusal of the 
town’s newest art gallery. The Peter 
Fried Art Gallery and Studio, located at 
245 Main Street adjacent to Vergennes 
Laundry, will hold its grand opening on 
May 8 from 6-10 pm. 
Originally from Prague, Peter Fried 
received his Bachelor of Fine Arts from 
the Slade School of Fine Art, University 
College in London in 1984. Fried lived 
in London until moving to Vermont in 
1995 to study Buddhism at Karme Chol-
ing, a Buddhist meditation center in the 
Northeast Kingdom. Fried’s work has 
been showcased in exhibits in London 
and Paris, and throughout Vermont as 
well. 
His artwork includes landscapes, 
minimalist abstracts and allegorical 
studies, all of which are exhibited at the 
gallery in Vergennes. In his art Fried 
was influenced by the way the Roman-
tics, Realists and Post-Impressionists 
depicted nature with “simplicity, rev-
erence and clarity.” He seeks to emu-
late this representation of nature in his 
landscape paintings. Inspired by Agnes 
Martin, in his minimalist abstracts Fried 
finds a point of balance between chaos 
and order. Lastly, the allegorical studies 
are Fried’s attempt to “give voice to the 
unconscious through a pictorial stream 
of consciousness.”
Fried chose to open his gallery in 
Vergennes because of the town’s intima-
cy and because it “feels auspicious.” He 
hopes that the gallery will inspire others 
to make and share art, contribute to the 
art community of Vergennes and “play a 
role in initiating a gentle, kind and intel-
ligent revolution in the world, auguring 
an era of peace, prosperity and loving 
kindness.”
 “I feel a need to make life mean-
ingful, and creativity offers a means to 
this end. Art enables me to be more fully 
present in the world,” Fried wrote in an 
email. 
Last Thursday, US Senator Bernie 
Sanders of Vermont announced that 
he would run for the 2016 Democratic 
presidential nomination. He will be chal-
lenging former Secretary of State Hillary 
Clinton, who, so far, is the only other 
major candidate in the race.  Though he 
has formally announced his bid, Sanders 
will kick off his campaign in Burlington 
on May 26.  
“I am running for President of the 
United States because America needs 
a political revolution,” wrote Sanders 
on his Facebook page on April 30.  “We 
need a government which represents all 
of us, and not just a handful of billion-
aires. In this campaign, we won’t have 
the support of the big-money interests, 
Wall Street or the military-industrial 
complex. That’s why I need you to join 
me in an unprecedented grass-roots ef-
fort.”
Sanders announced his campaign at 
a news conference on the Capitol lawn. 
In a brief speech, Sanders identified the 
3 major issues he intends to address: 
growing economic disparity, excessive 
spending on political campaigns, and 
climate change.
The most cen-
tral issue to Sand-
ers’ campaign is the 
growing gap in in-
come in the U.S. and 
the inability for many 
working families to 
support themselves.  
“We can’t con-
tinue having a na-
tion in which we have 
the highest rate of 
childhood poverty of 
any major nation on 
earth, at the same 
time as we’re seeing 
a proliferation of millionaires and bil-
lionaires,” Sanders said in his announce-
ment speech.  
Specific problems that concern 
Sanders on the topic of economic dispar-
ity are the exorbitant cost of college, the 
stagnation of wages, increasing wealth 
among the wealthy and the rising cost of 
healthcare.
“The second issue directly related 
is the fact that as a result of the disas-
trous supreme court decision on Citizens 
United [vs. Federal Election Commis-
sion], we now have a political situation 
where billionaires are literally able to 
buy elections and candidates,” Sand-
ers continued. Sanders’ campaign fund 
pales in comparison to that of his com-
petitor, Clinton.  Sanders prefers to take 
donations from citizens, rather than 
corporations, to show that his campaign 
is a grassroots effort, not corporately 
funded. 
OpenSecrets.org is a website run 
by the Center for Responsive Politics, a 
nonpartisan group that researches the 
effect of money on politics and makes 
information about it publicly available. 
According to OpenSecrets.org, Sanders’ 
top 3 campaign contributors through-
out his career have been the Machinists/
Aerospace Workers Union, the Team-
sters Union, and the United Auto Work-
ers. In contrast, Citigroup Inc., Gold-
man Sachs, JPMorgan Chase & Co., and 
Lehman Brothers have been among the 
top 10 contributors to Clinton through-
out her career.  
Sanders’ campaign received $1.5 
million in donations within 24 hours of 
announcing his bid 
for president.  Sand-
ers lives his ideals 
about keeping money 
out of politics.  The 
bottom of his cam-
paign website reads, 
“Paid for by Bernie 
2016 (not the billion-
aires).”
Finally, Sanders 
addressed the im-
portance of taking 
climate change seri-
ously and acting ac-
cordingly.  
“We have a Republican Party with 
virtually few exceptions that does not 
even recognize the reality of climate 
change, let alone that it is caused by hu-
man activity, let alone that the scien-
tific community tells us this is the ma-
jor global environmental crisis that we 
face,” Sanders said. “And I want to see 
this nation lead the world in transform-
ing our energy system away from fossil 
fuel, to energy efficiency and sustainable 
energy.”  
Coming from Vermont, Sanders is 
well-poised to make this claim, as Ver-
mont has actively tried to increase green 
energy use and reduce fossil fuel con-
sumption.
In the realm of foreign policy, Sand-
ers has emphasized that he opposed 
the war in Iraq, something that Clinton 
supported. Sanders supports President 
Obama’s use of sanctions against Russia 
regarding Ukraine. However, Sanders 
opposes Obama’s view on the Trans-Pa-
cific Partnership (TPP).  Sanders oppos-
es TPP because of its negative effect on 
jobs of American people and favoritism 
toward corporations.
Sanders is also a strong supporter of 
gay marriage.
“It’s time for the Supreme Court to 
catch up to the American people and le-
galize gay marriage,” Sanders said in a 
press release.  In 2000, he supported the 
legalization of civil unions in Vermont 
and in 2009 he supported the legaliza-
tion of gay marriage in Vermont.
Sanders began his political career 
in Vermont in 1971.  During the 1970s, 
Sanders ran under the anti-Vietnam Lib-
erty Union Party, a non-violent socialist 
party in Vermont that still sends can-
didates to several elections statewide. 
Sanders won no offices with this party. 
After this point, he proceeded to run as 
an Independent until now when he has 
entered the race for Democratic nomina-
tion.
From 1981 through 1989, Sanders 
was mayor of Burlington. From 1991 to 
2007, Sanders served as a US Represen-
tative from Vermont as an Independent. 
He is now on his second term as junior 
senator from Vermont.  With 24 years 
of experience in the House and Senate 
combined, Sanders is the longest serving 
independent in Congress.
Sanders engaged in various jobs be-
fore his career in politics. Upon gradu-
ating from James Madison High School 
in Brooklyn in 1959, Sanders attended 
Brooklyn College, but then transferred 
to University of Chicago. During college, 
Sanders was active in the Civil Rights 
movement and graduated in 1964. Af-
ter graduation, Sanders lived on an Is-
raeli kibbutz, then moved to Vermont. 
In Vermont, before getting into politics, 
Sanders worked various jobs such as car-
penter, film-maker and writer.
Because of his small campaign bud-
get, lack of experience in foreign affairs, 
and populist, (sometimes considered 
socialist) persuasion, many believe he 
stands no chance against Clinton, a more 
moderate, high profile and amply funded 
candidate. 
“I am running for pres-
ident because America 
needs a political revo-
lution.  We need a gov-
ernment that repre-
sents all of us, and not 
just a handful of bil-
lionaires.” 
Sen. Bernie sanders 
Vt. Senator Bernie Sanders Announces 
Bid for Democratic Presidential Nomination
By Alessandria Schumacher
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) delivers a speech at a press conference on April 30 
outside the Capitol announcing his plans to run for the Democratic nomination.
Courtesy VPR
Local Editor
local
The Peter Fried Art Gallery and Studio is located at 245 Main Street adjacent 
to Vergennes Laundry. It will hld its grand opening on May 8, from 6-10 p.m.
Courtesy Peter Fried
By Olivia Heffernan
Staff Writer
Peter Fried Art Gallery Opens in Vergennes
On Sunday, May 3, the Community 
Theater’s version of Spamalot came to a 
close. The show had been running since 
April 23 at 8 p.m. on Thursdays through 
Saturdays, and 2pm on Sundays.
Spamalot is a musical comedy adapt-
ed from the 1975 film Monty Python and 
the Holy Grail. The title itself, as ex-
plained by one of the musical’s creators 
Eric Idle, comes from a line in the movie, 
“We eat ham, and jam and Spam a lot.” 
The name, like its content, suggests the 
playfulness of the theater show. The 
show is less about the Arthurian Legend 
than an irreverent parody of it, as King 
Arthur travels his country with his only 
servant Patsy, who bangs two coconut 
shells to make the sound of a horse’s 
hooves as the King “rides” an imaginary 
horse before him.
Despite the monstrous commitment 
required for the show, many community 
theater enthusiasts, students and even 
a professional wrestler, who is the ac-
tor of King Arthur, gathered in the Town 
Hall Theater and work wholeheartedly 
to make this major production happen. 
Spamalot is arguably the biggest produc-
tion the Middlebury Community Players 
have ever done. Over 110 different cos-
tumes were made for the show and 300 
individual pieces were made for the show 
to happen. That single component of the 
production speaks a lot about the efforts 
of the production team and the quality 
of the show. The rich variety made the 
show a visual feast. 
Timothy Fraser ’16, who played Sir 
Robin, one of the six major roles in the 
musical comedy, explains the reason he 
got involved with the show.
“It was the second week of J-term. 
I got an email from Brainerd Commons, 
it was their regular weekly email about 
opportunities, and it included Spamalot 
auditions for the Community Theater. 
Spamalot is one of my favorite musicals. 
I went down to auditions, and it turned 
out that singing in the College Choir with 
Jeff Whitner, doing the Swing Dance 
Club on campus give me a little bit ex-
perience with singing and dancing. And 
things work out,” Fraser said. 
After joining the crew, Fraser began 
to commit time and hard work to this 
major production along with 30 strong 
cast members and production members. 
He started practicing and rehearsing 
from late January to last Sunday, when 
the show drops the curtain. He talked 
about the challenges he faced after he fit 
this exciting yet demanding project into 
his schedule. 
Fraser said he was, “going to 6-hour 
rehearsals from two weeks before the 
show opens and then I came back home 
to write my papers till late in the morn-
ing.”
Ultimately however, Fraser found 
his experience very rewarding.
“But it is really worthwhile” Fraser 
said. “I had a wonderful time. I would 
definitely encourage Middlebury stu-
dents to get involved in a theater produc-
tion outside of the College because it in-
troduces me a whole host of new people, 
30 people now who thinks of each other 
as really knowing each other well, people 
in their 40s, in their 50s and in their 30s 
and teenagers.” 
Fraser was not the only Middlebury 
student who participated in the show. 
Ashley Fink ’18 also acted in the show as 
a Laker Girl and singer.
What’s more extraordinary about 
this quality production is that every 
member of the cast and crew essentially 
volunteered to join the show. “Nobody 
gets paid.” The Director of Spamalot and 
the President of the Middlebury Com-
munity Players Dora Greven said, “It 
must be the love for the theater.”
Agreeing that the commitment from 
the cast and crew must be simply for the 
love of the theater, Greven said emphati-
cally, “Yes, it must be.” 
Community Theater members rehearsing “Spamalot,” a Middlebury Commu-
nity Players’ production, in the Weybridge Elementary School gymnasium.
Courtesy addison independent
Spamalot Plays in Middlebury
07Local lowdown
Local 5
The Campus Newspaper Party
Are you waiting all week long for Thurs-
day morning to crack open a fresh copy 
of the Campus with your decaf coffee 
and raisins? Do you live from headline 
commenter on every online news story? 
If you are, congratulations. But even if 
you’re not any of these things and you still 
tradition of student journalism, come to 
the 1st annual Campus newspaper party! 
E-mail cpgrant@middlebury.edu to RSVP 
and for event details.
MAY 8, 10:30 PM
Middlebury “Ask a Gardener”
Do you have questions (about gardens 
or life) that you would like to ask a real 
gardener? Now you can! Master garden-
ers  – including Middlebury’s farmer-in-
residence John Louie ’15 — will be outside 
the Middlebury Natural Food Co-op to 
answer your questions, provide informa-
tion and free handouts and more.
MAY 12, 10:30AM - 12:30PM
Ferrisburgh Amphibian Presentation
Does your mom like snakes? Do you? 
Commission hosts expert Jim Andrews 
will present “Snakes, Turtles and Sala-
manders: Selected Amphibians and 
Reptiles of the Ferrisburgh Area” in the 
Route 7. Learn about these strange crea-
tures and how you can protect them! All 
are welcome, including mothers. Bryce 
Parsons ’15 will lead a “Vertebrate Appre-
ciation” meditation session in the Crest 
room after the event.
MAY 13, 6:30 PM-8:00 PM 
 | may 7, 2015
By Jason Zhang
Contributing Writer
We've been here in Middlebury 
since 1982 specializing in 
mouth-watering food. Our goal 
has always been to offer a fresh, 
quality, price sensitive meal to 
the whole family whether you 
dine in or take out. And it’s not 
just pizza: try our pasta, na-
chos, wings, and calzones!
802-388-316410 Washington StreetMiddlebury, VT 05753
In the coming weeks, the parking 
lot of Cornwall Elementary School will 
change dramatically. The vacant school 
bus currently parked at the school will 
transform from a typical school bus to a 
Dream Bus that grew out of the imagina-
tion of Lena Jacobs ’17.5. 
Having received grant money from 
MiddChallenge and the Future Project, the 
Dream Bus, which will be constructed as 
a mobile classroom, will stop in 12 cities 
at various high schools and community 
centers across the country this summer. 
As Jacobs describes it, the Dream 
Bus is “a collaborative space for people to 
pursue projects of any type.” 
Jacobs’ idea for the Dream Bus 
sparked from her previous involve-
ment with the Future Project, which is a 
national campaign focused on promoting 
entrepreneurial skills in young people. 
The Future Project trains dream directors, 
who embody the organization’s mission, 
to partner with various high schools, and 
implement a specific curriculum that 
fosters creativity and unconventional 
learning. 
Participating in Future Project One, 
in which she proposed her idea to various 
business executives and dream directors, 
Jacobs describes her experience as trans-
formative.
“I all of a sudden realized that there 
were people that were older than me…
that could help me. And I ran home that 
day because I was so excited about what 
the potential for why my school year could 
look like...and the idea that realizing a 
dream, and that anything is possible was 
so real in my mind that I literally couldn’t 
sit still,” Jacobs said. 
After that unforgettable encounter, 
Jacobs became further drawn to the Fu-
ture Project and the impact it has on the 
schools it gets involved with. She specifi-
cally became focused on how she could 
give someone the opportunity to experi-
ence what had had such a positive impact 
on her. 
Jacobs began to think about acces-
sibility. The Future Project currently 
exists in 7 cities. By creating the Dream 
Bus, Jacobs is able to deliver the mission 
of the Future Project to more cities and 
therefore impact more students. With 4-6 
rotating dream directors, 1 national dream 
director, and various community members 
on board, the Dream Bus is well-equipped 
to make an impact.  
The process behind the Dream Bus is 
based off of the curriculum of the Future 
Project, and will go as follows. The bus 
will arrive at a given school or community 
center parking lot where students will be 
waiting to get on. 
First, students will be asked what 
their process is, and then will workshop 
their idea with the dream directors on the 
bus to figure out what their next step will 
be. 
Next, dream directors will redirect 
each student to community members on 
the bus, who are people that the Future 
Project has on the ground that can expose 
students to specific networks in their com-
munity. 
Then, the student will continue to fur-
ther develop his/her idea, until it is solidi-
fied and ready to be pitched to a camera. 
These videos will be posted on dream.
org. Finally, the student will walk off the 
bus and take part in the knowledge party, 
which is meant to celebrate the beginnings 
of an idea. 
In addition to Jacobs, the Dream Bus 
team is comprised of architecture studies 
majors Brandon Gell ’16, Morgan Raith 
’16.5, and Josh Epsy ’17. 
As the architecture advisors of the 
project, Gell, Raith, and Epsy spend a lot 
of time thinking about how the mission 
and function of the Dream Bus can be 
complimented and bolstered by the design 
and layout of the bus. 
“As architectural studies majors at 
Middlebury,” Raith said, “we are often 
asked to consider all of the psychologi-
cal, environmental, and specific implica-
tions of what you do when you implement 
an intervention into a space…so having 
that mindset, and that ability to think of 
people in that space in that way- of how 
will people interact with space- is sort of 
where we come in.” 
Gell continues by saying, “we want 
the design of the bus to reflect the process 
in which students are moving their ideas 
forward. So a very important part of the 
bus will be a space in which students can 
talk to each other, and also talk to dream 
directors. So there will need to be a pretty 
large table that is versatile. And then 
moving off of that, there will be a couple 
of work stations. Also, there will be a large 
portion of the bus will be designated to 
sitting space. Like a couch, or a hangout 
spot because that’s where most amazing 
ideas come to fruition. And then we will 
have another spot where once a student is 
done developing their idea, can go to pitch 
their idea to a camera.” 
For Epsy, he sees his role as an archi-
tectural advisor as in charge of creating 
“the vessel through which we show kids 
that their ideas and their ambitions have 
real merit. 
When asked about whether this 
process allocates enough time for stu-
dents to create an idea, Jacobs responded 
confidently, by saying, “I do just because I 
was given split second moments, and that 
was all I needed. If you’re with the right 
people, at the right space, at the right 
time, and everything around you just feels 
like the right energy, it’s totally possible. 
It’s happened to me, it’s happened to my 
friends, and I’ve seen it happen to other 
kids I’ve been speaking with too.” 
Epsy further accounts for what may 
off as far-fetched in the eyes of skeptics.
“I know that this all sounds a little bit 
idealistic, and I think it is in some ways, 
and that’s beautiful, that’s the wonder of 
this project, but these kids are amazing. 
And they do amazing projects, and they 
really execute…so it is a big dream, yes, 
but it is becoming a reality. And that is 
why I am so excited about this project.”
The team also reflected on how the 
process of making the bus into a creative 
space has stimulated creativeness within 
them. 
On the innovativeness and self-
empowerment the bus is meant to moti-
vate, Epys summarizes, “a lot of this bus 
is about allowing students to realize that 
their dreams matter, their ambitions mat-
ter, and that these are concrete ways that 
they can start to follow those passions.”
Gell then reveals how this process has 
directly impacted him.
“The dream bus,” Geil explains,” is 
doing exactly what it’s doing to these 
students to me. The bus for us, along for 
those getting on it, is about applying your 
education rather than just brushing it on.” 
Raith agreed and further stated that 
“having the opportunity to envision [the 
bus], and sketch [it] up, knowing that it’s 
actually happening is really empowering.”
Jacobs further articulates how her 
idea of thinking outside the box is exactly 
what she wants to inspire in the students 
that walk on the bus.
“So that idea of reimagining places 
that are dark and dreary for students, 
whether that’s your school or a school bus, 
or a certain aspect of your life” Jacobs 
explains, “is just really inspiring to stu-
dents, and I hope that we can show a lot 
of students across the country what that 
looks like.” 
Raith continues with the notion that 
much of this project is taught by example.
“I think just the presence of a stu-
dent-run, organized developed, executed 
project like this bus is kind of a model for 
inspiration,” Raith said. “Showing these 
kids that change happens from the ground 
up, not top-down. We have the power as 
young people to create a shift. We can be 
the change that we want to see.”
Gell agreed with this sentiment when 
saying that when each kid who steps on 
the bus will think “if I put my mind to 
something I can do it. Just like these 
kids put their minds to something and 
built this bus. It’s entirely supposed to be 
inspirational. You know maybe this idea 
is a miss, but the other one is going to be 
a hit.” 
Just as the bus exudes creativity from 
all avenues, it also promotes community 
at various scales and within different 
spheres. 
For the students who the bus is meant 
for, the community directors present 
students with local networks and oppor-
tunities that can be utilized long after the 
Dream Bus has left. 
As Jacobs explains that after the bus 
leaves, “the people that stay are [the stu-
dents], and all of the community directors 
that [they] know can help [them]. So we 
are sourcing these people locally…we are 
allowing students to connect with people, 
and say, ‘it’s now your job to continue 
these connections.”  
Raith adds, “I think its going to do a 
lot to open kids’ eyes to help them realize 
that their resources are wider than just 
the classrooms that they walk into the 
morning. By showing kids that by reach-
ing out to the community members close 
to you, by people around you who inher-
ently care about the posts they are in, and 
will therefore care about you, is going to 
be far more successful that you maybe get 
frustrated with.
At a national level, the team hopes to 
mark trends and create a broader network 
of entrepreneurs. 
“Our hope is,” according to Raith, 
“that we are going to be able to match 
interests across certain regions. And start 
creating a platform for private investors, 
companies, to sort of look at these young 
entrepreneurs and see what they are up 
to, and latch onto these creative minds, 
and give them an outlet for what they are 
thinking about.” 
Further, the video component to the 
bus, where anyone can log on and watch 
what the students on the bus are creating, 
will also help inspire students nationwide.
Epsy explains that the video project 
tells students, “ ‘you matter. Your ideas 
are important, and your ideas are realistic. 
We can make this happen. And you have 
peers doing similar things. So if they can 
see where the bus has gone, and if they 
can see all of these cool projects popping 
up all over the nation, in this wave of 
creativity, that’s a really powerful experi-
ence.”
Community has also been important 
for the Dream Bus team itself as they get 
their project under way. 
For starters, Cornwall Elementary 
School was the only place to agree to allow 
the team to park their bus while it is being 
renovated.
Jacobs comments that Abi Sessions, 
the principal of Cornwall “was incredibly 
supportive of the idea and has been really 
helpful thus far.”
In return for the support that Ses-
sions has offered, the team plans to host 
their first event with Cornwall elementary 
school students. 
In addition, Benjamin Vessa, owner of 
the Right Fix since its founding in 2009, 
has helped the team solve mechanical 
problems as they have come up along the 
way.
“It’s good to help out the local com-
munity,” Vessa began “and it’s good for 
kids to learn. It’s a great opportunity to 
help teach.” 
Employers at Sherwin-Williams also 
have donated paint supplies, and offered 
their time to help the Dream Bus team 
with the construction process.  
Matt Parker, a sales representative at 
Sherwin-Williams, explains his commit-
ment to the project.
“I feel very strongly that this is a proj-
ect worth being involved in, and I really 
appreciate being given the opportunity to 
help Lena and the rest of the team.”
Therefore, just as community leaders 
on the Dream Bus will be instrumental to 
students in forming local connections, so 
has the local Vermont community been 
vitally important to helping the Dream 
Bus team realize their goal, and get their 
idea off the ground. 
As Epsy phrases it, “we’ve already had 
tremendous support from a few compa-
nies doing donations and sponsorships 
and giving of themselves to help this proj-
ect go through. That’s huge because they 
understand the merit of this project, and 
they understand that they can be a part 
of something that is much bigger than a 
school bus. It is a chain reaction that is 
going across this country. And so we are 
so appreciative of their support, and are 
very encouraged by the support from the 
community we are getting so far…. part of 
this project is about building a coalition to 
do this project.”
With renovations hopefully done by 
June 20, and the tour set to leave by June 
22, the Dream Bus inspires all who come 
into contact with it. 
Further, it is clear that the Dream Bus 
is not only for local communities, but also 
a product of our own. 
As Epsy phrases it, “don’t wait to 
jump in when the bandwagon is built. 
Help us build this bandwagon.”
The Dream Bus: Local Roots, Big Impact
Lena Jacobs ’17.5 stands on the future Dream Bus parked near Cornwall Elementary.
Lena Jacobs
By Annie Grayer
Local Editor
Lena Jacobs ’17.5. Brandon Gell ’16, and 
Morgan Raith ’16.5 begin construction. 
Lena Jacobs
Local 6  May 7, 2015 | 
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful dia-
logue on substantive issues. With this in mind, The 
Campus reserves the right to deny publication of 
all or part of a submission for any reason.  This in-
cludes, but is not limited to: the making of assertions 
based on hearsay; the relation of private conversa-
the use of vulgar language or personal attacks. Any 
segment of a submitted article that contains any of 
the aforementioned will be removed before pub-
lication. Contributors will be allowed to reference 
prior articles published in the Opinions section or 
announcements for the public record. If a reference 
is made to prior articles, the submission will be con-
sidered a letter to the editor.  The Campus will not 
accept or print anonymous letters. The opinions ex-
pressed by contributors to the Opinions section, as 
well as reviews, columns, editorial comics and other 
commentary, are views of the individual contribu-
the newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submissions 
at 800 words or less. Submit works directly to the 
Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@middlebury.
edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.middlebury-
campus.com. To be considered for publications, 
submissions must be received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The 
Campus reserves the right to edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
-
located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury College. 
The Middlebury Campus is produced on Apple Ma-
cintosh computers using Adobe InDesign CS5 and is 
printed by the Press Republican in New York. The 
advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the following week’s 
issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury Campus, 
Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 
05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. Please ad-
dress distribution concerns to the Business Director. 
First class postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Stories and the People Who Write Them
I’m not quite sure what compelled me 
to sign up to write for the Features section 
one Friday in Jan-
uary of 2012. May-
be it was because 
I had not gotten 
very involved in 
a campus organi-
zation until that 
point. Maybe it 
was because I knew I wanted to improve 
as a writer and thought the newspaper 
was the best way to do it. No matter how 
it began, it’s hard to believe that scrawling 
my name on a notepad led to three-and-a-
half years on the Campus team and a year 
as Editor-in-Chief.
Having written my fair share of articles 
and overseen quite a few more from my 
perch this year, my perspective on what it 
means to be a journalist/editor on a small 
college campus has changed. In the begin-
ning, the goal for me as a writer and editor 
was to improve the newspaper in the most 
basic sense. ‘Are there ways I can write 
more effectively and explore new topics,’ 
I asked myself—ways to tell more so that 
our stories impact more people?
Now, I see the newspaper’s impact as 
far more broad given our audience and 
location. Certainly, the work of bring-
ing news, features, opinions, reviews and 
sports coverage to the student body is the 
main priority. But there was a personal 
appeal to working for the paper, too. With 
every story I wrote, I was able to encoun-
ter a new side of campus. I could then 
bring my experience to the wider student 
body in the form of an article. Each article 
assignment revealed to me how much is 
happening on this campus once you look 
beneath the surface-level, Monday-to-
Sunday events.
The examples are too numerous to 
professor in the Philosophy department. 
I had never taken a Philosophy course—I 
don’t think I had even set foot in Twilight 
Hall until the day of the interview—but 
the article made me go out of my way to 
speak to someone new. In the Behind 
the Vest series last fall, I got to know the 
men and women who keep Middlebury 
running—whether they are coordinating 
grounds and maintenance or making sure 
the dorms have heat in the middle of win-
ter. This year, I was able to interview our 
incoming and outgoing College Presidents 
to discuss where the College has been and 
to glimpse where it may be headed.
It’s easy to fall into a routine at a small, 
-
people at every turn and jump into a va-
riety of new courses and student organiza-
tions. However, after a while, things settle 
down. One seems to be around the same 
people: a close group of friends, perhaps a 
group with similar academic interests in a 
major, or a sports team or extracurricular 
activity. The conversations can sometimes 
(though not always) revolve around the 
same set of people or experiences.
I think reading and contributing to 
these pages can counteract this “silo” ef-
fect. It certainly has for me. I don’t play 
a sport at the College, but working on 
the upcoming edition of the Middlebury 
Sports Magazine, which explores vari-
ous facets of varsity athletics at Middle-
bury, was eye-opening. Additionally, I 
had never thought about the potential for 
Carr Hall before learning about the excit-
ing plans for the space next year as a new 
Intercultural Center; I could only have 
guessed how the students of the 1960s 
were able to create an Honor Code; and 
before working on an article on next year’s 
comprehensive fee, the tuition increase 
cap known as “CPI+1” sounded more like 
a computer programming language than 
anything else. One of the most reward-
ing parts of my time on the newspaper 
has been the opportunity to transform my 
dearth of information or understanding 
into an effective piece of journalism that 
can help others learn, too.
It’s possible that hours of copy-editing 
in Hepburn basement have skewed my 
perspective to make me completely off-
base on this. In any event, silo-combating 
or not, I have huge respect for the editors 
and writers who staff our team. It takes an 
unbelievable amount of time for even the 
shortest article to come to fruition, not to 
mention the layout and editing that goes 
into every edition of the paper. Despite 
the work required of them, I think many 
of my writer and editor colleagues would 
echo what I have written above. Once you 
have been bitten by the bug of wanting to 
get to the bottom of a story (even stories 
taking place on a seemingly sleepy college 
campus like ours), you don’t want to stop.
All this is to say that the last issue of 
the year is bittersweet. Although I am 
graduating, this newspaper doesn’t need 
me at the helm to keep doing what it has 
always done: telling it like it is and serv-
ing our readers in the College community 
to the best of our ability as journalists and 
as fellow students. There are many more 
stories to come. Stay tuned.
notes from 
the desk
Joe Flaherty ’15 is the 
Editor-in-Chief from 
Neenah, Wis.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Joe Flaherty
MANAGING EDITOR
Conor Grant
BUSINESS MANAGER
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Claire Abbadi, Phil Bohlman, Ellie Rein-
hardt, Christian Jambora, Eliza Teach
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Blackburn, Lawrence Dolan, Kate 
Hamilton, Edward O’Brien, Erin Van Gessel
SPORTS EDITORS 
Emily Bustard, Joe Macdonald, Alex Morris, 
Fritz Parker, Remo Plunkett
LOCAL EDITORS 
Isabelle Dietz, Annie Grayer
Alessandria Schumacher
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Hye-Jin Kim, 
Emilie Munson
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio, Leah Lavigne,
Elizabeth Zhou 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel Frank, Anahi Naranjo, Michael 
O’Hara, Ivan Valladares
DESIGN EDITORS
Evan Gallagher, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Jerrica Davy, Alex Herdman
COPY EDITOR
Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Jessica Cheung, Michelle Irei
As the school year comes to a close, the 
Campus -
fall, a perhaps longer bone-chilling winter 
and now enter the days of 
spring, soon to be sum-
mer. While the sun has 
re-emerged and an excite-
ment for the end of school 
builds, a conversation also 
rises. That conversation is 
the long-awaited one on 
mental health. 
Many of us on the editorial board cannot 
remember a discussion in which the student 
body seemed more engaged than the one we 
are currently having on stress and emo-
tional well-being. Additionally, the faculty 
are even more concerned than usual; their 
emergency meeting last week saw remark-
able attendance from almost all members of 
the academic staff. At the meeting, faculty 
expressed a desire to come up with a solu-
tion to alleviate the College’s exigent prob-
lem with stress. 
Since the meeting, many professors have 
spoken with their classes about stress due 
to the academic workload. There has been 
a range of conversations between faculty 
and students; some professors have simply 
gauged how stressed 
their students are and 
discussed ways to cope 
with that stress 
while others 
went so far 
as to can-
exams or 
make the 
tests op-
tional. As 
a student-
run news-
paper, we 
would like to 
express to our 
professors how 
comforting their acknowledge-
ment of Middlebury’s academic 
rigor is. It helps us students feel 
like professors are on our side, a 
sentiment a liberal arts institu-
tion should surely embody.
While we therefore commend the fac-
ulty for their attention and dedication to 
minimizing stress, we at the Campus impel 
administrators to continue to consider pos-
sible long-term solutions. The faculty’s dis-
cussion at their emergency meeting, as well 
as the conversations students and teachers 
are continuing to have as a result, should 
not just take place when tragedy is in the air 
The Campus strongly recommends that 
Middlebury’s faculty hold an annual discus-
sion on the current status of the College’s 
mental health. Although our editorial board 
acknowledges that mental health problems 
are not not solely attributable to academic 
stress, we urge our professors to keep in 
mind that school is a large part of our lives 
as students, and the choice to be more sym-
pathetic in the academic sphere greatly af-
fects us.
Such sympathy could include more le-
niency on extensions or avoiding excessive 
assignment of homework; it could mean 
-
compress and walk outside with students; 
or perhaps it merely entails an 
academic advisor going out of his or her 
way to check in with an advisee. The exact 
course of action is up to the professor, but 
we at the Campus feel that if the faculty is 
aware of stress and talking about it, that 
will foster a better environment for mental 
health.
In addition to the faculty’s engaging with 
students on the issue, students also need to 
engage with other students on the issue. 
Our next SGA President, Ilana Gratch, has 
set the College on the right path with her 
peer counseling service plan, for mental 
suffering should not be a taboo subject. In 
a community like Middlebury, we should 
feel like we can talk to a neighbor or friend 
if we are not doing well. Furthermore, that 
neighbor or friend should be able to easily 
refer us to College counseling services, or 
we should be able to refer ourselves. Some-
times the hardest thing to do is to take the 
step to ask for help. As such, help should 
be readily available, not inaccessable due 
to bureaucratic hurdles such as long wait 
times and unreturned phone calls. 
So, where are we as a college now that the 
school year is coming to a close? We seem to 
be at a point where the mental health of our 
community is on everyone’s mind,  but not 
enough action has been taken. 
We are eager to see the imple-
mentation of SGA President-
elect Gratch’s plan to address 
these problems and we look to 
the faculty and incoming Col-
lege President Laurie Patton to 
join her on the issues. 
Just to plant a few ideas on the 
topic of stress in the heads of those 
with the power to implement 
them – some of our peer insti-
tutions, like Swarthmore, offer 
Additionally, we could take into 
account the recommendations of our 
own “Sophomore Experience Committees,” 
-
cies to aid Middlebury students experienc-
ing the “sophomore slump” in their second 
year of college. 
Because right now, the entire College 
faces a slump. A mood of mourning for Na-
than Alexander, Robert Prasch, Young Hie 
Kim and Kelly Boe has mixed with stress 
and other mental woes to pervade cam-
pus. Although the change of seasons has 
put many in better spirits, we need to make 
changes to the way our faculty, staff and 
student body cooperate so as to produce 
long-lasting, positive mental health.
Rubi 
Saavedra
Preface: I love my city. But in trying to un-
pack the events that have unfolded over the past 
two weeks, I have at times 
been guilty of focusing 
on symptoms more than 
chronic problems. I have 
been guilty of chastising 
rioters, while those who 
are culpable of much more 
heinous crimes elude reprimand. Five hundred 
miles away, I am physically removed from the city 
I call my own, but the disconnect runs so much 
deeper. The following is an attempt to explain the 
reaction of thousands of Baltimoreans in the wake 
Freddie Gray’s death at the hands of police. A short 
article cannot cover every aspect of an exceedingly 
complex issue, but I hope this proves illustrative 
for the Middlebury community. I would like to 
thank my brother Zach for contributing heavily to 
this article. Were it not for his frank appraisal of 
my attitude, I might still be stuck in a trap of self-
aggrandizing victim shaming.
 Baltimore has a magic about it. To some it is 
“Smalltimore,” because the community can feel 
so tight-knit that it’s easy to forget it’s not a small 
town, but rather a city of 620,000. From the glitzy 
high rises of the inner harbor and harbor east, to 
the quirky gastropubs and tattoo 
parlors of Canton and Hamden, it’s 
easy to see why Baltimore gets the 
nickname “Charm City.”
But there is another Baltimore. 
The one called “Mobtown.” The Per-
kins Homes, Sandtown and Cherry 
Hill. A city where blighted neigh-
borhoods hold tens of thousands 
of abandoned homes, where the future is bleak and 
the residents are almost exclusively black.  A place 
where people have learned to internalize the crush-
ing shame of poverty and acclimate to their demor-
alizing abandonment by the other half of the city.
Trite mass media overtures focusing on the ri-
oting, looting and disorder that befell Baltimore 
portrayed protesters and rioters as ignorant. Many 
people asked why anyone would turn on their own 
community. But major news outlets, and a large 
portion of America, have missed the point entirely.
The question we should ask is not “why are peo-
ple rioting?”   – the answer to that 
is obvious: desperation, marginal-
ization and hopelessness. The his-
tory of race relations in Baltimore 
is more grotesque than an Ed-
gar Allan Poe story. The housing 
situation is a travesty, the public 
health system is a wreck and the 
police force echoes the blatant 
disregard for human life which we 
see in New York, Ferguson, Mi-
ami and other cities around the 
country. Then there is the deplor-
ably underfunded public school 
system, which barely manages to 
rush half the class out the door with a diploma. All 
of these factors are exacerbated by the flow of jobs 
out of the city – causing local unemployment to 
climb as high as 20 percent. (This could be partially 
offset by an upgrade to the archaic public transpor-
tation system, but instead the governor has slashed 
plans to expand transport services.)
The question we should ask is not, “Why are peo-
ple rioting?”  – the question is – “how do people 
restrain themselves? Poor black Baltimoreans are 
treated like animals. No human being can swallow 
his or her pride forever. The powers-that-be have 
no right to condescend, nor does the rest of Ameri-
ca, from the outside looking in. We as a people have 
ignored the problem of racial divides for too long. 
If we fail to bridge that chasm, we cannot fault the 
oppressed when they throw stones across the gap.
Too often we label black dissidents as “thugs.” 
But it’s time for some self-reflection. “Thug” is just a 
way to euphemize and dehumanize Black America so 
that “Charm City” does not have to admit to wrong-
doing. As Baltimore City 
Councilman Carl Stokes 
said, alongside Seattle Se-
ahawks Cornerback Rich-
ard Sherman, “thug” is the 
new “n****r.”  We label 
black men “thugs” and the 
weight they must bear is a 
life of perfection simply to 
break the expectation that they are criminals. 
 “Must be pretty cool to be white and just rep-
resent yourself and not your entire race,” said Ku-
mail Nanjiani, the actor from HBO’s Silicon Valley 
on Twitter. When you see a white criminal, they are 
just a criminal, but when you see a black criminal, 
they are a criminal and they are black, so we go on 
reinforcing the stereotypes we have already created. 
When we call people “thugs,” we are condemning 
their image to criminality. When the police chased 
Freddie Gray in West Baltimore, they were chas-
ing another “thug” to lock up and remove from the 
streets. Skin color was the 
only probable cause they 
needed.
On the first and only 
night of riots, Governor 
Larry Hogan and Mayor 
Stephanie Rawlings-Blake 
called in the National 
Guard, maximized police 
presence across the city, 
instituted a mandatory cur-
few and declared a formal 
state of emergency. But 
Baltimore has been in a 
tacit state of emergency for 
years. The only difference this time is that black and 
white police cruisers were flanked by tan National 
Guard Humvees. 
The city must cease using force as a means of 
“control.” The military-prison-industrial complex 
is bleeding Baltimore like a stab wound and Gover-
nor Hogan’s misguided war on heroin is doomed to 
failure. Social inequity, racial injustice and police 
brutality are catastrophic multi-faceted problems, 
and they will require decades of work, but in the 
myopic view of our government, “crime” is much 
easier to fix.
America needs to wake up. Baltimore did not riot 
in a vacuum. The officers involved in Freddie Gray’s 
death will stand trial for an array of charges from 
false imprisonment and negligent conduct to man-
slaughter and murder, and the race conversation 
has been renewed, but we cannot let the momentum 
wane.  We must open our eyes and ears, see what is 
really going on and listen to the people who have 
long been shouting to be heard. 
My brother and I believe in our city, and we sup-
port those who have taken to the streets. The events 
of the past two weeks have not destroyed the com-
munity; they have brought it together to fight for 
the common causes of truth, justice and equality. It 
is our hope that the national conversation contin-
ues to shift away from “Why are people rioting?” to 
“What’s the next step?.” These communities need 
more than cathartic justice against a few oppres-
sors. We have too long scorned our own, but now 
it’s time to give them back their pride.
reader op-ed
Jackson Adams ’17 is 
from Towson, Md.
Zach Adams is from 
Towson, Md.
  8 may 7, 2015| opinions
Erin: I sought to validate my po-
litical opinions when I started writing 
this column. 
Now that it 
has come to 
a close, I can 
say this – I 
a Democrat, 
but no more 
of one than 
when my debating with Phil began. 
What do I mean by this?
I mean that researching and arguing 
the liberal stance on the issues that we 
discussed – the environment, feminism, 
my feet on the liberal side of the political 
spectrum, but it did 
not lock me in place. 
Debating with Phil, 
a self-proclaimed 
“establishment Re-
publican,” made me 
defend my views and 
therefore hold those 
views more strongly, 
but in the process, I 
discovered that I didn’t always like the 
platform of either political party. Of-
ten times, I saw room for compromise 
where today’s polarized politicians do 
not, which triggered dissatisfaction with 
the entire American political agenda. 
Thus, I don’t feel attached to my place 
on that spectrum ranging from liberal to 
conservative.
Furthermore, I think that this out-
look is ideal. I hope that anyone who 
reads this column (and all Americans 
for that matter) will have a similar take-
away. We will never all share the same 
opinion on any political issue and thus 
there is never one right opinion; as such, 
being adaptable and willing to compro-
mise is the best stance individuals can 
take because it is the one that will get 
the most done in the United States.
On that note of cooperation, I would 
like to thank Phil for debating with me 
in the Swing 
Vote column 
this year. It 
was a learning 
e x p e r i e n c e , 
and hope-
fully a teach-
ing experi-
ence for those 
who followed 
our weekly antics. The experience has 
sparked in me a desire to keep talking 
politics, so even though our column is 
coming to a close, the spirit will live on! 
Phil: Across the country, top col-
leges and universities are becoming 
increasingly unsafe. They are becom-
ing unsafe, ironically enough be-
cause of recent efforts to create “safe 
spaces.” The re-
ality is that the 
new ultra-liberal 
(for lack of a bet-
ter term) crusade 
to make colleges 
“safer” is on par 
with the Orwellian 
concept of “group-
think” and is an 
active threat to liberal education and 
democracy.
The concept of “safe” or “unsafe” 
that I am referring to has nothing to 
do with physical danger. I am refer-
ring to a rapidly advancing trend in 
which ideas that are contrary to one’s 
own deeply held beliefs and values can 
actually cause perceived psychologi-
cal harm and therefore make one feel 
“unsafe.” For those who would like a 
better definition, read the New York 
Times Op-Ed: “In College and Hiding 
from Scary Ideas.” The bottom line is 
that while some may feel uncomfort-
able with certain ideas or viewpoints, 
the crusade for a “safe space” is often 
used as an excuse to censor speech and 
debate –often cutting it off entirely.
The very essence of a liberal arts 
education is the exposure to a broad 
base of ideas and viewpoints that may 
often be con-
trary to your 
own. More-
over, if minor-
ity viewpoints 
are increasingly 
m a r g i n a l i z e d 
in our society – 
starting on col-
lege campuses 
– then willingly we are submitting 
our society to the tyranny of the ma-
jority. I can only hope that in writing 
this column Erin and I have contrib-
uted to the open competition of ideas. 
This point-counterpoint column is 
just one small step in a larger move-
ment to combat the marginalization 
of minority viewpoints on campus and 
in our society. If collectively we fail to 
respect minority viewpoints, and in 
doing so effectively censor speech on 
college campuses, we may very well 
develop a democracy-in-name-only, 
or something much worse. Thank you 
for reading Swing Vote this year. God 
bless America.
A Final Call for Political Debate
Swing vote
Phil Hoxie ’17.5 is 
from Orinda, Calif.
Erin Van Gessel ’17.5 is 
an Opinions Editor from
from San Rafael, Calif.
Baltimore: A Love Story
Zach  ADAMS
Protestors gathered peacefully in Baltimore.
“‘We will never all share 
the same opinion on any 
political issue and thus ... 
being adaptable and 
willing to compromise is 
the best stance.”
“‘The very essence of a 
liberal arts education is 
the exposure to a broad 
base of ideas and view-
points that may often be 
contrary to your own.”
“Poor black Baltimoreans 
are treated like animals. 
No human being can swal-
low his or her pride 
forever.”
“The race conversation 
has been renewed, but we 
cannot let the momentum 
wane. We must open our 
eyes and ears, see what is 
really going on and listen 
to the people who have 
long been shouting to be 
heard.”
Middlebury College maintains an archive of the 
Campus that stretches all the way back to its first 
issue in 1905. Every word that has elbowed its way 
into this newspaper over the past 110 years has been 
logged, recorded and, ultimately, enshrined forever 
in the annals of the College’s history. The Campus is 
our longest-running student organization and one 
of our most hallowed traditions. To participate in it 
is a tremendous privilege that ought to be afforded 
only to those who will treat it with the reverence 
and respect it deserves.
Here’s a list of some babes I’m into:
Seize the Opportunity for Reform
notes from 
the desk
Hannah Blackburn ’17 
is an Opinions Editor from 
Chapel Hill, N.C.
Edward O’Brien ’17 is 
an Opinions Editor from 
Lincoln, Mass.
Stuart Warren, dark-horse candidate for SGA 
President, was runner-up in the elections with 38 
percent of the votes in the third round of tabula-
tions. The reason we voted for Stuart comes down to 
a single sentence written on many of his campaign 
posters: “You can vote for snack-time, or you can 
vote to combat oppression.”
While other candidates talked about improving 
McCullough or increasing late-night snacking op-
tions, Stuart aimed to dissect the values at the core 
of this institution. He stressed the importance of 
listening to marginalized voices and funding ac-
tivist student groups. He talked extensively about 
changing our practices to better reflect the needs 
of a diverse student body. He questioned the way 
we use words like “diversity” and “privilege.” Most 
importantly, Stuart saw an opportunity for an SGA 
President who tackles greater structural problems. 
Real change to campus culture cannot be accom-
plished in the one-year term of an SGA president, 
but these deeper conversations about the kind of 
community we want to be are the most important 
issues for us to address.
It can be difficult to grapple with structural issues 
like diversity, sexism or colonialism. Stuart’s cam-
paign, however, brought these issues into our daily 
vernacular and grounded them in the experiences of 
our fellow students. The more we talk about these 
issues, the better we will understand the various ex-
periences of our fellow students, and the better we 
can enact real change.
So, Stuart, keep advocating for marginalized 
voices. Don’t let the conversation die down. Write 
a column for this section next semester. Keep us on 
our toes.
To our new SGA president: congratulations. We 
love your plans for peer counseling, cultural com-
petency for faculty and staff and more transparency 
and higher standards around sexual assault. Keep 
Stuart’s platform in mind and examine which of 
his ideas are most feasible. 
Students are more vocal 
and involved than ever 
before. Use this energy 
to create meaningful re-
forms, and use your leader-
ship position to champion 
greater societal change on 
campus – change that may 
not see immediate results 
in a single year, but over 
time will improve student 
life immeasurably.
 Improving the character of our community will 
be a long, hard and messy process. But it is the most 
worthwhile pursuit that any of us can undertake on 
this campus.
| may 7, 2015 9opinions
for sure seriously important op-ed
notes from 
the desk
Jack Dolan ’15 is an 
Opinions Editor from Chagrin 
Falls, Ohio.
If you visit the “About” page on 
Middlebury’s website, you will find 
that “[Middlebury graduates] should 
be independent thinkers, committed 
to service, with the courage to follow 
their convictions and to accept re-
sponsibility for their actions.”
Tangentially, (or conversely?), 
if you visit the first page of the “Ad-
missions” section on Middlebury’s 
website, you will learn that Midd de-
scribes itself as “highly selective ... 
Most students rank in the top 10 per-
cent of their high school classes.”
If you ended up at Middlebury, 
you probably self-
identify, to at least 
some extent, as an 
academic achiev-
er. Commendably, 
the ways in which 
Middlebury stu-
dents define “aca-
demic achieve-
ment” vary in depth and breadth. 
Cultivating diversity of thought is 
one of the most valuable pursuits of 
liberal arts colleges. Middlebury stu-
dents and their talents are undeniably 
extraordinary. But I think the ways in 
which the message of “extraordinari-
ness” is reinforced ought to cause us 
to pause.
In his essay entitled “The Disad-
vantages of an Elite Education,” Wil-
liam Deresiewicz, reflecting upon a 
combined two dozen years at Colum-
bia and Yale, writes: “The last thing 
an elite education will teach you is its 
own inadequacy ... Elite colleges re-
lentlessly encourage their students to 
flatter themselves for being there, and 
for what being there can do for them 
... We were ‘the best and the bright-
est,’ as these places love to say, and 
everyone else was, well, something 
else: less good, less bright … ”
So much of the Middlebury experi-
ence revolves around an achievement-
oriented narrative. I don’t care if this 
is a narrative you subscribe to or vo-
cally reject – it’s still a pervasive nar-
rative. It lurks behind the text of every 
CCI email advertising recruitment op-
portunities and career workshops. It 
is assumed in the classroom. It stares 
us in the face each time a “falling GPA” 
witticism is attempted on YikYak 
(read too often.) We are provided with 
a diverse array of avenues through 
which to put our high-achieving 
selves to use. There’s nothing strict-
ly wrong with 
a c h i e v e m e n t 
being a defin-
ing component 
of our Middle-
bury experi-
ence. But there 
is something 
wrong with this 
being the only component of our Mid-
dlebury experience.
There are numerous ways to look 
at a Middlebury career. One version 
is just that – a career. It involves ex-
acting as much influence, sway and 
exchange-value as one possibly can 
from the opportunities offered by this 
college. It involves a meticulously 
crafted resume and an untarnished 
GPA. It involves viewing Middlebury 
as a system to play – a mere stepping-
stone on the path to “what’s next.” 
I’m not as concerned with the na-
ture of “what’s next” as I am with the 
very focus upon it. The person who 
aspires to be an executive at Goldman 
Sachs does not necessarily or more 
powerfully exemplify this problem 
than the person who longs to open 
a thoughtfully curated bookstore in 
Portland. Regardless of your dream, a 
solely future-oriented outlook merits 
some reflection.
I will not argue that one can entire-
ly avoid the narrative of “what’s next,” 
or should for that matter. We attend 
an expensive institution of higher 
education and our tuition dollars do 
translate roughly to an investment 
in ourselves and, tangentially, in the 
development of future careers. But I 
will argue that we spend so much time 
worrying about who we’ll be at 26, or 
46, that we forget to be 20.
As Deresiewicz writes, “Getting to 
an elite college, being at an elite col-
lege, and going on from an elite col-
lege – all involve numerical rankings: 
SAT, GPA, GRE. You learn to think of 
yourself in terms of those numbers. 
They come to signify not only your 
fate, but your identity; not only your 
identity, but your value.” 
 If you’re a student at Midd, you 
have probably, at some point in your 
academic career, received grades that 
reinforced your sense of self worth – 
grades that perhaps told you: “You 
can do anything.” And therein lies the 
problem, I think. We are a community 
of achievers operating within an insti-
tution telling us that not only can we 
do anything, but that the institution 
concretely possesses the resources to 
“make it happen.” And so we take the 
narrative of “you can do anything,” 
and accidentally try to do everything.
Our faculty met last week in the 
wake of a turbulent semester to dis-
cuss stress levels at this college. And 
rightly so. In his essay, “The Organi-
zation Kid,” David Brooks, describing 
the reflections of a group of Princeton 
students in the early 2000s, writes: 
“One, a student-government officer, 
said, ‘Sometimes we feel like we’re 
just tools for processing information. 
That’s what we call ourselves – power 
tools. And we call these our tool bags.’ 
He held up his satchel. The other stu-
dents laughed, and one exclaimed, 
‘You’re giving 
away all our 
secrets.’” 
Roughly a 
decade later, 
the analogy 
rings true. 
We, as a collective student body, pos-
sess remarkable processing power. 
We are entirely capable of becoming 
high-achieving students of this col-
lege, high-achieving graduates and 
high-achieving members of the work-
force. But a nontrivial question re-
mains: At what cost?  
An optimistic sentiment holds true 
– the opportunities afforded by this 
college are tremendous, and there’s 
so much we can do here. But we must 
stop trying to do too much. Power-
tools are certainly rewarded for their 
behavior. But maybe, from time to 
time, step back. Choose your friends, 
choose your mental health, choose the 
little kid in town who needs a baby-
sitter, choose the book that’s not on 
your syllabus. These, too, are reward-
ing undertakings. 
As Deresiewicz writes, “Being an 
intellectual begins with thinking your 
way outside of your assumptions and 
the system that enforces them. But 
students who get into elite schools 
are precisely the ones who have best 
learned to work within the system, so 
it’s almost impossible for them to see 
outside it.” I will not say that the ca-
pacity to achieve should be cast aside. 
But I’d much rather spend these years 
of my semi-youth with a community 
of, as Middlebury itself advertises, 
“independent thinkers ... with the 
courage to follow their convictions” 
than one-dimensional power tools. 
Wouldn’t you? 
On Achievement
brash 
menagerie
Sara Hodgkins ’17.5 is 
from Cincinnati, Ohio.
“‘I will argue that we 
spend so much time 
worrying about who we’ll 
be at 26, or 46, that we 
forget to be 20.”
Bree Baccaglini
Kalya Koltes
The Opinions Team ;)
Isabella Stallworthy
Daniela De La Lama
Kathleen Gudas
Margaret Pollack
Sarah Banerji
Leslie Panella
Katherine Kucharczyk
Leah Sarbib
Shivs Ivahnmuse
The Mischords
Olivia Heffernan
Grace Backe
Cate Stanton
Lydia Gordon
Maddie Li
Casey Harlow
Amelia Marran-Baden
  10 may 7, 2015| opinions
Stand on the Right Side of History with Divestment
Reader op-ed
Vignesh Ramachandran ’18 
is from Fremont, Calif.
Twenty-nine years ago, the Middlebury College 
Board of Trustees stood on the right side of history 
when they voted to di-
vest from the South 
African Apartheid. The 
College was one of over 
150 campuses across 
the country to divest 
from companies doing business in South Africa – the 
leading ethical issue of the time. Now, Middlebury 
College is at a crossroads and has the chance to once 
again stand on the right side of history by divest-
ing from fossil fuel companies. Climate change is the 
defining ethical issue of our generation. The College 
has the opportunity to make history once again, or 
to be vilified by it. 
Middlebury College prides itself on its practices 
of environmental stewardship and its innovations in 
institutional sustainability. The College started the 
first environmental studies program fifty years ago 
this fall, helping to kickstart an era of environmen-
tal policy and legislation the likes of which our na-
tion had never seen. The College was an incubator 
for programs of recycling and composting far before 
these issues reached national prominence and gave 
rise to 350.org, one of the fastest-growing environ-
mental justice organizations in the world. The Col-
lege also plans to go carbon-neutral by the end of 
2016 and is well on its way to achieving this admi-
rable goal.
However, the College’s investment in fossil fuel 
companies jeopardizes its reputation as a champion 
of climate justice by profiting from the exploitation 
of the environment and marginalized communities. 
Professor Emeritus of Religion Steven Rockefeller  –
yes, a member of the Rockefeller family that made 
their fortune on oil – wrote during his time here that 
the College should “avoid investments in businesses 
and products that are inherently unhealthy for hu-
man beings or that threaten serious environmental 
harm.” Rockefeller wrote these words twenty years 
ago, yet they still remain true today. As long as the 
College’s endowment is invested in fossil fuel com-
panies like Exxon and BP, it is actively contributing 
to a system that threatens the future of our planet.
From UC Berkeley to Harvard, students on cam-
puses around the country are asking their adminis-
trators whose side they are on: the side of the fossil 
fuel companies who feed on the Earth and its people 
like parasites to maximize economic success, or that 
of the new generation calling for a just transition to a 
greener future. Arrests of students at Yale University 
and University of Mary Washington show adminis-
trators that this fight is about something much big-
ger than the institutions we attend. And people are 
noticing. Just in the past month, Syracuse Univer-
sity, the Guardian Media Group and Prince Charles 
have committed to move to fossil free investments.
With the quest for carbon neutrality nearing its 
completion, we have to ask – are we truly carbon 
neutral if we are invested in fossil fuels? It is time 
for Middlebury to rise up and once again do what is 
right over what is easy. It is time to change the sys-
tem that perpetuates social and economic inequali-
ties. The environmental movement is always evolv-
ing and can no longer be an elitist movement that 
only wealthy white folks can access and engage in. 
It has shown its ability to bridge gaps of race, gen-
der, generation and wealth as it has spread across 
the world. Climate justice is a global issue, one that 
affects all people.
It is our responsibility as Middlebury students to 
be at the forefront of this battle. Students have or-
ganized here to usher in peaceful change in the past, 
and I know that this will happen again. Through 
education, thoughtfulness, organization, passion 
and hard work, we are fighting to create a movement 
that will be larger and longer than the four years we 
spend in Addison County. So the question remains: 
whose side are YOU on?
Campus Cartoons
Boone Mccoy-crisp
Win Homer
| may 7, 2015 11opinions
Israel and Palestine: A Call for Nuance
Reader op-ed
Dave Yedid ’15 is from 
Port Washington, N.Y.
The year before I came to Middlebury, I lived in 
Israel for ten months while studying on a college 
leadership program for North American Jews. In 
many ways that year, I was given a single story of 
what Israel was. I left loving Israel and wanting to 
move there forever. I still feel very connected to Is-
rael, but my relationship to Israel, Palestine and Zi-
onism has changed since then.
During my first year at Middlebury, I heard fel-
low students in casual conversation saying: “Well, 
Israel just shouldn’t exist” and “Israel is trying to 
take over the entire Middle East.” This saddened 
and scared me. I thought people here were smart ... 
how could they say that?! Throughout my four years 
here, I have been extremely disappointed in the dis-
course surrounding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Last fall, a burlesque performer named Una Aya 
Osato performed at Middlebury. Her performance 
touched on themes of sexuality, gender, carceral 
power, sex, gentrification and boycott of Israel. Two 
hours before her performance, I recited the Mourn-
er’s Prayer for four men who were murdered in 
synagogue in Har Nof, Jerusalem earlier that morn-
ing. During her performance, Una put on an Israeli 
Defense Forces baseball cap, pointed a fake gun 
and shot it at random to audience members, threw 
the Israeli flag on the ground and flashed a poster 
reading “Boycott Israel.” Some audience members 
snapped in affirmation. These actions were offen-
sive to me, especially considering the events that 
occurred earlier that day. I was taught to treat the 
Israeli flag with respect, as Israel is a holy place for 
many world religions. 
The hardest part of the performance was sitting 
with my discomfort and noticing that the majority 
of the audience members were not uncomfortable. 
Why were they not questioning this narrative? Did 
they know that four men were murdered while in 
prayer that very morning? I asked Una in the Q&A 
how she came to her perspective and we spoke af-
terwards as well. We disagreed, hugged and kept 
going.
The recent display in Davis Library, sponsored 
by Justice for Palestine, highlights the inequities of 
access to resources and rights among Israelis and 
Palestinians. This is not inherently bad. However, 
there were many problematic elements of the dis-
play. The “Want to Go to the Beach?” infographic 
depicts a stick figure of a bearded man with pay-
ot – curls Orthodox Jewish men wear – and a gun 
strapped across his chest. This is offensive. The in-
fographics also cite data from Wikipedia, which is 
not a reputable source.
I have noticed that the lectures and events that 
seek to criticize Israel or with controversial speak-
ers have been heavily attended by students. Other 
lectures, like Jay Michaelson’s lecture “Why is Is-
rael-Palestine Discourse so Polarized on Campus?”, 
which gave strategies for starting productive con-
versation, had 10 students present. The Rohatyn 
Center’s Fall 2014 lecture series on Israel had less 
than five students present at each one. Why are 
these spaces, which seek to bring nuance and dia-
logue to this region and this conflict, so void of stu-
dents? Is it because we are apolitical or is it because 
we are afraid?
It is wrong to depict Israel as a country, govern-
ment or army that can do no wrong. It is equally 
wrong to portray Israel as a country, government 
or army that can do only wrong. It is sad to me that 
whether you support or deni-
grate Israel becomes a ba-
rometer of whether or not you 
stand for social justice. If you 
support Israel, you must be 
conservative. If you support 
boycott of Israel and throw out words like “massa-
cre,” “apartheid,” “genocide” and “Holocaust” free-
ly, you can stay in the liberal camp. I believe you 
can love Israel and believe in – and work toward 
– social justice. Indeed, we can and should be using 
a social justice framework to think, act, learn and 
teach about this issue with more consciousness.
As “smart, globally minded” students committed 
to learning and seeking knowledge, we must not 
let nuance fall when we speak about this conflict. 
We must not just jump at controversy.  We must 
try harder to educate ourselves and learn from one 
another in a nuanced way. If you are trying to learn 
more about the conflict, I encourage you to admit 
what perspective you are coming from, acknowl-
edge what you don’t know, take your time to form 
opinions and learn from a variety of news sources 
– not just The Electronic Intifada. Also, ask people! 
Especially those who may have views different from 
your own.
Similar to how we approach so many other topics 
and conflicts locally and globally, Middlebury has 
the potential to have productive dialogue, program-
ming and activism that highlights the nuance and 
comp complexities that exist in Israel and Palestine.
Even after 22 years, some things never change...
Happy birthday Caroline!
The Middlebury Campus
ONLINE
PLUS! all the latest campus news, arts 
events and sports scores
make it your homepage for one-click access to 
webmail, dining hall menus, bannerweb and more
a brand new look | web exclusives | interactive message boards
w
w
w
.m
id
dl
eb
ur
yc
am
pu
s.
co
m
log on today
LIKE US ON PAPER?
   Like us on
   Facebook
 
Follow us 
on twitter
@middcampus
HTTP://PITVIPERSUN-
GLASSES.COM/
The Middlebury Campus| may 7, 2015 12 13features
14/15
THE YEAR
IN REVIEW
SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY
    DRY TAILGATES
Citing “numerous incidents of  inappropriate, embarrassing, and of-
ten unsafe behavior in the tailgate area related to excessive alcohol 
consumption,” Athletic Director Erin Quinn defended the College’s 
many angles: some disgruntled alumni threatened to pull donations. A 
WeTheMiddKids student petition to reverse the change collected over 
ban has not been lifted.
    N.Y.C PEOPLE’S 
CLIMATE MARCH
Residence Bill McKibben marched 
Climate March. McKibben, founder 
org, played a key role in organizing 
the biggest climate march in history, 
attracting over 400,000 people from 
    YIK-YAK EXPOSED
ed in the Campus about being 
the target of  sexual harass-
a New York Times article pub-
lished this spring that investi-
gated the abuse of  the app as 
an anonymous, cyber-bullying 
tool.
    IS ATHLETIC PRIVILEGE REAL?
    TOWN- GOWN RELATIONS 
REACH A BOILING POINT
Middlebury’s Frontporchforum.com page — 
an online neighborhood forum — ex-
partying from local Middlebury residents 
-
dent for Communications Bill Burger 
posted on the forum, annoucing that the 
-
Doug Adams — listened and negotiated 
possible solutions to residents’ grievances.
    BIG FREEDIA TWERKS
-
ed by WRMC, Big Freedia, a femme black 
gay male artist, performed in the Bunker. 
raised dialogue on campus about cultural 
appropriation and identity politics. “You 
just for the music and completely ignor-
ing this identity,” WRMC Concerts Man-
ager Charlie Dulik ’17.5 said in an episode 
of  The Campus Voice.
    T-PAIN CONCERT
April, bringing back late-2000s favorites like 
Buy U a Drank, Cyclone and Bartender.
    SGA ELECTIONS
After a lively debate on April 27, students elected 
percent student-body turnout — the highest in the 
College’s recent history.
    LAURIE PATTON ELECTED
-
on July 1, 2015.
    NEW COLLEGE LOGO
identity system, intended to clarify the 
-
isfaction by students.
    OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 
PROCEDURES QUESTIONED
The number of  students permitted to 
live off-campus next year dropped by 
about ten spots. A number of  athletes 
-
domness of  the off-campus housing 
lottery process.
    FACULTY MEETING ON 
STUDENT STRESS
faculty meeting addressing student stress in the last 
-
mester marked by the suicide of  a student, death of  
a faculty and staff  member and increasing discon-
resources.
(you are here)
Written by Hye-Jin Kim and Emilie Munson  /  News Conceptualization by Jessica Cheung  /  Design by Evan Gallagher
    TA-NEHISI COATES SPEAKS
The Atlantic 
-
“Racism is an economic interest,” he said. 
14features
Imagine looking out past the forest 
canopy onto the distant Adirondacks, the 
pink glow of the sunset spilling through 
feet above the earth in a silent congregation 
of conifers with the face of a hill dropping 
sharply beneath your feet. Imagine feeling 
the peace in the air and the life in the woods 
on your skin and in your bones. Imagine un-
winding at the Ridge Perch at the College, 
a 113-square-foot circular structure that a 
group of students plan to erect at the ridge of 
the Ridgeline Woods by the summer of 2016. 
Julia Rossen ’16 originally conceived of 
the treehouse for her MiddCORE project in 
January 2014, after a conversation with her 
mother, alumnus Kate Troast ’76. Troast 
described to her daughter a treehouse that 
used to be on the College’s property during 
her time at the College, and Rossen was in-
spired to propose her own treehouse as a new 
community space. Her idea was also inspired 
by the David S. Stone ’74 Treehouse Fund, 
which funds community projects that do not 
qualify for other sources of funding. 
Rossen collaborated with Brandon Gell 
’16 brainstroming for this project. Because 
the Space Committee rejected the initial 
proposal, wary of the hazard of students be-
ing up in a tree, Gell and Matt Gilbert ’16.5 
worked on the project during Winter term 
treehouse plan into its current iteration: The 
Perch. 
Architecture major Morgan Raith ’16.5 
has  also joined the project, working with 
them to bring it to fruition. Professor of His-
tory of Art and Architecture Pieter Broucke is 
advising the group, and Facilities Services Di-
rector of Operations Tom McGinn is eagerly 
on board as well. 
The Perch will be accesible by a small 
bridge and mounted on a steel beam between 
two pine trees. Its main body will consist of 
slope down to a west-facing 42-inch glass 
railing. The Perch will also feature a bench 
lining its inner wall and a keylock entrance 
that limits visitors to the hours between dawn 
and dusk. 
A 220 foot architectural path, acces-
sible from Ridgeline Road, will loop toward 
it through the trees and lead to the Trail 
Around Middlebury (TAM). The project will 
be fully ADA compliant. 
A place of retreat, the Perch will func-
tion as an alternative natural space of quiet, 
solitude, and creativity where individuals, 
groups, and classes that are usually cooped 
up inside can liberate their bodies and minds 
and connect with the outdoors. 
“The purpose of it is an escape from col-
lege, which now more than ever seems to 
be something that’s important, with recent 
events, everyone hyper aware of stresses 
-
ally have is The Gamut Room and the or-
ganic garden, but both of those spaces really 
Perch, it’s not associated with anyone. It just 
is for the students.”
Gell also believes that The Perch will ad-
dress students’ lack of ownership over cam-
pus spaces. 
“That’s another really big problem with 
the campus in general,” he said. “The Perch 
could serve as a place where everyone knows 
that students made this and funded it. It’s like 
the solar decathlon houses in that everyone 
feels ownership over it.”
Yvette Lui ’15, who heard about the proj-
ect in her architecture thesis studio, enthusi-
asticaly supports the idea of The Perch and 
approved of its design. 
“I think it will provide a healthy escape 
for students from the school,” she said.
“I can’t imagine that anyone would not 
be really psyched about it,” said Gell. “It’s so 
within our grasp, too. It’s just, right now, a 
matter of money.”
The structure will cost around $21,000 
to create and install. The team has already 
obtained $9,500. $2,000 came from the 
Treehouse Fund. The architecture depart-
ment and individual donors contributed the 
rest of the money. The students are also wait-
ing to hear back about their application to the 
Fund for Innovation. They hope to reach their 
fundraising goal by launching a MiddSTART 
campaign by the end of this academic year.
 | may 7, 2015
Do you beliebowitz? (I shall not 
shorten this to belieb because this column 
does not associate with overgrown ba-
bies who stage instagram videos of their 
basketball skills.) Because I beliebowitz. 
For whatever reason the Mr. President of 
this fine institution and the inspiration 
behind my top-secret automotive rating 
system agreed to take time out of his day 
to drive with some sophomore hacks to 
trepidation, Karlo the Bosnian back seat 
tester (BBST) and I arrived at 11:20 in Old 
Chapel for our scheduled 11:30 to 12:00 
run to McDonalds (ladies and gentlemen, 
I have no shame, I did indeed contact the 
President of the College about driving to 
McDs. This is going on the highlight reel 
folks.) Without further ado, this is Broke 
College Students in Cars Getting McDon-
alds: Driving Mr. President Edition.
The Car: 2007 Gold Automatic 
Toyota Camry
Car Name: Gerald
The Owner: Ron Liebowitz
Styling: He wore a classy suit and 
gave off an aura of power. Truly presiden-
tial looking. In terms of the car: well… It’s 
a Toyota Camry; it’s the most ubiquitous 
vehicle in America that’s not a pickup 
truck. It looks like a car. Four doors? 
Check. Trunk? Check. But what about 
windows? Oh don’t worry it has those too. 
Liebowitz-o-Meter: 5/5 with Ron, 
2.5/5 without Ron.
Interior: Honestly I was just a lit-
tle too intimidated by power to give the 
Camry the full interior analysis. What 
I can say is that it was comfortable and 
felt like the inside of a car. The interior 
color scheme of this particular Camry can 
only be described as the Sahara option. 
Seriously, everything was tan, I’m pretty 
sure there was an oasis in the front of the 
dash. No reports on the speakers because 
Liebowitz and it immediately set the 
sound system on fire (sorry about that, 
and I’ll spot you my Papercut money.) 
The BBST claims that he had a spiritual 
Liebowitzmobile.
Liebowitz-o-Meter: 5/5 with Ron, 
3.5/5 without Ron.
Handling and Performance: 
Well, so here’s the deal; I didn’t actually 
drive the sacred Liebowitzmobile. What 
I can say is that President Liebowitz is 
a master of the McDs run. Seriously, he 
handles the roundabout like a true pro-
fessional.
Liebowitz-o-Meter: 5/5 for Ron’s 
driving skillz, ?/5 for the actual car, but 
it’s a Camry, so to be totally honest, it’s 
probably a snoozefest (drowsy driving is 
no joke, everyone).
Drive-through-ability: The Camry 
is the best selling car in America; you’d 
better bet your lucky stars it’s a drive-
through queen. This baby is ready to get 
fries stuck in all the seams of the seats. 
Have no shame, fearless McDonalds 
goer; the Camry has space for whatever 
non-sustainably sourced food your heart 
desires.
Liebowitz-o-Meter: 5/5 Rons.
The Drive: So to be totally honest, 
was even able to do this. Karlo and I were 
originally planning on asking a bunch 
of ridiculous binary questions and then 
filming it, but then we realized we didn’t 
have a car mount for a camera, and then 
we realized on top of that that we prob-
ably didn’t want to come off as buffoons 
in front of the most powerful person on 
this campus. So we ended up just having 
By Charlie Ascher
THE PREMIER CAR COLUMN
DRIVING TO MCDONALD’S 
WITH RON LIEBOWITZ
Ridgeline Community Treehouse Approved 
By Julia John 
brandon gell
CONTINUED ON PAGE 16
Caroline Cating ’16.5 and Jason Feinman 
ages 19 and 17, respectively, Cating and Fein-
man have become familiar with the Vermont 
aviation community. Last month, they imple-
mented their passion for all things aviation 
when their pitch for the Aviation Club, a new 
interest club at the College, was recognized.  
“The club is purely interest and educa-
we can help you become a safer pilot, help you 
on your way to become a pilot, or any other 
type of aviation interest you might have,” 
Feinman said. “It’s a community for people 
interested in aviation to come together and 
celebrate that.”
“Having an interest club is sort of like a 
spring board for people to get involved with 
The club stemmed from Cating and 
Feinman’s shared interest in supporting new 
potential pilots and fostering growth in the 
larger aviation community. 
some in families. My father is a pilot,” Fein-
man said. “So if you wanted to make it spread, 
the demand is already there.”
As part of their aim to make aviation 
more accessible to the College community, 
the club has purchased pilot license studying 
material, connected members with available 
discounts and cheaper materials, directed 
-
al planes. Apart from creating an educational 
space at the College, they also plan on going to 
remote control planes and helicopters. 
“It’s really great to have a group of stu-
dents as a learning resource. Getting [a pilot 
Cating said. “We really focus on providing an 
educational community, but we also are try-
Elana Feldman ’17.5, one of the new 
members of the club, attained her pilot license 
in Jan. 2014 and has enjoyed being part of a 
new aviation community away from home. 
“The Aviation community is a great 
group of people and I missed it while being at 
aviation is one of those things you constantly 
have to be doing or else you’re going to for-
get it … To have a group that’s promoting it is 
already have their pilot licenses. In the future, 
the club plans to increase membership, de-
velop a J-term instructional workshop, and 
connect with other projects on campus, such 
as aerial mapping projects in geography or 
working with physics project on pilot imple-
science, aviation skills can be incredibly use-
ful. 
“As a conservation biology major, I as-
sume at one point in the future I will be do-
ing research, so hopefully I can use my pilot’s 
license for surveillance,” Feldman said.
Although the club itself cannot pay for 
plane rentals due to liability reasons, the cost 
of plane rentals is relatively cheap: from $100 
upwards depending on the quality of the 
plane. Both Cating and Feinman have rented 
planes from Shelburne, Vermont, and have 
club members with them and even going as 
new host of activities and travel opportunities 
for students. 
“[As pilots], we can take our friends. By 
having this community, it’s more visible – a 
thing that can be part of people’s conscious-
ness,” Cating said. 
to view the world: the sky is a series of virtual 
be navigated carefully through a system of in-
strument approaches. 
“A lot of people like being a doctor be-
cause they are providing help where others 
might not be control of situation,” Feinman 
said. “Being a pilot is the same thing: you’re 
people from one point to the other safely.”
 Furthermore, there is simply the per-
spective of looking down from thousands of 
feet in the air. 
“The way you perceive a place completely 
changes once you’ve seen it from the air,” 
Feinman said. “When I walk around campus, 
I’ve seen it from the air.”
By Erin Winseman 
caroline cating
The student-designed Ridge Perch treehouse will be open to all community members. 
in-queer-y
15featuresmay 7, 2015   
theatre and condoms
By Lee Michael Garcia Jimenez and 
Rubby Valentin Paulino
Thursday through Saturday there’s go-
ing to be a performance of -
by Tony Kush-
ner in the Hepburn Zoo. It’s a very famous 
play that focuses around the lives of several 
characters during the HIV/AIDS Crisis in 
New York City, one of the turning points 
in American gay history, as well as other 
themes like accepting your sexuality, racism, 
queerness and faith.
The play isn’t unique in its theme. The 
Normal Heart by Larry Kramer is also based 
on the rise of HIV/AIDS in New York City 
during the 80s. During this time, HIV was 
an unknown and unnamed disease largely 
men can’t impregnate each other and the dif-
ferent attitudes of the time on safer sex prac-
tices, it was an unfortunate series of cause 
-
ticular to the gay community. But this was 
a particularly pivotal moment in gay history 
packed with social issues that sets it apart 
from many other epidemics that have faced 
humanity.
men, it reinforced the idea that being gay, 
that having anal sex was wrong, and that 
being gay led to being sick. People called it 
“gay cancer,” and as the medical community 
became more aware of the disease it was re-
ferred to as GRID, Gay Related Immune De-
men were diagnosed with the disease, the 
stigma of HIV/AIDS being associated with 
gay men is something that still exists today. 
The Reagan administration was slow to ad-
dress the pandemic and the gay community, 
having faced such homophobia, were not 
easily trusting of the publications relating 
to the disease, which themselves were not 
always the most informative. Many people 
died and the world was slow to care. So many 
people died that many older gay men refer to 
it as a time in which an entire generation was 
lost. Works like The Normal Heart and An-
gels in America strike up strong emotion in 
their audiences as they touch on the themes 
of fear, sadness, and hope, especially in the 
older members of the queer community.
But I did not grow up in these times. My 
sex education was not the best, but  when 
I learned about condoms and STIs, I was 
taught it was an issue for everyone. I was not 
taught that it is a gay people thing; in fact, 
the majority of my sex education revolved 
around pregnancy. The language used 
around how sexually transmitted infections 
were transmitted was pretty much only dis-
cussed in terms of men giving STI’s to wom-
en. Aside from the fact that queer people are 
largely erased in our sex education, this is 
good in many ways. It is a signal of how slow-
ly but surely we are removing the stigma of 
HIV being a gay man’s disease. Furthermore, 
sex education as a whole is improving with 
me having learned that even if you do have 
HIV/AIDS you are capable of living a normal 
life. We know it’s not contagious via shaking 
someone’s hand. We’ve learned a lot. 
But in that transition we’ve had to a 
-
ing a piece of history, leaving a generational 
gap between my generation and that of my 
to my mother, she told me how important it 
was to not get HIV. While it was refreshing to 
not hear her warning me about getting a girl 
pregnant (turns out she really had no idea 
way. I remember telling her that HIV is not 
particular to gay men and that HIV isn’t the 
only disease to worry about. It was the most 
passionate I’ve ever felt about the miscon-
ceptions surrounding HIV. And even then, 
the fervor I felt then is nothing compared to 
that of someone who lived during the times 
or knew the people who died. It was a time 
-
ing for the voice to be addressed on every 
level from the personal to the political. And 
in light of the upcoming show, I think it’s im-
portant to think about the issues being art so 
that we don’t forget what has happened, in 
addition to enjoying the show. 
By Josie Trischka 
Middlebury’s campus is fairly out-
spoken about a number of issues, both on 
campus and in the world beyond.  Recently, 
some of the methods used to spread social 
awareness have arguably had too great of 
-
cally, socially just. 
This week, I talked to Wayne Hall, 
Facilities Maintenance Supervisor, and 
Bradley Lambert, the stonemason for Fa-
-
plications of these incidents for Facilities 
Services.  
I had speculated the frequency of graf-
no idea to what extent.  
According to Lambert, “There’s been 
is 5 times more than we’d have in a regular 
year.”
Furthermore, the most recent inci-
dents, including the one in front of Atwater 
to clean.  
a day and half’s worth of cleaning,” said 
Lambert, “What we used [last] Monday and 
the same amount of product as we used in 
the last two years.”
Lambert explained to me the process 
and Atwater Dining Hall, the locations 
where the bulk of the damage was incurred. 
Since BiHall is a stone surface and Atwa-
ter is wood, there are a multitude of time-
intensive steps associated with the cleaning 
of each one. 
First, Lambert and whoever is helping 
him have to ready their equipment.  
“It probably takes an hour to get every-
thing ready — get 
all the hoses, the 
pressure washers 
and chemicals. You 
need to be wearing 
protective equip-
ment; rubber gloves 
and a rain suit, be-
cause some chemi-
cals require respira-
tors.”
Depending on 
the extent to which 
the paint permeates 
the stone, it can be 
relatively simple or 
quite a pain  to remove.  “The harder the 
stone  — like granite — is one of the hardest 
it doesn’t penetrate into the stone. BiHall, 
that’s all marble, though, so that took a 
while.”
After wetting the stone down, they 
apply a harsh stripping agent that breaks 
down the paint. Then, the Facilities crew 
must use a pressure washer to get the paint 
“You can’t really use a regular hose or 
just a scrub brush. We had to do it twice 
with everything — I went through once, 
washed it, came back Tuesday morning and 
you could still see a faint shadow, so we had 
to use more of the product, let it sit longer, 
and pressure wash it again,” Lambert said. 
Lambert showed me a bottle of the 
product used to clean stone surfaces.  “That 
product is elephant snot, and it actually 
looks like what they call it … it’s a really 
goopy, kind of grey material.”
“And the elephant snot’s not cheap,” 
Hall added.  
Removing paint from the defaced 
wood walls of Atwater Dining Hall is even 
more time-consuming, because stripping 
the paint from the wood also involves strip-
“Those two walls have to be completely 
stripped down to bare wood, and then you 
building. When you get on to wood, really 
the only thing you can do is strip it,” Lam-
bert explained.
Due to the increased amount of labor, 
as well as the cost of the products used, the 
Atwater incident was incredibly expensive 
Hall showed me the damage report, 
“[The Atwater dining hall incident] was 
about a thou-
sand bucks. 
But also, that 
doesn’t look 
at the time 
that we were 
taken away 
from doing 
s o m e t h i n g 
productive.”
Lambert 
the loss of 
productivity. 
“We have 
we’re trying to do right now … getting 
ready for commencement and language 
schools, and I have my own masonry re-
pair list. So it just takes away from that,” 
Lambert said.
means an isolated incident.  
“There have been others in other loca-
– it’s been adding up,” Hall said.  
 “We had quite an incident at the CFA 
– you know where the terrace is that faces 
huge wood wall, and the whole wall was 
done. The guys were called in on a Satur-
day morning, mainly because there were 
a lot of athletic events going on, and to 
have that be viewed by the public just isn’t 
a good image for the College. And these 
guys, you know, it’s their weekend. They 
like to be with their families.”
The clean-up process is also hazard-
ous due to the toxicity and strength of the 
chemicals needed.  Facilities workers wear 
full respirators, a rubber suit and gloves.  
 Lambert showed me the warning la-
bel on the product used to clean wood: 
“Reports have associated repeated and 
prolonged occupational overexposure to 
solvents with permanent brain and ner-
vous system damage.”
“So it’s not something you want people 
using a lot,” Lambert said. “But it’s what 
works. Some of the messages, because of 
what they’ve been saying, we’ve been hav-
But it’s not the messages that Lambert 
-
niques being used to publicize them. 
“Get a big piece of poster board and 
write what you want; put it on the build-
 “There’s the slate boards in BiHall; 
write on the slate with chalk. There’s also 
the whole big board downstairs in Mc-
Cullough,” Hall suggested. 
Hall then left me with a couple tasks 
that, while troublesome for Facilities to 
“Someone used to stick a pumpkin on 
the lightning rod on top of McCullough, 
and we’d go up with a ladder and remove 
it.  And you know the Frisbee dog outside 
every year, and one of our painters would 
so time-consuming and destructive.”
Both Lambert and Hall understood 
that not all students are on the same page 
said, “We’ve had a really nice response 
from all the students that have been com-
ing and going and apologizing, so that sup-
port is nice.”   
Hopefully, the minority of students re-
-
ize exactly how their actions are impacting 
those who are not part of the student body 
they are targeting. Cleaning up after their 
propaganda for social justice is clearly not 
a light endeavor. For the facilities crew, 
it has been time-consuming, expensive, 
dangerous, and simply put, an unnecessary 
waste of resources. As I see it, valuing a 
socio-political agenda targeted at the privi-
Cleaning Up Our Mess(ag)es
“Each of those incidents was ac-
tually a day and half’s worth 
cleaning. Those two walls have to 
be completely stripped down to 
bare wood, then you have to try 
buidling.”
bradley lambert
stonemason, facilities staff
Dan Celik
Wayne hall
16features | may 7, 2015
How to Say ‘No’ to Commitments
Dear Frank,
I’m on an advisory committee for an issue 
that excited me several months ago, but after 
several meetings of being ignored, I’m no lon-
ger interested in participating.  How do I ex-
tract myself from this situation, particularly 
as the obligation continues into next year?
the semester but announce your intentions to pursue 
your other interests when fall comes around.  Whether 
you do this now or after your last meeting, and likewise 
in person or via e-mail, is entire-
ly up to you, but I would advo-
cate for sooner rather than later. 
chest, and if arrangements 
need to be made for new com-
mittee members, they’ll have 
It sounds like the struc-
ture of the committee is 
less than ideal, and it could be that other people in 
the group feel that their opinions are disregarded. 
If the group has a faculty advisor or an older stu-
dent who seems receptive to feedback, I’d recommend 
being very candid about why you’re leaving, so that the 
committee can produce positive solutions possible in 
the future.  This is, after all, why you’re leaving: you 
could — and should! — be doing much more productive 
and positive things elsewhere, so take your time and 
On that note, I’ve compiled a non-exhaustive 
list of the things my friends and I have learned over 
to have a satisfying life at Middlebury (and be-
yond).  As a disclaimer, I’ll warn you that I was told 
many of these things but didn’t believe them un-
At Middlebury: Have a standing lunch date with 
someone — Thursdays at 12:30 p.m. with Sarah in 
-
utes and actually talk about something for the rest. 
If you haven’t been to Atwater for lunch, go (yes, 
this is possible). Middlebury’s most beautiful mo-
ments will take you by surprise—snow sparkling 
in the air after you pull an all-nighter, a perfectly 
clear night sky, an expansive sunset … don’t let little 
obligations prevent you from appreciating them. 
Your Commons Council has a lot of money if 
you can get enough people to vote for your proposal. 
You are never going to be able to take music lessons 
as well or as cheaply as you can here.  Take the lan-
guage pledge very seriously if you ever have the privi-
lege to take it. Volunteer—whether you check out the 
or apply for money from the Service Cluster Board 
for your own initiative, take some time each week or 
month to ground yourself with the world outside. 
Speaking of life beyond Midd: Be the person 
who makes you happiest.  If your 
friends aren’t cool with whom 
you’ve become, then you most 
This may seem daunting, but 
it’s far less terrifying than the pros-
pect of spending the next 60+ years 
being someone you’d rather not be. 
Accept yourself for being the fan-
tastic person that you are, but ac-
knowledge your weaknesses and constantly strive to 
be a better version of you. Take them one at a time—
monthly goals are great for improving little things, as are 
friends who can keep you honest about meeting them. 
-
wanted to be, re-evaluate.  As long as you’re satis-
crush on someone, ask them out before you waste 
months wondering.  Asking someone out seems in-
timidating, but remember—if they don’t like you, 
then you don’t want to date them anyway. Keep in 
touch with people who mean a lot to you, and don’t 
hesitate to remind them of that often. Stay awesome.
By Dear Frank
Contributing Columnist
I’d recommend being very 
candid about why you’re 
leaving, so that the com-
mittee can produce positive 
solutions in the future.
frank
skip atwater
A young Murray Dry teaches Aristotle to the previous generation of Middkids. 
Murray Dry Experience Keeps You On Your Toes
By Bilal Khan
Contributing Writer
Wide-eyed  and  tight-lipped, students  sit 
facing  the  podium  in  the  Warner  Hemicycle. 
The class will continue its discussion of Plato’s 
Republic today. As Charles A. Dana Professor 
of Political Science Murray Dry begins to write 
his outline, the whispers begin.
“Is that a d?”
“Positive?”
“No.
Mr. Daniel Dignan ’17 — Dry always ad-
-
gests the class set up a fund for handwriting 
lessons. There’s a murmur of agreement.
Dry turns around, his face beaming. He 
begins his lecture with a three-minute-long 
question addressed to Ms. Ella Marks ’17. She 
is clueless; it’s not her fault. Dry restates the 
question.
If you have done the reading thoroughly, 
the lecture and ensuing discussion is a de-
light. There is passion in his voice that draws 
students in — a passion fueled by his desire to 
-
sophical heights, even if he has to go overtime. 
This is his 47th year teaching political science, 
-
ishing class on time.
If you haven’t done the reading thoroughly, 
however, “your shame will be very public and 
your justice swiftly dealt,” wrote Mr. Caleb Cun-
ningham ’14 in a Campus article two years ago.
Sometimes, Professor Dry will ask a partic-
with anxiety as one by one, his students fail to 
come up with the answer.
Mr. Alex Brockelman ’18 remembers one 
such day.  The class was discussing the Repub-
lic with a particular ferocity. Dry had just asked 
the class whether or not the philosophical life 
was possible.
Dry knew it was a tough question; the pur-
pose of Socrates’ teaching was at stake.  He 
wanted his students to stimulate their intellects 
-
est. If that involved buckling knees under the 
Nine people attempted to answer the ques-
tion.  All were wrong. Brockelman raised his 
hand and said that the philosophical life is pos-
sible as Socrates himself embodied it.
“AND THE DUCK COMES DOWN!” Dry 
shouted.
He started pacing around the room in  ec-
stasy,  his  face  red  as  a  tomato and  his  hands 
held  high  in  the  air. The students – some ex-
cited, others still as a statue – heaved a sigh of 
relief and began to laugh.
Dry was referring to the duck that dropped 
whenever an audience member said the secret 
word on You Bet Your Life, a 1950s comedy 
This is trademark Dry: exacting and exu-
berant. He will laugh uproariously at Socrates’ 
hints at the impossibility of the communalism 
of men and women  in  Plato’s  Republic.
For  Dry, there are two prerequisites for 
good teaching: interest in the subject matter 
and in talking about it. He fell in love with po-
litical philosophy as a senior at the University of 
Chicago. As a Ph.D. candidate, he decided that 
being on one side of the lecture wasn’t very dif-
ferent from being on the other. When a friend 
recommended applying for a teaching position 
at Middlebury in 1967, he did not hesitate.
“Why have I stayed?  My wife asks me that 
too.  She  said  she  thought we’d  get  married, 
I’d  do  well  and we’d  go  elsewhere!” he ex-
claims, laughing.
-
bury was the right place for him. He has oc-
casionally taught at some other institutions. 
small liberal arts college and a major university 
complete teacher of your students,” he says.
And then there’s the freedom. 
“Nobody says, ‘What on earth are you doing 
teaching a course called Love and Friendship?’” 
he says. “They even say it’s pretty good.”
Dry met his wife, Cecelia, at the College. She 
started as a student the same year he began to 
-
dents housed in mixed-gender dorms. She took 
two of his courses.
“I  don’t  think  she  wanted  to  do constitu-
tional  law,”  he  says  with a chuckle.
When they got serious, she decided she was 
not going to take any more of his classes. He be-
lieves her friends and fellow students accepted 
their relationship, even though it was unusual. 
adds with a smile.
Dry has two daughters: Rachel, who attend-
ed Harvard University, and Judith, who gradu-
ated from the College. Judith found a world 
here in complete contrast to her father’s. She 
was a theater major and did not take a single 
political science course. He would have liked  if 
she  had,  but  concludes  that the  experience 
turned  out  perfectly for  her.  
“There are many Middleburys in Middle-
bury,” he concludes.
For Dry, teaching always complemented 
his familial responsibilities. However long his 
had the major parental role, he was the parent 
who “did the trips to the school,” he says. He 
was a timer for his daughters’ swim team and 
served on the board for Middlebury Union 
High School.
Mr. Dignan says if he were to create  a  stat-
ue  of  Dry,  it  would  depict him  leaning  back 
on  his  podium with  arms  outstretched, book 
in one hand, chalk in the other; a timeless vis-
age of intellectual might and fortitude.  
Professor Dry is known for his absolute 
intolerance of hats in class, his struggle with 
his habit of calling on students instead of wait-
ing for volunteers.
Most of all, however, he is known and re-
spected for his ability to inspire his students 
care about learning from the great philoso-
phers.  The fear of being called on is part of 
the reason, but mostly it is his enthusiasm, his 
vigor, and his love for the material he is teach-
ing. He is in love with Plato, and will not rest 
until  he  makes  you  fall  in  love with  him  too. 
Aristotle, Hobbes and Locke are mountains of 
knowledge, but the best way to reach their sum-
mits at the College is to go through the Murray 
Dry experience.
A version of this article appeared in the Jan. 
2015 issue of “The Snow Globe,” a publication 
of the J-term course, Reporting and Writing.
about his travels in communist Eastern Europe and the files 
those governments had on him (was he a secret agent? We’ll 
never know) or why the Middlebury McDonald’s has no 
golden arches. In case you were wondering, we all got milk-
got vanilla. Good stuff. 
a genuine guy who cares about this school. He’s an institu-
tion and we truly appreciate all that he’s done. Best of luck 
-
Donald’s with some random sophomores. By the way, you 
seem like you’re a killer dad.
Liebowitz-o-Meter: 5/5 Rons, would ride to McDon-
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 14
A Vanilla Milkshake 
with Ron Liebowitz
charlie ascher
Spring Awakening -
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Spring Awakening
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Spring Awakening 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Spring Awakening -
-
-
arts sciences
Middlebury College Community Chorus
5/10, 10:00 P.M., MEAD MEMORIAL CHAPEL
Scenes and Songs
5/9, 8:00 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
Jazz Showcase
-
5/7, 8:00-10:30 P.M., MCA LOWER LOBBY
Spring Show Expands Campus Discussion
stan barouh
By Leah Lavigne
Arts & Sciences Editor
stan barouh
don’t
miss
this
POLITICS OF
P    WER
Millennium Approaches
Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia 
on National Themes -
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Angels in America -
-
-
-
-
-
Angels in America
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Angels in America
-
-
-
-
Angels 
in America New York 
Times 
-
-
Angels in America 
-
-
Angels in America 
-
-
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
Play Weaves Real and Divine
18 arts SCIENCES may 7, 2015 | 
soc ety
By Cullen Coleman
anahi naranjo
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
tesla energy
the reel critic
May 7, 2015 | 19arts SCIENCES
Dance-making has deep roots, in the 
experiences of choreographer and dancer 
alike. For the four senior dance majors 
whose choreographic work composed 
“Threshold” this past weekend, their re-
search in various fields deeply informed 
their pieces. For all of the works, the cho-
reographers engaged in dance as a mode 
of research – Stevie Durocher ’15.5 in 
connection with English literature, Doug 
LeCours ’15 with creative writing, Afi 
Yellow-Duke ’15 with sociology and Sarae 
Snyder ’15 with physicality and anatomi-
cal study.
Pervasive through the evening was a 
constant questioning of what it means to 
be a body, a person, in relation to societal 
expectations. Perhaps the most narrative 
work of the evening was Stevie Duro-
cher’s “Reasons,” performed by Krystal 
Egbuchalam ’18, Olivia Raggio ’15.5, 
Julia Rossen ’16, Esme Valette ’16 and 
Durocher herself. Durocher’s solo and 
duet work with Egbuchalam followed the 
opening of the piece, in which the audi-
ence saw only shadows of dancers on the 
illuminated surface of the white scrim at 
the back of the dance theater – effectively 
creating images of smooth, ballet-esque 
movement like shadows on the stage of 
Durocher’s memory as she performed 
an intensely reflective and inwardly-fo-
cused solo. She hesitantly put on a pair 
of pointe shoes and moved between un-
inhibited leaps and stillness on pointe, 
embodying the intersection between a 
classical ballet background and modern 
dance forms.
LeCours’ work, “MY SAD GIRL 
DEAD BOY PROM NIGHT PITY PARTY,” 
shed light on the American narratives of 
sad girls and mourning rituals along-
side the dialogue of LeCours’ queer male 
body. The piece invited a space of “radi-
cal mourning” that challenged audience 
members to laugh, to cry and to grieve 
the traumas, large or small, that we have 
all experienced. His five dancers, Juliette 
Gobin ’16, Emily Luan ’15, Annie Powers 
’15, Sarae Snyder ’15 and Meredith White 
’15, formed a group of wraith-like women 
clad in white nightgowns. Their distant, 
sorrowful gazes lent their movement an 
almost involuntary or sleepwalk-like feel, 
interrupted only by moments in which 
Gobin, and later White, broke apart from 
the other women for solo moments, col-
lapsing out of the automatic motion into 
a more pained expressiveness. White’s 
tangible agony accompanied the sound of 
her whimpers and sobs as she struggled 
between the distant, reflex motion and 
her emotional collapse, and heel-toed 
offstage.
Sarae Snyder’s duet work, “Vowels,” 
was brought to life by Miguel Castillo 
’17.5 and Meredith White ’15, in an ex-
ploration of how physicality and inter-
action develop meaning throughout the 
creation and performance process.
“I am interested in how content 
emerges from otherwise ‘meaningless’ 
physicality,” Snyder wrote in the Pro-
gram Notes.
While watching dance, it is often 
tempting to try to uncover a narrative be-
hind the piece, but Snyder’s work defies 
this attempt by presenting varied and 
innovative movement forms that make 
the viewer’s experience very much their 
own. What we take with us after witness-
ing such a performance are glimpses of 
what the dance has provoked in us. This 
narrative was enhanced by portions of 
the audio: Compiled by Snyder, record-
ings of Castillo and White’s voices speak-
ing words and non-words created sounds 
that defied meaning in the same way as 
their movements.
The ending phrase of “Vowels” invit-
ed this interpretation: For a moment, the 
pair held hands and leaned their upper 
bodies away from each other whilst plac-
ing their feet close together, united in 
gaze and breath. Before long, they gradu-
ally twisted and fell away to run to sepa-
rate spotlights on either side of the stage, 
hands on their chests. This moment read 
as an expression of both a mutual need 
for connection and an acknowledgement 
of our need to stand on our own – simul-
taneously together and alone.
Choreographed by Afi Yellow-Duke 
’15, “Post American Mess” engaged in a 
deep questioning of fear, the unknown 
and our confrontation of it – or rather, 
our lack thereof. The piece flickered into 
view with a stark light on dancers Rachel 
Getz ’15.5, Andrew Pester ’17 and Julia 
Rossen ’16 as they paced onstage, peri-
odically raising their trembling hands 
beside their heads. Audio from various 
public safety announcement-like texts 
contributed to an atmosphere of worry 
and impending danger, amplified by 
evocations of run-duck-and-cover move-
ments of bomb drills and jarringly con-
trasted by mocking, circus-like and pa-
triotic music. Perhaps the piece’s most 
evocative movement was the morphing 
of an anxious hand twitch into a salut-
ing hand – addressing the notion of how 
America, as a concept, a place and a soci-
ety, can stand at the root of our anxieties.
The evening’s last work was a second 
duet, created and performed by Sarae 
Snyder and Maggie Ammons, a student 
of dance and neurobiology at Bennington 
College. The work’s title “(Co)incidents” 
is layered in its significance, as it reflects 
the collaborative process of creation, 
whilst also sounding very much like ‘co-
incidence’ – a possible reference to the 
manner in which meaning and content 
emerged.
Snyder and Ammons exemplified 
a level of synchronicity in their unison 
phrases that deeply satisfied the aesthet-
ic instinct – a particularly impressive feat 
in moments of silent movement. A note of 
humor arose as deep, club-like rhythms 
accompanied Ammons’ and Snyder’s 
empty-gazed, slack-limbed movement. 
At one point, they disregard each other 
to the point of bumping into and danc-
ing over each other’s bodies – an allusion 
to practices of embodiment within dark, 
loud and bass-pumping music environ-
ments. But this physicality is dance as 
well. Within this piece, as in the works of 
the other senior choreographers, artists 
engaged in an exploration of the thresh-
old of physicality and human experience 
in relation to culture, art and meaning. 
Dance Finds Interdisciplinary Expression
By Mandy Kimm
Senior Writer
BY OAKLEY HEIGHT
In a general way, I think that the 
saddest stories are the ones that depict 
injustice against decent people. Andrey 
Zvyagintsev’s Leviathan does more than 
this, processing an archetypal Russian 
almost-comically horrible downfall at the 
hands of political evil. Kolya has built a 
home with his hands, perched on pretty 
land overlooking the sea which the town’s 
mayor wants to seize for a business ven-
ture; Kolya suspects the mayor wants to 
build his own palace. With help from a 
lawyer named Dmitri, Kolya tries to rebel. 
But his story has an unavoidable end: it 
is contained within a system which over-
whelms all levels of morality, and even if 
people are unconscious to their role in the 
system, they can’t escape it. Dmitri, in an 
saying, “Everything is everyone’s fault.”
Kolya has a temper and smokes and 
drinks, but not more than everyone else, 
and he is generally well-liked amongst 
those in the small town. There are ten-
sions between his wife and teenage son 
from a previous marriage, but initially, he 
is able to manage these tensions. We sense 
the beginning of something much worse 
as Dmitri and Kolya attend the court hear-
ing on Kolya’s land. A judge pronounces 
the verdict – supported by “indisputable 
facts,” legal jargon named with long case 
numbers and statues – in a monotone so 
fast that the ruling against Kolya is almost 
inaudible. 
 These proceedings are very formal 
and impersonal, which does not satisfy 
the mayor, who staggers drunk to Kolya’s 
house to remind Kolya that he “never had 
rights” to begin 
a claim against the 
mayor for trespass-
ing, worded in the court system’s legal 
jargon. He takes it to the police station 
with Kolya, who impatiently asks why it’s 
Kolya, who in theory might have rights, 
but certainly not the right to question au-
thority with impatience. 
Different characters ask Dmitri if he 
believes in God, to which he always sup-
plies the same response: “I’m a lawyer. I 
believe in facts.” If it’s true that all of us 
must believe in something, then Dmitri 
might want to dismiss facts altogether, as 
facts seem useless against a system that 
creates its own truth. Alternatively, the 
mayor does believe in God, but mostly be-
cause God believes in him. The local priest 
assures him that yes, God does want you 
to take Kolya’s land. 
Leviathan’s drama plays out on a 
closely personal scale, focused on Kolya’s 
legal battle and quickly dissolving fam-
n o r t h - R u s s i a n 
town. Then again, 
we look later in 
Kolya and his friends taking target prac-
tice at portraits of Lenin and Gorbachev. 
Things could be more subtle, but at least 
they have a sense of humor. Someone asks 
about Yeltsin’s absence from the shooting-
party, but is told that Yeltsin is “too small 
time,” and also that the current leaders 
should “ripen on the wall” a bit before use. 
We see Putin’s face only one time in the 
but is not exactly the target, either. Every-
thing about the system is evil, and for the 
most part, people, maybe all people in the 
Our sympathies are straightforward 
in Leviathan – the good people have re-
lationships, families, ambitions and the 
bad people don’t have redeeming quali-
ties, totally consumed by greed and sys-
tems of bureaucratic evil. It is true that 
the bad people, mostly the mayor, are 
more stand-ins for corruption than real 
characters. Usually we’re meant to chas-
tise black-and-white moralities of this 
nature, asking instead for more honest 
shades of grey, but Leviathan’s exact nar-
rative goal is to paint a world in moral 
black and white. The church says that that 
there is only God’s Truth, which somehow 
corresponds to the truth of the politicians, 
and together the two are so bloated with 
their own truth that ambiguity becomes 
impossible. To call Leviathan resolute in 
its ideas seems like meager praise – it runs 
for two and a half hours, but is structured 
perfectly, with no wasted shots or time. 
Even if Leviathan’s conclusion becomes 
unavoidable, watching evil work is some-
how always surprising.
Leviathan
sophie bufton
Meredith White ’15 and Miguel Castillo ’17.5 perform in an original choreographed piece by dance thesis student Sarae Snyder ’15.
may 7, 2015 | 20arts SCIENCES
The sun is shining, trees are blooming 
and Paul Lewis is returning to Middlebury. 
This Friday, the Performing Arts Series of-
fers a sell-out concert to bring the season 
Lewis will be performing Beethoven’s last 
three sonatas with the characteristic mas-
tery and power that has brought him back to 
the College every season for the last decade. 
Although fewer tickets remain than for ei-
ther Riddim or Misterwives, the concert is 
thoughtfully spaced between the two. Join us 
in the Concert Hall of the Kevin P. Mahaney 
’84 Center for the Arts at 8 p.m. for a breath 
a virtuosic display craftsmanship and emo-
tion.
Sonatas 109, 110 and 111 demand more 
than technical mastery: they call for inter-
pretative brilliance. These three pieces in 
particular offer supreme challenges to a pia-
nist’s skill and imagination rarely found else-
where. That Professor Emeritus of Political 
Science and Director of the Performing Arts 
Paul Nelson has entrusted Lewis with this 
burden is a professional compliment of the 
-
ting that the pianist whom Nelson describes 
as “one of the happiest discoveries” of his ca-
reer should be the one to return and honor 
-
cert after 30 years of programming for the 
College.
Opuses 109, 110, and 111 signify the end 
of more than Beethoven’s sonatas. After 30 
years, Paul Nelson, Director of the Perform-
ing Arts Series will be passing the baton. Af-
ter this concert, Allison Coyne Carroll will 
succeed Nelson. Of all the incredible talent 
Nelson has brought to Middlebury, he chose 
Lewis to send him off. 12 years ago, it was 
Paul Nelson who brought now-internation-
ally-acclaimed pianist Paul Lewis to Middle-
Since then, Lewis has earned accolades 
worldwide, returning often to Middlebury 
for season after season of astonishing per-
formances. Though Nelson has brought 
decades of talent to this campus and Lewis 
tours all over the world, both hold a special 
appreciation for College. Lewis has become 
more than a visiting performer; he has be-
come a member of the community.
Middlebury was one of the select few 
venues in the world to present Lewis’ com-
plete Beethoven piano sonatas. The full cycle 
comprised eight concerts over three seasons 
from 2005-2007. This cycle, along with Lew-
is’ similarly lauded Schubert project, earned 
Lewis unanimous critical and public acclaim 
of the world’s foremost interpreters of the 
central European classical repertoire and ce-
mented his place at Middlebury.
In fact, when the school needed a new 
piano in 2013, it was Lewis who helped select 
the new Steinway concert grand piano from 
Steinway’s Astoria, NY factory. He will play 
on that very same instrument this Friday.
This particular program has been in the 
works for three years.
“Paul Lewis has been a favorite pianist of 
mine and our series for a long time,” Nelson 
remarked. “Beethoven has been my most-
loved composer – from the time I began to 
love any music at all. And there’s something 
quite splendid about the end of the last so-
nata… it whiles away into quiet, and that’s 
wonderful parting music.”
Lewis’s numerous awards have included 
the Royal Philharmonic Society’s Instrumen-
talist of the Year Award, two Edison Awards, 
three Gramophone Awards, the Diapason 
D’or de l’Annee, the Preis Der Deutschen 
Schallplattenkritik, the Premio Internazio-
nale Accademia Musicale Chigiana and the 
South Bank Show Classical Music Award. 
In the summer of 2010, Lewis became the 
Beethoven Piano Concertos in a single sea-
son. He is also a regular guest at prestigious 
festivals and venues including London’s 
Wigmore Hall and Royal Festival Hall, Al-
ice Tully and Carnegie Hall in New York, 
the Konzerthaus in Vienna, the Theatre des 
Champs Elysées in Paris, the Concertgebouw 
in Amsterdam, Oji Hall in Tokyo and the 
Sydney Opera House.
His multi-award winning discography 
for the Harmonia Mundi label includes the 
complete Beethoven piano sonatas, concer-
tos, and the Diabelli Variations; Liszt’s B mi-
nor Sonata and other late works; Schubert’s 
major late piano works and three song cycles 
recorded with tenor Mark Padmore.
This concert is made possible with sup-
port from Performing Arts Series Society 
members Leif Magnusson ’69 and Charlotte 
Sibley ’68, in honor of Paul Nelson. Audience 
members are invited to stay after the concert 
for a reception given in tribute to his 30 years 
of leadership.
The concert by Paul Lewis will take place 
on Friday, May 8, at 8 p.m. in the MCA Con-
cert Hall. Professor of Music Larry Hamber-
lin will offer a pre-concert lecture at 7:15 p.m. 
Tickets are $6 for students; 20 for faculty, 
staff, alumni, emeriti and other ID card hold-
ers; and $25 for the general public. 
When this newspaper went to print, the 
concert was sold out — but there’s a second 
chance: come get on the in-person waiting 
list for any returned tickets by coming to the 
BY CONNOR FORREST
Sepomana Brings Down the House
WRMC’s annual spring concert, Sepo-
mana, offered an exciting and eclectic line-
up of acts spanning genres and continents. 
Hosted in the McCullough Student Center’s 
Wilson Hall, acts made creative use of space, 
light and sound to create a consistently sur-
prising experience. 
Opener and student band Iron Eyes 
Cody performed a solid set of soulful folk-
tinged rock, making notable use of unprec-
edented instrumentation; in this case, saxo-
phones were incorporated seamlessly into 
the group’s texture while offering unique 
room for playful experimentation.  Always 
engaging, Iron Eyes Cody was a grounded 
and vibrant prelude to what proved to be an 
eclectic evening.
In the brief break between acts, I was 
surprised to witness drums, microphone 
stands and speakers being rolled out to the 
center of the concert space, level with the 
standing-room audience.  Israel-based Yo-
natan Gat was thus assembled, encircled by 
single light emanating from the middle of 
the room.  As he dug into a frenetic, relent-
less set, a spirited, communal energy washed 
over the room.  Yonatan Gat and his band 
same eccentric dance party as their audience, 
at times acting as near-literal ringleaders, at 
others dancing among and with members 
of the audience.  Their instrumental sound 
sung verse, before they launched back into 
the demanding licks and runs of their end-
less grooves.  Often, a clear melody, under-
pinned by an undeniable rhythmic groove, 
would be established and sustained for some 
time before the manic momentum of the 
performance carried both away.  Yonatan 
Gat was the kinetic center to Sepomana, pro-
ducing a manic expressiveness that stood in 
contrast and compliment to the other acts.
New York-based Ratking offered a com-
pelling counterpoint to the incisive sparse-
ness of Yonatan Gat.  Where Yonatan Gat 
found frenzy in precision, crafting carefully 
coordinated thrill rides, Ratking’s caustic 
and confrontational ambience was borne of 
intricate sound design courtesy of producer 
Sporting Life.  Rappers Wiki and Hak played 
off each other’s performances to great ef-
fect, Wiki’s dynamic delivery contrasting 
Hak’s typically languid, solid style. Ratking’s 
youthful evocation of city life has its roots in 
a long succession of New York City rappers, 
but through their embrace of a myriad of 
styles and sounds, they echo an experience 
all their own.  
To close out a night of diverse and 
compelling music making, Montreal-based 
producer and DJ Lunice proved to be a 
crowd-pleaser.  In an uninterrupted set of 
electronic dance music, Lunice drew from 
a bevy of styles, sampling everything from 
familiar hits to intriguing lesser-known 
projects.  In this sense, Lunice was an apt 
encapsulation of Sepomana in total: a nim-
ble, high-energy, all-embracing showcase of 
myriad styles and sounds.
By Luke Linden
Staff Writer
Paul Lewis returns to the College this Friday in a performance of Beethoven sonatas.
Molina Visuals
WRMC presented an eclectic lineup of four acts for their annual Sepomana show.
rachel frank
Carol’s Hungry Mind Cafe has just been selected to be a distributor of marijuana.
Advertisements 21 | MAY 7, 2015
Plans for next year?  
Why not complete the Clarkson MBA?
Ready to learn more? 
To apply go to  
www.clarkson.edu/mba.
With our rolling admissions process, it’s not 
too late to apply for the Clarkson Master of 
Business Administration Class of 2016. And 
since your school is a Clarkson partner, you’re 
automatically eligible for a 4+1 Fellowship:
  $10,000 Tuition Scholarship
  $4,000 Travel Scholarship
  Guaranteed graduate assistantship  
  that lets you earn up to $3,000
Streamlined application: Candidates with a 
GMAT score of 550 or higher and a GPA of 
3.0 or greater are automatically accepted. 
No essays, no recommendation letters, no 
application fees – just send your official test 
scores and transcript and you’re in.
The Middlebury Softball team 
concluded a successful season this 
weekend with a dramatic NESCAC 
playoff run, recording a win against a pair 
of losses in the conference tournament. 
The Panthers opened the playoffs 
with a shutout loss to the eventual 
NESCAC champion Tufts on Friday, 
May 1. The Jumbos got on the board 
quickly, scoring a run in the bottom of 
the first. Middlebury threatened in the 
third inning, when Ali Della Volpe ’18 
reached on error, followed by singles by 
Christina Bicks ’15 and Jackie Stearn ’16. 
Unfortunately for the Panthers, Tufts 
pitcher Allyson Formier navigated her 
way out of the jam to leave the bases 
loaded. The Panthers left runners on 
base in the fifth and sixth innings, and 
Tufts scored an insurance run in the 
sixth. Middlebury pitcher Neve Stearns 
’16 took the loss.
The playoff tournament followed 
a double-elimination format, so the 
Panthers had another opportunity to 
continue their season. They rose to the 
occasion, defeating the Bowdoin Polar 
Bears 2-0 on Saturday, May 2.  
The game remained scoreless until 
the fifth, when Kat Maehr ’16 walked 
and reached second on a fielder’s choice 
on a hit from Carlyn Vachow ’16. Later, 
Siobhan O’Sullivan ’17 doubled to drive 
in the first run. Bowdoin threatened in 
the top of the sixth inning, but Allison 
Quigley ’18 deftly survived the jam. 
Stearn scored Middlebury’s second 
run in the bottom of the sixth through 
some smart base running. She walked, 
reached second on a ground out, and 
then scored on a Bowdoin error on a hit 
from Vachow. Quigley recorded the win 
and Stearns earned the save, combining 
for seven shutout innings.
Later in the day the Panthers faced 
Williams for their third game of the 
weekend. For the fourth time this 
season, Williams managed to overpower 
the Panthers. 
The game remained scoreless until 
the fourth inning, when the Ephs scored 
three runs kicked off by a double from 
Taylor Donze. Williams followed up their 
three-run fourth inning with another 
three runs in the fifth, headlined by a 
two-run home run off of the bat of Lexi 
Curt. 
Middlebury logged only one hit over 
the first five innings off of a single 
by Hye-Jin Kim ’17 in the third. The 
Panthers finally hit their offensive 
stride in the sixth inning. Della Volpe 
and Bicks led off the inning with back-
to-back singles, and both advanced on 
a wild pitch. Vachow then drove them 
both in with a single, and Erin Giles ’17 
later plated Vachow. 
However, Williams pitcher Emma 
Harrington regained her footing and 
retired the next four batters to finish 
the game and end the season for the 
Panthers. 
Middlebury finished its season with 
a 20-11 record, an improvement on last 
year’s 19-16 record. The team finished in 
the top four in the conference’s regular 
season and advanced to the postseason 
for the fifth consecutive year, continuing 
the longest streak of postseason 
appearances in the program’s relatively 
brief history.
The 2016 Panthers will have every 
opportunity to expand upon this recent 
string of successes, as the team will 
return many of their top-performing 
players from this year’s season.
Juniors Maehr and Vachow have 
established themselves among the 
conference’s most feared hitters this 
season — with both hitting over .300 
and driving in 16-plus runs. Maehr has 
been particularly key for the Panthers, 
reaching base in exactly half of her plate 
appearances this season. 
Sarah Freyre ’17 and O’Sullivan will 
similarly look to take on increased roles 
in the offense after breakout years at the 
plate in 2015.
On the mound, first-year Quigley 
solidified herself as the staff ace this 
year, holding opposing teams to less 
than two runs per game and striking out 
more than 100 batters as she racked up 
a 13-4 record on the season. With three 
more seasons left in Quigley’s career 
in Middlebury blue, the Panthers are 
nearly assured of continued success in 
the near future. 
The track teams continued their 
postseason schedule on Friday, May 1, 
and Saturday, May 2, competing in the 
New England Division III Championships 
hosted by MIT. Though the meet is 
scored, Middlebury traditionally does 
not attempt to win the team title, 
instead looking for strong individual 
performances. As such, the men scored 
a meager seven points for 22nd place 
while the women tallied up 32 points 
to tie for 10th. MIT ran away with both 
the men’s and women’s meets: the men 
scored 171.5 points and the women’s 180.
 Hannah Blackburn ’17 and Maddie 
Pronovost ’17 contested their first 
heptathlons of the year at the meet, 
earning strong results. The heptathlon 
is a two-day event comprising seven 
different track and field events. Each 
mark is worth a certain number of points; 
the athlete with the highest combined 
point total for all events is the winner. 
Blackburn eclipsed the school record by 
scoring 4177 points to place third and 
Pronovost scored 3708 points for eighth.
On the track, the race of the meet was 
the women’s 1500m. Robin Vincent ’18 
continued her meteoric rise in the event, 
running an almost-10-second personal 
best of 4:31.66 for third place. Sarah 
Guth ’15 was close behind, finishing in 
4:32.47, a personal best by more than 
three seconds, which placed her fifth in 
the meet.
“The race went out pretty fast — our 
first 400m was around 71 seconds,” 
Vincent said. “I got scared that I was 
going to burn out after the first lap, so I 
hung back a little bit and tried to draft on 
the runners in front of me. I was never 
in the lead, but early in the race I went 
out in the third lane to get around people 
and try to run right behind Sarah. I’m 
generally not a person who relies on a 
kick but I seemed to have one, which was 
awesome.”
Vincent is currently ranked seventh 
in Division III in the 1500m and Guth 
is ranked 10th. Additionally, Erzsie 
Nagy ’17 is ranked 17th and indoor mile 
national champion Alison Maxwell ’15 is 
sitting at 19th with times from earlier in 
the season. If the season ended today, all 
four women would qualify for the NCAA 
Championships in the event.
Devon Player ’18 and Carly Andersen 
’16 continued their takeover of the 
javelin. Player got the best of Andersen 
this week by throwing a personal best 
42.02m for second place. Andersen 
threw 40.61m to take third.
Other notable performances included 
Lauren Bougioukas ‘16 running a 
personal best of 2:18.59 in the 800m 
for 10th and Catie Skinner ’17 running a 
personal best of 11:36.43 in the 3000m 
steeplechase, good for 8th place.
For the men’s team, Luke Carpinello 
’16 ran a personal best in the 800m of 
1:54.39 to place eighth. Rookie James 
Mulliken ’18 ran a season best of 1:56.17 
in the same event to win his heat.
 Sebastian Matt ’16 was fourth in 
the 1500m by running 3:54.77, also a 
personal best. Tyler Farrell ’18 took 10th 
in the 400m hurdles with a personal best 
time of 55.89, his first race under 56 
seconds.
In the field, Jared Whitman ’17 
continued his impressive season in the 
pole vault, clearing 4.35m for yet another 
personal best. Conor Simons ’16 — the 
runner up in the vault at last weekend’s 
NESCAC championships — suffered a 
significant injury during the event and 
was unable to finish competing.
The teams will return to MIT on May 8 
and 9 for the NEICAAA Championships, 
colloquially known as Open New 
Englands. The meet invites every track 
team in New England from all NCAA 
divisions, making for stiff competition 
and fast times. 
|  may 7, 2015 22 sports
Softball Goes 1-2 in Tourney the middlebury
great  eight
8
sports magazine
Look for it soon in a dining 
hall near you. 
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Fritz’s Fancies
2
Men’s tennis
A real-life conference victory 
is good for the top spot.
softball
Watch out for these ladies 
next year. You heard it here 
3
WOMEN’s lax
Shoulda beat Bowdoin, but 
they’ve got more chances.
4 
TRACK
Number four on campus, 
number one in our hearts.
5
Women’s tennis
Hard to compete with the 
men’s tourney win.
7
baseball
Heads up guys.
6
men’s lacrosse
Yikes that Tufts game was 
ugly. NCAAs on deck. 
Track Teams Compete at New Englands
HISTORIC FINISHES FOR CREW TEAMS AT NEW ENGLAND CHAMPIONSHIPS
-
ishes, respectively, at this weekend’s New England Rowing Championships, contested 
in Worcester, Mass. on May 2. The men’s second varsity four opened the day with a 
which they placed sixth.
Hannah Pustejovsky
By Bryan Holtzman
Senior Writer
By  Kelsey Hoekstra
Contributing Writer
The Middlebury baseball team capped off 
this season with a 1-5 week, slugging its way 
past Skidmore before falling to Plymouth 
State and twice each to Bowdoin and Tufts. 
The Panthers end the season with a 4-24 
overall record and a 1-11 mark in the NESCAC 
straight year.
After a tightly contested ballgame for eight 
innings at Skidmore on Tuesday, April 28, 
Middlebury emphatically put the host away 
with a 10-run ninth to seal a 14-4 victory.
Down 1-0 heading into the top of the sixth 
inning, the Panthers put up three runs on 
Entering the ninth up 4-3, Middlebury sought 
to give their bullpen a little insurance. They 
did just that by stringing together eleven hits 
years Raj Palekar ’18 and Drew Coash ’18 — to 
score ten runs, and eventually secure a 14-4 
win. 
Starting on the hill for the Panthers 
against Skidmore, Eric Truss ’15 tossed an 
excellent game, allowing two runs — neither 
innings, while the offense tallied twenty hits 
in his support.
If only Middlebury had saved a little 
of the week. On Wednesday, April 29, the 
Panthers couldn’t overcome an early 7-3 hole 
to ultimately lose 8-4 to Plymouth St. in the 
The Panthers went ahead 3-1 early behind 
consecutive singles from John Luke ’16 and 
Plymouth stormed back with six runs of their 
own as the Panthers couldn’t stop getting in 
the way of themselves, committing two costly 
the bottom of the ninth, Middlebury only 
managed one run and fell in its last game at 
Forbes of the season 8-4.
The Panthers traveled to Brunswick, 
Maine on Saturday, May 2 for a doubleheader 
with NESCAC East foe Bowdoin. The 
Panthers fell behind early as starting pitcher 
Robert Erickson ’18 surrendered three runs 
Neither team could plate any runs in the 
Middlebury entered the seventh with one last 
chance to extend the game. Rizzo doubled and 
scored on a wild pitch, and Dylan Sinnickson 
’15 made it a one run game with his blast over 
the fence, but their efforts weren’t enough 
as Jason Lock ’17 grounded out to end the 
ferocious comeback attempt at 3-2.
In the second game of the doubleheader, 
Middlebury never led and lost 8-2, not 
scoring until the last inning. Starting pitcher 
Tucker Meredith ’17, returning from injury, 
got roughed up in his two innings on the hill 
grew to eight after six, and once again it was 
too little too late for the Middlebury bats, 
putting up two when it needed eight in its 
last chance at the plate. Sinnickson keyed the 
Panther offense again with two hits and one 
RBI.
Middlebury was at Tufts on Sunday, May 
3 for another NESCAC East doubleheader 
game of two ended in heartbreak when the 
Jumbos walked off in the seventh on a single. 
Down 1-0 entering the fourth, Joe MacDonald 
Up 2-1 with two outs and no one on base 
in the bottom of the seventh, Truss was one 
game on the mound in a Middlebury uniform 
when disaster struck. Two singles and an 
intentional walk set the stage for Matt Moser 
who knocked in the game-winning run for a 
3-2 Tufts win by controversially beating out a 
groundball to the left side.
The Panthers jumped on the Jumbos 
early in the second game of the day behind 
a Palekar double to take a 1-0 lead after one. 
Tufts controlled the game after that point, 
scoring eight unanswered runs off starting 
pitcher Cooper Byrne ’15 — in his last game 
as a Panther. Middlebury added one more in 
it wasn’t nearly enough as they fell 8-2 in their 
end 2015 with their eighth consecutive losing 
record. The 24 losses match last year’s team 
for the most in the program’s history, and the 
team’s winning percentage of .142 is the worst 
since the 1967 Panthers went 0-10.
It was another tough season for the 
Panthers, but Coach Bob Smith and his 
team have the potential to improve upon this 
season with 22 of their 27 players returning 
next year, including a number of key cogs 
in the lineup and the pitching staff. With a 
solid year’s development from some of these 
talented young players — and a bit of luck — 
2016 could be the year that the Panthers turn 
the corner and make noise in the NESCAC.
Dismal Season Comes to an End for Midd Baseball
 may 7, 2015 | 23SPORTS
Men’s Tennis Storms to NESCAC Title
The Panther men’s tennis team 
since 2010 this Sunday, May 3, when 
they beat Williams 5-2 on Proctor Courts. 
The women, meanwhile, advanced to 
tournament before falling to falling to 
Amherst.
round, the second-seeded Middlebury 
men squared off with third seed Bowdoin 
winning 5-3. The Panthers jumped ahead 
2-1 in doubles play, getting wins from 
Palmer Campbell ’16 and Peter Heidrich 
’15 at number one and from Ari Smolyar 
’17 and Noah Farrell ’18 at number 
two. In the third doubles match, Chris 
Frost ’15 and William de Quant ’18 went 
to a tiebreaker before falling to their 
opponents from Bowdoin.
singles play with wins in the top three 
spots from Smolyar, Farrell and Campbell, 
respectively. de Quant was in the process 
of topping off a hard-fought victory at 
two sets both went to tiebreaker — when 
the Panthers won, halting the match.
Williams to give the Ephs the other berth 
boded well for the Panthers, who had 
fallen 9-0 to Amherst in the regular-
In Sunday’s title match, the Panthers 
swept doubles play to give themselves a 
massive early advantage. Frons extended 
the lead to 4-0 with a quick two-set victory 
at number-four singles, meaning that the 
Panthers needed just one more match 
victory to take the conference title.
The remaining singles matches, 
meanwhile, were overwhelmingly back-
Smolyar battled back to win the second 
and had a 3-2 advantage in the third when 
play was halted. de Quant also overcame 
dropped the third 6-2 to concede a match 
to Williams. 
Both the number-three match between 
Campbell and Williams’ Alex Schidlovsky 
and Kyle Schlanger’s ’18 number-six 
match with Eph Howard Weiss went to 
won by Middlebury. Campbell was the 
a cross-court backhand past Schidlovsky 
to take the second set, the match and the 
NESCAC team championship.
After the conference championship, 
the men were selected to host an NCAA 
regional, in which they will begin play on 
Saturday, May 9.
The women’s team was not able to 
equal the men’s result, falling to Amherst 
After Middlebury won 5-4 in both 
Panthers and Lord Jeffs faced off on 
May 2. Amherst went up 2-1 in doubles 
play, as Alexandra Fields ’17 and Lauren 
Amos ’16 were the sole Middlebury duo to 
win their match.
In singles action, the Panthers got big 
wins from Ria Gerger ’16 and Fields in the 
top two spots. Amherst took matches at 
four and six to come within one match of 
victory but Margot Marchese ’16 was able 
win her match and keep Middlebury alive.
In the deciding match at number-three 
singles, Lily Bondy ’17 was unable to keep 
pace with her counterpart from Amherst. 
6-3, 6-1 in the subsequent sets to send the 
lose to Williams.
Still among the nation’s top-ranked 
teams, the Panther women were granted 
an at-large bid to the upcoming NCAA 
tournament. They will travel to Brunswick, 
Maine this weekend for a regional at 
Bowdoin, opening play on Saturday, May 
9 against the victor of an earlier match 
between Simmons and Plymouth State.
2010
11
3
24
The last time men’s tennis had won a 
NESCAC championship before doing 
so this weekend.
The women’s Water Polo club placed 
11th in the nation this past weekend 
when they hosted nationals.
Tufts players who recorded hat trick in the 
Jumbo’s 23-9 win over Middlebury in a 
Losses for baseball this season, equaling 
the mark set last year for the most in 
program history.
Middlebury teams who will open NCAA 
tournament play this weekend.
by the Numb3rs
5
NO
I’m going to miss that smile and 
great attitude you brought every 
week to layout Fritz... oh wait.
WOMEN
Joe, we run this town now 
#mediocrityherewecome
The Real Question: Will women’s 
frisbee win nationals?
Give Fritz a grade for his tenure 
as a sports editor.
Which lacrosse team will advance 
farther this postseason?
Will Joe surpass Fritz’s 79 wins 
in next year’s picks?
NO
Always been more of a Quidditch 
guy. 
MEN’S
My bros will come through for me. 
YES 
2016 is going to be Joe’s year.
A-
I mean he does my editors’ picks 
whenever I’m too lazy to come 
NO
Next year is my year. I can feel it.
A-
Party Fritz for the win.
editors’ picks
REMO PLUNKETT (42-35, .545)
Fritz Parker (79-73, .519)
YES
Optimism is a good thing.
MEN
They had a good season.
A
We’ll miss you, Fritz!
UNLIKELY
I mean, even I’m beating him.
Emily Bustard (34-36, .485)
NO
The day Fritz actually does his job is 
the day frisbee wins the natty chip 
(sorry, girls).
WOMEN
Don’t lie to yourself, Fritzy. You’ll 
be back.
Joe macdonald (54-71, .432)
B+
I mailed it in there towards the 
end, but still pulled out the B+. 
Classic Middlebury.
B-
Perfectly mediocre in all phases.
Thanks for the good times, pal.
NO
Gotta agree with the elder 
statesman on this one. No chance 
I even get close.
WHY NOT?
It’s been real guys. Try not to have 
too much fun without me.
WOMEN
Maybe someday I’ll miss Hepburn 
basement. Ha. Maybe not.
HELL NO
Alex will get there, but not Joe.
Alex Morris (62-58, .516)
By  Andrew Rigas
Senior Writer
By  Remo Plunkett
Sports Editor
sports 24
Men’s Lax Trampled by 
Second-Seed Jumbos
Michael O’hara
BIG-TIME RESULTS 
FOR TRACK AT D3 
NEW ENGLANDS
PAGE 22
SOFTBALL GOES 
1-2 IN NESCAC 
TOURNAMENT
PAGE 22
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
For
The
Win See Page 23 for 
full coverage. 
Michael O’hara
By Christine Urquhart
Contributing Writer
By  Trevor Schmitt
Contributing Writer
