Partygoers passing through 
the Chromatic social house last 
Saturday night, May 7 may have 
been met by a surprising sight: 
four individuals, in varying states 
of undress, standing by the en-
tryway with purple handprints 
painted over their abdomens and 
cardboard signs in their hands. 
Student bodyguards stood beside 
them, handing out informational 
slips, interacting with passersbys 
and making sure that the per-
formers remained untouched.
“Not asking for it,” the first 
sign in the lineup read.
“Still not asking for it,” the 
next two read.
And finally: “Sexual assault 
leaves a mark.”
This was the fifth public instal-
lation of the art activism group 
Stares on Stairs. The main orga-
nizers of the movement are Chi 
Chi Chang ’18, Elizabeth Dunn 
’18, Katie Mayopoulos ’18, Mor-
gan Grady-Benson ’18 and Nell 
Sather ’19. Their activism is open 
to anyone who is interested in 
the cause, and each performance 
thus far has been composed by a 
slightly different group of 12-15 
individuals.
“It feels different every place 
we perform,” Sather said. “This 
weekend’s party felt very intense 
for a lot of reasons: the close 
physical proximity, the level of 
drunkenness, the noise and a 
much wider and larger audience 
than before.”
The idea for a radical cam-
paign for sexual assault aware-
ness was launched in “Radical 
Humanity: Performance and 
Social Activism,” a 2016 J-Term 
course taught by visiting film-
maker, choreographer and ac-
tivist Tiffany Rhynard. Since 
then, the group has evolved and 
expanded into the public con-
sciousness, implementing their 
first three installations in the 
stairwells of the Atwater suites, a 
notorious party scene on campus. 
Each performer stood on a plat-
form, as two students serving as 
bodyguards stood on either side 
of them.
Meanwhile, the fourth perfor-
mance took place in the hallway 
outside Kenyon Arena Center 
before the BØRNS concert a few 
weeks ago. Signs for alternative 
routes were present at all venues, 
alerting passersbys of the upcom-
ing scene and allowing them to 
avoid it as they wished.  
On Friday, May 6 and Saturday, 
May 7 the Alliance for an Inclusive 
Middlebury (AIM) held its 
inaugural symposium, entitled 
“Activists, Allies and Accomplices: 
Responses to Racism Today.”
AIM was formed earlier this 
year by President of the College 
Laurie L. Patton, and is comprised 
of students, faculty and staff. The 
group’s responsibilities include 
launching initiatives to foster 
inclusivity, giving regular progress 
reports to administrators and 
publicizing statistics regarding the 
College’s institutional diversity.
The symposium began Friday 
evening with a panel on allyship 
that featured undergraduate 
students from the College as well 
as graduate students from the 
Institute of International Studies 
at Monterey.
On Saturday Rinku Sen, 
executive director of the racial 
justice organization Race Forward, 
gave the keynote address. In 
her speech Sen detailed the 
evolution of her involvement 
with racial justice issues. As an 
undergraduate student, she said, 
she paid little attention to activism 
of any sort until friends staged an 
“intervention.”
“Denial is like a drug,” Sen 
said. “It does make you feel 
better, it gives you relief, but you 
have to keep taking it, because 
something’s gonna bring you back 
to reality.”
Sen later attended a student 
rally. “For the first time in the 
12 years since my family had 
immigrated, I felt like I belonged” 
she said. 
“That was the moment where 
I understood that being an 
American isn’t about looking 
like Marsha Brady,” she said. 
“It is about investing in your 
community with all the people 
who are in it to make it the most 
inclusive, most effective, most fair 
community it could be.”
Sen shared that her devotion 
to activism keeps her grounded in 
the United States.
“Every election I’ve 
experienced since I started 
organizing, someone says, ‘If 
so-and-so wins, I’m moving to 
Canada,’” she said. “And every 
election, I say, whatever happens, 
I’m going nowhere. This is my 
home, I’m an American. And I 
expect some pretty rough times, 
and a fair amount of suffering. 
But I know that if we keep going 
in the ways we have been going, 
by organizing, by changing the 
rules and tools that control our 
lives, I know we can achieve peace 
Approximately $2,000 in 
unapproved expenditures were 
charged to the budget account of 
the Student Government Asso-
ciation (SGA). The charges were 
made on behalf of the SGA First-
Year Committee, a group co-
chaired by First-Year Senators 
Kieran Parikh ’19 and Charles 
Rainey ’19.
According to SGA Treasurer 
Aaron de Toledo ’16, the charges, 
while unapproved, were within 
the SGA guidelines, and were 
mostly used to fund food for 
First-Year Committee events 
dating back to November of last 
year. He received the receipts 
from the expenditures on May 2 
of this year, and shared his find-
ings at the May 8 meeting of the 
SGA.
Like all student organiza-
tions, the SGA receives a yearly 
budget, drawn from the alloca-
tions account of the overall stu-
dent activities budget. Due to the 
unbudgeted expenditures of the 
First-Year Committee, $2,000 
had to be added to the SGA bud-
get for this fiscal year. 
The expenditures were made 
through the use of the SGA index 
code — a code that only approved 
SGA officials can use to make 
purchases from in-town vendors, 
who then use the code to bill the 
College. The account is typically 
used to fund events hosted by 
SGA Cabinet Members and Sena-
tors.
Before using the index code, 
approved officials must receive 
prior approval from either de 
Toledo or SGA President Ilana 
Gratch ’16. However, both Parikh 
and Rainey said they were un-
aware of this guideline. 
“This has been particularly 
distressing to me as, throughout 
May 12, 2016 | Vol. 114 no. 25 | middleburycampus.com
GENDER 
SEGREGATION AND 
WAGE GAP
PAGE 4
PTSD PLAY BRINGS 
HUMOR TO HEALING
PAGE 14
REPORT:
TRUSTEES DONATE 
MILLIONS TO PACS
PAGE 10in
sid
e
By Will DiGravio
Senior Writer
Zac Lounsbury ’16 pranced across the Wright Theater stage in Associate Professor of Theatre Claudio 
Medeiros’ production of A Midsummer Night’s Dream last weekend, Thursday, May 5 to Sunday, May 
8. See full review on page 15. 
Anthea vita viragh
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM
SEE ART INSTALLATION, PAGE 16
By Nick Garber
Senior Writer
SGA Reveals 
Unapproved 
Expenditures
Symposium for 
AIM Focuses on 
Activists and Allies
Art Activism Group Raises 
Sexual Assault Awareness
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
SEE AIM, PAGE 3
Hosted by MCAB
MIDD MAY HEM 2016   
 y 
Thurs. May 12 Fri.  May 13
Sat.  May 14 Sun.  May 15
Pig Roast on Atwater Lawn
(5-7 pm)
-150 lb pig & BBQ food
-7:30-9:30 pm
-Lemonade and Snacks
-Otter Creek Beer, 
Woodchuck Cider & Wine
-Live Music with MSTRYWHSKY
-Beachside Cocktail Menu
(10:30 pm | 18+)
-Tropical Ice Luge
-DJs Peter Huffman & Norris Ou
-Iron Eyes Cody
-Outdoor Games
Color Run & Holi Festival
(11 am | Battell Beach)
Student Bar at Crossroads
-Tropical Paradise at the Marquis
-machineheart Concert
 on Battell Circle (8 pm)
SEE SGA, PAGE 2
Professor of Political Science Matt Dickin-
son and Associate Director of the Anderson 
Freeman Resource Center Jennifer Herrera 
were honored at a ceremony for receiving the 
Lamberti Faculty and Degray Staff Apprecia-
tion Awards, respectively.  The ceremony was 
held last Tuesday, May 10.
Dickinson specializes in American politics, 
teaching classes on congressional and nation-
al elections, the presidency and bureaucracy. 
This year, he has taken a break from teaching 
to follow the presidential candidates. He has 
attended their rallies, spoken with the media 
and recorded his thoughts on his Presidential 
Power blog. 
Herrera’s work is largely centered on mul-
ticultural student affairs. This year, she has 
been working to launch the recently opened 
Anderson Freeman Resource Center located 
in Carr Hall. The Center provides counseling 
services, study rooms and spaces for students 
from various cultural organizations to come 
together. She has also worked to strengthen 
and enhance some of the LGBTQ initiatives 
on campus, such as evaluating the availability 
of gender-neutral bathrooms on campus. 
Both recipients of the award have been 
working at the College for more than a de-
cade. Herrera arrived in 2003 from Pennsyl-
vania State University, and Dickinson from 
Harvard in 2001. In their time here, they’ve 
both witnessed and been an active part of im-
portant changes on campus and within the 
student body. 
“I’ve seen the demographics of the student 
body change in so many ways in the time that 
I’ve been here at Middlebury,” Herrera said. 
“It has definitely grown in diversity, and the 
students have changed. When I first came, 
students seemed a little apathetic, now not 
so much. They’re really concerned with the 
world, their surroundings and themselves, 
with a lot of hope and desires for things to be 
better. They’re finding their voice as change 
agents, which I think is absolutely amazing.”  
Both Dickinson and Herrera are involved 
with their students outside of the classroom. 
Herrera’s day-to-day schedule includes work-
ing closely with students on an individual 
level. Dickinson has worked with students on 
independent research projects and papers, 
which they have presented at important po-
litical science conferences. 
“It’s been an increasingly important com-
ponent of being here — working with stu-
dents outside of the classroom on indepen-
dent research projects,” Dickinson said. “You 
can’t be an effective teacher if you don’t enjoy 
it. And you can’t enjoy it unless you have good 
students. We have great students here, so in 
some sense this award is for the students as 
well. I’m very lucky to have such great stu-
dents, not just in the classroom, but also at 
these politics luncheons and as research as-
sistants.”
Students submit nominations for the Fac-
ulty and Staff Appreciation Awards, which 
were created by the Student Government 
Administration, with a statement explaining 
why he or she deserves the award. The recipi-
ents were announced in an all-student email 
on May 4. 
“I’m completely shocked,” Dickinson said. 
“But I’m very honored because obviously 
there are lots of great teachers here. I’m not 
under any illusion that I’m the best one, so 
I’m kind of accepting it on behalf of all the 
very good teachers we have. And of course 
the other reason I’m honored is because it’s 
named after Marjorie, and she’s a wonderful 
woman.”
Herrera said, “I was really honored to re-
ceive the award, and quite surprised. I do a lot 
of this work without thinking about what I am 
going to get out of it, without expectations. I 
don’t hold attachment to the result, I just do it 
from a place of love and compassion.”
Both recipients spoke about what they 
hope to see in the coming years at the Col-
lege. Dickinson, who is excited by the recent 
student activism on campus, hopes that the 
important and necessary conversations on 
diversity continue from an open-minded per-
spective.
“It’s a conversation we needed to have and 
it’s an ongoing one. It’s one that doesn’t have 
any right or wrong answer but it’s important 
that we have it,” Dickinson said. “But in that 
conversation the one thing I hope we don’t 
lose sight of is the need for ideological and 
political diversity. So I’d hate to think that a 
certain viewpoint is going to get shut down.”
Herrera expresses a desire for the College 
as an institution to become truly in touch 
with its students. 
She said, “I hope that we’ll get to a place 
where students don’t constantly have to tell 
us where we need to change. I hope that we’ll 
already anticipate those concerns and con-
tinue to grow. Instead of doing something 
and checking off a box, we need to stay up to 
speed on best practices and how to serve stu-
dents on a holistic level.”
the year, I have made a consistent effort 
to comply with all policies and procedures 
regarding the Committee as they have 
been communicated to me,” Parikh said.
He continued, “In late October, at the 
end of a Senate meeting, I asked Treasurer 
de Toledo personally what the procedure 
was to spend money for [the] First-Year 
Committee. At that time, he told me the in-
dex code and that I needed to fill out a yel-
low slip to make a purchase. Additionally, 
at this time, neither the requirement that 
Charles and I seek approval for First-Year 
Committee purchases [nor] that we sub-
mit receipts was communicated to me.”
Due to communication errors between 
Parikh, Rainey and other SGA leaders, 
including Gratch, the First-Year Senators 
began the year with the impression that 
they had a $2,500 budget from which they 
could freely spend. 
“I think this happened because of the 
lack of communication we had coming in,” 
Rainey said at the May 8 meeting of the 
SGA. “Before the First-Year Committee 
had even started, we weren’t necessarily 
told that we had to go for approval in mak-
ing any decisions regarding allocations of 
funds. In fact, we were told that we did 
have a budget, from multiple sources, in-
cluding past First-Year Senators, and this 
was [approved], in a general fashion, by 
different authorities within the SGA.” 
He continued, “I think, for the First-
Year Committee, it was just as [much] a 
surprise that we didn’t have a budget as 
it was a surprise for the Finance Commit-
tee.”
Formed in 2012, the First-Year Com-
mittee is designed to provide additional 
programming and events in order to aid 
the incoming class’ acclimation to life at 
the College.
The First-Year Committee, like all SGA 
Committees, does not have a pre-deter-
mined budget. Rather, First-Year Senators 
have the option to request money from 
the SGA budget on a case-by-case basis. 
No line item for the First-Year Committee 
has ever been set or institutionalized in the 
SGA budget.
“[SGA] Committees don’t have bud-
gets,” de Toledo said. “There is a ‘Commit-
tee Budget’ that covers all committees, and 
then it is the responsibility of members of 
[a given] committee to come and request 
an event, and we will allocate them some 
money to use on that event.”
According to Junior Senator and SGA 
President-Elect Karina Toy ’17, in years 
past, the First-Year Committee has re-
ceived upwards of $2,000 to fund various 
events throughout the year. However, they 
were always approved, as previously stat-
ed, on a case-by-case basis. 
Next year, as SGA President, Toy plays 
to fix the system to avoid further miscom-
munication. 
“We’re going to create a new index code, 
it will have $2,000 in it next year, and then 
give that to the First-Year Senators,” Toy 
said. “And then we’ll be very clear about 
[how] every time you make a purchase you 
need to return receipts within a week.”
Gratch declined to comment on the 
situation.
| May 12, 20162 NEWS
By Nick Garber
Community Council Correspondent 
& Staff Writer
Community 
Council
On Tuesday, May 3, President of the 
College Laurie L. Patton and Special 
Assistant to the President Dave Donahue 
visited Community Council to discuss several 
recent Council initiatives as well as broader 
questions pertaining to the long-term role of 
the body.
Patton’s visit began by giving brief 
thoughts on several topics that had been 
selected by the Council members. The first 
subject was the Honor Code, and whether it 
should be amended. Patton said that one of 
her primary concerns with the Honor Code is 
its inability to address cultural differences in 
regard to plagiarism.
“We have real cultural differences that 
are genuine around what it means to present 
your work as your own,” she said. “People 
who come from other cultures with different 
citation practices will paraphrase a lot of the 
quotes … and they get called out for plagiarism 
and it becomes extremely painful.”
Patton spoke next about the protected 
breaks recommendation introduced by 
Emma Bliska ’18. Patton advised that Bliska 
emphasize that her proposal seeks primarily 
to make mental health a higher priority in the 
design of syllabi.
Finally, Patton addressed the College’s 
involvement with the town of Middlebury. 
Patton cited economic differences as one 
frequent source of tension.
“The town used to have the wealth, in 
1800, and the College had none,” she said. 
“Now the College has the wealth and the town 
is struggling. That’s a structural inequality 
that we can do a lot to help change without 
necessarily compromising our educational 
mission.”
Patton went on to discuss her 
Conversations First Model for approaching 
contentious issues, and explained why she 
finds it to be a superior method. Patton cited 
recent student activism in regard to gender-
neutral bathrooms as an example of the 
positive effects of conversation.
“There was an electronic petition that 
hit me out of nowhere about gender-neutral 
bathrooms, from Trans and Allies,” she 
said. “I was like, ‘whoa — how do I respond, 
what do I do?’ So we had a conversation … 
and when the group and I met, they had a 
ten-point plan, and it was all doable. There 
wasn’t anything unreasonable in it. It was a 
very good, future-oriented plan. So they left 
kind of surprised, like, ‘We weren’t expecting 
that!’ I was like, ‘Well, that’s because you 
didn’t ask.’”
Finally, the group discussed the Council’s 
long-term role. Patton emphasized that 
she finds the Council to be a valuable force, 
and hopes that it can continue long into the 
future.
On Tuesday, May 10, the Council met for 
its final session of the 2015-16 academic year. 
The Council welcomed Roberto Lint Sagarena 
and Jennifer Herrera, director and associate 
director of the Anderson Freeman Resource 
Center, respectively, who gave an update on 
LGBTQ-related inclusivity initiatives.
Lint Sagarena and Herrera shared that 
the administration has adopted several new 
policies following a meeting in Old Chapel 
with the Trans Affinity Group. These policies 
include faculty training on the importance 
of respecting students’ preferred gender 
pronouns, updating the school website to 
include more information about the College’s 
health coverage of gender transitions, and 
expanding the number of gender-neutral 
restrooms across campus.
Clair Beltran ’16 asked how faculty might 
be incentivized to implement these policies, 
given the possibility that some could be 
resistant to change.
“Part of it, hopefully, is a persuasive 
enough presentation of why it matters,” 
Lint Sagarena responded. “After that, if it 
becomes something where there are faculty 
who are creating hostile a environment, that 
would be addressed on an individual basis.”
Council members also responded to 
questions posed by incoming Student Co-
Chair David Pesqueira ’17 regarding the 
Council’s accomplishments this past year and 
what members hope to address next year.
MiddRides App in Beta Goes on Test Drive 
By Rae Aaron
Contributing Writer
Two Professors Awarded in Ceremony
By Nora O’Leary
Contributing Writer
Professor of Political Science, Matt Dick-
inson accepted the Lamberti Faculty Ap-
preciation Award on Tuesday, May 10.
michael o’hara
On Sunday evening, May 8, the new 
MiddRides phone application success-
fully underwent its first trial run. The app, 
which drastically increases MiddRides ef-
ficiency, is set to be launched for student 
use this fall. 
After students register with their Col-
lege email address, they select a pick-up 
location from the nine currently existing 
locations as listed on the Public Safety 
website. The app then alerts the dispatch-
er, usually a Public Safety Officer, who re-
leases drivers to different locations based 
on the number of requests showing on 
the app’s spreadsheet. When a driver is 
en route, students are alerted through the 
app even when the app is closed on their 
phone. 
The app also follows up with students 
as to whether they got onto the van to pro-
vide statistics for Public Safety.
This first trial run culminates six 
months of intense development and col-
laboration between Public Safety and 
Middle Endian, the College’s Computer 
Science club. The six-member team of stu-
dent developers that created the app in-
cludes Sherif Nada ’16, Julian Billings ’16, 
Khi Hua Chou ’16, Ben Brown ’18, Nosagie 
Asaolu ’18 and Tao Peter Wang ’18, all of 
whom are studying or majoring in com-
puter science.
Public Safety met with the student de-
velopers to investigate options for the app, 
and Officer Debra Ekdahl confirmed that 
Sunday’s trial went well.
“The developers have worked to meet 
operational needs of the program and 
were receptive to feedback about possible 
changes,” Ekdahl said.
The team divided up the work over the 
development period, and used Android 
Studio for the tool, and Java and Node.js 
for programming language. The app was 
completed in March, and since then they 
have been testing it for bugs. 
Wang described the process as a fun 
self-taught learning experience with 
friends. The group has spent countless 
hours together, and Wang says the fun 
part is when they get together, argue over 
different ideas and come to a consensus in 
the end.
While the app will save both student 
and dispatcher time on the phone and 
create more effective routes, it is far from 
completion. The team will be moving the 
database to a different location, and hopes 
to incorporate more advanced features in 
the future such as wait time notification. 
With Nada — the leading member — and 
the two other seniors graduating this 
month, the group is recruiting at least one 
new student developer who enjoys coding 
to contribute to the team as they move into 
the app’s final stages.
SGA Committee spends $2000 in unapproved charges
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
May 12, 2016 |  3        News
Journalist Discusses Future of Higher Education
By Kitty Pollack
Contributing Writer
Projects for Peace Funds Aissatou Gaye ’16
Aissatou Gaye ’16 has just received a 
$10,000 grant from Projects for Peace, an 
organization that empowers undergradu-
ates worldwide to pursue ideas that harbor 
peace and facilitate positive change. The 
funding will enable Gaye, an economics 
major, to return to her home country of 
Senegal to start a youth summer enrich-
ment camp in Dakar in the hopes of culti-
vating human capital in a country with a 
floundering educational system. 
Gaye describes her grade school experi-
ence in Senegal as unchallenging and tra-
ditional. “When you’re in a classroom in 
Senegal, it’s just you listening to a teacher 
tell you what to think and how you should 
study,” she said. Her work will try to coun-
teract and reform this. 
While simple on paper, Gaye’s pro-
posal exposes her role in controlling the 
strings of this multifaceted operation. She 
has designed the three-week program as a 
spark for creativity, proactivity and criti-
cal thinking in the 30 or so participants 
she will have. The program will integrate 
daily classes, discussions, workshops, guest 
speakers and mentorships. 
Gaye has assembled a core team of five 
adults to help oversee teaching and logis-
tics, especially the groundwork in Senegal 
while she is still in Middlebury. To do this, 
she tapped into the network she established 
during high school at the African Leader-
ship Academy in South Africa, which in-
cluded her close friend and fellow Sen-
egalese Claire Audrey Ba, a senior at John 
Carroll University. Several other counsel-
ors will join the staff, bringing the student-
teacher ratio to 1:3. 
In selecting facilitators, Gaye kept a 
keen eye for those who share her drive. 
“One of the keys for a successful project is 
having people who are as passionate as you 
are about what you are trying to achieve,” 
she said. “And I was fortunate enough to 
have gathered those people who are highly 
motivated.” 
Gaye has confronted a number of chal-
lenges in her process, including outreach 
and housing for participants, many of 
whom will fly in from throughout Senegal. 
Graciously, her old boarding school offered 
their facilities and dormitories for the stu-
dents. Gaye is also moving to secure fund-
ing for the future and establish a mean-
ingful marketing campaign that will help 
sustain the current tuition-free model. 
The project spawned from Gaye’s work 
at MiddCORE last summer. Gaye hopes to 
translate her experiences at Middlebury 
and the African Leadership Academy into a 
program that will not only challenge partic-
ipants, but will also constantly gauge itself 
and its methods against the backdrop of its 
mission. This type of dynamism, combined 
with a concern for character, will help dis-
mantle the bulwark of the myopic educa-
tional system in place. 
Those who have worked with Gaye share 
admiration for her leadership and motiva-
tion. Economics Department Coordinator 
Amy Holbrook who has become close to 
Gaye since her first year remarked her life 
and the life of her 10-year-old son Elliot 
have been “enriched by Gaye’s presence.” 
Holbrook continued, “She has a very posi-
tive energy, which is why people gravitate 
towards her. She is also a modest leader.”  
Jessica Carrick-Hagenbarth, a visiting 
instructor in economics, said, “She’s a won-
derful example of somebody who has come 
from abroad and made incredible strides, 
succeeding in the work she’s done here.” 
Director of MiddCORE and Professor of 
Economics Jessica Holmes commented, “I 
met Gaye during MiddCORE last summer 
and was immediately struck by her creativ-
ity, work ethic, deep empathy and the gra-
cious way she interacts with others. By the 
end of the month, I knew she was going to 
change the world one day, and it looks like 
she already is!” 
By Brandon Baldovin
Contributing Writer
An economics major, Aissatou Gaye ’16 was awarded $10,000 from Projects for 
Peace and will start a youth summer enrichment camp in her home country, Senegal.
College Communications
Jeffrey J. Selingo, journalist, author 
and higher education analyst spoke at 
the College on Monday, May 9 in Dana 
Auditorium.  Selingo’s book College 
(Un)Bound: The Future of Higher Edu-
cation and What it Means for Students 
was a New York Times Best Seller in 
2013 and his newest book, There is Life 
After College was published last month. 
Selingo spent the majority of his 
career reporting on higher education 
as editor of The Chronicle of Higher 
Education. In his lecture he discussed 
the research he had conducted on the 
changing landscape of colleges and uni-
versities.  
Selingo began by discussing admis-
sions. He emphasized that though the 
media has sensationalized the shrink-
ing acceptance rates of elite colleges and 
universities, higher education in general 
is not becoming more selective. 
Selingo addressed the myth, devel-
oped by the press, that all Americans 
from ages 18 to 22 are enrolled in four-
year residential colleges.  In reality, 
however, only 20 percent of students 
pursuing degrees in higher education go 
to traditional four-year private colleges. 
This myth has led students and states to 
feel less connected to their public uni-
versities.  This is problematic at a time 
when the American student body is un-
dergoing a massive change. 
Eight million more students are pur-
suing higher education than they did two 
and a half decades ago.  Selingo said the 
fundamental issue for this diversifying 
student body is income inequality. Ac-
cording to Selingo, while a student has a 
one in 17 chance of getting a bachelor’s 
degree by the time he or she is 26 if his 
or her family makes less than $30,000 a 
year, he or she would have a one in two 
chance if his or her family made more 
than $90,000 a year. 
Selingo also discussed the college 
wage premium — the average bump in 
wages for college graduates — which has 
risen from 42 percent in the 1980’s to 
more than 80 percent today.  Selingo 
said this shift has caused college degrees 
to be treated increasingly as commodi-
ties. And yet, Selingo said, a degree is 
no longer a guarantee of success. Fifty 
percent of college graduates are under-
employed in jobs that do not require a 
bachelor’s degree.
Selingo said it is time to rethink high-
er education in our changing economy. 
His newest book There is Life After Col-
lege describes the skills gap that stu-
dents face. According to Selingo, em-
ployers are not looking for hard skills 
but rather soft skills. They are looking 
for curiosity, grit, contextual thinking 
and humility.  They want their employ-
ees to be communicators, writers, or-
ganized, detail-oriented and problem 
solvers.  Selingo argued that today’s un-
dergraduate education is not producing 
students with these competencies. Stu-
dents are overwhelmed by requirements 
and are expected to master both practi-
cal and liberal arts and be experiential 
learners in the span of four years.  
Selingo argued for the need for a 
more holistic education. He pointed 
to the open loop university, an idea 
that originated at the Stanford Design 
School.  An open loop university would 
offer students six years of schooling to 
complete at any point in their lifetime, 
in any increment. 
Selingo delivered the annual Robert 
W. van de Velde ’75 Memorial lecture. 
Van de Velde attended the College and 
was an active member of the the Col-
lege’s radio station during his time here. 
After his death in 1981, his parents, 
widow and other family members and 
friends created the lecture series to hon-
or his passion for broadcast journalism. 
The series bring speakers to campus to 
discuss public affairs and journalism.
Jeffrey J. Selingo, a journalist and author, spoke on May 9 about the problems with 
the future of higher education.
Michael Borenstein
that comes from justice, and not from 
repression.”
Sen’s speech was followed by a panel of 
student activists, including Angie McCarthy 
’19, Rana Abdelhamid ’15 and Ashley 
Bomboka, a current senior at Bowdoin 
College.
Asked about her experience with 
activism at Middlebury, Abdelhamid shared 
that she felt disillusioned as a freshman.
McCarthy said that during her short 
time at the College, she has tried to identify 
various potential avenues for activism.
“I started my work here in much more 
informal settings, with conversations within 
my commons and within my friend groups, 
as well as going to different cultural orgs 
and having conversations there,” she said. 
“Most of my activist work has been through 
AIM, and right now we’re working to create 
a more inclusive Middlebury that all of us 
can not just enjoy, but grow with.”
Bomboka said that she has learned from 
her activism at Bowdoin to be “as solution-
oriented as possible.”
 “[Early in my college career] I was just 
angry, and I was mad and I wanted to say 
everything I wanted to say,” Bomboka said. 
“That can’t get you far, because you’re not 
engaging people — it’s just putting yourself 
out there, and nobody can really work with 
that, even you yourself can’t really work 
with that. So always keep that glass-half-full 
approach, and try to find ways to connect 
with other people, versus staying in your 
own zone of anger and venting.”
The symposium concluded with a speech 
by Rashawn Ray, a sociology professor 
at the University of Maryland, College 
Park, and a faculty panel on issues of race, 
difference and power.
Patton, who attended the entire day’s 
events, told The Campus that she valued the 
symposium’s inclusion of diverse voices and 
pragmatic focus.
“I think it’s been a fantastic event so 
far, partly because of the voices that have 
been part of the conversation,” she said. 
“We’ve had student and faculty voices from 
Monterey, from Middlebury and staff voices 
from Middlebury, as well as other colleges 
like us, like Bowdoin.”
“I’ve also felt like the conversation was 
really constructive and focused on things 
that we can do, and best practices,” she said. 
“And the more conversations are focused 
on best practices, the better off we’re all 
going to be, and the better off we can make 
Middlebury.”
aim, Alliance for An Inclusive MiddlEbury, Hosts Symposium
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
local
Vermont’s reputation for progres-
sive and liberal politics may be unde-
served, at least when it comes to labor-
gender equality.
A recent report by “Change the Sto-
ry,” a statewide initiative devoted to fe-
male economic empowerment, revealed 
that little has changed in Vermont for 
women workers since the passage of Ti-
tle IX in 1972. Occupational segregation, 
or the uneven gender distribution across 
and within labor sectors, stubbornly per-
sists. 
“Women are clustered in the same 
occupations today as they were back in 
1970,” Cary Brown, Executive Director 
of the Vermont Commission on Women 
informed VTDigger.  “We still have ideas 
about what are appropriate jobs for 
women and what are appropriate jobs 
for men.”
These ‘female professions’ include 
office administration, food-service, 
teaching and nursing, according to the 
“Change the Story” report. Typical “male 
professions” include computers and 
math, engineering and law enforcement. 
The College is no exception. As the 
largest employer in 
Addsion County, the 
College employs over 
1,500 Vermonters in 
faculty and staff po-
sitions. The report 
illuminates the occu-
pational segregation 
present among these 
employees and possible gender biases in 
hiring decisions.
The most recent report on the status 
of women faculty and staff dates back to 
2008. It states that the “College on the 
Hill” perpetuates occupational segrega-
tion, corroborating findings from the 
2016 “Change the Story” report.  
Men Dominate High-Paying Sec-
tors
In 2015, female alumni from the Col-
lege earned a median salary of $57,300 
ten years after matriculating. Male alum-
ni from the same class year earned 91 
percent more, or $109,200.
This salary discrepancy is not unique 
to Middlebury. Amherst College,  a simi-
lar liberal arts institution, reported a dif-
ference of 79 percent between male and 
female alumni. 
Often, male-heavy enrollment in en-
gineering programs at liberal arts colleg-
es helps account for high salaries of male 
graduates. However, Middlebury has no 
engineering program. What gives?
At Middlebury, the lucrative male-
dominated path appears to be finance. 
Middlebury’s economics department is 
currently the most popular major among 
all students. Roughly two of every three 
economics majors are male, according to 
a 2014 Student Profile Report published 
by the College.
The same report revealed the gen-
der distribution was even more skewed 
among physics and computer science 
majors. In the physics department, male 
students outnumbered females four to 
one. Among computer science majors, 
there were five males for every two fe-
males.
At Middlebury College, the under-
representation of females in STEM and 
finance courses reflects their under-
representation in similar professional 
fields. According to the 2016 report, 
only 26 percent of positions in science or 
mathematical occupations in Vermont 
are female. Yet, women earn the high-
est median annual salary ($68,919) of 
all major employment sectors. This is 
significant in a state where, according 
to a 5-Year Average 
Report by the U.S. 
Census, women make 
up a disproportionate 
share of Vermonters 
living in poverty.
Strangely, occu-
pational segregation 
in Vermont’s STEM 
sector does not begin in high school. The 
College Board reported that female high 
school students in Vermont are just as 
likely to take Advanced Placement tests 
in calculus, chemistry and biology as 
their male peers. 
However, men at the University of 
Vermont and other Vermont state col-
leges (VSCs) continue to outpace women 
in pursuing graduate degrees in physics, 
chemistry, computer science, econom-
ics and engineering. From 2011 to 2014, 
UVM and other VSCs awarded 4 physics 
degrees to women and 21 to men. Eigh-
teen women received degrees in com-
puter science in the same time span that 
128 men did. The engineering programs 
had roughly six male graduates for every 
female.
According to students at Middlebury 
College, gender distribution among col-
lege majors appears to be a Catch-22 sce-
nario: “Guys create a culture that’s hard 
to break into as a female. I feel like that’s 
the main issue for most male-dominated 
fields. It’s not really the work, but the 
interpersonal connections that exclude 
women,” said Mike Pettit ’16, a computer 
science major. “There’s a way you act 
when you’re with people that’s all your 
gender.” 
He noted conversations in the com-
puter science lab were on traditionally 
“guy topics” like the NBA playoffs.
Shannia Fu ’17, a female computer 
science major, has 
felt excluded by males 
in her major, though 
not for social rea-
sons. In the summer 
of 2015, Fu worked 
as a research assis-
tant for a computer 
science professor 
alongside three male 
coworkers. When she 
pointed out flaws in 
their code or logic, 
she was accused of 
being too aggressive.
“None of the 
other guys called one 
another aggressive,” she said. “The worst 
thing is when I displayed a sort-of pissed 
off reaction, the other two guys also jok-
ingly called me aggressive. I think a lot 
of people, not just women, would be dis-
couraged by comments like that.”
Fu noted that her experience as 
a female computer science major at 
Middlebury has generally been positive. 
“At Middlebury, I actually think most of 
the CS teachers are very conscious of try-
ing to help the women achieve what they 
want to achieve,” she said.
WiCs++, or Women in Computer 
Science, is a recent example of an initia-
tive by faculty to encourage and support 
women in the department.
“In addition to providing support for 
minorities in CS on campus, we want to 
promote CS for minorities in the Midd 
community by holding events. We want 
to encourage girls to pursue CS in college 
if they want,” Fu said, describing a solu-
tion beyond patching the primary educa-
tion pipeline.
Tenure at Middlebury College
While professorship was not includ-
ed as a computer or math-related occu-
pation in the “Change the Story” report, 
female professors at the College contin-
ue to face challenges with under-repre-
sentation among tenured colleagues.
In terms of salary, female faculty 
members did not make less than their 
male colleagues with similar rank and 
experience (measured by number of 
years since gaining a Ph.D.), according 
to a 2008 report by the Task Force on the 
Status of Women at Middlebury College.
However, female professors at the 
College continue to be underrepresented 
in tenured and tenure-track positions. 
According to the 2008 report, women 
were more likely to be hired into term 
positions than tenure-track positions 
among assistant professors. As of 2009, 
female faculty held only 12 of the 50 en-
dowed professorship positions.
The administration has known of 
this discrepancy 
since 1997, when the 
first report by the 
Task Force on the 
Status of Women 
at Middlebury Col-
lege was published. 
An updated report 
in 2008, based on a 
survey of about 900 
respondents includ-
ing student, staff and 
faculty, revealed the 
same discrepancy – 
only 24 percent of 
full professors and 29 
percent of associate 
professors were female.
It makes sense to expect a slow-
er change in female representation in 
full professor positions given the time 
it takes to attain tenure and the small 
number of female tenured professors in 
1997. But given that 46 percent of faculty 
hires from 1999 to 2007 were female, 
what explains the stubborn occupational 
segregation among associate professors?
In five of the eight years spanning 
1999 to 2007, the College hired more 
males. In two of these years, they hired 
an equal number. In just one year the 
College hired more females.
Evidence also suggests that these 
hiring practices are affecting professors’ 
ability to gain respect and command a 
class. In a survey from 2008, female pro-
fessors said they had “to work extra hard 
to prove ourselves in class,” and that 
“students often have very stereotypical 
presumptions about the characteristics 
faculty should possess to be ‘professo-
rial.’
A male professor agreed. “Women 
professors are not treated with the same 
respect – by colleagues or students – 
that men receive. I am a beneficiary of 
this sexism, and I do not like it. Why 
should students and fellow faculty defer 
to me because I’m male?”
Continued on next page.
Gender Disparities Persist in Vermont STEM Jobs
By Hye-Jin Kim and Rebecca Walker
Senior Writer and Local Editor
Courtesy Change the Story
Little has changed since 1970, as women are still overrepresented in the above professions.
Courtesy Change the Story
 “None of the other 
guys called each other 
aggressive.”
Shannia Fu ’17
 “In addition to pro-
viding support for 
minorities in CS on 
campus, we want to 
promote CS for mi-
norities in the Midd 
community by hold-
ing events.”
Shannia Fu ’17
Continued from page 3.
This disadvantage in prestige and 
respect that female faculty must over-
come also includes difficulty asserting 
authority in classrooms and facing ag-
gression from male students in response 
to grading.
Middlebury Staff Labor Divisions
The report’s findings also help ex-
plain the perpetuation of 1970s-era gen-
der-labor divisions at the College. 
“[In Vermont], women’s work is still 
women’s work,” the Change the Story re-
port concluded.
It cited 
the most seg-
regated sector 
in Vermont as 
the Installa-
tion, Mainte-
nance and Re-
pair sector. The 
workforce is 98 
percent male. 
The Facilities 
Services staff 
directory on the 
College website 
reflects this re-
ality.
Supervisors 
related to main-
tenance and 
repair (land-
scape services, 
plumbing, elec-
trical, heating and ventilation, carpen-
ters/painters/locksmiths) are all male. 
In addition, the managers of Energy and 
Technology, the Central Heating Plant, 
Furniture Distribution and the Mainte-
nance Projects were also all male. Only 
one supervisor and one manager listed 
in Facilities Services were female. They 
are in charge of waste management and 
support services, respectively.
Meanwhile, the gender balance in 
traditionally female occupations like 
nursing, office administration and book-
keeping has remained nearly constant 
from 1970 to 2013. Similarly, all seven 
nurses at the College’s Parton Center for 
Health and Wellness are women.  
 “Women are clustered in the same 
occupations today as they were back in 
1970,” said Cary Brown of the Vermont 
Commission on Women. “We still have 
cultural ideas about what are appropri-
ate jobs for women and what are appro-
priate jobs for men.”
Though occupational segregation 
among staff is clearly present at the Col-
lege, annual reviews of salary data by the 
College’s Human Resources department 
report there is no gender-bias in payroll.
Occupational Segregation and the 
Pay Gap: The Bigger Picture
While Title IX ensures men and 
women in the same position receive the 
same salary, occupational segregation 
may be responsible for the existing pay 
gap between men and women in Ver-
mont. The pay gap is often exacerbated 
by career advancement opportuni-
ties being prioritized for male heads of 
households over women. This dilemma 
presents itself to staff and faculty alike.
According to the “Change the Story” 
report, female-dominated occupations 
are less likely than male-dominated oc-
cupations to pay median annual wages 
above $35,000. This is the minimum sal-
ary required to meet the “basic needs of 
an individual” based on a market-based 
projection of living costs by the Vermont 
Joint Fiscal Office.
In addition, women who work full-
time are more likely to struggle finan-
cially as single providers; 50 percent 
of these women 
are employed 
in fields where 
the median an-
nual salary is 
below $35,000, 
compared to 13 
percent of men. 
Eight of 10 male-
dominated oc-
cupations pay 
median annual 
wages above 
$35,000. Only 
one female-
dominated job, 
health diag-
nostician, pays 
enough to sup-
port a single 
parent with one 
child with a me-
dian salary of 
$72,000.
According to reports from “Change 
the Story,” there are about 16,595 sin-
gle mothers with financially dependent 
children currently living in Vermont. 
Of these women, about one-third live 
in poverty despite the fact that they are 
working full-time jobs. 
“When 43 percent of women work-
ing full-time are not meeting their basic 
needs, that’s a big problem,” Director 
of Vermont’s Women 
Fund Meg Smith told 
VPR.  “Women who 
are a single-parent 
household are nine 
times more likely to 
live in poverty.”
Given these statis-
tics, another Catch-22 
scenario emerges. 
Women in Vermont, 
even when working 
full-time, are likely 
to rely on a male’s in-
come to support their 
family. If males con-
sistently make more 
than females, it also 
makes economic sense 
to prioritize the male 
partner’s job.
This may give the male head of 
household more influence in household 
decisions that negatively affect women’s 
opportunities for career advancement. A 
woman’s potential to earn more money, 
possibly more than her spouse, is limited 
by the pay-gap created through occupa-
tional segregation.
This Catch-22 is not limited to 
women making less than $35,000 a year 
who are more likely to rely on a spouse’s 
earnings. Female professors at the Col-
lege report facing a similar dilemma.
“Spousal/partner employment re-
mains a central challenge in faculty re-
cruitment and retention, and one that 
may have a disproportionate effect on 
our ability to attract and retain female 
faculty at all levels,” according to the 
2008 Task Force report.
To address this, the College is a mem-
ber of the Academic Career Network, an 
organization that offers job networking 
in academia, and extends support of the 
Career Services Office to assist faculty 
spouses and part-
ners in finding em-
ployment.
Yet, the data 
suggests this is not 
enough. Accord-
ing to the 2008 
report, female fac-
ulty members were 
six times more 
likely than male 
colleagues to cite 
spousal employ-
ment as a reason 
for resignation.
In terms of 
parental leave, the 
College offers a 
generous 12-week 
paid leave for fac-
ulty. For staff, paid parental leave is just 
six weeks – though a considerable boost 
from the allotted 3 weeks before 2009.
The College’s current policies ap-
pear to be inadequate in relieving the 
double burden of work-family roles 
placed on women, for both faculty and 
staff. What, if anything, can the College 
do to help address occupational segrega-
tion, a problem that is widespread across 
Vermont?
In the state as a whole, advocates 
for women recognize that solid changes 
must be made to address this segrega-
tion.
“When we look at the education that 
young women are choosing, the appren-
ticeships, the college majors, we are not 
seeing the potential for a change in these 
patterns without taking some concrete 
steps,” Brown remarked to VTDigger.
Courtesy Change the Story
 
“When 43 percent 
of women working 
full-time are not 
meeting their basic 
needs, that’s a big 
problem.”
Meg Smith 
Director of Vermont Women’s Fund “When we look at the ed-
ucation that young wom-
en are choosing, the ap-
prenticeships, the college 
majors, we are not seeing 
the potential for a change 
in these patterns with-
out taking some concrete 
steps.”
Cary Brown
Executive Director
the Vermont Comission on Women
At liberal arts colleges across the nation, female alumni often earn less than male alumni. The disparity is particularly notable at the College.
may 12, 2016| 5local 
During my second week at Middlebury, 
I was eating dinner in Ross with a group of 
students from my first-year hall discussing 
politics. I made a provocative comment about 
libertarianism, when someone disagreed with 
me. Ready to engage in a lively debate, I was 
startled when another student chimed in, sug-
gesting that we shift the conversation away 
from politics to something less controversial. 
Everyone at the table nodded in agreement.
Wanting to remain bright-eyed and op-
timistic about Middlebury, I attributed this 
seeming unwillingness to engage in debate to 
the fact that it was the second week of school. 
Okay, I thought, I get it. We’re just getting to 
know each other, so we should keep things 
from getting too combative. But deep down, 
I was surprised. What was the point of col-
lege if not to challenge my own beliefs and ex-
pand my understanding of the world, in part 
through debate with my brilliant peers? Did I 
make a mistake in coming to a New England 
liberal arts school where there was an eerie 
sense of pristine stillness that masked the ten-
sions looming beneath the surface?  
This year, tensions surfaced. And serving 
as President of the Student Government As-
sociation afforded me an opportunity to think 
hard and often about the nature of the ten-
sions, as well as that which comes more natu-
rally to me as a Psychology major: how we as a 
community respond to these tensions.
It takes only one quick click on our smart-
phones to see that Yik Yak is home to some of 
the most involved debate surrounding cam-
pus tensions. And that makes sense – why at-
tribute your name to a thought that is contro-
versial, complicated, or thorny when you don’t 
have to? Certainly, there are circumstances in 
which anonymity is important and must be 
maintained. But it is almost as if anonymous 
and malicious arguments on Yik Yak have re-
placed thoughtful and respectful debates both 
inside and outside the classroom. 
I have often felt at a loss for words this year. 
Whether in Senate meetings, in interviews for 
The Campus, in Community Council meet-
ings, in classes or in town halls, too often, I 
withheld my opinion for fear of how it would 
be received. It isn’t worth it, I thought. I no-
ticed similar trends in peers at Senate meet-
ings in which Senators remained quiet on 
controversial issues only to approach me after 
to express that they felt unable to dissent on 
the Senate floor where their every word is re-
corded and made public by the minute-taker 
and Campus correspondent. In all likelihood, 
this is a challenge with which our entire gen-
eration will continue to grapple—technologi-
cal advancement presents many difficulties, as 
we are all ever aware of the possibility of fac-
ing public and permanent shaming, trolling, 
or critique for expressing unpopular opinions. 
But the alternative we are left with is not 
exactly utopian either. The less we are able to 
engage in thoughtful disagreement with those 
from whom we ideologically differ, the more 
we isolate ourselves and the more fragmented 
our community becomes.  
This past fall, we had a series of town hall 
meetings that culminated in a community-
wide discussion in a very packed Mead Cha-
pel. Indeed, the meeting was flawed according 
to some, a toxic space according to others. 
Still, the very fact that Mead Chapel was full 
of students, faculty, and staff members indi-
cates that our community wants to engage. 
And so we must continue to show up-- and 
not just when a dramatic controversy erupts. 
We cannot afford to shy away from tensions 
on campus by reverting to Yik Yak or the 
anonymous comments section on The Cam-
pus website. We will not benefit from making 
the mistake that I did, believing that it is better 
to remain silent than to create an uncomfort-
able disagreement. We have the luxury of liv-
ing together in a small and vibrant community 
– why would we not throw ourselves into the 
fray completely, jumping at every opportunity 
to learn from our peers and mentors through 
dynamic, imperfect, and challenging conver-
sations that often result in disagreement?
Sure, we may not have perfected the art of 
conversation yet. We may not have the skills 
necessary to argue while remaining calm and 
compassionate. We definitely, as a commu-
nity, do not have all the answers – not to the 
actual issues that plague our community nor 
to the best ways of working through them in 
the aftermath. But I believe that we are ripe for 
the answers. In the words of one of my favorite 
poets, Rainer Maria Rilke: “The point is to live 
everything. Live the questions now. Perhaps 
you will then gradually, without noticing it, live 
along some distant day into the answer.” The 
best way I know to live the questions, to live 
everything, is through honest disagreement. 
Please, consider joining me in this endeavor: 
let’s agree to do much more disagreeing.
Institutions are shaped by inherited 
traditions and policies, preserved by both 
codification and memory. The editorial 
board of The Mid-
dlebury Campus is 
comprised of stu-
dents who typically 
serve from two to 
three years. With 
such a rapid turn-
over rate, in the 
absence of clear codification of standards, 
there is limited institutional memory. 
This year, when conversations regarding 
race, identity, privilege, political correct-
ness and free speech – and the many ways 
in which these topics intersect – came to 
the forefront, we had only vague policies 
to guide us in difficult decisions regarding 
what to print. We were admittedly unpre-
pared to deal with these issues and scram-
bled to address them thoughtfully. 
These conversations, while important 
and long overdue, proved divisive and The 
Campus’ Opinions section often served as 
the battleground. We want to revisit our 
policies and clarifying our standards mov-
ing forward. We hope to become a space 
that better enables productive discourse 
– a critical component of our school’s 
progress toward inclusivity. We won’t ac-
complish this overnight, but we have ideas 
on how to begin to build stronger founda-
tions for this paper moving forward.
We plan to re-evaluate our criteria for 
Opinions submissions over the summer 
and present our thoughts on an updated 
policy in the fall. Our current policies 
have, both directly and indirectly, failed to 
establish a section that reflects the diverse 
voices of our student body. We also can do 
more to improve the quality of submis-
sions and we intend to work more close-
ly with writers on how to develop better 
arguments in an op-ed. This will include 
an editor-writer mentorship program, in 
which writers will have the opportunity to 
ask editors questions as they write – and 
revise – their work. This one-on-one men-
torship will not be limited to the Opinions 
section. Writers for all sections will have 
the opportunity to meet with designated 
editors before they write an article and 
strategize the best ways to gain informa-
tion and craft a thoughtful piece. We will 
also offer writers the opportunity to do 
live edits with an editor, giving contribu-
tors a clearer understanding of the edit-
ing process. We hope that these programs 
will encourage students to write, and help 
them feel better equipped to do so. 
Likewise, in order to increase our con-
tact with the student body, we will in-
troduce office hours with our editors. We 
hope that the opportunity for face-to-face 
interaction with our editors will help alle-
viate concerns that our paper is a faceless 
institution disconnected from the student 
body, and allow for concerns and perspec-
tives to be shared with our board. The 
dates and times of our office hours will be 
announced in the fall. 
At the heart of our plan is a push for 
a better quality newspaper. The issue 
of quality is twofold: the quality of one’s 
writing and the quality of content. The lat-
ter has been subject of much debate across 
this campus and within our newsroom. 
We will work to reconcile our belief that a 
controversial opinion is better revealed in 
the light — rather than hidden in the dark 
— with repeated calls from students to not 
gratuitously stir the pot. We know that 
some weeks, depending on the submis-
sions we receive, a rather one-dimensional 
perspective on a given issue is presented. 
We’d like to introduce a new program in 
which the Opinions section invites stu-
dents to write in on a given topic. A given 
theme will be announced two weeks in 
advance, and students will have the op-
portunity to write in with their thoughts. 
We will then publish several op-eds on the 
topic – perhaps five or six – that demon-
strate a depth and breadth of opinion. We 
hope this program will create a more bal-
anced Opinions section in which no single 
perspective dominates the conversation in 
a given week. We do not have all the an-
swers yet, but we are working towards a 
more sound policy that allows all students 
to be heard without privileging any one 
perspective.
While we work to improve the qual-
ity of both the writing and the arguments 
presented in these pages, we ask the com-
munity to reflect on how we engage with 
arguments that we find wrong and even 
offensive. There is an undeniable shame 
culture that has formed around sharing 
unpopular opinions. While this too is a 
national phenomenon, it feels particularly 
personal on a small, intimate campus like 
ours. Controversial opinions are mocked 
in public via Facebook statuses and Yik 
Yak, and those who have dared to voice an 
opinion outside of liberal confines are vili-
fied and even threatened. While disagree-
ment is inevitable – and, when engaged in 
respectfully, wholly productive – we do not 
want students to feel as though they are 
punished for sharing their perspectives. 
The comments section on our website par-
ticularly has historically been toxic and 
disrespectful. In an attempt to encourage 
thoughtful engagement rather than flip-
pant and spiteful retorts – and in line with 
previous arguments we have made about 
the moral hazard of anonymity – all com-
menters will be required to post with their 
name attached with confirmation through 
email or social media account.  
Writers stand to benefit from the wis-
dom of professionals within our commu-
nity. In addition to office hours with The 
Campus editors and one-on-one mentor-
ship programs, we intend to work with 
published writers and academics on Mid-
dlebury’s campus – including Bill McKib-
ben, Sue Halpern and Susan Greenberg 
– who can host workshops on writing and 
publishing in the digital age. We hope that 
the training and advice of these well-re-
spected professionals – all of whom have 
dealt with criticism for the opinions ar-
ticulated in their writing – will empower 
students to share their perspectives and 
engage confidently with those who dis-
agree with them. They can also teach us 
all a thing or two about writing a good ar-
ticle. 
This year has been challenging for all of 
us. Students, many of whom already feel 
marginalized on this campus, have been 
alienated by this publication. This board 
has grappled with the responsibility of our 
platform and our believed journalistic im-
perative to recognize a diversity of opin-
ions. We must continue to engage in these 
difficult, often painful, conversations. 
While we will not shy away from discord 
and controversy, The Campus will listen 
to your concerns and work towards be-
ing a more responsible vehicle for debate. 
Here is to a thoughtful 2017.
opinions
editorial board 
The content written within the 
Opinions pages may cause emotional 
distress. Please exercise discretion.
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor. The 
opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions 
section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial com-
ics and other commentary, are views of the individ-
ual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the 
opinions of the newspaper. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.
middleburycampus.com. To be considered for pub-
lications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. 
Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all 
submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
Trading Tradition for Progress
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Claire Abbadi
MANAGING EDITOR
Leah Lavigne
BUSINESS MANAGER
Wyatt French
NEWS EDITORS 
Christian Jambora, Eliza Teach, Phil Bohl-
man, Ellie Reinhardt
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Sara Hodgkins, Francesca Haass, Lauren 
Alper, Nina Colombotos 
SPORTS EDITORS 
Alex Morris, Emily Bustard, Andrew Rigas, 
Will Case, Remo Plunkett
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Rebecca Walker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Emilie Munson, Ethan Brady, Henry Bur-
nett, Renee Chang
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Elizabeth Zhou, Toby Aicher
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel Frank, Ivan Valladares, Michael 
O’Hara, Anthea Viragh, Michael Boren-
stein 
DESIGN EDITORS
Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Boone McCoy-Crisp
ONLINE EDITORS
Maggie Cochrane, Pyone Aye 
COPY EDITOR
Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOST
Nathaniel Wiener
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITORS
 Pyone Aye, Nathaniel Wiener
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
official opinion of 
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Disclaimer: Reader op-eds do not reflect the opinion of The Middlebury Campus editorial board. 
the importance of disagreeing
reader op-ed
Ilana Gratch ’16 is the SGA President 
from Larchmont, NY
In many ways, this year at Middlebury 
felt like occupying a community divided. 
Three different events this weekend com-
posed an especially ironic display of Mid-
dlebury’s climate: Derby Day, a symposium 
entitled “Activists, Allies and Accomplices: 
Responses to Racism Today” and the Dis-
tinguished Men of Color (DMC) Block 
Party. At Derby Day, mainly white students 
boarded buses to an off-campus party, 
wearing summer dresses and big hats — 
paying tribute to a horse race and, de facto, 
to southern culture. I was one of those stu-
dents. The symposium, which most stu-
dents in this community could benefit from 
attending, addressed the issues of class and 
race that were exemplified all too well at 
Saturday’s Derby-themed affair. The Block 
Party, a spring tradition, included a basket-
ball tournament, BBQ and music perfor-
mances. The racial split between each event 
was stark. On this day, I reflected on this 
interesting and ironic way to end my time 
at Middlebury as we continue to be divided 
as a community, with our social life more 
stratified than ever.
This isn’t the only irony that I have con-
fronted this year. Another irony that I have 
grappled with is my own identity as a black 
woman and my position as the head of an 
institution deemed racist and classist by 
many. As Editor-in-Chief, I have spent all 
year defending The Campus newspaper, 
our policies and the importance of our role. 
That was my job. It isn’t my job anymore. 
Now, I am going to give you my perspective 
as an individual and not as a representative 
of this institution, because components of 
my identity have informed how I have ap-
proached the role.
Being a person of color has complicated 
my role as Editor-in-Chief. Submissions 
that contained inflammatory, at times of-
fensive content affected me on a deeply 
personal level, as they did for many other 
students within this community. As a wom-
an of color, I have been outraged by the 
suggestions of certain submissions. I think 
that at times my silence has been perceived 
as an implicit endorsement of these ideas 
when that could not be further from the 
truth. What differentiates me from other 
students on the campus, including other 
students of color, is that my role as Editor-
in-Chief required that I choose content ob-
jectively, without letting my emotions cloud 
my judgement. This means that I have ap-
proved the publication of content that I ve-
hemently disagree with and have had to live 
with those decisions. These choices were 
not made indiscriminately. I agonized over 
them; however, I felt compelled to priori-
tize my responsibilities as an elected leader 
over the indignation I felt.
 Those decisions defined the percep-
tions of my editorship. As our community 
discussed race, identity and privilege, it be-
came clear that my role in these conversa-
tions would have to be as a representative 
of the newspaper, not as an independent 
person. The unique perspective I offer as 
a POC was not acknowledged, and it nev-
er was. Instead, my decisions and policies 
were attacked. As one student wrote to me, 
“I continuously expect more from you and 
am continuously disappointed … I don’t 
expect change, but I do expect that a senti-
ment like this will stick with you and hope-
fully make you think twice in the future.” I 
was painted as someone unsympathetic to 
the minority experience on campus, even 
though I am a minority. My experience 
and my perspective was invalidated, I be-
lieve, for a number of reasons — including 
my role in the newspaper. I am not telling 
you this so you will feel sorry for me. I don’t 
need sympathy. What I do need, however, 
is the acknowledgement that my experi-
ence, while not all that unique, is indicative 
of a broader issue — a community that has 
developed very strict standards for what it 
means to be “black” and what it means to 
be “white.” And, for another subset, what it 
means to be a “white ally.” These standards 
have undoubtedly been imposed by both 
sides. I have been called “so white” by other 
students — including friends — numerous 
times. The problematic implication of this 
is that whiteness is associated with certain 
traits and that we have developed a narrow 
definition of what it means to be “white” or 
“black.”
The unfortunate and inevitable outcome 
of these narrow definitions has been the 
radicalization of conversations surround-
ing race. Those who do not fully embrace 
the stances and objectives of one side have 
been excluded from the conversation. I, 
too, have felt this exclusion at times. Re-
sponses toward my decisions ranged from 
pedantic and hard-to-grasp to aggressive 
and emotional. If we want to be a truly in-
clusive community, then we need to reas-
sess our constructions of “whiteness” and 
“blackness” and leave room for more fluid 
interpretations of identity.  
Despite my plea for a community-wide 
shift, I am also complicit in the construc-
tion of the culture we have developed. Even 
though I stand by the editorial decisions 
we made, I still struggle to reconcile the 
expectations of my role with the fact that 
a student told me that I had personally 
made them feel unsafe and that my deci-
sions have made them not want to leave 
their room. How do you come to terms 
with that? The guilt I feel, however, stands 
alongside the duty to lead this paper, which 
serves our entire student body and reflects 
the climate of our campus — as disappoint-
ingly narrow-minded as it can sometimes 
be.
Though I am leaving Middlebury, my 
hope for this community is that it will con-
tinue to embody the progressive spirit so 
fundamental to its ethos — to push bound-
aries and set new standards, but while do-
ing so, to recognize the humanity of those 
around us. Somewhere along the way, our 
anger and indignation drove us further 
apart. We imposed one-size-fits-all defini-
tions of identity on one another and forgot 
that, in the words of Ta-Nehisi Coates, “We 
should seek not a world where the black 
race and white race live in harmony, but a 
world in which the terms black and white 
have no real political meaning.”
 Middlebury will continue to grapple 
with these issues — the insidious nature 
of privilege at this school, class and racial 
divides — but my hope is that while we ap-
proach these issues, we remember that a 
great deal of nuance guides our thinking. 
I hope we continue to have these difficult, 
but important conversations. With that, I 
wish the best of luck to Ellie Reinhardt and 
Christian Jambora as they take the helm of 
The Campus. To my editors, you know the 
respect and admiration I have for each of 
you.
 
Abbadi, out.
Looking Back, Moving Forward
Activists, Allies and Accomplices
“Racial Tensions Escalate Dramat-
ically Across College Campuses” was 
a frequent headline across the coun-
try this past year. Many of our peer 
schools found themselves includ-
ed in the news coverage, and while 
Middlebury wasn’t highlighted by 
the media, we all saw plenty of pain, 
frustration, anger, hurt and tension 
expressed on campus.  
Inclusion of all kinds seems like 
a difficult goal in a community like 
ours, which is often perceived by 
many of our members as homoge-
nous. Countless arguments about the 
goal of inclusivity played out on our 
campus this year in digital, print and 
social media, in private discussions 
and in public forums. 
When Middlebury chose Laurie 
Patton to become its first female 
president, we also chose a president 
who is unequivocally committed to 
making diversity and inclusion a part 
of the campus’s everyday ethics. To 
that end, she appointed the Alliance 
for an Inclusive Middlebury (AIM) 
last December to promote a college-
wide approach to issues of diversity, 
access and equity, and she asked us 
to lead the group. Last weekend, we 
hosted our inaugural symposium. 
The symposium, which focused on 
“Activists, Allies and Accomplices: 
Responses to Racism Today,” began 
by exploring the current idea that 
“ally” has become an identity disem-
bodied from any real understanding 
of support and that “accomplice” is 
a more powerful term. An accom-
plice is a person who is bound to a 
commitment or movement by becom-
ing complicit, whereas an ally can 
be temporary or step back from the 
work at will. This past fall’s town 
hall meetings emphasized the need 
for white accomplices in the fight 
for racial justice, and numerous col-
leagues from the community stepped 
up. 
We also highlighted the importance 
of student activism and its successes 
including the Middlebury Ferguson 
Action Group, which students cre-
ated in response to the death of Mi-
chael Brown. We heard from student 
activists from Middlebury College, as 
well as the Middlebury Institute for 
International Studies at Monterey 
(MIIS), and learned how they have 
approached the idea of allies, or ac-
complices, at each institution. 
Saturday morning at the sympo-
sium, President Patton provided an 
overview of where we have been, 
and where we might go in the com-
ing year, stressing that inclusion as 
an everyday ethic is an ongoing pro-
cess. Her thoughtful remarks were 
followed by keynote speaker Rinku 
Sen, the president and executive di-
rector of Race Forward: The Center 
for Racial Justice Innovation and the 
publisher of the award-winning news 
site Colorlines. Her talk stressed the 
importance of transforming the way 
we talk about race from something 
that is individual, intentional and 
overt to something that is systemic, 
unconscious and hidden.
This lecture was followed by a 
panel of student activists including 
graduate students, current Middle-
bury students and students from 
Bowdoin College, who discussed 
their work and challenges, and a sec-
ond keynote address by Dr. Rashawn 
Ray of the University of Maryland 
on racial violence, activism and the 
carceral state. The symposium con-
cluded with a panel on “Historical, 
Cultural and Activist Critiques of 
Race, Difference and Power,” which 
was moderated by Associate Profes-
sor of History Bill Hart and featured 
faculty from Middlebury College and 
MIIS, as well as Syracuse University 
and Smith College. 
The conversations of this year have 
reinforced to us what Swarthmore 
Professor of Sociology Sarah Willie-
LeBreton recently wrote: “The pro-
tests of today are no less serious than 
the ones of 50 years ago when stu-
dents protested for civil rights... Nor 
are they any less serious than the 
protests of 30 years ago when stu-
dents protested against investments 
in companies that did business with 
South Africa. Today, students protest 
for greater diversity in the student 
body, on the faculty, among staff and 
in the curriculum.” The work of be-
ing allies, accomplices and activists 
today matters. The work is serious. 
We are honored and fortunate to 
work among you, and with you, for 
all of us. 
reader op-ed
Baishakhi Taylor, AIM Cofacilitator
Roberto Lint Sagarena, AIM 
Cofacilitator
Miguel Fernandez ’85, AIM Liaison to 
Advisory Group on Disability, Access, and 
Inclusion
opinions  7 may 12, 2016 | 
“The work of being al-
lies, accomplices and 
activists today matters. 
The work is serious. We 
are honored and fortu-
nate to work among you, 
and with you, for all of 
us.”
“Inclusion of all kinds 
seems like a difficult 
goal in a community 
like ours, which is often 
perceived by many of 
our members as homog-
enous.”
notes from the desk
Claire Abbadi ’16 is the Editor-in-Chief
  8 | may 12, 2016 opinions
Creating a map: reflections from late spring
I’m fond of metaphors. One that you 
might have heard me say (perhaps more 
than a few times) is that Middlebury is, 
in many ways, like a newly complex eco-
system. This year, we have begun to map 
this ecosystem together.  
How did we start creating this map? 
By getting to know each other. I have 
spent much of my first year as your pres-
ident getting to know you, through of-
fice hours, meditation at Mead, lunches 
in the dining halls, chance encounters 
on a campus walkway, cheering on the 
Panthers or talking at the Student Sym-
posium. I’ve gotten to know Middlebury 
and have learned how it’s both small and 
large in terms of culture, nation, race, re-
ligion, sexuality, gender expression, and 
political perspectives. I’ve learned that 
Middlebury students are the most con-
structive, engaged, and resourceful stu-
dents I have ever worked with — you are 
the kind of students who bring your con-
cerns forward, and who bring solutions 
with you at the same time.
And you’ve gotten to know me, and 
how much I value the ideals of authentic-
ity, transparency, kindness and consider-
ation. We fall short of these ideals every 
day, but they are important to strive for. 
You have learned that I love poetry, and 
dogs, and communication, and starting 
the day with a good swim. I hope you 
have also learned how much I admire 
and at times am truly in awe of what you 
accomplish as students here.  
You — the students — are at the 
center of this ecosystem. Your input is a 
crucial part of our work as we begin our 
strategic planning process. In the fall, 
you’ll be invited to participate in a sur-
vey to share your vision for Middlebury’s 
future.  Bring your concerns forward — 
and your solutions, too. We’ll be asking 
key questions: How do we at Middlebury 
define and redefine what is “global” in 
2016? How do we integrate environmen-
tal literacy into the liberal arts? How can 
liberal learning work in the world out-
side the classroom? How can we create 
alliances across differences in the class-
room, and engage in true conversations 
that people 
want to be a 
part of?  How 
can we be con-
fident in our 
own expres-
sion in a world 
where social 
media expos-
es us to more 
public scrutiny 
and response 
than ever be-
fore? How can 
we make sure 
all students 
feel welcome 
at Middlebury?  We want your answers 
to these questions, so be thinking about 
these strategic questions as you move 
into the summer. Our strategic plan will 
help make Middlebury more of the Mid-
dlebury you need it to be.
What you need Middlebury to be 
is, in part, increasingly reflective of our 
newly complex ecosystem, and the com-
plex global world that you live in: cul-
turally and intellectually vibrant, with a 
curriculum that is more inclusive and en-
gaging. This year, you’ve inspired chang-
es to the culture and civilization require-
ment, and challenged us to make sure our 
faculty and staff are aware of the issues 
facing students in the classroom when it 
comes to having difficult conversations 
about difference. You’ve sensed we need 
a place, a forum, a group of activist fac-
ulty, staff and students who can keep us 
focused, forward-looking and creative, 
and so you worked with us to create Alli-
ance for an Inclusive Middlebury (AIM), 
whose leadership has emerged energeti-
cally, constructively and powerfully over 
the course of just four months.  You’ve 
participated in the Advisory Group for 
Disability, Accessibility and Inclusion 
(AGDAI), and engaged consultants to 
improve our inclusive practices for those 
with disabilities. Beginning this past 
April (and 
in honor of 
Gaypril), you 
have begun 
work on a 
four-part pro-
gram to create 
a better daily 
life for lesbi-
an, gay, trans 
and queer stu-
dents, faculty 
and staff on 
campus.  
Y o u ’ v e 
l a u n c h e d 
greater efforts 
to connect the world and the classroom 
through engaged learning opportunities 
such as MiddCORE and the Center for 
Social Entrepreneurship, and proposed 
next steps in a makerspace here on cam-
pus. This year, you’ve made changes 
in the SGA governance process and the 
Community Council process, and we are 
working together differently and more 
collaboratively as a result.  You’ve creat-
ed unique student spaces and resources 
for mental health, and built several new 
initiatives on resilience and mindfulness 
practices in daily life.
You’ve inspired these changes, and 
these changes are hopefully inspiring 
your presence — not just in the class-
rooms and the labs but across campus, 
whether in discussing the “good body” 
in the Clifford symposium, or viewing 
Shakespeare’s First Folio, or participat-
ing in a panel on climate justice, or lis-
tening to jazz, or attending an art exhibit 
or dance performance, or sports event — 
It’s what makes our ecosystem healthy. 
This has been an extraordinary year 
— and at times a challenging one. You’ve 
been brave, and bold, and patient and 
impatient. I’ve been witness to much that 
has been extraordinary, but I am most 
proud of the everyday acts I haven’t wit-
nessed. You’ve had hard conversations 
and ended up understanding each other 
better. You’ve had moments of histori-
cal reflection on the past and asked hard 
questions of the present. You’ve helped 
others come into their voices and found 
your own. 
Keep in mind what the novelist 
George Eliot wrote when she said, “The 
growing good of the world is partly de-
pendent on unhistoric acts, and that 
things are not so ill with you and me as 
they might have been, is half owing to the 
number who lived faithfully...” Another 
powerful writer, Kimberlé Crenshaw, 
reminds us that another way of living 
faithfully is by focusing on the empow-
erment of others. She has written that 
the empowerment of black women is the 
empowerment of the whole community. 
This principle works in many ways, I be-
lieve: the empowerment of people  to de-
velop and share their own voices is the 
empowerment of the whole community.
You make Middlebury what it is. Your 
passions and energy and talents, your 
commitment to community, and how you 
express your individual gifts, have cre-
ated this year, and will create our future. 
For those of you who will not be on cam-
pus this coming fall, your presence will 
be missed, and I celebrate you sharing 
your gifts with the world. For those who 
will leave for the summer and be back in 
September, you too will be missed, and I 
can’t wait to keep drawing this map with 
you. We are just getting started.
notes from old 
chapel
Laurie Patton is the President of the 
College
 may 12, 2016 | 
“This has been an ex-
traordinary year — and 
at times a challenging 
one. You’ve been brave, 
and bold, and patient 
and impatient.”
MIDDLEBURY SPORTS MAGAZINE
launching MAY 24
To access online VISIT https://issuu.com/middleburysportsmagazine
CARTOONS
Emily Cox
Win homer
boone Mccoy-crisp
KAITLYND COLLINS
10features 11featuresMAY 12, 2016    | MAY 12, 2016
Trustees Donate Millions  to Political Campaigns
Garrett M. Moran ’76
Moran is the president of Year Up, Inc, a non-profit aimed at empowering urban young adults 
with skills to help them access professional careers and higher education. He formerly worked 
for the Blackstone Group, a private equity firm. Moran became a trustee in 1997, and his current 
term ends in 2020. He lives in Greenwich, Conn.
$228,099 total 
Top Five Largest Donations:
$32,400 to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in 2014. 
$20,000 to the Democratic National Committee in 2012 
$10,000 to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in 2011
$9,500 to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in 2008.  
$5,000 to the Woolf Victory Fund in 2014*
*Moran made several donations of this amount. This is his most recent.
Steven B. Peterson ’88 
Peterson works for Peterson Company, a business aimed at developing communities in the Wash-
ington, D.C., area with a sense of place. Peterson joined the board in 2004, and his current term 
ends in 2019. He lives in Alexandria, Va.
$186,433 total
Top Five Largest Donations:
$25,000 to the Republican National Committee in 2005 
$10,000 to the National Republican Congressional Committee in 2008 
$10,000 to the Republican National Committee in 2000 
$5,000 to the Federal Victory Fund in 2006 
$5,000 to the Good Government for American Committee in 2004
James Edward Virtue ’82
Virtue is the Founder and CEO at MidOcean Partners, a private equity firm. He formerly 
served as the CEO at DB Capital Partners. He has been a trustee since 2005, and his current 
term ends in 2020. He lives in Rye, N.Y.
 
$127,034 total
Top Five Largest Donations:
$30,800 to N.R.S.C. in April 2012 
$25,000 to Romney Victory, Inc. in October 2012 
$25,000 to Citizens for Good Government in March 2012*
$22,500 to Republican National Committee in October 2012 
$10,000 to New York Republican Federal Campaign Committee in September 2012
*He was refunded $22,416.05 of this donation.
Louis M. Bacon ’79
Louis Moore Bacon is a hedge fund manager and founder of Moore Capital Management LLC. His 
net worth is $1.81 billion as of September 2015. He became a trustee in 2006, and his current term
expires in 2016.
$3,245,600 total
Top Five Largest Donations:
$1,000,000 to Right to Rise U.S.A. in March 2015
$850,000 to League of Conservation Voters in October 2004 
$500,000 to Restore Our Future PAC in February 2011
$100,000 to Americans for Responsible Solutions PAC in July 2014 
$48,000 to McCain Victory Fund in June 2008
Richard T. Scanlon ’93
Richard Scanlon is a founder and partner of Marker LLC. He co-founded Cres-
cent Point Group in 2003 and served as a Managing Partner until 2011. Scanlon 
lives in New York City. He became a trustee in 2013, and his current term expires 
in 2018.
$152,100 total
Top Five Largest Donations:
$25,000 to Right to Rise U.S.A. in February 2015 
$25,000 to Romney Victory Fund in June 2012 
$20,000 to Republican National Committee in June 2012 
$16,200 to N.R.S.C. in July 2014 
$16,200 to N.R.S.C. in July 2014
Twenty-two of the College’s 32 voting members of the 
Board of Trustees are active contributors to political cam-
paigns, according to data published by the Federal Elec-
tion Commission. Each of them has donated at least $200 
to candidates since 1997, the earliest year for which data 
is available. Their contributions total about $4.36 mil-
lion and have financed the presidential and congressio-
nal campaigns of a variety of Democratic and Republican 
candidates.
Twelve members of the Board of Trustees have each 
donated over $15,000 to political campaigns since 1997, 
and four have donated over $150,000. Ten trustees have 
no history of political donations, according to the F.E.C. 
database, which only tracks contributions greater than 
$200 that are large enough to be itemized.
The board’s most active political donor is Louis M. 
Bacon, a hedge fund manager who has given $3.25 million 
in donations since 1997. His most significant donation in 
the 2016 election cycle was a $1 million gift in March 2015 
to Right to Rise U.S.A., a political action committee — or 
“super PAC” — supporting Jeb Bush. Mr. Bush suspended 
his presidential bid on February 20 after a fourth-place 
finish in the South Carolina Republican primary.
The five trustees who donate the most money to po-
litical causes primarily give to Republican candidates and 
committees. The one exception is Garrett M. Moran, for-
mer CEO of the Blackstone Group, who consistently gives 
to Democratic candidates and party committees.
The twelve donors whose individual contributions 
were under $15,000 tend to give to Democratic causes. 
The most common recipient among these donors was 
Barack Obama’s presidential campaign in 2012, followed 
by that in 2008. On average, these twelve trustees contrib-
uted $3,540 to presidential campaigns. These smaller do-
nors also gave, on average, $5,043 to other causes, which 
include individual campaigns of down-ticket candidates 
for the House and Senate and party organizations like the 
Democratic and Republican National Committees.
The total contributions of all 22 active donors on the 
Board of Trustees went primarily to super PACs, due in 
large part to Bacon’s donations to the League of Conser-
vation Voters, an environmental conservation PAC, and 
to Americans for Responsible Solutions, a pro-gun con-
trol PAC founded by Representative Gabby Giffords of 
Arizona. Donations to PACs totaled $2.86 million, about 
66 percent of all contributions made by the trustees since 
1997. The 22 active donors on the Board gave $258,850 to 
presidential campaigns, about 6 percent of the total, and 
$1.24 million to down-ticket campaigns and party organi-
zations, about 29 percent.
The data were compiled by searching an individual 
contributor database on the F.E.C.’s website. Campaign 
finance law requires the F.E.C. to publicly disclose funds 
raised to influence federal elections. The F.E.C.’s database 
contains contributions made to individual candidates’ 
campaigns, political party organizations, political action 
committees and super PACs.
Soft money — the kind can be given in unlimited 
amounts to super PACs, which do not coordinate direct-
ly with candidates — has played a role in elections only 
recently. The Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, 
known as the McCain-Feingold bill after its sponsors in 
the Senate, eliminated all soft money donations to na-
tional party committees. But in 2010, the Supreme Court 
ruled in Citizens United v. F.E.C. that donations from 
corporations and unions constitute a form of free speech 
protected under the First Amendment. Because the dona-
tions are a form of speech, they cannot be regulated, the 
court ruled.
The court’s decision has faced criticism from politi-
cians and academics alike, including President Obama, 
who explicitly rebuked the ruling in his 2010 State of 
the Union address a week after it was issued, while the 
justices sat in the front row of the House chamber. Both 
candidates for the Democratic nomination, Hillary Clin-
ton and Bernie Sanders, have called for overturning the 
ruling while on the campaign trail, saying that it gives the 
wealthiest Americans an outsize say in determining which 
candidates can succeed in federal elections.
The most visible impact of Citizens United is the cre-
ation of super PACs, according to Bertram Johnson, a 
professor of political science, who sees them as an unfore-
seen consequence of the decision.
“At that time the ruling had to do with nonprofit cor-
porations,” Johnson said. “People foresaw G.E. and Ford 
and Chrysler spending more money in campaigns. That 
has not happened. The ruling has caused spending to be 
reshuffled somewhat away from political parties and to-
ward super PACs. These non-party organizations became, 
to some, a more advantageous vehicle to go through.”
Only a tiny fraction of Americans actually contribute 
to political candidates, parties or PACs. In 2012, the per-
centage of the U.S. adult population who gave donations 
over $200 was 0.53 percent. The New York Times report-
ed in October 2015 that 158 families have provided nearly 
half of the early money for efforts to capture the White 
House during the 2016 presidential race.
The Times found that donors are overwhelmingly 
white, rich, older and male, and most made their fortunes 
by working in the financial industry. The trend among 
Middlebury’s trustees largely reflects these findings. The 
five trustees who donate the most to political causes are 
men working in finance, either as fund managers or CEOs 
of capital  management groups.
Johnson outlined three motivators for donating that 
are supported by research, surveys and data by political 
scientists: access, networking and ideology.
“Some people want access to politicians for whatever 
reason,” he said. “Maybe they have a personal interest 
or an employer-related interest. They want to be able to 
meet with candidates and elected officials. There is evi-
dence that if you contribute you are more likely to get 
access — certainly if you buy a ticket to a fundraiser for 
$1,000, you’re in the room with the candidate, more often 
than not.”
Contributions also have a social benefit, according 
to Johnson. “Some people contribute to politics because 
they get to hang out with other people who contribute to 
politics,” he said.
The third motive is ideological. “This makes plenty of 
Prez: $14,600
PAC: $5,000
OTHER: $208,499
Prez: $7,500 PAC: $20,500
OTHER: $158,433
Prez: $42,100
PAC: $7,584
OTHER: $72,350
Prez: $65,000
PAC: $2,598,600
OTHER*: $582,000 PAC: $25,000
Prez: $67,400
OTHER: $59,700
By ETHAN BRADY and EMILIE MUNSON
Design by JULIA HATHEWAY
PUBLIC RECORDS REVEAL CHARACTER OF THEIR INVOLVEMENT sense when you think of all the people who are contribut-ing $25 to Bernie Sanders,” Johnson said. “Clearly those 
people are contributing not because they expect a policy 
outcome. They are in it for an ideological reason — they 
believe in Bernie and they believe in his message.”
This trend continues for larger donors. “You don’t 
find people like the Koch brothers contributing millions 
of dollars just because they think the Koch corporations 
are going to do better,” Johnson said. “Actually, that 
doesn’t make financial sense. You can get access with a 
$2,700 contribution — you don’t need $3 million. You do 
that because you believe passionately in those issues.”
Donors who want access to politicians for the pur-
poses of advancing their policy interests would likely do-
nate to incumbent candidates without regard for political 
party, according to Johnson. But people who donate con-
sistently to one party tend to do so for ideological reasons 
— they agree with that political party’s agenda.
“I think we’re seeing evidence of that here,” Johnson 
said. “I suppose one’s ideology has a lot to do with all the 
decisions one makes. If you’re in a position where the fi-
duciary responsibility of an institution is distant from an 
ideological agenda, then I suppose it’s less likely. I don’t 
think it’s particularly likely that, in most decisions affect-
ing the College, there’s an ideological position to be taken 
one way or another.”
Ideological issues can sometimes arise in college gov-
ernance, according to Johnson.
“Once in a while, there’s an issue like divestment that 
takes on an ideological tone, and in that case I wouldn’t 
be surprised if one’s ideology figured into it a little bit,” 
he said. “But the farther away an organization gets from 
politics, the less likely that is.”
Chair of the Board of Trustees Marna C. Whittington 
said that politics do not influence trustees’ decision-mak-
ing or leadership.
“Politics is really not a topic we discuss,” she said. “It 
doesn’t really have a place in the board’s activities.”
Trustees are selected using a skills matrix and in con-
sideration of factors like their commitment to the College, 
gender, race and year of graduation. Political ideology is 
not a factor in the selection of trustees.
“I don’t know the political parties of our trustees,” 
Whittington said. “I don’t know what money they give.” 
Sometimes, however, trustees might use their politi-
cal influence to help forward causes beneficial to the Col-
lege, she said. 
 “We do support positions or legislation that we think 
would be beneficial to the College,” Whittington said. “A 
trustee might use their political connections in some way 
to promote — I don’t recall this having been done but I 
think it entirely appropriate — a piece of legislation that 
was of particular interest to the College to get the College 
access to state their case.”
The College does not regulate how the trustees spend 
their money during elections, according to Bill Burger, 
Vice President for Communications. This would consti-
tute a “litmus test” of political ideology, he said.
“The last thing Middlebury should have, particularly 
in this era of coarse political divisiveness, is an ideological 
litmus test for students, faculty, staff or trustees,” he said.
“What unites our community is our commitment to 
the institution and its mission. The members of the Board 
of Trustees are the ultimate stewards of that mission, and 
their collective commitment to it is unshakable.”
While the College does not have any rules regarding 
how trustees can contribute to non-College related enti-
ties, it does evaluate the source of gifts made to the Col-
lege, and the background of the individual giving those 
gifts.
“We would not accept a gift for a purpose that is at 
odds with Middlebury’s mission, that would violate our 
principles of academic freedom, that would impose an un-
reasonable financial or administrative burden upon us, or 
that was the fruit of illegal activities,” Burger said.
*In these graphs, 
“other” includes down-
ticket campaigns for 
House and Senate, as 
well as party organiza-
tions like the D.N.C. 
and R.N.C.
Alum Corrects Spinal Deformities in Ethiopia, Changes Lives
12 features | May 12, 2016
When Dr. Rick Hodes ’75 went to 
Ethiopia in 1985 to volunteer, he never 
dreamed he would spend the next 30 
years of his life practicing medicine 
abroad. Yet he has spent the last three 
decades working in Ethiopia, pioneer-
ing new practices to help patients re-
ceive life-changing health care. Hodes 
returned to the College recently to help 
advise the global health program, and on 
Wednesday, May 4, presented a lecture 
entitled “Extreme Medicine: Practic-
ing in Africa for 28 
Years,” a talk about 
his experience 
working as a doctor 
overseas.
“There’s 50,000 
people who need 
spine surgery for 
deformities in Ethi-
opia and I’ve done 
500 surgeries,” 
Hodes said about 
his medical work 
abroad. “So that 
means that we’ve 
done one percent of the surgeries that 
need to be done. It’s very humbling to 
know how hard we’ve been working and 
we just never thought that we’d ever 
complete 500 surgeries, but now we’re 
one percent done. So what does that 
mean? It means I have to train a lot of 
people.”
Hodes currently serves as the Medi-
cal Director of Ethiopia for the American 
Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, 
an NGO that provides humanitarian aid 
to Jews around the world. In addition, 
he runs a free clinic and volunteers at 
Mother Theresa’s Mission and special-
izes in treating heart disease, spinal dis-
ease and cancer.
Among his projects is a program to 
help spinal patients receive corrective 
surgery. According to Hodes many Ethi-
opians suffer from spinal problems, in 
part due to tuberculosis, which can cause 
the spine to form a z-shape. Hodes first 
saw this kind of spinal deformity in two 
orphan boys in 1999. He could not get 
them affordable surgery, so he adopted 
them.
“I got this brilliant idea that I would 
adopt them, add them to my health in-
surance and bring them down to Dallas, 
Texas and get them surgery that way,” 
he said. In total, Hodes has adopted five 
male orphans needing surgery.
Until he adopted his first two chil-
dren, Hodes was not aware of the spinal 
problems prevalent in Ethiopia. “Nobody 
had any idea there was a spine problem 
in Ethiopia,” he said. “Then more and 
more patients kept on coming and so I 
started treating them. So then we started 
this program in 2006. In 2006 we got 
20 patients; last year I got 445 new pa-
tients.” 
Hodes says that 
the program is still 
growing rapidly and 
is in the process of 
training Ethiopian 
surgeons so fewer 
patients will have to 
go abroad for sur-
gery. Training doc-
tors in Ethiopia will 
make the surgery 
more accessible and 
help reduce costs.
Hodes said that 
the best part of his job is saving lives by 
getting people the surgeries they need.
“When you see kids go to Ghana 
completely crooked and go through trac-
tion and surgery and come on back six 
months later on the path to healing, 
you’ve completely changed their lives.”
The most difficult part, however, is 
its demanding nature. 
“It’s not occasional cases. It’s like 
drinking from a fire hydrant. [The hard-
est part] is the very high volume. It’s the 
intensity and the suffering that I’m deal-
ing with all the time,” Hodes said. 
In order to help cope with the high 
intensity, Hodes takes regular breaks. “I 
try to duck out periodically because when 
I’m there I have to work very hard,” he 
said. “Every month or six weeks, I just 
try to pop out somewhere where I can get 
a cheap airfare for four or five days and 
just relax.”
Hodes also takes comfort in his 
faith. He identifies as a Modern Ortho-
dox Jew and religion is a big part of his 
life, though he collaborates with a vari-
ety of religious organizations. 
Hodes discussed the role religion 
plays in his work. He gave the example 
of a Muslim woman who needed a tumor 
removed. Hodes ran into a doctor who 
specialized in the field at a synagogue in 
Minnesota. 
“Because of that 
chance meeting I 
ended up bringing 
this woman to Min-
neapolis, Minne-
sota,” he said. “So 
you have a Muslim 
orphan who was 
raised in a Catholic 
orphanage getting 
free surgery at St. 
Joseph’s hospital in 
St. Paul, Minnesota 
by a Jewish doctor. 
It’s a very nice sto-
ry about the whole 
world working together.”
Hodes came to the College to at-
tend a retreat with faculty, staff and fel-
low alumni to discuss the global health 
program. Hodes believes the best way to 
learn about the field is from experience. 
“I want to see what other people have to 
say [at the retreat] but basically my phi-
losophy is that people have to get their 
hands dirty,” he said. “They have to go 
into the field and see what it’s like.”
In addition to advising the global 
health program, Hodes has wisdom to 
share with students. When he graduated 
from the College with a degree in geog-
raphy he had no idea what to do next, so 
he hitchhiked to Alaska before deciding 
on medical school. 
Hodes believes stu-
dents should take 
time off before 
their next step. “If 
you haven’t had a 
year off yet then 
take a year off and 
look around and 
think about other 
things,” Hodes 
said. “When you 
get older and you’re 
looking back, no-
body ever says, ‘I’m 
really happy I went 
straight through.’”
Hodes hopes his story will inspire 
students to spend their lives helping 
others. “I think there’s great fulfillment 
in serving other people and dedicating 
your life to a cause bigger than yourself,” 
he said. “When you have human lives 
depending on you day after day it really 
changes you and it makes you somehow 
a better person.”
Dr. Rick Hodes ’75 spoke about his 30 years of medical work in Ethiopia on May 4.
By Sarah Asch
Contributing Writer
Dr. rick hodes
“When you see kids go to 
Ghana completely crooked 
and go through traction 
and surgery and come on 
back six months later on the 
path to healing, you’ve com-
pletely changed their lives.”
Dr. rick hodes ’75
“I got this brilliant idea 
that I would adopt them, 
add them to my health in-
surance, and bring them 
down to Dallas, Texas, and 
get them surgery that way.”
Dr. rick hodes ’75
Know Yourself 
A great way to manage stress is to know 
yourself.  Once you know yourself, you 
can plan and act according to how you 
feel, making decisions that are the best 
for you in that moment. One way to get 
in touch with yourself is through journal-
ing. Writing for your own benefit helps 
bring the emotional, mental and physical 
needs to the forefront of your thoughts.  
Sometimes, you may even discover simple, 
unexpected solutions to a difficult problem 
you’ve been encountering.
By Wellness Leaders
Contributing Columnists
Wellness Tip 
of the Week
CORRECTION: In the May 5 article “Historic Parker Merrill Speech Competition Hosts Finals,” Char-
lotte Massey ’18.5 was misidentified as one of the winners of the 2016 Parker Merill Speech Competi-
tion. The correct winner of the championship is Nia Robinson ’19. 
ANSWERS TO MAY 3 CROSSWORD
Visiting Assistant Professor of Geol-
ogy Tom Manley and Professor of Geol-
ogy Pat Manley spoke with The Campus 
Monday, May 9, about a new round of 
grant funding for their research project 
High-Resolution Bottom Mapping of Lake 
Champlain. The husband-and-wife team 
explained how new technological advanc-
es are allowing them to produce the most 
detailed bathymetric map yet of the bot-
tom of the lake and outlined a few surprise 
discoveries they have made along the way.
Could you give me background on 
your research, what you’ve been do-
ing and how long you’ve been doing 
it for?
My expertise is in circulation dynamics. 
When I came the College, I started getting 
involved in Lake Champlain. A lot of my 
research has been totally focused on mass 
movement of water in Lake Champlain, 
and therefore you can also understand 
movement of pollutants, phosphorus, algal 
blooms. Things of that sort. As time went 
on, Pat and I got involved with the Lake 
Champlain Maritime Museum back in 1996 
and that was to actually survey the entire 
bottom of Lake Champlain for shipwrecks 
and geological features. That lasted about 
six years, and during those six years we had 
a ton of students from the College coming 
out and helping us every summer for about 
four to six weeks. One of the byproducts for 
this particular survey of shipwrecks was not 
only the culmination of finding a ton of new 
shipwrecks and historical artifacts – not 
to mention the geological setting of Lake 
Champlain – but also the aspect of remap-
ping the bottom of Lake Champlain as far 
as bottom bathymetry is concerned.
What can you tell me about your 
recent grant funding?
In order to do this, you have to have 
some money for ship time and processing 
time. The grant right now is through the 
Lintilhac Foundation and that is carrying 
us along. The second funding source didn’t 
come through – they said they would, but 
they didn’t – and so instead of out there for 
four weeks this summer, we’ll just be out 
there for two weeks. 
What is the process like for map-
ping the lake?
It’s sort of like mowing the lawn. You 
just sort of take the ship out there and 
“mow” it, you actually swath map the bot-
tom of the lake with the sight-scan sonar. 
It’s like a football field on either side that 
you’re mapping in a given track point. So 
we just go out, mow the lawn, turn around, 
come back and we make sure we overlap 
the previous one so we don’t miss anything. 
At the same time, while the ship is making 
its track line, we’re also pinging the bot-
tom and getting bottom depth every two 
seconds. We accumulated that information 
and restructured it to produce a new bot-
tom bathymetry map of the lake. Prior to 
that point in time, the lake bottom bathym-
etry was based on mid-1800s lead-line ob-
servations. The total number of observa-
tions on that entire Lake Champlain map 
series is something around 5,000 points. 
We upgrade that with our data to about 
three-quarters of a million observations. 
That gave us a much better view of what 
was at the bottom.
What is different between your 
current research project and your 
previous work?
The newer technology used to be 
only available for the oceanographic and 
high-end people that got lots of money 
for research, such as NOAA, NSF-funded, 
Scripps. Those people have oceanographic 
research vessels and they’ve got a ton of 
money. You would often spend almost a 
million dollars instrumenting a vessel to 
provide what they call multi-beams. In-
stead of a single beam going, you would 
have “multi” or many beams — it costs a lot 
less. Now we have 512 individual beams, 
256 on each side of the boat. All of those 
beams have an overlap, so now there’s no 
missing information. It’s very precise; it’s a 
whole different suite of technology for po-
sitioning. When it comes to doing things 
on multi-beam, you want to get things 
down to centimeter accuracy. Therefore 
we have two GPS antennas on the boat that 
are monitored by a very high-end inertial 
motion unit. Just imagine the complexity: 
if you’re on a flat, calm lake, everything is 
fine as you move along, but if the boat [is 
tilting as the water moves up and down], 
then those beams are just jumping all over 
the universe. The boat is a massive, math-
ematical, complex system where the boat is 
keeping track of every motion that it’s mak-
ing and then reapplying all the mathemat-
ics to bring those beams back to horizontal. 
It’s massively computer-intensive to do this 
in real time, and you’re also acquiring huge 
amounts of data.
Are there any interesting findings 
you’ve made so far?
The thing that we’re finding now with 
the multi-beam [is] a large number of un-
derwater landslides that have occurred in 
the lake. We have now pretty much nailed 
it down that we can connect some of these 
large underwater landslides to large earth-
quakes that have occurred up in the Que-
becois area. 
A recent viewing of Nicholas Cage’s 
National Treasure inspired me to inves-
tigate the College’s very own mummy. 
This week’s Good Ol’ Campus turns to 
the 1963 paper edition as reporter Molly 
Buffman recounts the Egyptians’ his-
tory. 
Have you ever encountered a ghostly 
spirit while walking by the cemetery af-
ter dark? If you have, his name is prob-
ably Amun-hcr-khepesili-ef. This young 
Egyptian prince, or at least his remains, 
are buried in the grounds behind Proctor 
Dining Hall. What an Egyptian prince is 
doing in Vermont, let alone Middlebury, 
however, is somewhat of a problem. 
During the nineteenth century when 
opening ancient tombs was the latest fad, 
a missionary from this area was in Egypt 
and brought home, as a souvenir, the 
mummy of the infant son of Sen Woset 
III, King of Egypt, and his wife Hathorn-
hotpe. The mummy was laid in a room 
in the Sheldon Museum. The museum 
founder purchased special Egyptian re-
vival wallpaper for the room where the 
specimen was to be displayed. 
But one detail of housing mummies 
was overlooked: it was not provided with 
an airtight case for protection to replace 
the natural guard of the tomb in which it 
had originally been preserved.
Because of this oversight, the mum-
my got wet from water seeping into the 
room. Visitors and employees at the 
museum gradually realized the embalm-
ing process was coming undone. They 
smelled a body beginning to rot, and the 
question arose of what could be done 
with a decaying mummy in Middlebury.
George W. Mead, chairman of the 
board of directors of the museum, finally 
persuaded the museum owner to bury 
the mummy in his family plot. After the 
entire mummy was burned, the ashes 
were buried with a traditional Chris-
tian ceremony in the cemetery, next to 
the place where Mead’s wife would one 
day be interred. The narrow gray head-
stone is near the plots of several notable 
Middlebury families, including the Chip-
mans, the Battells and the Starrs. 
The prince’s grave marker is en-
graved with his name, the names of his 
royal parents and the date, 1883 B.C. 
In addition to the plain inscription, the 
stone bears three symbols, two of which 
are Egyptian for life and immortality. 
However, reflecting the incongruity of 
his burial with Egyptian belief, a Chris-
tian cross is inscribed between the two 
Egyptian symbols.
May 12, 2016   
Professors Lead the Field in 
Lake Champlain Oceanography
By Henry Burnett
Features Editor
13features
By Grace Levin
Staff Columnist
Good Ol’ Campus: Middlebury Mummy
Professors Tom and Pat Manley conduct bathymetric mapping research of the bottom 
of Lake Champlain onboard the College’s New Research Vessel, the R/V David Folger.
Why Can’t We 
Be Friends?
By Alex Forde
Contributing Writer
The year is almost over, and this is 
the last edition of my column, for the next 
four months at least. It’s been a heck of 
a year for me, and that means it’s been a 
heck of a year for my closest friends, too 
— after all, we’re one another’s support 
systems, story repositories and partners 
in adventure. But those are certainly not 
roles played by all of my friends; maybe 
only my girlfriend and a few of my class-
mates here have taken on the full weight 
of my problems this year, and received 
my full attention and love in return.
I have found in college that I love my 
parents more than I ever have, but give 
less thought to their daily well-being than 
I could. There are only so many spots in 
your inner circle at any one time — only 
so many faces can star in all your stories 
and feature you in all of theirs. 
I wanted to write this final column 
about the sorts of friends whom I don’t 
feature as much. About the sorts of 
friendships beyond our inner circles: ac-
quaintances, class friends, parents, sib-
lings and all other kinds. 
                      ***
Here’s to the uncomplicated friend-
ships. The floormate who will nod his 
head at you with a warm “what’s up,” the 
choice to answer left up to you. Who you’ll 
see around and always admire, your en-
counters a treat but not one you seek out. 
This friend won’t know much about your 
problems unless you tell him, but he can 
help immeasurably just with unassuming 
friendliness. You may not realize how of-
ten you do the same for him.
Uncomplicated friendships need 
not be shallow. Think of the friend from 
home who would take a bullet for you but 
only texts your group chat to make fun of 
people. That is a best friend who has ex-
pertly achieved “dormant” mode. 
Siblings with whom you’re close can 
adapt, too. The other night, I talked to 
my sister on the phone for thirty minutes. 
We talk roughly once every three weeks. 
In that amount of time, problems crop up 
and are swept away, and then a new set of 
problems buts in. 
Every time my sister and I talk, we 
could each squeeze in a frantic recap of 
our problems and stories so as to con-
vince ourselves that we keep up on each 
other’s day-to-day concerns and remain 
on the same level of mutual understand-
ing as always. But to enlist my sister to 
help sweep away daily concerns, like a 
grumpy mood, or a bad grade or a melo-
dramatic night out, is to use her as the 
equivalent of a street sweeper, and only 
for a few minutes at that.
No, we had some laughs at our par-
ents’ expense and talked about the past. 
I told her some angsty reflection on my 
time in high school — something substan-
tially irrelevant to me today — and she re-
sponded as only she could, with insight 
both to my benefit, and at my expense.
In my first column, I wrote, “Getting 
to know someone means also getting to 
know what being around them does for 
you.” As the school year winds down and 
I’m thinking more of not being here than 
being here, I feel like an artist who just 
discovered negative space. Sometimes, 
it’s what is absent — like the problems 
an old friend chooses not to put on my 
shoulders or the lack of pressure from my 
parents to call more — that I appreciate 
more than anything else. 
professor pat manley
arts & sciences
don’t
miss
this
Skinner Releasing Technique & Composition 
Master Class
Laurel Jenkins, independent choreographer and MFA 
from the WAC/Dance department at UCLA, will teach 
Skinner Releasing Technique and Composition during 
this two day workshop. Free.
5/14-5/15, 12-3 P.M., MCA DANCE THEATER
Chamber Music Concert
Student chamber music groups present selections from 
the Brahms Horn Trio and Beethoven’s Opus 18, No. 1, 
coached by Cynthia Huard and Dieuwke Davydov.  Spon-
sored by the Department of Music. Free.
5/15, 4 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
Jazz Showcase
Some of the College’s top jazz instrumentalists 
and singers will present selections from their 
term’s work.  It’s a celebration of the music that’s 
been called “America’s National Treasure.” Free.
5/12, 8 P.M., MCA LOWER LOBBY
Content Warning: Sexual Assault
What does it mean to combine laugh-
ter and healing? To be the “perfect” survi-
vor? And what do clowns and “panda pup-
pies” have anything to do with it? Trying 
to explain the Post Traumatic Super De-
lightful (PTSD) play to those who did not 
watch the show was challenging at best. 
Performed in Hepburn Zoo on Thursday, 
May 5, Post Traumatic 
Super Delightful is most 
simply described as a 
one-woman show about 
a community trying to 
heal after a sexual as-
sault. In practice, it is a 
heartbreaking, hilarious 
and nuanced tale of sur-
vivors, perpetrators and 
bystanders – and the 
impacts of a system that 
has not done anyone any 
favors.  
Post Traumatic Su-
per Delightful is written 
and performed by Anto-
nia Lassar, directed by 
Angela Dumlao, stage-managed by Olivia 
Hull and further supported by a large team 
of women with varying backgrounds and 
skill sets. The fictionalized content stems 
from interviews with survivors, perpe-
trators, administrators, faculty and staff 
within the judicial system, and contains 
only two moments from Lassar’s real life. 
Director of Health and Wellness Educa-
tion Barbara McCall, Molly McShane ’16 
and Rebecca Coates-Finke ’16.5 worked to 
bring the play to campus through the De-
partment of Justice Grant.
First, we meet the clown – a woman 
dressed in typical clothing who dons a 
red nose and performs ridiculous antics 
against the backdrop of voiceovers and 
music. Each interlude featuring this name-
less, smiling character is infused with hu-
mor and stark realizations. At one point, 
the clown walks out with a pile of placards 
and begins to dance to the pulsing beat of 
“Survivor” by Destiny’s Child. One by one, 
she shows the front side of each placard: 
“I’m pretty.” “I’m white.” “I’m a girl.” “I’m 
the perfect survivor.” (She pauses after 
“I’m white” to show off her most awkward 
and invigorating dance move yet, before 
pointing to the sign again in a hilarious, 
self-deprecating recognition of her own 
whiteness.) Flipping the cards to the op-
posite side, she continues: “I’m not like the 
angry ones.” “I cry but I’m not a mess.” “I 
hate my rapist.” “None of you know him so 
none of you doubt me.” “I’m also perfect.” 
“At rolling my tongue.”  
The clown proceeds to roll her tongue 
repeatedly with impressive dexterity, caus-
ing the audience to laugh in bewilderment. 
The contrast between this hysterical dem-
onstration and the difficult truths conveyed 
by the placards is strategic and intentional. 
Society has constructed the narrative of the 
“perfect survivor” of sexual assault – white, 
female, pretty and not too teary-eyed, 
among other characteristics – to the detri-
ment of anyone who does not fit this elu-
sive mold. The clown highlights these iden-
tity politics by presenting the situation in 
the most straightforward manner possible. 
“The play takes the trauma and pain 
that may be associated with being a sur-
vivor and doesn’t try to define it, which is 
the purpose of the clown,” Coates-Finke 
explained. “It’s responding to the myth of 
the perfect survivor, the narrative of what 
one should do and how one should be. The 
clown takes away identity in some ways, 
and just gives space.”
Lassar, who drew on her own training 
as a clown to create Post Traumatic Super 
Delightful, sees great potential in healing 
through laughter.
“Clowning has been used in sacred 
rituals in some cultural contexts,” she said. 
“The sacred clown can be a presence that 
reflects back the truth of the community to 
the community, and mimics what you are 
doing. The laughter is a recognition that 
we do act like that, people do talk that way. 
Getting a group of people to laugh about 
anything is to ac-
knowledge that it ex-
ists. This is very pow-
erful in a society that 
often invalidates sur-
vivors’ experiences.”
Though Post 
Traumatic Super De-
lightful was written 
largely for and by sur-
vivors, “Julia” – the 
fictional college stu-
dent who was sexually 
assaulted by “Bryan” 
– never makes an ap-
pearance. Instead, 
her name comes up 
only in heated con-
versations featuring Lina, the school’s Title 
IX Coordinator, faculty member Dr. Mar-
garet Roach and Bryan himself. Because it 
is a one-woman show, however, these con-
versations are enacted in a one-sided man-
ner by the ever-evolving actress Lassar. 
Responses are implied rather than uttered 
aloud – and due to prominent changes in 
vocal and physical expressions, there is 
never confusion as to which character is 
speaking at any given moment.
Lina uses brash language cloaked in 
a thick Russian accent, with inflammatory 
statements such as, “But I push her [Julia]! 
You know, I can file complaint myself, but 
if she won’t let me use her name, it won’t 
go anywhere. I’m not upset. I am upset. 
I shouldn’t be upset, but this is my first 
case. I want justice!” In contrast, Margaret 
speaks with a stiff, high-strung formality, 
while Bryan’s light Texan drawl marks all 
of his confused, frustrated and painfully 
honest musings.
In featuring a variety of voices, Post 
Traumatic Super Delightful is a reflection 
of how sexual assault is perceived by – and 
therefore affects – an entire community.   
“It allows us to think bigger about 
what the possibilities for awareness and 
activism are – the way that sexual assault 
affects people beyond the two or more peo-
ple involved in one encounter,” McShane 
said. “It’s exciting both for people who are 
new to this conversation and for people 
who have been having this conversation 
for a long time.”
“Even if you think you don’t know a 
survivor and you think you don’t know a 
perpetrator, everyone is so connected and 
complicit and responsible and in a positon 
to do something about sexual violence,” 
Coates-Finke said. 
Through the dialogue, the audience 
becomes aware of the ways in which harm-
ful narratives are reproduced.
“Bryan is not capable of rape. He is not 
a monster,” Margaret, his faculty advisor, 
says at one point.
“Julia does not look like a rape victim, 
okay? I had her in class. I know her.”
In response to the question “Do you 
think she was making it up?” Margaret 
states, “When you’re a drinker, there’s al-
ways the possibility you misremembered.”
Bryan’s pain and misconceptions also 
come to light through his interactions with 
Lina, the Title IX Coordinator who is ada-
mantly advocating for Julia.
“I’m a freaking 21-year-old boy! I’m 
going to have sex!” Bryan exclaims. “Rape 
is about power, it’s not about sex. What if 
this was just about sex?”
“I knew a guy in high school who got 
raped, real raped. And 
it’s really different. It’s 
like, I mean, he was 
bleeding. It was like 
on a walk home from 
a bar, and someone 
just appeared on the 
street. That’s rape. 
When you have to 
fight.”
Faced with these 
faulty assumptions 
– that drunk sex can-
not count as rape, that 
only monsters are ca-
pable of rape and that 
rape victims all look and act a certain way 
– it becomes clear why sexual assault has 
become such a blurry and complicated is-
sue, particularly on college campuses. Post 
Traumatic Super Delightful addresses this 
complexity partly by stating these miscon-
ceptions aloud in the first place, and partly 
by emphasizing the humanness inherent in 
everyone involved.
For instance, though Lina demon-
strates care and compassion, she is not 
always great at her job. She pressures Ju-
lia to file a Title IX complaint in the name 
of “justice,” but then realizes, “What is 
the point of justice, if survivor will still be 
hurt?”
Meanwhile, Bryan is an accused per-
petrator – yet his goofy demeanor and 
adoration for baby animal videos defy the 
common expectation that rapists cannot 
possibly be human. According to an anony-
mous feedback form submitted by an audi-
ence member, “It was tough to watch/hear 
from the perpetrator, because he was so 
nice … Ugh. I guess it’s easier to think of 
perpetrators as horrible evil people.”
Amid the stress of the judicial pro-
cess, Bryan explains that all he can handle 
at this point is watching videos of “panda 
puppies” – a confession 
that drew huge, perhaps 
empathetic laughs from 
the crowd. Combined 
with his genuine, plead-
ing questions – “I don’t 
know what I did! How 
could you not know if you 
raped someone? What’s 
non-consensual? What’s 
consensual?” – Bryan’s 
confusion becomes obvi-
ous. And in some ways, 
his actions become un-
derstandable. Like ev-
eryone else, Bryan is the 
product of a system, his thoughts shaped 
by a flawed education and harmful media 
messaging. All of these factors have led 
him to misunderstand what it means to 
hurt another individual and what it takes 
to be a “good” or a “bad” person.
The multifaceted characterization 
within Post Traumatic Super Delightful 
shows that nothing and no one exists in 
black-and-white terms. In all of its messi-
ness, the story becomes more real, and 
thus more relatable. Above all, it proves 
that laughter can, indeed, serve as an un-
expected catalyst for healing.  
Perhaps the anonymous feedback from 
the audience phrased it best: “I am feeling 
heavy and light simultaneously,” a 21-year-
old female wrote. “Trauma and sexual as-
sault is not an easy topic to face, but I feel 
the load is always a bit lighter with the aid 
of the community and new tools.”
“As a survivor, I thought it was heal-
ing to see this performed in a serious and 
comedic way,” a 19-year-old male wrote. “I 
feel hopeful.” 
PTSD Play Brings Humor to Healing
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
“Even if you think you 
don’t know a survivor 
and you think you don’t 
know a perpetrator, 
everyone is so connected 
and complicit and re-
sponsible and in a po-
sition to do something 
about sexual violence.”
-Rebecca Coates-Finke ’16.5
Antonia Lassar
“Getting a group of 
people to laugh about 
anything is to acknowl-
edge that it exists. This 
is very powerful in a 
society that often inval-
idates survivors’ expe-
riences.”
-Antonia Lassar
Playwright and Performer
The Post Traumatic Super Delightful clown unpacks the myth of the perfect survivor.
15arts & SCIENCESMAY 12, 2016 | 
A Midsummer Night’s Dream Delights
On May 5-9 in Wright Theater, As-
sociate Professor of Theatre Claudio 
Medeiros ’90 directed Shakespeare’s 
beloved comedy A Midsummer Night’s 
Dream, presenting a sparkling bookend 
to the College’s interdisciplinary winter 
and spring semester celebrations of the 
400th anniversary 
of the playwright’s 
death. Beyond the 
surface delight of 
the play’s whimsical 
storyworld of fairies 
and magic potions, 
the text weaves to-
gether three stories 
in a meta explora-
tion of the theatrical 
process and narra-
tive construction.  
Composed of a 
relatively large cast 
of 25 student actors, 
A Midsummer’s Night Dream is, at its 
very foundation, a fun play. Written 
before 1598, the work aligns themati-
cally with other Shakespeare texts like 
Romeo and Juliet, The Merchant of 
Venice and Love’s Labor’s Lost, all of 
which highlight poetic and rhetorical 
craft while exploring the many possible 
definitions of literal and metaphorical 
fantasy worlds.  
Upon entering the theater, audi-
ence members encountered actors on 
stage in modern clothing as they in-
formally gestured and spoke among 
themselves, hinting at this production’s 
heightened interest in the process of 
making a theatrical piece. The first nar-
rative of the play is a relatively common 
Shakespeare plot of star-crossed lov-
ers – Hermia, who is in love with Ly-
sander, is betrothed to Demetrius, the 
object of Helena’s affection, and as a 
result, dramatic potential abounds. The 
four actors – Kathleen Gudas ’16.5, Al-
exander Burnett ’16, Connor Wright ’18 
and Caitlyn Meagher ’17, respectively 
– had excellent chemistry throughout 
the play, especially during a complex 
and physical fight scene choreographed 
by Adam Milano ’15. Throughout the 
opening scene, which was staged as 
a rehearsal, these actors paused and 
asked for direction about their lines or 
blocking, and the sparse set, consisting 
solely of black block-
ing squares and two 
chairs in front of a 
black background, 
refused to allow au-
dience immersion in 
the plot. However, 
this stark visual por-
trayal of the work-
shopping process 
proved a dramatic 
contrast to the reveal 
of the dazzling white 
set design of the fol-
lowing forest scene, 
black panels rotat-
ing and the black 
floor cover disappearing to display “a 
great white box.” This was inspired by 
Peter Brook’s famous 1970 production 
privileging light and the imagination 
of the audience. Carefully placed chairs 
and climbing wall holds on these rotat-
ing back panels provided a spatially dy-
namic playground for the eight fairies, 
also dressed in white for the duration of 
the play.  
It is the (unsuccessful) magical 
manipulations of King Oberon, played 
by Kahari Blue ’19, and Liana Barron’s 
’18 Queen Titania – both majestically 
costumed in sumptuous white capes 
and magnificent crowns that drastically 
contrasted with the modern dress of the 
previous scene – that bring the narra-
tives of the lovers and the Rude Me-
chanicals together.  
The comic relief of the Rude Me-
chanicals - who offer the most obvious 
tribute to the theatrical process as they 
cast, rehearse, and try to define the re-
lationship between actor and character 
in their own lover’s play, Pyramus and 
Thisbe – acts a link between the fantasy 
of the forest and the dilemmas facing 
the lovers in the city. This acting troupe 
is led by Nick Bottom, played with en-
thusiastic vigor by standout Zac Loun-
sbury ’16.  
Sam Martin’s ’19 ambitious Robin 
Goodfellow (perhaps better known as 
the central fairy Puck), carries out Ober-
on and Titania’s requests to administer 
a potion that causes the victim to fall 
in love with the first creature he or she 
sees. Conflict ensues when Puck incor-
rectly gives the potion to Lysander in-
stead of Demetrius, causing a love trian-
gle between the men and Helena, while 
Tatiana wakes up to see a version of 
Nick Bottom who has been transformed 
into, well, an ass’ head. Though he had 
played his opening scenes to great co-
medic effect, Lounsbury’s reappearance 
with the head of a donkey established a 
new standard of delight among giggling 
audience members. As is true of most 
of Shakespeare’s comedies, all is well 
in the end, but the real pleasure is in 
watching the resolution of the conflicts. 
The final performance of the farci-
cal and self-referential Pyramus and 
Thisbe by the Rude Mechanicals for the 
lovers and the theater audience served 
as the pinnacle of gregarious spectacle, 
capitalizing on the comedic timing and 
physicalities of Lounsbury, Yossi Sachi 
’19 as Pyramus’ lover Thisbe and Max 
Lieblich ’18 as the physical representa-
tion of a wall in between them. Loun-
sbury’s fuschia satin ensemble, pranc-
ing steps and playful interaction with 
the fake mustache that spent as much 
time on the floor as on his face caused 
raucous laughter in the theater. This was 
only outdone by Sachi’s exaggerated vo-
cal and physical portrayal of a woman, 
complete with white cake makeup and a 
wig that only occasionally remained on 
his head. Costume and prop malfunc-
tions, zealous gestures and interrup-
tions of direct address from the actors 
to the lovers on the stage rendered the 
play within a play a joyful 10-minute 
burst of pure physical comedy, one out-
burst of laughter quickly replacing an-
other as the performance unravels.
The choice to cast a physical rep-
resentation of the Indian Boy, the am-
biguously literal or metaphorical source 
of Oberon and Titania’s marital dishar-
mony portrayed by Manny Duran ’19, 
served as a point of inspiration for the 
production.  
“I always wait for an impulse, a 
rumbling, something in the gut; I wait 
for the text, through a crack...to whis-
per something that will disturb, haunt, 
and doggedly refuse to leave,” Medeiros 
said in his Director’s Note. “This Dream 
began with that boy, and it was through 
him that we returned to theatre itself 
and its power to stir very deeply, and to 
make conscious what we either fear to 
see or, better yet, what we cannot dream 
possible.” 
The final scene of the production 
came full circle, showing the actors as 
they took off their costumes and con-
gratulated each other on the perfor-
mance. As the players exited the stage, 
Blue remained, turning to see the In-
dian Boy walking toward him, thus fur-
ther complicating the divide between 
fantasy and reality and reminding the 
audience of theatrical mirage.  
Revelatory set design, whimsical 
fairies dancing through the aisles, and 
slapstick physical comedy made for an 
engaging adaptation of A Midsummer 
Night’s Dream. Though the self-ref-
erential rehearsal style of the opening 
scene proved jarring, the production 
fully engaged with Shakespeare’s explo-
ration of the illusions of theatre, taking 
innovative risks to display the timeless 
potential of the playwright’s work to 
surprise, delight and transform.  
By Leah Lavigne
Managing Editor
A Midsummer Night’s Dream marked the 400th anniversary of Shakespeare’s death.
Anthea Viragh
Costume and prop mal-
functions, zealous ges-
tures and interruptions 
of direct address from the 
actors to the lovers on the 
stage rendered the play 
within a play a joyful 
10-minute burst of pure 
physical comedy.
The Sorcerer of the Wildeeps is a 
beautifully written novel filled with electric 
prose. Containing unforgettable lines such 
as “Metamorphosis 
is like death,” this 
work pretends to be 
a novella but is so 
much more. Author 
Kai Ashante Wil-
son packs these 208 
pages with the world-building of a much 
larger book. Though the plot may sound 
cliché – man and beloved travel, encoun-
ter problems and fight monstrous creatures 
in a frightening forest – it is an altogether 
deeper and more layered story than this de-
scription would imply. I was drawn to this 
novel because of the love story between Da-
mane and Captain Isa.
Since leaving his homeland, Demane 
has been known as the Sorcerer. He is de-
scended from gods, 
as is the Captain of 
the caravan, which 
Demane joins in its 
trek across a waste-
land and through 
the forest of the 
Wildeeps to reach Great Olorum. Demane 
is in love with Captain Isa, and his feelings 
soon escalate to an all-consuming passion. 
Fraught with difficulties, however, their 
relationship is sharp-edged and filled with 
misunderstandings.
Language is a big theme in Wilson’s 
work. This is dem-
onstrated through 
the Captain, who 
sings instead of 
speaking. Yet 
we cannot trust 
Demane as a reli-
able narrator – so 
does Isa really 
sing? Or is this an-
other manifesta-
tion of Demane’s 
love for his Cap-
tain? At the heart 
of this novella is a tragedy. Though the end-
ing is ambiguous, the footnotes that litter 
this novel foreshadow the inevitable: Dam-
ane’s pain.
Upon finishing 
the book, I wanted to 
hear more about Da-
mane and his hinted 
past. Hopefully there 
will be a sequel, since 
this world is too stun-
ning to be forgotten 
just yet. Different 
from anything else I 
have read in a long 
time, this book defi-
nitely lives up to its 
glowing reviews.
Check out go/bookingit for other re-
views.  
Though the plot may sound 
cliche – man and beloved trav-
el, encounter problems and 
fight monstrous creatures in 
a frightening forest – it is an 
altogether deeper and more 
layered story than this descrip-
tion would imply.
booking it
The Sorcerer of 
the Wildeeps
By Abigail Walton
Staff Columnist
Anthea Viragh
The play within a play served as a meta-exploration of the illusions of the theatre.
16 arts & SCIENCES | May 12, 2016
Art Installation Addresses Sexual Assault 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
The potential to cause unintentional 
harm to viewers, particularly to survivors 
or people who may be triggered by the 
performance, is an issue that the group 
continues to navigate. As a statement on 
their blog articulates, “We recognize that 
performance art activism should be dis-
ruptive, and discomfort is a natural and 
intended reaction to something challeng-
ing the status quo. However, we also want 
to be careful not to harm the people we are 
trying to advocate for. [...] We are continu-
ing to think of ways that we can evolve the 
installation to prepare for the potential im-
pact it could have on survivors.”
Because alcohol consumption, party 
spaces and rape culture are so intimately 
connected, the purpose of bringing the 
movement to various areas on campus is 
to make sexual assault visible in places be-
yond neutral discussion venues. The group 
acknowledges the importance of extending 
the conversation beyond a self-selected au-
dience.
“People who are motivated by the 
cause will show up to certain things,” Dunn 
said. “But there’s a pretty large group of 
people who actively avoid these conversa-
tions, not because they don’t have the time, 
but because they don’t want to.”
However, Dunn also recognized the 
intensely sensitive nature of the subject for 
many individuals on campus.
“Of course, we understand if your own 
personal experiences have been negative 
or you don’t have the mental energy. That’s 
understandable for us, and that’s always 
been very difficult for us, because we don’t 
want to trigger people or make people re-
ally uncomfortable,” they said. “But at the 
same time, there’s a different kind of dis-
comfort on this campus that just leads to 
silencing. That’s something we’ve been 
trying to address – that culture of silence, 
pretending that this isn’t an issue.”
Student responses to this radical activ-
ism have varied widely. Negative feedback 
has stemmed largely from male-identifying 
individuals, with such reactions as, “F**k 
you guys,” “Why are you targeting us?” 
“I’ve never sexually assaulted anyone!” 
“Get out, we’re just trying to have fun!” 
“I’m gay, so I could never sexually assault 
anyone!” “Bitch!” and “This isn’t art.  Have 
you seen the Sistine Chapel? That’s art.” 
One of the most disturbing comments was, 
“She thinks sexual assault is a problem? I’ll 
sexually assault her.”
During one of the Atwater installa-
tions, a group of men carrying solo cups 
stood in line with their backs to one of the 
performers, forming a human wall.
“The goal was to block us from view, 
to limit our power, to say, ‘You’re not wel-
come here,’” Grady-Benson said.
Amid the annoyance, denial and hos-
tility of passersby, an informal – and alarm-
ing – body of research is emerging.
“We’re getting people to say things to 
us that they’re thinking or saying behind 
closed doors, and we’re trying to make that 
public,” Grady-Benson 
explained.
Despite the nega-
tivity, there has also 
been an outpouring of 
support from other ob-
servers. Comments have 
included “Thank you so 
much for doing this,” 
“This is so important,” 
“You are all so brave,” 
“I can’t believe nobody 
has done anything like 
this before,” “As a survi-
vor, this really speaks to 
me” and “How can I get 
involved?”
In a process filled 
with political strife, some individuals have 
expressed discomfort with the radical na-
ture of the movement. As such, participa-
tion in Stares on Stairs has shifted through-
out the past few months.
“We really want to emphasize that ev-
eryone has agency in this project,” Grady-
Benson stated. “There is no shame or judg-
ment if this is not for you.”
“I never want to push people on that, 
because I think an individual is the best 
person to evaluate the level of risk that they 
are ready to accept,” Dunn added. “But it’s 
sort of a tradeoff, because 
in order to get some-
thing accomplished, you 
do have to put yourself 
out there in some kind 
of a way and take a risk. 
I wish that people who 
are able to – mentally 
healthy enough and in 
a good enough place – 
would open themselves 
up to that risk. There’s 
a difference between ‘I 
don’t want to be trig-
gered’ or ‘I’ve had a re-
ally bad week so I can’t 
do this right now’ and 
‘I’m nervous about what 
people will think if they realize that I am in-
volved in this kind of radical action.’”
Each role in the performance comes 
with its own set of difficulties. The per-
former, half-naked and marked by hand-
prints, must stand silently as they become 
the subject of stares, some hostile, some 
curious and some at an indiscernible point 
in between.
“It’s really in-
formed my experience 
to be a performer and 
not speak to people. 
There’s so much I 
want to say to people 
as they’re walking by,” 
Sather said.
“It’s not that we 
are silent,” Chang said. 
“I would say that our 
body is the message.”
Meanwhile, the 
bodyguards must be 
attuned to the mood 
of the space as party-
goers – most of them intoxicated – stream 
past them, occasionally interacting with the 
performance.
“People have said the craziest things, 
like, ‘I’m an art history major. This isn’t 
art,’” Sather said. “You have to evaluate – is 
this something I should engage in, or simply 
something to remark on later?”
“Perhaps we bother some people by 
bringing such a serious topic to party spaces 
that are meant to be overflowing with good 
music, laughing and dancing,” Mayopou-
los said. “But the truth is, I’d much rather 
receive a charged comment from a partier 
who doesn’t want to engage with our per-
formance because it ruins the good vibes of 
their partying than not do this performance 
and see the number of sexual assaults in-
crease.”
The group performs in short stretches, 
reconvening every 10 minutes to check how 
everyone is emotionally, physically and 
mentally. As a show of solidarity, they come 
as a group and leave as a group, with the 
entire performance lasting from one to two 
hours. Afterward, people may go their sepa-
rate ways to rest, or debrief if there is some-
thing pressing to address. The group always 
offers an open discussion to the campus a 
couple of days after the event, but so far, no 
one beyond the immediate circle of partici-
pants has shown up.
“Getting people to care on campus 
is really hard for any activist movement,” 
Grady-Benson explained. “It’s easy for peo-
ple to either say ‘f**k you’ or ‘love you’ and 
not really care the next day.”
“If you care about this issue, maybe you 
don’t have to come to our event, but do you 
want to write something? Do you want to 
help us make posters or art? There are a lot 
of ways to support our group besides physi-
cally participating in protest,” Dunn said.
In spite of all the barriers that Stares on 
Stairs has encountered – from administra-
tive hesitation to student apathy to outright 
aggression – these activists are determined 
to awaken the dialogue on sexual assault, 
and to shift the culture of victim-blaming 
that has affected col-
leges across the na-
tion. As one exhaust-
ing and informative 
semester draws to a 
close, they are already 
brainstorming ways 
to expand their mis-
sion, from posting 
photographs to bring-
ing the movement to 
other campuses to di-
versifying the group to 
include more genders 
and sexual identities. 
All the while, howev-
er, these students acknowledge the limita-
tions and risks inherent in their work.
“This is not a finished thing. We don’t 
have a formula. There’s still a lot of room 
for growth. This is not just high risk for our-
selves, but for our community, and we want 
to recognize that us doing a disruptive action 
can have a harmful impact, even it that’s not 
our intention, particularly on survivors of 
sexual assault,” Chang said. “Continuing to 
be in conversation with MiddSafe advocates 
and other people not in the group has been 
really important. We are learning each time. 
This is by no means the right way. It’s just 
us trying to do the work as intentionally and 
mindfully as possible.”
Visit go/stares or go/stairs to learn 
more about their mission. 
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
Stares on Stairs blog
Stares on Stairs performers hope to expand the dialogue on sexual assault by setting up installations in party spaces on campus.
Stares on Stairs Blog
The staircases outside the Atwater suites served as the venue for a few performances.
Negative fedback has 
stemmed largely from 
male-identifying individu-
als, with such reactions 
as, “F**k you guys,” “Why 
are you targeting us?” 
and “She thinks sexual 
assault is a problem? I’ll 
sexually assault her.” 
“Getting people to care 
on campus is really 
hard for any activist 
movement. It’s easy 
for people to either say 
‘f**k you’ or ‘love you’ 
and not really care the 
next day.”
-Morgan Grady-Benson ’18
May 12, 2016 | 17arts & SCIENCES
By Toby Aicher
Arts & Sciences Editor
Seniors to Present Science Theses
Scenes and Songs is an annual per-
formance of musical theatre with selec-
tions from opera to Broadway performed 
by students. The evening promises an 
intriguing medley of both solo and group 
performances by some of the best voices 
on campus. Nowhere else will you get ex-
posure to such a wide range of vocal tal-
ent and style. Stop by the Concert Hall of 
the Mahaney Center of the Arts (MCA) at 
8 p.m. on Saturday, May 14.
Although all the pieces are drawn 
from either musical or operatic theatre, 
the performances put the spotlight en-
tirely on the singer by utilizing few set, 
prop or costume pieces. This is not to say 
that each piece will consist of a student 
standing in front of a microphone. Per-
formers will enact each piece as if it were 
occurring within its original show, with 
all the movement and drama entailed.
Each piece has been carefully select-
ed to both challenge and suit the individ-
ual singer, while also creating a fun and 
diverse experience for the audience. As 
such, there is not a unifying theme for the 
evening. Some of the 30 different student 
performers will offer only solo perfor-
mances, while others with join together 
for duets and ensemble favorites.
Some, such as Emma Gee ’16, will ap-
pear in a number of pieces. Gee will sing 
“Divo Amore” as part of a trio from the 
opera Orfeo ed Euridice, “In the Light of 
the Virgin Morning” as a duo from the 
musical Jane Eyre and “I Feel Pretty” 
along with the other Shark women from 
the musical West Side Story.
When I asked Gee what drew her to 
opera, while most performers seem to be 
focusing on musicals, she replied, “I tend 
to sing more opera-type pieces because 
my voice is suited to that type of music. 
Everyone has different strengths!” 
Coordinating such a large group and 
so many different pieces is no easy task. I 
was able to catch up with Affiliate Artist, 
Program Coordinator and Vocal Instruc-
tor Carol Christensen to get a few details 
on producing such a show.
Middlebury Campus (MC): As 
one of the vocal instructors, what has your 
role been in Scenes and Songs?
Carol Christensen (CC): “I start 
planning for the scenes concert in De-
cember during the break, going through 
reams of material 
to find ideas for 
solo, duet and en-
semble numbers 
from the musical 
theatre and op-
eratic repertoire 
that would suit 
the voices of the 
students in my 
studio, challenge 
them technically 
and make for a 
fun and interest-
ing concert. Ac-
tually finding the 
music is another story. Sometimes I have 
to drop an idea if I can’t find the music 
anywhere.”  
MC: What kind of performances can 
we expect to see on Saturday?
CC: “We’re doing a scene from Gluck’s 
semi-opera (or “dramatick opera”), “King 
Arthur,” which, as is characteristic of this 
genre, involves singing and dancing by 
pastoral and/
or supernatu-
ral characters. 
A d d i t i o n a l l y , 
there will be 
scenes from 
Mozart’s operas 
“Le nozze di Fi-
garo” and “Così 
fan tutte,” as 
well as musical 
theatre num-
bers and scenes 
from South Pa-
cific, West Side 
Story, Spring 
Awakening and many works in between. 
The subtitle of our concert is “A Sampling 
of Musical Theatre from Opera to Broad-
way.” We want to highlight their similari-
ties and let people know that opera can 
be just as fun and engaging as Broadway 
musical theatre.”
MC: Are voice lessons geared toward 
theatre majors or could you help an utter 
layperson like myself?
CC: Any student at Middlebury, no 
matter what their major, can take voice 
lessons in the music department. There 
are no auditions, and all levels are wel-
come, from beginners to singers who are 
already very experienced before coming to 
the College. Some singers are more clas-
sically oriented, some more interested in 
musical theatre style singing and some 
are interested in improving their vocal 
technique for singing with their a cappella 
groups, or to feel more confident with an 
audition for an acappella group.”
If you’re interested in vocal lessons, 
visit the music department website for 
more information. Scenes and Songs is 
free, so I hope to see you Saturday, May 14 
at 8 p.m. in the MCA Concert Hall.
Performing Arts Sp    TLight: Scenes and Songs
 
By Connor Forrest
Senior Columnist
“The subtitle of our concert is 
‘A Sampling of Musical Theatre 
from Opera to Broadway.’ We 
want to highlight their similari-
ties and let people know that 
opera can be just as fun and 
engaging as Broadway musical 
theatre.”
-Carol Christensen
Program Coordinator and vocal instructor
The MCA Concert Hall will host Scenes and Songs, the annual musical theatre performance, this Saturday, May 14 at 8 p.m.
Middlebury College Music Department
Graduating seniors will present 
their senior science theses this May. 
Their theses represent at least a year’s 
worth of original research. Many stu-
dents consider  doing a thesis one of 
their most valuable experiences at the 
College.
“Nothing was prescribed, if there 
was something I thought would work 
I could try it,” said Sam Horn ’16, who 
completed a biology thesis. “I had the 
flexibility of working independently. It 
gave me the chance to explore a topic 
more in depth than I would have ever 
been able to do in a class.” 
One major theme of senior biology 
theses was lyme disease. The bacteria 
Ixodes scrapularis, which is spread by 
tick bites, causes lyme disease. There are 
30,000 reported cases of lyme disease a 
year and when untreated, the disease can 
lead to severe neurological defects such 
as facial nerve paralysis and arthritis.
Jack Desmarais ’16 conducted re-
search on improving techniques to detect 
and diagnose lyme disease. Current diag-
nostic measures are often inaccurate and 
have high rates of false negatives. Des-
marais attempted to create a biosensor 
using a molecule known as a riboswitch. 
Under normal conditions, the riboswitch 
prevents the expression of a fluorescent 
molecule. But when a molecule unique 
to lyme disease is present in a patient’s 
blood sample, the switch turns off and 
the fluorescent molecule is expressed, 
warning of the presence of lyme disease. 
Desmarais was able to create several pre-
liminary versions of riboswitches and is 
currently testing if they can detect mol-
ecules unique to lyme disease.
“It was gratifying to find out recently 
that another scientific team is attempting 
to use riboswitches to detect Zika virus,” 
Desmarais said. “It means that this ap-
proach has enormous potential.”
Carter Merenstein ’16 researched 
ecology of bacterial species found in ticks. 
Merenstein collected ticks and found that 
nearly 50 percent of adult ticks contain 
the bacteria that cause lyme disease.  He 
then investigated to see if the ticks with-
out lyme disease had different types of 
bacteria than those with lyme disease. 
Carter was unable to find a significant 
difference in the composition of bacterial 
species in ticks with and without lyme dis-
ease because he had a small sample size. 
However, he found preliminary evidence 
that one tick he investigated carried an-
other potential human pathogen known 
as Kiplorickettsia massiliensis.
Kate Bauman ’16 conducted research 
on natural products in Assistant Professor 
of Biochemistry Anne Giddings’ lab. Bau-
man is Giddings’ first thesis student. Bau-
man’s research focused on investigating 
bacteria for useful and interesting chemi-
cals. One of the major applications of the 
research is antibiotic discovery. Most an-
tibiotics are derived from molecules dis-
covered in bacteria. A central problem 
in natural products research is that most 
bacteria only express one percent of their 
genes when cultured in a laboratory. 
Bauman cultured the bacteria she 
was investigating with other species of 
bacteria to try to push them to express 
more genes and produce more chemicals 
than normally seen in lab. Using a tech-
nique called mass spectroscopy, Bauman 
identified several previously known mol-
ecules and discovered a potentially novel, 
unreported compound.
Every department has its own re-
quirements for independent work. The 
math and physics department require a 
semester of independent research, which 
can be extended into a full thesis, and 
the math department requires one se-
mester of independent research. Geology 
requires all of 
their students 
to complete a 
thesis. This year 
14 students con-
ducted geology 
research, which 
ranged from 
Drew Gorin’s  ’16 
project on at-
tempting to infer 
ancient changes 
in climate from 
mineral deposits 
in a cave in Weybridge, to Ryan McElroy’s 
’16.5 project on understanding forces that 
influence sedimentation in mountains in 
Utah.
The Chemistry & Biochemistry, Biol-
ogy and Molecular Biology departments 
have no requirements for senior work, al-
though students who complete theses re-
ceive departmental honors. One professor 
speaking anonymously mentioned that 
there was pressure from the administra-
tion to require senior work.
“The administration would like for us 
to require some form of senior work, in 
part because it’s a statistic that looks good 
for the school, but they don’t seem willing 
to provide us with the increased resources 
that would be necessary to do that,” he 
said. “We want all our students to collect 
their own empirical data. If we required 
everyone to do a thesis it could cheapen 
the experience for students and decrease 
the quality of that work. There’s limited 
lab space and resources in the sciences.”
Many students doing theses decide to 
stay at the College and conduct research 
over the summer.
“For my project, it was really helpful 
to stay over the 
summer because 
I ran into a lot 
of problems in 
places where I 
needed to trou-
bleshoot,” Horn 
said. “Plus, when 
you do research 
without other 
classes you get 
so much more 
done than you 
ever could dur-
ing a semester. But I also know plenty of 
people who have done a good job and got 
lots of good results but haven’t been here 
over the summer.”
Chemistry students have already fin-
ished presenting their theses, but biol-
ogy, neuroscience and physics theses will 
be presented during the rest of May. On 
Thursday May 12 at 12:30 p.m. in MBH 
220, Luc Pomerance  ’16 will present his 
thesis on the genetics of neurotransmit-
ter release in nematodes, and Erin Mill-
er ’16.5 will present research on spatial 
memory in chemically modified mice. On 
Friday May 13t at 12:30 p.m. in MBH 220, 
Vera Chan ’16 will present her thesis on 
using buckwheat to increase crop yields, 
and Annie Taylor ’16 will present her re-
search on California’s historic drought.
“Nothing was prescribed. If 
there was something I thought 
would work I could try it. It 
gave me the chance to explore 
a topic more in depth than I 
would have ever been able to do 
in a class. ”
-Sam Horn ’16
The second-seeded Middlebury 
women’s lacrosse team emerged victorious 
from a weekend of competition at the 
NESCAC Tournament hosted by Trinity on 
Saturday, May 7 and Sunday, May 8. The 
Panthers began the weekend with a 13-4 
win over third-seeded Amherst to advance 
to Sunday’s conference championship 
game against tournament host Trinity. On 
Sunday, Middlebury displaced the five-
time defending NESCAC champions by a 
final score of 10-7.
Middlebury got off to a strong start 
against Amherst, holding the Lord Jeffs 
scoreless throughout the first 45 minutes 
of play. The Panthers went on to mount a 
formidable 12-goal advantage before their 
opponents were able to find the back of 
the net.
Alli Sciarretta ’16 led Middlebury’s 
offensive effort in the first half, recording 
four goals as the Panthers surged to a 
9-0 lead heading into the halftime break. 
Hollis Perticone ’18 added three goals of 
her own in the team’s first-half run and 
Mary O’Connell ’17 was good for one tally 
in addition to four assists.
Scoring slowed in the second 30 
minutes of regulation, with the Panthers 
only adding three to the scoreboard off two 
goals from Megan Griffin ’16 and a single 
score from Emma McDonagh ’19 off a free 
position shot. Rachel Passarelli scored 
an unassisted goal to put Amherst on the 
board at the 14:10 mark of the second 
half. Three late goals from the Lord Jeffs 
were not enough to combat Middlebury’s 
lead, and the Panthers moved on to the 
championship with a 13-4 victory.
The top-seeded Bantams entered the 
championship game with a 15-2 record, 
while the second-seeded Panthers sat 
at 16-1, with their only loss coming at 
the hands of Trinity during the regular 
season.
Middlebury struck first on the day 
when Perticone capitalized on a feed from 
Griffin three minutes into regulation. 
Trinity’s Kiley Coffey responded shortly 
after to tie the score at one apiece. 
Middlebury exploded on a 7-0 run 
throughout the remainder of the opening 
half. Perticone added another two tallies 
while Chrissy Ritter ’16, Bridget Instrum 
’16, O’Connell, Griffin and Sciarretta 
added one each.
The Panthers returned to the field 
with an 8-2 lead and only 30 minutes 
away from a NESCAC championship.
Trinity refused to give up and battled 
back to score six of the eight second-half 
goals. The Bantams cut their deficit to 
four at the 12:01 mark after a goal from 
Martha Griffin notched the score at 9-5. 
Instrum added an unassisted tally with 
6:50 remaining to cap the Panther scoring 
effort. Trinity added a pair of goals in the 
final five minutes to get within three, 
but it was not enough and the Panthers 
knocked off the Bantams 10-7.
“We are all really proud of our 
performance this weekend. It feels like 
we are peaking at the perfect time in 
the season and we hope to carry this 
momentum into the NCAA Tournament,” 
said Perticone, who had a combined six-
goal performance over the weekend. 
The outcome marks Trinity’s first loss 
in the NESCAC Championship in five 
years and the Panther’s first title since 
2007. With the win, Middlebury earns an 
automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament 
and improves to 17-1 on the season while 
the Bantams fell to 15-3.
| may 12, 2016 18 sports
Women’s Lacrosse Knocks Off Trinity To Win Title
 YES 
They’ll both fly through the first 
round without a problem.
THUNDER
Bye, Alex. You’re still mighty to me! 
YES 
Both teams have been dominant all 
season, this is their time to really 
shine. 
 RAPTORS
Gotta support the 6.
editors’ picks
YES
Go Panthers.
THUNDER
Boom.
HEAT
This pick is my first move towards 
claiming the top spot next January 
when I get back from abroad.
YES
They’ve been doing great lately.
Emily Bustard (74-81, .477)
Alex Morris (105-96, .522)
Andrew Rigas (53-36, .595)
Lacrosse: Will both the men’s and 
women’s teams advance to the NCAA 
Quarterfinals?
NBA pick’em: Who wins the 
series, Raptors or Heat?
NBA pick’em: Who wins the 
series, Spurs or Thunder?
Tennis: Will both the men’s and 
women’s teams advance to the 
NCAA Quarterfinals?
YES
My last ever editor’s picks. I shed 
a tear.
SPURS
I remember the day when I used to 
reign on top of the ed’s pick board.
Oh how the mighty have fallen.
YES
My ed picks career really is the 
opposite of the started from the 
bottom now I’m here. Drake would 
be disappointed in me.
HEAT
And with that I bid you all 
farewell. Keep these boys in line, 
Emily. #alexout
NO
Sorry, I don’t think the men will 
do it.
SPURS
Pop and the Spurs are just too 
tough.
YES
I’ve been covering the teams all 
year, they’re good.
RAPTORS
Does it really matter though? The 
Cavs are better than both these 
teams.
YES
Panthers are looking strong heading 
into crunch time.
SPURS
If this is their last rodeo, they aren’t 
going down before the calendar 
turns to June.
YES
Men’s team rides nine game streak, 
women’s won eight of last nine.
HEAT
Will be an exciting showdown 
with the Cavs.
REMO PLUNKETT (66-56, .541)
         Will Case (26-18, .590)
By Remo Plunkett
Sports Editor
Track & Field: Women finish fourth, men finish ninth at dIII New englands
As the Middlebury Track and Field 
teams continue on to bigger meets, 
the field will get more competitive 
as the runners are narrowed down 
to the best of the best. The Panthers’ 
teams journeyed to Springfield, MA 
to compete in the Division III New 
England Championships following 
their strong showing in the NESCAC 
meets. 
Each side had an impressive finish 
as the women placed fourth out of 31 
teams and the men placed ninth out of 
31 teams.
“Coming off of the high of competing 
as a team at NESCACs last weekend 
that can be pretty mentally exhausting, 
it was great to see so many people 
come back and get good results in bad 
weather,” co-Captain Alex Morris ’16 
said.
For the men, Kevin Serrao ’18 led 
the pack as he broke a 12-year-old 
college record in the 800-meter run, 
good for fourth place in the event and 
All-New England accolades. Serrao’s 
time of 1:52.29, lowers the time of 
1:52.61 set by Nick Digani ’05 in 2004. 
Jimmy Martinez ’19 picked up All-New 
England accolades too, finishing first 
in the 400-meter dash with a time of 
48.43 seconds, winning by a hearty .78 
seconds and earning 10 of the team’s 
22 total points.
Off the track for the men, John 
Natalone ’19 had another impressive 
performance with a pole vault height 
of 14’9” that was good for second place 
overall.
Other top 10 finishes came from 
Jonathan Perlman ‘19, who finished 
ninth in the 1,500-meter run at 3:57.91, 
and Tyler Farrell ’18, who finished 10th 
in the 400-meter hurdles in just 56.16 
seconds.
For the Middlebury women, many 
top eight finishes led to All-New 
England accolades. Lauren Bougioukas 
’16 finished second at 2:15.20 and 
was the first of three Panthers to the 
cross the line in the 800-meter run. 
Isabella Alfaro ’18 was fifth in 2:16.12 
and Brianna Bisson ’18 followed closely 
behind her in eighth place at 2:17.24.
The 4x400-meter relay team of Lucy 
Lang ’19, Kate McCluskey ’18, Paige 
Fernandez ’17 and Morris finished 
second with a time of 3:54.45.
“It was pretty sentimental for me 
because I raced in my last ever 4x400 
relay, which has been one of my 
favorite events over the past four years 
here,” Morris said. “It was great to 
place second with a group of girls that 
means a lot to me.”
Fernandez also ended up in eighth 
place in the 400-meter hurdles with a 
mark of 1:05.26.
For the Panther women’s distance 
runners, Abigail Nadler ’19 set the pace 
as she ran to a third-place finish in the 
1,500-meter run at 4:33.33.
In the field for the Panthers, Carly 
Andersen ’16 won the javelin throw 
with the best throw of 134’8”, and 
Devon Player ’18 finished seventh with 
a distance of 120’11”. Kreager Taber ’19 
ended up with a third place finish in the 
pole vault competition with a height of 
10’11.75”, and Maddie Pronovost ’17 
collected 3,819 points for a fifth-place 
showing in the heptathlon.
The Panthers continue to 
demonstrate their depth and versatility 
with their strong finishes last weekend 
and will look to continue their success 
as they enter the final stretch of their 
season.
Both teams will be back in action 
later this week at Southern Connecticut 
State on Friday and Saturday, May 
13-14, for the Open New England 
Championships as they continue along 
the path to the ECAC and then NCAA 
Championships on May 26. 
By Colby Morris
Staff Writer
Baseball Wins More Than Past Two Years Combined
The Middlebury baseball team ended 
their season with an 11-23 record, drop-
ping two doubleheaders to Bowdoin and 
Tufts and losing an out-of-conference 
game to St. Joseph’s to end its season on 
a six-game losing streak after losing to 
Union last Tuesday as well. Head Coach 
Bob Smith ended his career after 32 years 
and 839 games of coaching.
“I humbly leave the program with more 
needing to be done but content with how 
we are viewed in our conference,” Smith 
said. “We tried to always show up to play 
hard and compete.”
The Panthers, whose final conference 
record was 6-6, will not compete in the 
NESCAC tournament this year. The last 
time the team made the tournament was 
in 2011, and their last NESCAC title came 
in 2006.
On Thursday, May 5, the Panthers lost 
1-0 to St. Joseph’s. The Fighting Saints 
scored the game’s only run in the second 
inning, when Justin Lemanski walked, ad-
vanced a base on an error and ran home on 
a throwing error to third base.
Middlebury’s first scoring opportunity 
came in the sixth inning. Johnny Read 
’17 sent a base hit to center field. Two bat-
ters later, Sam Graf ’19 made it to first on 
a single down the right-field line but was 
tagged out at second when trying to stretch 
the single into a double.
The Panthers threatened again in the 
seventh inning, when John Luke ’16 and 
Joe MacDonald ’16 hit back-to-back sin-
gles in the first two at-bats. But St. Joseph’s 
racked up two outs in consecutive fielder’s 
choices, and relief pitcher Luis Ramos 
picked off a runner to end the inning.
The Panthers hosted Bowdoin for a 
doubleheader on Saturday, May 7, but 
dropped both games by scores of 6-0 and 
3-0. The Polar Bears got on the board in 
the first game with three consecutive sin-
gles in the top of the second inning. Bow-
doin added a run an inning later after an 
error, a sacrifice bunt and a double down 
the rightfield line.
The Panthers threatened in the top of 
the sixth. Garrett Werner ’16 managed to 
reach third base, but a pop fly out ended 
the inning. The Polar Bears sealed the vic-
tory in the top of the seventh, scoring four 
runs on four hits to make it 6-0. 
In game two, Bowdoin took an early 
lead again with two tallies in the second 
inning. John Bunting ’19, starting pitcher 
for the Panthers, recorded two outs after 
the first run, but Jack Wilhoite of the Po-
lar Bears singled to left to bring the second 
runner home.
Bowdoin extended its lead to a final 
3-0 in the sixth inning, as Brandon Lopez 
scored on a passed ball. Jason Lock ’17, 
Max Araya ’16 and Alex Deutsch ’18 each 
had singles for the Panthers at the plate. 
Bunting allowed three runs on seven hits, 
striking out six and walking one.
The Panthers returned to the diamond 
on Sunday for its final two games of the 
season and Smith’s career. They lost twice 
to Tufts by scores of 5-1 and 9-0. In game 
one, Tufts took an early 2-0 lead in the top 
of the first. A Middlebury error loaded the 
bases for Tufts’ Mike McLaughlin, who 
reached second on an error and scored two 
runs.
In the second, MacDonald reached first 
on catcher’s interference and scored on a 
Brendan Donahue ’18 single. In the fifth, 
Jake Turtel ’18 made a diving catch to his 
right on a line drive, and John Tipps ’19 did 
the same to his left and threw to first for the 
out to keep the Panthers within one run.
The Panthers loaded the bases in the 
bottom of the fifth, but Luke flew out to 
center to end the inning. Then in the sixth, 
Tufts extended their lead to a final 5-1 af-
ter a two-run single plated Oscar Kutch 
and Mike McLaughlin. Over seven innings, 
MacDonald allowed five runs, three of 
which were earned, and eight hits on the 
mound for the Panthers.
Tufts nearly took the early lead again 
in the first inning of game two, but with 
bases loaded Middlebury recorded three 
outs straight out to get out of the inning 
unscathed. The Jumbos earned a 1-0 lead 
in the second, when Will Shackle walked 
and later scored on a double to left center.
Middlebury threatened in the third in-
ning with hits from Phil Bernstein ’19 and 
Werner, but they stranded both runners. 
In the fifth, the Jumbos plated three runs 
in the fifth inning, making the score 4-0.
The Panthers put runners on first and 
third in the bottom of the inning, but Tufts 
got out of the jam once more. The Jumbos 
finished off the game in seventh inning, 
adding four runs on four hits to bring the 
tally to 9-0.
“It was a tough ending to a rewarding 
season,” Smith said.  “Breaking double 
digit wins (11) after two seasons with fewer, 
we felt that we had accomplished some of 
our goals.  Beating Williams and Hamilton 
twice, and Amherst and Wesleyan each 
once, and actually hoping for a NESCAC 
tournament bid up until the next to last 
weekend was very exciting.”
The Panthers end their 2016 season 
with an 11-23 mark and begin the search 
for a new head coach.
“Our seniors Mark Dickerson, Joe Mac-
Donald, Max Araya, Garrett Werner and 
Johnny Luke did a fantastic job leading 
our team this year and their contributions 
in the big games made a big difference this 
season,” Smith said.  “It is great to see play-
ers persevere through the tough times and 
be rewarded.”
By Ethan Brady
Features Editor 
may 12, 2016| 19SPORTS 
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKING TEAM
Plunkett’s Predictions
2
Women’s Lacrosse
NESCAC Champs! 
Men’s tennis
Also NESCAC Champs! 
3
men’s lacrosse
Almost NESCAC Champs! 
4
track & field 
Both teams recorded top-
10 performances at New 
Englands and records were 
broken in the process. 
5
7
6
Baseball
A six-game losing streak to 
finish shouldn’t overshadow 
their progress this season. 
women’s water polo
They battled to an eighth 
place finish at the national 
competition out in Santa 
Cruz, California.
the end of the year
Bittersweet. See you all next 
fall! 
Women’s Tennis Advances to 
Championship Round at NESCACs
The second-seeded women’s ten-
nis team triumphed over third-ranked 
Amherst 5-4 on Saturday, May 7 to ad-
vance to its first NESCAC Champion-
ship, but ran into a buzzsaw on Sun-
day, May 8 as Williams, the first seeded 
team and defending NESCAC and NCAA 
champion, shut out the Panthers 5-0. 
Despite this loss, the Panthers will host 
an NCAA regional match for the first 
time since 2012.
After a first-round bye, Middlebury 
entered the semifinals on Saturday 
against Amherst, who beat Tufts 5-4 
on Friday to reach the semifinals. The 
Lord Jeffs struck first in doubles when 
Vickie Ip and Kelsey Chen shut out Sa-
die Shackelford ’16 and Kaysee Orozco 
’17 8-0 in the second slot. In the third 
slot, Christina Puccinelli ’19 and Alexan-
dra Fields ’17 tied it up with an 8-4 win 
over Rebecca Pol and Avery Wagman, 
but Middlebury’s first doubles team of 
Ria Gerger ’16 and Lily Bondy ’17 fell to 
Sue Ghosh and Sarah Monteagudo in a 
tiebreaker 9-8 (8-6), giving Amherst a 
2-1 lead.
“We have always been a very strong 
singles team,” Puccinelli said. “No mat-
ter what the overall score is after dou-
bles, we take the court for singles feel-
ing confident that we can win those six 
matches, no matter who we’re playing. 
Much of our strength in singles comes 
from the fact that we don’t play our 
matches alone, but as a team.” 
The Purple & White extended its lead 
when Wagman beat Shackelford 6-2, 6-4 
in the sixth slot. Gerger responded with 
a straight set victory over Ghosh 7-5, 6-3 
in the first slot, and Fields tied the match 
by defeating Ip 6-3, 6-3 in the second 
slot. Jackie Calla regained the lead for 
Amherst with a 6-3, 6-3 win over Bondy 
in the third slot.
Down 4-3 with two matches left to 
finish, Paradies kept the Panthers alive 
by outlasting Monteagudo in three sets 
7-6 (8-6), 3-6, 6-0 in the fifth slot, mak-
ing fourth singles the rubber match. Mo-
ments later, Puccinelli defeated Chen 
6-1, 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (7-3) to seal the victory 
for Middlebury, as the entire team match 
lasted over five hours.
“I honestly can’t take credit for turn-
ing the match around though because 
my teammates pulled me through,” Puc-
cinelli said. “The amount of support and 
encouragement I received from them, 
even after falling so far behind in the 
third set, gave me the energy to finish 
out that match.”
Williams won on Saturday as well, 
defeating Wesleyan 5-0, so the Panthers 
matched up with the Ephs in the NES-
CAC championship at the Portland Rac-
quet Club & Fitness Center in Portland, 
Maine on Sunday. Less than a month 
ago, Williams defeated Middlebury 7-2, 
but the Panthers had not lost since that 
match and entered Sunday on an eight-
match winning streak.
The defending national champions 
were too much for the Panthers, clinch-
ing a 5-0 victory in the first five matches 
to win their second straight NESCAC 
championship. In doubles, Maya Hart 
and Giulia McDonnell Nieto del Rio beat 
Puccinelli and Fields 8-3, Julia Cancio 
and Hannah Atkinson defeated Shackel-
ford and Orozco 8-4 and Juli Raventos 
and Linda Shin completed the doubles 
sweep with an 8-3 win over Gerger and 
Bondy.
Needing just two singles victories 
to win the team match, Leah Bush won 
in straight sets over Shackelford 6-4, 
6-2 in the sixth slot, and Atkinson beat 
Paradies 6-0, 6-2 in the fifth slot for 
Williams’ second consecutive NESCAC 
championship.
“I think that we showed just how 
strong our team was, and just how much 
heart we have,” Puccinelli said. “We’ll 
continue to show our fight as we enter 
the NCAA tournament this weekend.”
Moving forward, the Panthers have 
earned an at-large bid and the oppor-
tunity to host a NCAA regional after 
receiving a bye in the first round. The 
Middlebury women will play the winner 
of Baruch and The College of New Jersey 
on Friday, May 13. On the other side of 
the region, Johns Hopkins will play the 
winner of Elizabethtown and Penn State-
Behrend. If Middlebury wins on Friday, 
the Panthers will face the winner of those 
three teams on Saturday in an attempt to 
earn a berth in the NCAA quarterfinals 
for the second year in a row.
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor
bani jumped on Luke Trinka and Luke Ter-
cek and defeated the pair of Lukes 8-5 in 
first doubles, for the pair’s fifth win in five 
matches in the first doubles slot. In the third 
slot, De Quant paired with Timo van der 
Geest ’18 to win 8-5 as well, over Gil Roddy 
and Chase Savage. Van der Geest was fill-
ing in for Schlanger, who had to go to the 
emergency room that morning. Farrell and 
Smolyar completed the doubles sweep by 
overwhelming Kyle Wolfe and Jerry Jiang 
8-3 in the second slot to give the Panthers a 
commanding 3-0 lead entering singles play. 
Since Hansen swapped his first and singles 
doubles, Middlebury has gone 10-0 in those 
spots.
Only two individual matches away from 
a second straight NESCAC championship, 
Farrell swamped nationally tenth-ranked 
Tercek 6-3, 6-2. The Polar Bears did record 
one victory when Grant Urken beat van der 
Geest 6-3, 7-5, but that set the stage for Der-
bani to seal the championship and an auto-
matic bid to the NCAA tournament with a 
7-5, 6-4 win over Roddy in the fifth slot.
“It feels unbelievable to have this level 
of dominance both during the regular sea-
son and post season in the NESCAC,” said 
Smolyar. “The conference is one of the most 
competitive conferences, if not the toughest, 
in the country and to be able to handily beat 
the #4 team in the country speaks volumes 
about our progress as a team and about the 
growth in our culture.”
For Middlebury, it is the team’s second 
straight NESCAC title and caps off an unde-
feated run through the conference regular 
season and tournament. The last time the 
Panthers did so was 2010, when they defeat-
ed Trinity 5-0 in the semifinals, Williams 
6-0 in the championship and went on to win 
the NCAA championship over Amherst.
“Overall, it was a great team effort with 
super strong doubles performances by the 
whole team and amazing singles efforts by 
Noah, Kyle, Will and Hamid,” Hansen said.
The Panthers will make their 15th con-
secutive NCAA tournament appearance this 
weekend when they host the Regional Fi-
nals from May 13-15. Middlebury plays the 
winner of Wilkes and Hunter on Saturday, 
May 14. The College of New Jersey and Ra-
mapo will also matchup in the first round on 
Friday, and the winner will draw Skidmore 
on Saturday. If the Panthers win on Satur-
day, they will face the winner of those three 
teams with a chance to advance to the NCAA 
quarterfinals.
After reaching the NCAA Regional Finals 
in his first year, Hansen and his team have 
advanced one round further each season, 
including a berth in the national champion-
ship match last season. If that were to con-
tinue this season, the men’s tennis program 
will win its first NCAA championship since 
2010 and its third in program history.
Men’s Tennis Rides Nine-Match Win Streak to NCAAs
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20
women’s tennis
Not the champions, but 
formidable in the NESCAC 
all season nonetheless. 
Head Coach Bob Hansen’s sea-
son-long effort to elevate his team’s 
dominance in doubles to match its 
singles successes certainly paid off 
last weekend. The men’s tennis 
team’s doubles efforts in the NES-
CAC Championships last weekend 
propelled the Panthers to their sec-
ond straight championship.
After losing to both teams in 
doubles 2-1 during the regular sea-
son, the first-seeded Panthers won 
two of their three doubles matches 
against fourth-seeded Wesleyan in 
the semifinals on Saturday, May 7, 
and then all three against second-
seeded Bowdoin on Sunday to cap-
ture the title.
“We were very pleased with our 
doubles effort this weekend, which 
reflected our consistent commit-
ment to it during the season,” 
Hansen said.
Following a bye in the first 
round of the tournament, the Pan-
thers took the courts at Bates on 
Saturday looking to defeat Wesley-
an for the second time this season, 
whom they beat 5-4 in March.
After defeating Tufts 5-3 the 
day before, Wesleyan took the lead 
when the pair of Joachim Samson 
and Sam Rudovsky defeated Wil-
liam de Quant ’18 and Kyle Sch-
langer ’18 8-3 in third doubles. 
Noah Farrell ’18 and Ari Smolyar 
’16 responded with a convincing 
8-2 win over Michael Liu and Ste-
ven Chen in the second slot.
“Noah and I have put in a lot of 
extra work in the past few weeks 
around our volleys and service pat-
terns,” Smolyar said. “I think we 
have really hit our stride and for 
the first time in two years are play-
ing with an unparalleled level of 
confidence. Our execution as well 
as our commitment to run our pat-
tern plays has really paid off.”
Palmer Campbell ’16 and Ha-
mid Derbani ’17 edged Zacko Brint 
and Greg Lyon 8-6 in the first slot 
to give the Panthers a 2-1 lead after 
doubles play.
Wesleyan took the first singles 
match as well when Cameron Dan-
iels beat Derbani 6-4, 6-1 in the 
fifth slot. Schlanger moved to 7-0 
this spring and gave Middlebury 
a 3-2 lead by handling Jake Rob-
erts in straight sets 7-5, 6-2 in the 
sixth slot. In the fourth slot, de 
Quant lost the first set but came 
back from a one set deficit to de-
feat Samson 1-6, 6-3, 6-4, who beat 
de Quant in straight sets in their 
regular season match. Up 4-1, the 
Panthers had a chance to seal the 
match, and Farrell did just that by 
coming from behind as well to beat 
Chen 4-6, 7-6 (8-6), 6-2 in the first 
slot.
On April 17, less than a month 
before the Panthers matched up 
with Bowdoin in the NESCAC 
Championship, they knocked off 
the previously unbeaten Polar 
Bears 5-4 in Middlebury. The Polar 
Bears looked as ready as ever for 
revenge at the Portland Racquet 
Club & Fitness Center in Portland, 
Maine after shutting out Amherst 
5-0 in the semifinal without sur-
rendering a set.
However, Middlebury went 
ahead when Campbell and Der-
The fourth-seeded Middlebury 
men’s lacrosse team battled to a 
10-9 win over third-seeded Bow-
doin in the NESCAC Semifinal 
contest played at Tufts on Satur-
day, May 7. The win secured the 
Panthers an appearance in the 
next day’s NESCAC Championship 
matchup against tournament host 
Tufts.
“I think we’re all extremely ex-
cited about the opportunity to play 
in the NCAA tournament,” Team 
Captain Sean Carroll ’16 said. “We 
have been steadily gaining steam 
all season, highlighted by a great 
run in the NESCAC playoffs.”
Middlebury came out of the 
gates hot against Bowdoin, netting 
the first three goals of the game, 
including one apiece from Jon 
Broome ’16 and Tim Giarrusso ’16 
within a span of 43 seconds. Bow-
doin’s Daniel Buckman managed 
to stop the bleeding late in the first. 
However, Broome and Giarrusso 
continued to produce offense as the 
second quarter began, extending 
the Panther’s lead to four. Bowdoin 
cut the lead to two after adding a 
pair of goals from Peter Reuter and 
Brett Kujala with under 5:00 re-
maining in the half.
The sides traded goals 
throughout the third quarter, but 
Middlebury remained on top to 
head into the final stanza with an 
8-5 lead. Bowdoin refused to go 
down without a fight, as the Polar 
Bears went on a 3-1 run sparked by 
another Kujala finish to crawl back 
to within one with 6:56 remaining 
in the fourth quarter. Again the 
sides traded the next two goals, as 
Middlebury’s Jack Gould ’19 and 
Bowdoin’s Tim Bulens each added 
unassisted tallies to notch the game 
at 10-9 with 4:22 remaining.
Following a faceoff win by John 
Jackson ’18 with 1:07 remaining in 
regulation, Bowdoin’s Ryan Ken-
ney forced a turnover and gave pos-
session back to his squad, creating 
a chance to force overtime. Will 
Ernst ’17 prevented extra time when 
he shut down a Matthew Crowell 
attempt with 20 seconds remaining 
to keep the Panthers afloat as time 
expired. Despite Bowdoin’s late ral-
ly, the Panthers earned the victory 
by a final score of 10-9.
The following day, Middlebury 
looked to extend its winning streak 
to three and take home the NES-
CAC Championship as they faced 
top-seeded and nationally ranked 
No. 7 Tufts on Sunday, May 8.  
Middlebury looked well on its 
way to victory after a first quarter 
marked by high-powered offense 
from both sides, resulting in a 9-5 
Panther advantage heading into 
the second quarter. Tim Giarrusso 
paced the Panther offense with 
four goals and an assist in the first 
stanza, while Kyle Soroka ’16 added 
two of his own. Although the Jum-
bos jumped out to an early 3-1 lead, 
strong play by Jackson at the fa-
ceoff allowed Middlebury to battle 
back and add five of the final six 
goals of the opening quarter.  
The tides turned against 
Middlebury during the next 20 
minutes, as the Jumbos allowed 
only one Panther goal while post-
ing nine of their own to go up 14-10 
with 10:12 remaining in the third 
quarter. Garrett Clarke, Zach Rich-
man and John Uppgren all found 
the back of the net twice during 
the run for the Jumbos. Uppgren’s 
goal with 1:12 remaining in the sec-
ond quarter tied the score at 10-10 
heading into halftime. Ben Andrey-
cak scored at the 11:50 mark in the 
third to give Tufts a lead it would 
never relinquish.
Although Middlebury fought 
back hard in the third quarter, 
outscoring the hosts by a margin 
of 4-2 in the final 10 minutes of 
the stanza to come back to within 
two, Tufts maintained its lead to 
enter the fourth quarter at a 17-
14 advantage. The Jumbos sealed 
the victory by adding four goals in 
the final quarter compared to zero 
from Middlebury to improve to 
16-2 on the season and win a sev-
enth straight NESCAC title. The 
victory afforded Tufts the league’s 
automatic bid to the NCAA Tour-
nament, where they will face Em-
manuel College in a first-round 
matchup.
“Although we didn’t come out 
on top, we are fortunate enough 
to get another chance and hope to 
take the recent momentum and 
keep rolling to Memorial Day,” Car-
roll said.
Despite the loss, Middlebury’s 
season is far from over as the team 
will make its 17th appearance in 
the NCAA Division III Men’s La-
crosse Tournament when it hosts 
Springfield in a first-round contest 
on Wednesday, May 11. The Pan-
thers defeated Springfield on the 
road earlier this season by a score 
of 10-8.
sports 20
IMPRESSIVE 
WEEKEND FOR TRACK 
AND FIELD AT DIII 
NEW ENGLANDS
PAGE 18
BRIGHT FUTURE 
AHEAD, BUT 
BASEBALL ENDS ON 
SIX-GAME LOSING 
STREAK
PAGE 19in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Men’s Lacrosse Advances to NESCAC 
Final, Receives At-Large NCAA Bid
CONTINUED ON PAGE 19
By Trevor Schmitt
Senior Writer 
Men’s tennis Wins NESCAC 
For second straight season
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor 
Jeff Patterson
Women’s lacrosse ended Trinity’s five-year run as 
NESCAC Champions, besting the tournament hosts by a 
score of 10-7 on Sunday. See page 18 for full coverage.
down with the bantams
