After a summer of long con-
struction hours, multiple meet-
ings a day and gargantuan effort to 
meet an ever-looming deadline, the 
Middlebury Solar Decathlon team 
completed Self-Reliance, their entry 
to the U.S. Department of Energy 
Solar Decathlon 2011, on Aug. 8. 
Two weeks later, the team began the 
counterintuitive task of dismantling 
the solar-powered home into two 
floor modules and six roof mod-
ules to fit onto five trucks for ship-
ment down to the National Mall in 
Washington, D.C. A portion of the 
Middlebury team left for Washing-
ton by train on Sept. 12, and after 
the trucks arrive students will have a 
week to reassemble the house for the 
media preview on Sept. 21.
“It’ll be really interesting to see 
how assembly goes — if we can stick 
to the schedule we’ve outlined, or if 
there are going to be any hurdles or 
things we couldn’t have anticipated,” 
said Team Manager Melissa Segil 
’11.5. “At this point we’re definitely 
as well-prepared as we could have 
been, but the Mall is going to be a 
test of our problem-solving skills.”
The team has already had to 
handle some permit issues that 
have prevented all of the modules 
from arriving on the Mall at the 
scheduled time, but Segil thinks 
the assembly will proceed on-time, 
weather permitting. The whole team 
Thursday, September 15, 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Vol. 110, No. 1 Since 1905
Atwater offers daily 
breakfast and lunch 
By Adam Schaffer
News Editor
Mark Bouvier 
The College escaped major damage from Irene, but much of central and southern Vermont was inundated 
with rain. Above, a tractor-trailer in Hancock was overturned, spilling its contents across the road.
See the article on the ongoing recovery process on page 8 and on Midd’s volunteer efforts on page 15.
Hurricane irene devastates entire towns, roads across vermont
College sees summer facelift
By Kyle Finck
News Editor
Andew Podrygula, Senior Photos Editor
The 608 fall admits to the Class of 2015 arrived on campus last week, and 100 more will join them in 
in February. They come from 43 states and 33 countries, and twenty-two percent are students of color.
Faculty lead First-years into convocation, college careers
Solar decathlon 
completes building
Faculty, students arrested 
in D.C. pipeline protest 
By Jess Berry and Adam Schaffer
News Editors
Co-founder of the 350.org 
movement and Schumann Dis-
tinguished Scholar Bill McKib-
ben was arrested in late August 
along with and other Middlebury 
students and staff after staging a 
sit-in at the gates of the White 
House. 
In what some called the 
largest American civil disobedi-
ence action in the past 30 years, 
1,253 people were arrested for 
demonstrating in protest of the 
Keystone XL Pipeline. The pro-
posed $7 billion pipeline would 
transport 34.9 million gallons of 
oil a day from Alberta, Canada, 
to Texas. 
McKibben and Visiting Lec-
turer in English and American 
Literatures and Associate Direc-
tor of the Program in Environ-
mental Journalism Christopher 
Shaw were arrested Aug. 20 and 
detained for nearly 60 hours. 
Demonstrators were trained 
in the basic techniques of non-
violent resistance at a nearby 
church days before the sit-in. 
At 11 a.m. on Aug. 20th, 75 
demonstrators marched in two 
lines across historic Lafayette 
Square in clear view of the White 
House. 
“We marched across to the 
By Lea Calderon-Guthe
Senior Staff Writer
After a two-year hiatus, At-
water dining hall has reopened 
for daily continental breakfast and 
lunch. The dining hall ceased to 
serve regular meals in 2009 due to 
budgetary constraints and newly 
expanded facilities at Proctor and 
Ross, though continued to act as 
a venue for special events and lan-
guage tables.
In the evenings, Atwater will 
continue to serve as a venue for 
special events for campus organi-
zations, including regular Dolci, 
Middlebury College Activities 
Board and Commons-based din-
ners. 
New this year will be biode-
gradeable takeout containers for 
students without time to sit and eat 
between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. Origi-
nally, Dining Services had planned 
to sell reusable “go” containers, but 
the idea was overruled by the Ver-
mont Department of Health due to 
the potential cross-contamination 
of foods. 
Director of Dining Services 
Matthew Biette acknowledges the 
potential for abuse of the new take-
out containers and emphasizes that 
they should not be used to get extra 
food.
“The idea is that [the takeout 
containers] should get you through 
that meal period to the next meal,” 
Biette said. “It’s not for groceries, 
it’s not to take for a ‘fourth meal’ 
[later in the day] … it’s to help you 
through lunch.”
Because of a lack of utensils 
that are both affordable and bio-
degradeable, students are sug-
gested to only take “dry food,” such 
as sandwiches or burgers, Biette 
added.
The dining halls will not, how-
ever, continue to supply disposable 
cups because of their negative en-
vironmental and financial impact. 
Students are encouraged to bring 
their own thermoses. 
Language Tables will move 
again this year to Redfield Proctor. 
Though there will continue 
to be waiter service and specially-
made food, the seating will be lim-
ited to 104, nearly 70 seats below 
See Archaic, page 3
See Protestors, page 4
See Language Tables, page 3
See Sustainable, page 2
After nearly a year of plan-
ning by students, faculty and staff, 
construction crews have broken 
ground on the landscaping project 
between Atwater Halls A and B. But 
numerous delays have pushed the 
project behind schedule. 
College Horticulturalist Timo-
thy Parsons, who has been directing 
much of the project, assures that 
development is well on its way.
“It’s closer than it looks,” he 
said. “Have faith.”
The plan was originally slated 
to begin over the summer, but fol-
lowing discussions last spring it was 
postponed by concerns over the im-
pact the noise of construction could 
have on Language School students 
and faculty living in the Atwater 
area. Further delayed by Hurricane 
Irene and other construction pri-
orities on campus — the contrac-
tor working on the Atwater project 
is also working on other projects at 
Middlebury — most of the land-
scaping is expected to be completed 
in the next few weeks.
But construction of the side-
walk towards Wright Memorial 
Theater will be postponed until 
next summer, as well as some grass 
planting, depending on progress 
and weather. 
The various postponements 
have affected some Atwater resi-
dents such as Ana Villarreal ’12, 
who was awoken to the sound of 
construction on the first day of 
classes.
Parsons believes that any work 
from here on out will be quiet as the 
majority of the paving and heavy 
landscaping has been completed.
“We actually don’t have a lot 
of noise left … now we’re basically 
just looking at a mess,” Parsons 
said. It should start to look more 
aesthetically appealing in the com-
ing weeks, he added, and the patio 
and walkways are expected to open 
to foot traffic very soon.
The landscaping has largely 
followed the plans published in The 
Campus in May with only minor 
changes in plantings, as well as the 
“recycling” of stone stairs left un-
used from a past College building 
project.
Despite the delays from rain 
and the demands of other construc-
tion projects, it seems the project 
will be completed at or near the 
budget of $150-175 thousand.
While construction on the At-
water landscaping was postponed 
throughout the summer, renova-
tions to Forest Hall remained on 
schedule and were completed be-
fore students moved in the second 
week of September. The project 
th
is
 w
ee
k Cluck free or die
The inside scoop on  the town’s 
free range chickens
page 5.
Art meets science
Check out the debut of our new 
section, Arts&Science
page 16.
Scoring for Vermont
Read about preseason athletes helping 
with hurricane relief
 pages 15-16.
is especially motivated by the prospect of the 
public exhibit, which will run Sept. 23-Oct. 
2 at the National Mall’s West Potomac Park. 
Until then, team members will work in shifts 
24/7 to put Self-Reliance back together.
“I can’t wait to give tours, to get people in 
the house and show them around,” said Segil. 
“People’s faces just really light up once they 
get into our house, and that makes us feel like, 
‘Okay, we did this right.’”
Public response to the project has been 
overwhelmingly positive since its inception, 
allowing the Middlebury team to raise the 
capital necessary to compete as the only small 
college standing alone among 19 other inter-
national collegiate teams. Fundraising Lead 
Kris Williams ’11.5 put cash donations at just 
under $500,000, and $94,000 came in by way 
of discounts and material gifts. He was quick 
to note, however, that one of the biggest dona-
tions has been time. 
“It’s so affirming when somebody comes 
up to you and says, ‘I’m willing to give you 
money, but I’m also giving you my time be-
cause I believe in what you’re doing,’” said 
Williams. “We’ve seen that over and over and 
over again with alumni, local people, pro-
fessors … There’s nobody on our team who 
doesn’t know how much generosity and how 
much giving stands behind the success of our 
project. Everybody is really, really thankful for 
it. It’s just an incredible opportunity to be able 
to do a project like this because of that sup-
port.”
Williams also said that the fundraising is 
not over; the team still has to amass $145,000 
to bring Self-Reliance home to Middlebury 
and install it in its permanent location near 
the Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 Center for the Arts, 
below Munford Hall. The money will fund 
the installation of a geothermal system and 
permanent foundation as well as the house’s 
future upkeep. Self-Reliance will play host to 
various meals and guests for brief stays until 
the spring term, when it will be available as 
student housing. 
“We just want to make sure the house is 
well set-up to have a good legacy on campus 
and be really useful place for the whole com-
munity, not just a statue,” said Segil.
Returning the house to Vermont played 
an important role in the design process from 
the start. 
“We very intentionally created a design 
that was very much of Vermont,” said Archi-
tecture Co-lead and Graphic Designer Jesse 
Catalano ’11, one of four students on the de-
sign team. “We wanted to create something 
that would stand out in this competition. It’s 
an international competition … and if you 
can cater to a design that’s representative of 
your region, you’ll be a little more unique. We 
also designed for the house to come back to 
Middlebury — we were always aware that the 
house was going to be permanently located in 
Vermont.”
The house’s gabled roof should be “fa-
miliar” to New Englanders, according to 
Catalano, and many of the materials used in 
its construction came from Vermont. The 
house’s classic design — as opposed to the 
high-efficiency designs of others in the com-
petition, which Catalano describes as “flex-
ible, but they’re boxy, or they’re spaceship-
like”— was chosen as a selling point, to make 
green building design more accessible.
“We really wanted to make a house that 
was interesting and architecturally success-
ful without sacrificing the beauty and tradi-
tion that people have come to expect in New 
England,” said Catalano. “We wanted it to be 
familiar and modernized at the same time.”
Even though the College is one of few 
schools competing that does not have a mas-
ters in architecture program, Catalano is 
confident in the strength of the team’s ideas. 
Self-Reliance will be evaluated in 10 contests 
— Architecture, Market Appeal, Engineer-
ing, Communications, Affordability, Comfort 
Zone, Hot Water, Appliances, Home Enter-
tainment and Energy Balance — and Segil ex-
pects the team to perform well generally.
“I don’t think we’re as much the under-
dog team that a lot of people really anticipat-
ed at the get-go,” said Segil.
campusnews2 15 September 2011
Sustainable house travels to the Mall
Flooring for Self-Reliance is loaded onto a truck for the move to Washington, D.C.
Melissa Segil
Continued from page 1
Keyes named 
VP for College 
Advancement 
amid 90K theft 
Over the summer, Old Chapel named 
James R. Keyes ’71 as Vice President for Col-
lege Advancement.
 Keyes is a former board member of the 
Middlebury College Alumni Association 
and a member of the Board of Trustees. He 
replaces Michael D. Schoenfeld ’73, who has 
been named senior vice president and chief 
philanthropic adviser.
As Vice President for College Advance-
ment, Keyes will be in charge of managing 
both fundraising and alumni operations for 
the undergraduate college, the Language 
Schools, the Schools Abroad, the Bread Loaf 
programs and the Monterey Institute of In-
ternational studies. 
Keyes comes to the College with expe-
rience as the former president of Citizens 
Bank of Vermont and First Vermont Bank. 
In addition, he held senior positions at 
Berkshire Bank and the First National Bank 
of Boston.
To focus his attention on his new posi-
tion as Vice President for College Advance-
ment, Keyes will be stepping down from his 
role on the Board of Trustees, which he has 
served on since 2000.
One of his main responsibilities will be 
to run the Middlebury Initiative, a fundrais-
ing campaign started in 2007 that aims to 
raise $500 million. 
In a recent College press release, Keyes 
said, “I’m looking forward to serving as a 
colleague with many of those at Middlebury 
whom I know through my work there as a 
volunteer. This is a wonderful opportunity 
to make a contribution to an institution I 
care about deeply and know well.”
A large and unexpected new respon-
sibility for Keyes is to help the Office for 
College Advancement recover from a recent 
theft which occurred over the summer. 
An unidentified perpetrator or perpe-
trators gained access to a third party online 
payment system the College uses to process 
event registration and were able to transfer 
around $90,000 to an unknown account.  
In an email to the college community, 
Keyes said that money seemed to be the sole 
target. 
“We quickly detected this intrusion, 
took swift action to stop further access, and 
are working with law enforcement to recov-
er the money,” he wrote in the email. 
The assailant or assailants were able to 
see personal data such as names, addresses, 
phone numbers and email addresses but 
were unable to access credit card numbers 
or social security numbers, according to the 
email. 
By Elizabeth Fouhey
Staff Writer
James Keyes was named the VP for College 
Advancement over the summer.
Courtesy
DO YOU 
HAVE A 
TIP OR AN 
IDEA FOR 
A STORY?
GO/THECAMPUS
SEE 
SOMETHING
SAY 
SOMETHING1 2 SENDSOMETHING3
join the cheering section
Want to see 19 solar-powered houses from around the world and at-
tend workshops on green building and architecture? Want to celebrate Team 
Midd’s success in person?
Sign up for the bus to the 2011 Solar Decathlon Competition in Washing-
ton D.C.! The bus will leave from Adirondack Circle on Friday, Sept. 30 and 
arrive at the L’Enfant Plaza Hotel (next to L’Enfant Plaza Metro stop), and it 
will return from the same location on Sunday, Oct. 2. Students must arrange 
their own housing. There is no cost, but space is very limited and seats are filled 
on a first-come, first-serve basis — look for an all-campus email this week with 
instructions on how to register. 
You can also follow all the action in D.C. on the Solar Decathlon blog 
at go/sd.
campusnews 15 September 2011 3
overseas
briefing
by Kathryn DeSutter ’13
public safety log
DATE TIME INCIDENT CATEGORY LOCATION DISPOSITION
9/5/11 8:00 a.m. Driving General Offense Hillcrest Road Referred to DOC
9/5/11 2:00 a.m. Theft Residence Gifford Referred to Risk Management
9/6/11 1:32 p.m. Collision Vehicle Stewart Hill Referred to Risk Management
9/7/11 11:48 p.m. Disturbance Noise KDR Referred to DOC
9/7/11 11:32 a.m. Drug Violation Illegal Possesion Battell Referred to DOC
9/8/11 12:52 a.m. Vandalism Fire Alarm Palmer Referred to Risk Management
9/9/11 4:56 p.m. Suspicious Circumstances General Porter House Referred to DOC
9/9/11 10:43 p.m. Alcohol Intoxicated Student Stewart Referred to DOC
9/9/11 10:15 p.m. Illegal Underage Party Residence Stewart Referred to DOC
9/10/11 1:00 a.m. Drug Violation Drug Use Battell Referred to DOC
9/10/11 8:45 a.m. Theft Residence Ross Commons Dining Referred to MPD
9/10/11 12:05 a.m. Fireworks Possesion Porter Field Road Referred to DOC
9/10/11 10:35 p.m. Alcohol Other Hepburn Referred to DOC
9/11/11 2:00 a.m. Medical Injury Voter Referred to DOC
03/20/11 12:16 a.m. Vandalism Elevator Hadley Referred to Commons Dean
September 5-12, 2011
The Department of Public Safety reported giving 30 alcohol citations between September 5 and September 12, 2011.
BUENOS AIRES — My (Catholic) 
host parents have eight children: Ana, 
Justo, Lucilla, Augustina, Angeles, Fran-
cisco, Leonora and Nicolas. It took me 
longer to learn this list of names than it 
did to learn four bus routes, three subway 
lines, the location of three classrooms in 
two different buildings and the pin num-
ber for my new debit card.
Despite the obvious utility of these 
other pieces of day-to-day knowledge, it 
is this list of names that has become an 
idea I can’t stop turning over in my head: 
I believe that family should be central in 
our lives and that it is essential for our 
happiness.
Our lives in Vermont are often con-
fined to campus and defined by the ex-
periences we have in our classes and with 
our friends, away from our homes. Ar-
gentine students, however, usually attend 
a university close to home and live with 
their families until they are married.
At first, this custom seemed com-
pletely repulsive. You have to put a ring 
on it just to get out of the house?! No, gra-
cias. As a girl, family has often appeared to 
me as an obstacle to potential success. I’ve 
grown up aware of the burden of choos-
ing between a career and a family, or at 
least of the burden of thinking I have to 
make that choice.
Although women here certainly 
struggle with the same debate, it is rare 
to compromise the importance of family. 
My host mother holds down a success-
ful career in real estate, but her true full-
time job, unequivocally, is her family. I’ve 
come to realize the validity of that.
Family has an imposed continu-
ity, which, to borrow a phrase from my 
dad, “builds character.” Although friends 
can come and go, family forces us to give 
people a second chance — and often a 
third and fourth, too. Our families carry 
an intimate, extended perspective on our 
lives that no one else could ever hope to 
learn. In this irreplaceable environment, 
we learn about ourselves and those clos-
est to us, especially during the youngest 
years of our lives when we search so ear-
nestly for this knowledge. There’s a cliché 
that you go abroad to “find yourself,” but 
in reality, you need look no farther than 
your own front door.
Let me clarify that I’m not homesick, 
and that living in Latin America has not 
made me think I need to start my own 
family anytime soon. Despite the un-
deniable joy in the announcement that 
Leonora will soon have my host parents’ 
eleventh grandchild, pregnancy is about 
as close as you can come to my worst 
nightmare at this point in my life. I still 
have dozens of things I want to accom-
plish, on my own, thousands of miles 
away from my family.
But Argentina has altered the way 
I look at the family I have now and the 
family I want to have in the future. When 
I hear the pride in the voice of my host 
mother as she talks about her children, 
her love helps me understand and deeply 
appreciate the innumerable things my 
parents have done for me. 
I know that my host father has re-
turned to the apartment because he en-
ters whistling, singing or humming every 
day, without exception. I used to wonder 
how he could consistently manage this, 
but I’ve come to understand the source of 
his happiness. He is happy because he is 
with his family. I hope that one day I can 
find that happiness too.
Language tables to move to Redfield
the average attendance of last year. 
In conjunction with the language de-
partments, Dining Services is working to 
resolve the ca-
pacity issue by 
possibly adding 
a second lunch-
time seating or 
dinner.
“The issue 
with the second 
seating is that 
we may have 
difficulties finding enough students to go to 
the [Language Tables], because of afternoon 
class schedules,” wrote Associate Professor of 
Chinese Wei He Xu in an email. “From our 
point of view, two tables for Chinese would 
be a more feasible alternative.”
Capacity aside, some students see the 
move out of Atwater as a positive step for 
language tables.
“I feel good about language tables being 
in Redfield Proctor,” said Melissa Hayes ’12. 
“I thought the acoustics [in Atwater] made 
it a little difficult to hear. I’m hoping that 
Proctor Redfield will be more conducive to 
… conversation.”
While reopening Atwater may become 
a financial loss for the College, Biette main-
tains that the “bottom line of student happi-
ness will be increased.”
Biette has not requested an expanded 
budget for Dining Services as of yet, instead 
opting to “wait and see” what adjustments 
will be necessary. Added expenses are possi-
ble, though, and not solely from the changes 
Dining Services unveiled this year. 
Increased food costs continue to pose a 
problem; Biette fears higher prices this year, 
as many crops were destroyed in the recent 
storms and droughts. Higher costs may also 
result from students simply eating more and 
using the new takeout containers for a night-
time “fourth meal;” running the third dining 
facility may also require additional staff.
Since Atwater was closed in 2009 for 
financial reasons, Dining Services has “re-
structured some of [its] labor and hope[s] 
to have the new Atwater lunch fit 
in with where [it is] financially,” 
Biette wrote in an email. “We will 
reassess soon.”
Food dollars, or the money 
spent on food per student, Biette 
said, will remain the same. 
Any added costs, however, 
will only be “minimal,” Treasurer 
& VP for finance Patrick Norton 
wrote in an email. Old Chapel did not specu-
late on the exact effect the reopening would 
have.
Students enjoy daily breakfast, lunch at the newly-reopened Atwater dining hall.
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
Continued from page 1
Archaic building brought back to life
was approved in 2010 in order to update the 
building, which has remained largely un-
changed since being built 
in 1936.
The renovations in-
cluded a modern hot water 
heating system to replace 
the steam radiation, new 
plumbing piping, an en-
ergy recovering ventilation 
system, air conditioning, 
new fire alarms and car-
bon monoxide detectors, a 
sprinkler system, an eleva-
tor, lighting and flooring 
upgrades in the rooms and 
hallways, new windows 
and key pad entry into 
dorm rooms.
The keypads replace 
the previous key and lock 
entry into the dorms. Instead, students are 
now assigned a five-digit code to enter their 
rooms. The doors automatically lock when-
ever they are closed.
“I had a lot of friends that lived in Forest 
last year and the new heating and ventilation 
systems are really improved,” said Marea Co-
lombo ’13, a Forrest resident. “It makes For-
est feel more like home. Plus, the new floors 
and paint make the building seem a lot clean-
er and brighter. The key pads are cool, and 
I’m glad I don’t have to worry about losing 
my key anymore.”
Though the original projected plans 
from 2010 said that the College Reprograph-
ics and Mailing Services would not undergo 
any major renovations, 
both were moved to the 
Freeman International 
Center. The Registrar’s Of-
fice was moved and is cur-
rently on the fourth floor 
of Monroe, but will return 
to Forest in the future.
The project took a to-
tal of 16 weeks to complete. 
The final cost of the reno-
vations was $10.5 million. 
Tom McGinn, a facilities 
staff member and project 
manager, believed the proj-
ect ran smoothly.
“With a building as 
old as Forest, we expected 
some unforeseen condi-
tions to arise, and they did, but they were 
relatively minor in nature,” McGinn wrote in 
an email.
With additional reporting by Jess Berry.
Students returned from summer vacation to unfinished landscaping at Atwater.
Andrew Podrygula, Senior Photos Editor
The bottom line of student happiness 
will be increased [with Atwater’s 
reopening].
—Matthew Biette
Continued from page 1
SEND
SOMETHING
4    11 September 2011 campusnews campusnews
sidewalk in front of the White House be-
tween two specific light posts that were il-
legal to block,” said Shaw. 
According to Shaw, organizers and 
the police agreed before the demonstra-
tion that protestors would only be issued 
a desk appearance ticket. But the police 
disregarded the pact, arresting all 75 pro-
testors. 
“The cops knew there was going to be 
two more weeks of [demonstrations] and 
wanted to discourage more people from 
protesting,” he said. “They were trying to 
make an example out of us.”
According to McKibben, he and Shaw 
spent three days and two nights in jail. 
“At one point, there were 12 of us in a 
five by seven holding cell for four hours,” 
said Shaw. 
Even Shaw’s wife Sue Kavanagh, Di-
rector of Leadership Gifts at the College, 
got involved. 
“Kavanagh did an outstanding job 
of supporting us from outside jail and 
keeping pressure on the authorities,” said 
McKibben.
But faculty members only made up a 
small part of the Middlebury contingent 
during the protests. 
Ben Wessel ’11.5 was arrested during 
the second week of protests. He said he 
saw nearly 30 Middlebury-affiliated peo-
ple at the rally but estimates the number 
is far greater.
“The protests were a free-flood of 
Middlebury people,” he said. “Everybody 
knew the school 
and were incredibly 
impressed because 
the community put 
actions behind their 
words.”   
Hilary Platt 
’11.5 said the sit-in 
was meant to con-
vey a solemn and respectful tone.
“People made an effort, and were en-
couraged to make an effort, to dress and 
present themselves professionally to show 
respect to those individuals who are being 
directly impacted by the XL pipeline and 
to make a point of the severity of the con-
sequences associated with the pipeline’s 
construction,” she said.   
Platt was arrested Aug. 29 and said 
that along with Middlebury students and 
faculty, people from all over the country 
joined the protest. 
While Middlebury had no official role 
in the protests, McKibben says the College 
has long supported political action. 
“I know Middlebury well enough to 
know that that they salute all kinds of po-
litical involvement,” he said. 
Provost and Executive Vice President 
and Professor of English and American 
Literatures Alison Byerly said that the 
College promotes employee freedom away 
from the job. 
“Protests have long been a part 
of the political discourse in American 
democracy,”  she said.  Middlebury faculty 
and staff are private citizens as well as em-
ployees of the College and pursue a wide 
range of interests and passions, many of 
which enrich their interactions with our 
students.”
While President Barack Obama has 
yet to rule on the fate of Keystone XL, 
McKibben considers the sit-in a success. 
“We haven’t won, and we may not win 
this battle,” he said. “But for a couple of 
weeks we found a different currency in 
which to work, and that was our bodies.” 
FALL FRENZY FRIDAY
ACTIVITIES FAIR 
Friday//  4:30 p.m. - 6 p.m. // Photo 
booth // inflatable obstacle 
course // Slip and Slide //  
Hepburn Road and Proctor 
Terrace// 
80s DANCE PARTY
Friday // free sunglasses and 
glowsticks  10 p.m. - 1 a.m. //  
Proctor Terrace 
FFF: BRIDESMAIDS
Friday//  7 p.m. and 10 p.m. // Dana 
Auditorium
WHAT’S 
HAPPENING 
AT MIDD?
MCAB PRESENTS
Protestors spend weekend in D.C. jail
Continued from page 1
Ben Wessel ’11.5 was arrested in August for obstructing an area in front of the White House.
Shadia Fayne Wood
by Ben Anderson, Staff Writer
college
shorts
Groupon offered at 
Chicago college
Students required to 
take drug tests
National Louis University in Chi-
cago will be offering a discount through 
Groupon.com for its “Introduction to 
Teaching” course this fall. The website 
Groupon has become an internet sensa-
tion since it went public three years ago. 
The site features daily coupon deals for 
which anyone can sign up. The cou-
pon can only be used, however, if the 
required number of people agree to sign 
up for the daily deal and the coupon 
‘tips’. The company is now testing to see 
if this model can apply to tuition for 
institutions of higher education.
The University said that it is using 
Groupon in an attempt to grow its grad-
uate teaching program. The deal goes 
live the week of Sept. 5 and will drop the 
cost of the class to $950 from $2,232.
— HuffCollege
This semester, Linn State Technical 
College in central Missouri will begin 
widespread drug testing of all students. 
Courts at both the state and federal 
levels have previously upheld limited 
drug testing for athletes, but this will be 
the first time such testing is mandatory 
for an entire student body.
The College argues that the drug 
screenings are designed to ensure high 
standards of safety, as many students 
operate heavy machinery, aircrafts or 
are working with nuclear technology 
or other possible major hazards. Civil 
rights activists argue that the policy 
is in violation of the students’ Fourth 
Amendment rights and threaten to take 
legal action if the college goes through 
with the screenings.
— HuffCollege
Med school — there’s 
an app for that
This past April, Dr. Jonathan Kibble 
of University of Central Florida’s Medi-
cal School released an app that acts as a 
student’s textbook, organizes a student’s 
work schedule and helps study for ex-
ams.
Dr. Kibble hoped to pioneer a new 
generation of textbooks with his app. 
With textbooks posing both a physical 
and financial burden for college stu-
dents, this app cuts cost as well as alle-
viates the weight of lugging textbooks 
from class to class. Currently, the app is 
only available for a limited number of 
medical textbooks, but creators think it 
will usher in a new generation of text-
books for college students around the 
country. 
 — UWire 
At one point, there were 12 of 
us in a five by seven holding 
cell.
—Professor Shaw
Live, learn, and 
work with 
a community 
overseas. 
Contact 
Middlebury recruiter
Maya Milanytch 
(Turkmenistan, 1999-2001) 
mmilanytch@peacecorps.gov 
peacecorps.gov                         800.424.8580
Be a Peace Corps Volunteer 
go/thecampus
local15 September 2011
  The Middlebury Campus
5
Run, run, run!
Currently training for a triple Ironman competition, Andy 
Weinberg mentally and physically inspires others,
page 6.
Bridge construction continues
!e Lake Champlain Bridge, which was demolished in 
late 2009, will be up and running by the year’s end, 
page 7.
Where in the world does our food come from? For Middlebury students always on 
the go, grabbing food from Proctor or Ross leaves little room to consider. If you have 
eaten any chicken in the past few days, however, it might have come from right in town.
Over the course of this summer, the Hannaford Career Center in association with 
the Middlebury Middle School’s "#h grade class raised 350 chicks into full-grown 
ready to eat chickens. Lynn Coale, the director of the Career Center, was the driving 
force behind the project.
“!ere is a program in Vermont called the embryology project,” said Coale. !e 
University of Vermont extension runs it, and each year they found they had too many 
le#over chickens. !ey thought that career centers through the state would take the 
chickens and raise them out.” 
“Out” is chicken slang for moving on to the next step in the multi-step process of 
raising chickens for slaughter.
Parallel to that proposal, Coale also wrote a grant two years ago to increase science 
content within agricultural classrooms. 
“!ey intersected around this idea of having the chickens grow out in elementary 
classrooms, supported by instruction and scienti"c inquiry,” explained Coale.
!rough the winter the career center and the "#h grade class developed a busi-
ness plan around raising the chickens and the biology behind the development of an 
egg. A#er organizing the project, the group had "ve incubators, 40 chicks in each. On 
top of that 200, Paris Farmer’s market donated 100 roosters that they had misordered 
from the spring. !e embryology project that had originally contacted Coale about 
taking the extra chickens also added 50 more, bringing the total number of chickens 
to around 350. 
Once all of the eggs were gathered, the students hatched them and learned all 
about the biology of the process.
“We did some really neat experiments. Basically we took eggs and cut the tops o$ 
of them and covered them with cellophane and made them into a petri dish. !en we 
just watched the cells divide,” said Coale.
!e eggs were successfully hatched then brooded until they could be placed in hoop 
houses in the career center’s North campus (about seven acres of land in Middlebury). 
At that point, about 16 juniors and seniors at Middlebury Union High School worked 
together to organize the habitat for the chickens, market them and sell the chickens as 
well as care and feeding.
!ere was a fear among students that they would not be able market the birds and 
that no one would buy them.
“Middlebury College really stepped up to the plate, saying they support the project 
and they liked the see the entrepreneurial spirit in young kids,” said Coale. !e College 
purchased 30 of the meat birds and all of the roosters from the project, which came to 
about 70 chickens. 
Dining Services Director Matthew Biette, explains, “We were fortunate to have ac-
cess to what they didn’t sell… it didn’t have a major "nancial impact on our budget but 
helped out a local project kind of a win-win situation.”
Although the 300 pounds of meat are not even enough to feed half of the 
Middlebury student population for one meal, the impact it had on the local project was 
immense and probably allowed the team to stay in the black. 
“!ey were actually used for the chicken portion of the chicken Caesar salad on 
Tuesday evening for the parents’ reception,” said Biette.
Charles Sargent, a meat purchaser for Dining Services, is working with the College 
to increase the usage of locally grown products.
“!is year we have been able to do more with the College organic garden by con-
tracting them to grow tomatoes for sauce, basil for pesto and a large quantity of squash 
that we will store for usage this fall and winter,” said Sargent. 
Dining Services is also working with the idea of contracting with farmers to grow 
speci"c items that the College uses in large quantities. What this would allow for is a 
sustainable food system. Coale has used the chicken project this summer as a model for 
a sustainable food system that could work through Addison County.
“One of the goals was to discover a sustainable practice: could an individual on an 
acre of land grow 40 birds and sell or consume them and have it be sustainable?” said 
Coale.
Sustainable is a word that is thrown about a fair amount, but in this case it encom-
passes three ideas. Is the plan economically possible and pro"table? Is the plan envi-
ronmentally favorable and even helpful? Is the plan ethically responsible? If a project 
can meet all three of these requirements, it is sustainable. 
!e College can play a large role in helping local farmers create sustainable proj-
ects. As students we consume an astounding amount of food, and if local farmers could 
bring their produce just down the road instead of selling it out of state, all three factors 
in sustainability would be bolstered and so would the local economy.
Jonathan Corcoran of the Addison County Relocalization Network (ACoRN) is 
enthusiastic about the Chick to Plate project and the College buying local. 
“I think it’s all good. It’s wonderful. !ese are the great stories because they’re 
about the community involving students of di$erent ages,” said Corcoran.
He also believes that students play the largest role in getting the College to buy 
local. As the main consumers of food at Middlebury, we are the demand in the “supply 
and demand” scheme. Corcoran believes that if students begin to demand more local 
food, the College will hear us and continue to buy more. 
“It’s a tough nut to crack, there’s no question about that,” said Corcoran in refer-
ence to how di%cult it is for the College to be "nancially able to buy local. !e school 
does all that it can right now to support locally grown foods, he indicated. 
“We have been buying our eggs from Maple Meadows farm in Salisbury, Vermont 
for approximately 35 years,” said Sargent. 
In terms of upcoming plans, the College will continue to buy local when possible. 
If Coale and the Hannaford Career Center decide to produce chickens again next year, 
“we will be the backup market for them,” said Biette. 
In reference to the future, Corcoran provided a keen summary.
“It’s all about relationships and continuing to grow relationships,” he said. “Ul-
timately we are in this together; to the degree to which the College can help develop 
capacity in the county and production, I think we all stand to bene"t.” 
Addison County has the highest direct 
sales of food per capita in the state of 
Vermont. !at means that there is the 
highest amount of food going straight 
from the farmer to the "nal consumers. 
Vermont also has the highest direct sales 
per capita of the country. !at means that 
Addison County has the highest direct 
sales out of any county in the country. 
CHICK-TO-PLATE PROGRAM 
INSPIRES LOCAL EATING
Courtesy of Lynn Coale
Devin MacDonald Local News Editor
$100ROOSTERS 50chickens200eggs+ + = 350totalchickens raised on 7 acres of land in middlebury the college  purchased 70(300 lbs of meat)
Over the summer, Hannaford Career Center raised and sold chickens (for their meat) to local consumers, and the College helped them 
out by buying whatever they couldn’t sell.
!e Middlebury Middle School’s "#h grade class observes their growing chickens in a pen.
15 September 20116 localnews
one in 8,700
 where the personalities of middlebury proper are celebrated
Weinberg, who has competed in over 15 Ironman events, now runs Peak Sports.
Courtesy of Andy Weinberg
By Devin MacDonald
Local News Editor
Andy Weinberg sets goals and aims to break them. Recognized in the Middlebury com-
munity for organizing outdoor events, including the Death Race, Weinberg challenges himself 
and inspires others to push their limits. 
A Middlebury resident since 2008, Weinberg began competing at a young age. 
“I did my !rst real running race [a half marathon] in eighth grade and did my !rst triathlon 
that same year,” he said. 
He completed his !rst full marathon during his freshman year of high school, but these 
endurance races did not become his passion until later. A swimmer in college, Weinberg entered 
his !rst Ironman Triathlon in 1990 at the age of 19. 
“During the next 12 years, I was hooked on endurance races, and I participated in 15 Iron-
man distance races, and 49 marathons for ultramarathons,” he said.
More recently, he entered a double Ironman competition in 2005 and again in 2006, and 
completed a triple Ironman in 2008. 
“I really enjoy endurance events,” he said. “"e really long events have a small !eld, and you 
get to know the athletes very well.” 
Weinberg and his wife, Sloan, moved to Middlebury from the Midwest when Weinberg was 
hired as the assistant swim coach at the College. "e couple felt Vermont was an ideal setting 
in which to raise children a#er the two spent several summers exploring the state. "ey now 
have two children — a 12-year-old daughter Gracie and a nine-year-old daughter named Jade.  
“I enjoy spending time with family and friends,” said Weinberg, who also likes to travel. 
“My children are active in sports and activities, and I like to watch them participate.” 
Since 2005, Weinberg, with help from others, has organized an annual Death Race in Pitts-
!eld, Vt. "e event, which takes place over the course of two days, pushes participants to their 
mental and physical capacities as they complete grueling tasks. In the past, competitors have 
built wheelbarrows and then were challenged to !ll these wheelbarrows with logs and run the 
wood to the top of a mountain. 
Weinberg said that despite its ominous name, the Death Race started as a “kind of a joke.” 
A trek with six of his friends turned into “a 24-hour extreme challenge where we all tried to get 
each other to quit.” 
“We ran in rivers, carried logs up mountains, crawled through !elds, etc.,” he said.
"e hike inspired Weinberg to create the race. Each year the challenges within the event 
di$er, but the goal remains the same. 
“[We want] athletes to step out of their comfort zones and push themselves beyond their 
limits,” said Weinberg. 
Last year, 34 di$erent states and !ve countries were represented in the race.
Weinberg plans to continue competing. "is fall, he will travel to Virginia for a triple Iron-
man, and he has his eye set on swimming the English Channel in the near future. 
By Kaylen Baker
Local News Editor
When you’re looking for raw !sh and 
avocado in Middlebury — a quest numerous 
students have attempted disgruntled with the 
dining halls’ drippy jar guacamole and to-
tal lack of sushi — look no further than the 
seared tuna “nachos” at the top of Sweet Ma-
rie’s appetizer menu.
Spicy sriracha-sour cream lends a driz-
zled kick to the tender !sh, which sits atop 
your not-so-average chip — a long pu$ed 
wonton stick. Dip your !nger in the dollop of 
red pepper jelly, whose sweet tang will keep 
you licking when no one’s looking.
Sama and Marie Hayyat opened Sweet 
Marie’s in July, but their idea for a classy sit-
down restaurant had been on the owners’ 
minds ever since they opened Sama’s Café in 
2006. 
“I always wanted to open a smaller sec-
ond location that focused on slower paced 
dining. But we were in no rush to open any-
thing else since we both were busy with the 
café,” said Sama.
When Sama’s father decided to move his 
optical business o$ of Washington Street, of-
fering the Hayyats prime real estate for their 
dream, Sama sunk his teeth in and didn’t let 
go.
“We wanted to keep the place in the fam-
ily,” said Marie. “We’re kind of insane, but 
yeah!”
And thank God (or Demeter, more aptly) 
they did. Some of the delights on the menu 
include prosciutto wrapped scallops, roasted 
butternut squash with red pepper soup, and 
baked brie — and that’s only the appetizer 
side. Flipping the menu over, one sees an as-
sortment of !sh, seafood, and meat dishes, as 
well as a vegetarian option. 
“"is is not a potato,” said one diner, 
pointing at a small cubed mystery on her 
plate, amidst the sa$ron risotto and slow 
roasted lamb shank. 
Putting it into her mouth, she closed her 
eyes brie%y and smiles. 
“I thought I didn’t like turnips, but this is 
good,” she said. 
"e seafood risotto, the most popular 
item on the menu, balances shrimp, lobster, 
and succulent, melt-in-your-mouth, I-can’t- 
believe-it’s-not-butter scallops. Well, there is 
butter in the creamy risotto, a lot of it. It’s a 
sophisticated yet straightforward dish, which 
seems to summarize the restaurant’s theme. 
Named a#er Marie Hayyat, the small, 
sprightly Brit said, “We wanted an easy asso-
ciation to our other place.” 
Sweet Marie’s is the opposite of its quick-
paced café counterpart. 
In fact, the dining venue’s atmosphere 
seems to match its namesake. While her hus-
band Sama and an occasional assistant chef 
work e&ciently in the kitchen whipping up 
dishes for a pair of latecomers, Marie waits on 
tables with a touch of simplicity and charm 
that may have something to do with her in-
triguing hint of an English accent. 
On the exterior of the little building, 
nestled between the Middlebury Inn and the 
Natural Foods Co-op, bundles of pink %ow-
ers sway from baskets, and a crest with a knife 
and fork smartly crossing each other an-
nounces Sweet Marie’s below. Inside, the res-
taurant’s yellow walls, swirling white curtains 
and %ickering candles create a warm atmo-
sphere, while the black leather-upholstered 
chairs and dark polished wood add a sense 
of elegance. A design of circular mirrors and 
a painting of wine bottles accompany far-o$ 
jazz music. "e place is formal without being 
austere, vintage but not quaint, and gracefully 
small without being cutesy. 
In fact, the dining room only holds 25 
seats, the result of a Vermont law regarding 
customer-to-restroom ratio.  Yet this restric-
tion can be blamed for the freshest produce 
available.
“"is has given me the chance to start 
with low costs and concentrate on quality 
food,” said Sama. 
He’s able to purchase fresh, seasonal, and 
local produce from farm stands and farmers’ 
markets due to a smaller demand in items. 
Potatoes and vegetables come from Golden 
Russet Farm, brie from Blythedale Farm, and 
other local goodies from Huntington Farm. 
When Sama says local, he means it — there’s 
nothing more local than his own backyard. 
“In the past few weeks I have even used 
tomatoes, green beans, eggplant, peppers, ba-
sil and squash from my parents’ garden that 
we helped plant this year,” he said. 
"e menu changes depending on avail-
ability and season. A lemon sole has replaced 
last month’s striped bass !sh from Rhode Is-
land, while fresh beets and raspberries speckle 
this week’s salad. An exception is made for the 
New Zealand lamb because the Hayyats prefer 
the kosher meat.
So far Middlebury townsfolk have shown 
their support, and some diners have already 
become regulars.
“Our clientele are pretty varied,” said Ma-
rie. “Some people come in couples, sometimes 
it’s ladies night out, families will come in, and 
date night works well. It’s for people who want 
to go out and have a good time with friends.”
Getting to know the repeat customers 
and everybody throughout the town is Ma-
rie’s favorite part about owning the restaurant. 
Students from the College might consider 
taking their parents here for a delectable Fall 
Family Weekend.
As for the near future, meaning dessert, 
try the red velvet cake. "e tall, %u$y triangle 
comes drizzled with chocolate and cherry 
sauces and a dash of thick whipped cream. 
Colorful speckles top o$ the cream cheese 
frosting, which is as sweet as, well, Marie.
Sweet Marie’s serves dinner "urs-
day, Friday, and Saturday nights from 5:30 
p.m. to 9:30 p.m. at 1 Washington Street in 
Middlebury. Call (802) 388-2166 to reserve a 
table — your taste buds will thank you.
Middlebury palettes pleased at Sweet Marie’s
!e seared tuna nachos are one of the many delicacies on the new menu at Sweet Marie’s. 
Courtesy of Sama Hayyat
localnews 15 September 2011 7
local
lowdown
By Charlotte Gardiner, Local News Editor
Localbrief Champlain Bridge 
nears completion
By Kaylen Baker
Staff Writer
Grass drag and mud bog
Sept. 17, 6 a.m. – 4 p.m.
!e Monkton Volunteer Fire Department 
will hold its annual fund-raiser event in 
Bristol, Vt. Join fellow athletes for a 6 a.m. 
registration, held at 4325 Mountain Rd. 
Races will follow starting at 10 a.m. 
Tour de Farms
Sept. 18, 10:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m.
Get your bikes oiled and ready for the 
fourth annual Tour de Farms! Meet at the 
Shoreham town green to register for the 
10, 25 or 30 mile ride that weaves in and 
around the Champlain Valley. Fresh, local 
produce samples will be o"ered to riders 
at each farm stationed along the route. To 
register, call (802) 223-7222 or visit www.
ruralvermont.org. Registration is $50 for 
adults and $20 for children.
Green drinks
Sept. 20, 7 p.m. – 9 p.m.
On the third Tuesday of each month, all 
are encouraged to gather at 51 Main for an 
evening of eating, drinking and conversa-
tion. GreenDrinks.org, a global movement 
that seeks to hold monthly environ-
mentally conscious conversations, is the 
sponsor of the a"air. Door prizes will be 
available to all. !e theme of the Septem-
ber meeting is food storage.  
Courtesy
!e Flatiron Construction Company plans to "nish their 
work on the Lake Champlain Bridge later this year. !is digi-
talized image represents the "nal project.
Apple fest
Sept. 18, 12:30 p.m. – 5:30 p.m.
!e Shoreham town common and ga-
zebo will be transformed into an apple 
spectacular. Bands Extra Stout and Split 
Tongue Crow will perform among piles 
of homemade apple goodies. A free hot 
soup lunch for all, in addition to a silent 
auction, will cap o" the days events. For 
further information, call (802) 897-2747. 
Fundraising for the Friends of the Platt 
Memorial Library is encouraged.
Comedy night
Sept. 16, 8 p.m. – 11 p.m.
!e Vergennes Opera House hosts re-
nowned Vermont comedians, including 
Justin Rowe, Mike !omas, Pat Lynch and 
Tracie Spencer. All individuals ages 18 
and up are invited and there will also be 
a cash bar. Tickets are $10 if purchased in 
advance, but they will also be available at 
the door for $12. Boston comedian Kevin 
Anglin will join the lineup alongside host 
Nathan Hartswick. For further informa-
tion, visit www.vergennesoperahouse.org.
Hawk watch
Sept. 17, 11 a.m. – 2 p.m.
Gather at the Vergennes Park and Ride 
at the junction of Routes 22A and 7 for 
a hawk walk. !e Otter Creek Audubon 
and Green Mountain Audubon will lead 
groups on a hawk-watching extravaganza. 
For additional questions call (802) 388-
4082.
Chicken pie dinner
Sept. 20, 5:30 p.m. – 8 p.m.
Weybridge’s traditional chicken supper 
will be served at the Weybridge Congrega-
tional Church. Reservations are neces-
sary and can be made by calling (802) 
545-2538. !ere will be a 5:30 p.m., as 
well as a 7 p.m. seating. !e menu features 
mashed potatoes, squash, salad, additional 
side dishes, apple and pumpkin pie, and of 
course the church’s signature chicken pie.  
Kelly Brush Ride attracts crowd
On Dec. 28, 2009, the Champlain Bridge, which connects 
Crown Point, N.Y. and Chimney Point, Vt., was destroyed 
through a controlled detonation. John Grady, the regional con-
struction engineer for the project, said de#ciencies in the original 
bridge’s foundation were discovered, causing an unplanned clo-
sure of the infrastructure. 
A$er three months of design, blueprints were drawn and the 
Flatiron Construction Company began work in May. While the 
original date for the bridge’s opening was set for Oct. 9 of this 
year, Grady said the New York State Department of Transporta-
tion (NYSDOT) is currently in discussion with the head contrac-
tor to determine the exact opening date, as it will most likely be 
pushed back. 
But Grady did promise that the bridge will open during this 
“construction season.” 
!e NYSDOT and the Vermont Agency of Transportation 
(VTrans) have worked hand-in-hand throughout the planning 
and construction phases of the project. Together, former New 
York Governor David A. Paterson and former Vermont Gover-
nor Jim Douglas, agreed to design the bridge in an architectural 
style called the Modi#ed Network Tied Arch Bridge. 
Grady warns that it has been a di%cult project because the 
bridge had to be rebuilt in its exact previous location. 
!ere were delays in placing the center arch span a$er &ood-
ing impacted the bridge’s arch assembly site in Port Henry, N.Y., 
but it is now complete. Carol Breen, the Senior Public Informa-
tion O%cer at the NYSDOT, also said the weather slowed the 
concrete pouring, as the material could not harden. However, the 
foundation and steel structure are #nished, and the bridge is #-
nally reaching completion. 
Only small projects remain.  
“We are currently in the process of pouring concrete for the 
bridge deck, which is essentially the driving surface,” said Breen 
in an email.   
A guide and bridge railing will both be installed in the com-
ing month. In addition, concrete sidewalks must be constructed, 
lights must be placed and any #nishing touches to the pave-
ment, such as the painting of tra%c lines, are also on the list of 
to-dos. Grady added that the decking, especially those portions 
approaching and over the arch, are reaching their #nal stages as 
well. 
Courtesty of Rajan Chawla Photography
Executive Director of the Kelly Brush Foundation Betsy Cabrera was pleased with this year’s Kelly Brush Century Ride. !e event is in 
its sixth year and was held on Sept. 10 in the town of Middlebury. According to Cabrera, 721 riders competed, 24 of whom were adaptive 
athletes riding handcycles. !e event is held in honor of Kelly Brush ’08, who su"ered a ski accident and is now paralyzed from the chest 
down. 
“!e event supports the Kelly Brush Foundation raising money for spinal cord injury prevention and adaptive sports equipment grants, 
and is one of the best attended events in the Northeast for adaptive athletes using handcycles,” Cabrera said. 
Vermont is a small state, and when Tropical Storm Irene brought 
big rains and then bigger rivers on Aug.28, little stood between the 
!oodwaters and the many fragile structures iconic to Vermont. Cov-
ered bridges, village centers and small farms — not to mention so 
many Vermonters’ homes and a grim handful of lives — washed away 
throughout the southern and central regions of the state.
“We’ve got this human tragedy, we’ve got a tragedy of our historic 
resources, of farmland and our farmers who have been hurt, the busi-
nesses — there are lots and lots of small businesses that don’t have the 
capacity to take on more debt,” said Paul Bruhn, executive director of 
the Preservation Trust of Vermont. “"is is a story that’s going to play 
out over many, many months from many di#erent angles. I hope we 
can have all these special places still with us when we’re done.” 
Bruhn is getting at some of the ways Vermont is especially vul-
nerable in the face of natural disasters like Irene, and unique dam-
age calls for unique recovery ef-
forts, some of which Bruhn is 
orchestrating. Bruhn and his 
colleagues are in the process 
of surveying the damage to the 
state’s historic buildings. So far 
they have noted serious dam-
age to more than 150 historic 
buildings in Waterbury alone, 
and they are still counting.
“I’m expecting a num-
ber in the high hundreds of 
[historic] buildings damaged 
by the !oods,” said Bruhn. 
“"ese are all places that mat-
ter to communities. "ese are 
buildings and downtowns 
and gathering places — they 
provide the community with 
a sense of place. It’s very dev-
astating, and I don’t mean to 
ignore the human tragedy in all 
of this because that’s the biggest story, but these historic resources 
also have much to do with de$ning the character of Vermont.”
Bruhn and his team are working to provide historic building 
owners with the information they need to safely restore their proper-
ties, as well as o#ering matching grants up to $500 for buildings with 
emergency conditions or needing engineering assessments. 
Todd Bailey, an associate at KSE Partners, a national government 
a#airs and strategic communications $rm in Montpelier, saw a di#er-
ent approach to !ood relief, though one still integrally connected to 
Vermont’s identity: he founded the Vermont Irene Flood Relief Fund 
for small businesses.
“When Irene hit it was pretty clear that one of the holes in the re-
covery e#ort was supporting small businesses in our state,” said Bai-
ley. “Being a former small business owner myself, it just made sense 
to try to plug in and try to help all these people throughout the state 
of Vermont. Businesses are vital to our economic health.”
Bailey and the rest of the seven-member selection committee 
will start reviewing applications this week from businesses seeking 
grants. "e fund has raised over $105,000 so far, with more fundrais-
ing events still to come, and the committee will continue to select 
grant recipients for as long as funds remain available.
“It’s hard to know an exact number [of businesses needing help], 
but we know it’s really bad,” said Bailey. “It’s going to be di%cult be-
cause obviously the need is going to exceed what we have available to 
give, so we’re going to have to make some pretty tough decisions and 
try to help as many business owners as we can.” 
What many families and businesses need more than money is 
something Bailey calls “sweat equity,” or a willingness to come in and 
help with the physical clean-up. One of the largest coordinators of 
the volunteer movements in the state since Irene hit arose from an 
unlikely source, but has since put thousands of volunteers to work 
where they are needed. Vtresponse.com sprung out of Reality Ven-
ture Capital, a Burlington-based reality TV fantasy league that was 
enlisted to start an aid site by Sarah Waterman, who gained experi-
ence in disaster relief working in Biloxi, Miss. a&er Hurricane Ka-
trina. Matt Sisto, one of the Reality VC team members, says in the 
$rst week a&er Irene the site was getting 50-55,000 page views a day, 
which then dropped to 40,000 in week two and now averages around 
18,000 a day.
“At $rst it was emergency stu# that people needed — we had 
people that needed things like diabetes supplies, but the roads were 
down so we had people on horseback bringing in medicine,” said 
Sisto. “We coordinated emergency ATVs … that was early on. 
A&er the initial panic was over, then it was, ‘Let’s get peo-
ple’s houses $xed up so they 
can live in them again.’ We 
just needed to send a lot of 
hands to do it.”
In the $rst days a&er 
Irene, vtresponse.com was 
responsible for 90 percent 
of the 3,000 volunteers that 
came to clean up and dry 
out Waterbury, and though 
the requests for unskilled 
labor have waned as home-
owners begin to seek more 
specialized work, Sisto and 
company continue to try to 
match help to needs — their 
next project, Sisto says, is en-
couraging “voluntourism.” 
“We’re really hoping to 
work with the Dept. of Tour-
ism to bring outsiders into the 
state to bolster the local economy, 
but it’s also about billing volunteering as this great way to spend a 
weekend in Vermont,” said Sisto. 
As businesses and the state’s historic attractions get back on their 
feet, both Bailey and Bruhn also stressed the importance of the up-
coming tourist seasons built around fall foliage and winter activities.
“"e damage to the vast majority of our historic resources is $x-
able, so I think in the end it will be whether people have the resources 
and the capacity to $x them,” said Bruhn. “Vermont is still open for 
business. We need tourists to come and support our businesses and 
the state. We’re very hopeful that people will come, even people who 
were maybe not planning a trip for the fall.”
“One of the important messages to get out to folks is that while 
there were a large number of businesses hit hard by Irene, there are 
also a lot of businesses that weren’t,” said Bailey. “"ere are still op-
portunities for people to enjoy the beauty of the Green Mountain 
State.”
Tourism aside, Bruhn has been inspired by the local outpouring 
of support from Vermont’s unscathed communities.
“"ere’s one positive thing about this, and it is that people are 
rallying; people are contributing,” said Bruhn. “"ere’s a lot of people 
volunteering, a lot of people helping out others who are worse hurt 
than they were. "is is another story about how special Vermont is 
and how special Vermont’s people are, and how committed we are to 
our neighbors and communities. We’re very lucky to live in this great 
state.”
8 15 September 2011
By Lea Calderon-Guthe
Senior Staff Writer
localnews
The town of Middlebury’s monthly Art Walk was held on Sept. 9. Michael von Loebenstein, a painter and printmaker, stands with his oil color/oil pastel canvas work. Market-
ing & Communication Director at the Addison County Chamber of Commerce Sue Hoxie said the piece is part of his larger collection of work that focuses on themes, including 
family, the community and the arts. On the left, Christopher Bolter performs his magician and balloon show.  
Courtesy of Jean Cherouny
Irene !ood relief restores homes, shops, hope
Middlebury Professor Emeritus of 
History Nicholas Cli#ord says the sup-
port he sees today is the kind of support 
New England towns o#ered each other 
a&er the tragic !ood of 1927, in which 84 
Vermonters died. Cli#ord and his wife, 
Deborah Pickman Cli#ord, wrote a book 
together on the unprecedented destruc-
tion that !ood brought titled “)e Troubled 
Roar of the Waters”: Vermont in Flood and 
Recovery, 1927-1931. "ey detail the dev-
astation and the recovery period, which, 
though arduous, did help to $nally advance 
Vermont’s then-outdated infrastructure, 
and from it all Vermont emerged a pillar of 
enduring independence.
“"e !ood of ’27 did a lot to cement 
the common image of Vermont as a place 
that was sturdy and self-reliant,” said Clif-
ford. “Economically backward, admittedly 
— the fact that there were only 60-odd 
miles of paved road in 1927 is an example. 
Really Vermont played a rather special role 
in the American mind in those days.”
As to whether the current recovery 
process might yield similar progress in 
Vermont, especially now that there are 
more options for federal aid than there 
were in 1927, Cli#ord gave the only answer 
someone who knows the true scope of a 
full recovery can give.
“It’s going to be a long while before we 
can see how everything is handled with the 
clean-up here,” he said.
A parallel past
Courtesy University of Vermont
Proctor, Vt. a!er the 1927 "ood.
Arts WAlk offers toWn A chAnge of scenery 
advertisements 15 September 2011 9
Make the most of your
college years–for less.
Eastern Mountain Sports
College Students
Get 20% OFF all full-price EMS® brand items
and 15% OFF all full-price national brand items.
Must show valid college ID. Exclusions may apply; visit store for details.
South Burlington
100 Dorset St.
802-864-0473
ePanther
  2 ATMs on campus 
(Student Center and The Library) 
plus 2 free ATMs  
near campus  
(Middlebury Market & Cafe  
and 30 Main St.)
  Over 100 additional 
free ATMs (Falcon Network)
  No Minimum Balance
  No Monthly fee
  eStatement
  Free Online Banking
  Free Bill Pay
  Free Mobile Banking
Call or visit us TODAY 
and switch your account 
to NBM hassle-free!
1-877-508-8455
Serving Vermont Communities Since 1831
10 
campus policies and information
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus provide a forum for constructive and respectful dialogue on substantive is-
sues. With this in mind, The Campus reserves the right to deny publication of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of assertions based on hearsay; the relation of private conversations; the libelous 
mention of unverifiable events; the use of vulgar language or personal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article that contains 
any of the aforementioned will be removed before publication. Contributors will be allowed to reference prior articles published 
in the Opinions section or announcements for the public record. If a reference is made to prior articles, the submission will be 
considered a letter to the editor.  The Campus will not accept or print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed by contribu-
tors to the Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial comics and other commentary, are views of the individual 
contributors and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the editor at 250 
words or less, or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Submit works directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To be considered for publications, submissions 
must be received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the student newspaper of 
Middlebury College, is published by The Middlebury Campus Publica-
tions. Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, except during 
official college vacation periods and final examinations. Editorial and busi-
ness offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury College. The 
Middlebury Campus is produced on Apple Macintosh computers using 
Adobe InDesign CS4 and is printed by the Press Republican in New York. 
The advertising deadline for all display and classified advertising is 5 p.m. 
Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Busi-
ness phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribution concerns to the 
Business Director. First class postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753. 
opinions 15 September 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Managing Editor
Dana Walters
Editor-in-Chief
Kara Shurmantine
Business Manager
Ethan Schmertzler
  News Editors
Jess Berry
Kyle Finck
Adam Schaffer
  Local News Editors
Kaylen Baker
Charlotte Gardiner
Devin McDonald
  Opinions Editors
Kevin Carpenter
Isabel Shaw
Ian Trombulak
  
Features Editors
Cedar Attanasio
Shannon Fiedler
  Arts Editors
Santiago Azpurua-Boras
Deirdre Sackett
Emily Scarisbrick
  Sports Editors
Alex Edel
Dillon Hupp
Katie Siegner
Damon Hatheway
Photo Editors   
Anna Clements
Paul Gerard
Andrew Podrygula
Jiayi Shu
  Online Editors
Hannah Bristol
Kaireth Kim
Sarah Pfander
Ian Thomas
Layout Editor   
Ian Stewart
Social Media Editor
Emily Pinto
Editorial
The staff editorial represents the official opinion of The Middlebury 
Campus as decided by the editorial board.
Those with a keen eye have probably seen some changes to the campus. 
This year we have many new things to look for: renovations to Forest Hall 
have finally rid students of the need for floor lamps, and the reopening of 
Atwater dining hall is a welcome return for both first-years and reminiscent 
seniors. But some of the most significant changes to our Vermont commu-
nity are far less beneficial and, for Middlebury residents, not as evident as 
they could be.
Hurricane Irene ripped up the East Coast in late August and left a trail of 
destruction in its wake. Although Vermont lies far from the violent coast and 
seemed to be on the edge of Irene’s trajectory, the state was one of the hardest 
hit by the storm. Some areas saw up to 11 inches of precipitation inundate 
rivers and streams that were already running high from a wet summer. The 
result was massive localized flooding of these waterways that damaged and 
washed out many of Vermont’s roadways. Over 250 roads were closed. Presi-
dent Obama declared a state of emergency in Vermont. The National Guard 
deployed six rescue teams. Three Vermonters died. 
Luckily, the town of Middlebury was left relatively unscathed. The “Col-
lege on the Hill” escaped severe damage, sitting high in the valley and avoid-
ing the rushing flood waters. But while we are thankful for the enduring in-
tegrity of our campus, we cannot ignore the impact to surrounding areas. 
Middlebury is a wonderful place to isolate ourselves in an imaginary 
bubble; but when that bubble becomes a literal and dangerous separation 
from the outside world, we cannot stand idle without helping our commu-
nity. Thankfully, Middlebury students put their resourcefulness and goodwill 
to use even before classes started. 
Some of the first to the scene were our student-athletes, who volunteered 
their time amidst a hectic preseason schedule to help maintain the integrity 
of local businesses. On Sept. 1, coach Bob Ritter took over 70 members of the 
football team to help fill and place sandbags along the Otter Creek River to 
prevent cresting near Jackson’s on the River. Other teams and coaches enthu-
siastically followed suit and deployed eager helpers to aid in repairing local 
businesses, homes and roads.
 With the full student body finally returned to campus, we should chan-
nel our enthusiasm and support in the recovery effort. Director of Civic En-
gagement Tiffany Sargent ran an informational meeting in McCullough on 
Sept. 14 in an effort to advertise opportunities and outlets through which 
students can help their community. VTresponse.com is attempting to con-
nect and network willing volunteers at certain cleanup sites. The Vermont 
Red Cross and the Vermont Disaster Relief Fund are accepting donations 
both for short-term relief and long-term recovery. We at The Campus com-
mend those who have already helped and urge those who have yet to do so to 
join in the effort. 
In the aftermath of Hurricane Irene, the connection between Middlebury 
College and the surrounding community is as pertinent as ever. Our student 
body is filled with proactive, socially-conscious individuals who often muster 
people and funds to help whenever a natural disaster hits. Although Irene 
lacks the global scale that often spurs action, the location and gravity of the 
destruction deserves our full attention as students. Although our campus 
remains intact, our surrounding environment needs our attention and aid, 
in many forms. Whether through donations or volunteering, our collective 
strength should be harnessed for the betterment of the Vermont community 
and, in effect, our College community as well.
Notes from the Desk: Kara Shurmantine
Hola, soy la jefa.
Kara Shurmantine ’12 is the 
Editor-in-Chief from Napa, Calif. 
heardoncampus
”
“We haven’t won, and we may not win this battle, but for a couple of weeks we found 
a different currency in which to work, and 
that was our bodies.
— Bill McKibben, Scholar in Residence in Environ-
mental Studies, Climate Change Activist and Founder 
of 350.org
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the student newspaper of 
Middlebury College, is published by The Middlebury Campus Publica-
tions. Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, except dur-
ing official college vacation periods and final examinations. Editorial 
and business offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on Apple Macintosh 
computers using Adobe InDesign CS4 and is printed by the Press Re-
publican in New York. The advertising deadline for all display and clas-
sified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the following week’s issue. Mail-
ing address: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, 
Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address 
distribution concerns to the Business Director. First class postage paid 
at Middlebury, Vt., 05753. 
I’ve been away from the Campus for a while; 
well, more generally, I’ve been away from the 
campus for a while. I was studying in Chile last 
semester, trading my nearly two-year position as 
news editor, along with most other elements of 
my normal life, for a five-month immersion in a 
foreign country, foreign culture and foreign lan-
guage. I lived with 
a Chilean family, 
attended classes 
alongside Chil-
ean students and 
worked for a 
Chilean govern-
ment agency. I was 
speaking Spanish 
95 percent of the 
time — a great 
credit to the Col-
lege’s program in 
Chile and its vigor-
ous, unique com-
mitment to the 
language pledge.
It kind of 
drove me crazy. 
As much as I loved 
speaking Spanish, 
the way the words flow curled and bright off my 
tongue, I hated speaking Spanish. Communicating 
in a language that was not my native one forced me 
into the toddler’s predicament of trying to match 
sounds and absent memories to objects and im-
pressions. It disrupted my ardent relationship with 
English in ways I bitterly regretted.  It made me 
feel like a stranger in my own mind.
Most of all, speaking Spanish constantly 
pushed me away from myself, from considering 
the world from my gringa Anglophone position 
and the preconceptions and attitudes and beliefs 
wrapped up in it. It was often distressing and un-
satisfying. Yet this aspect of my experience abroad 
has proved the richest of all.
I can’t pretend to know what it’s like to be 
Chilean, or to be anyone except myself for that 
matter. But in the last year, that person I call my-
self has seen the world from new eyes, and more 
specifically, heard the world from new ears and 
spoken to it from a new tongue. In leading this 
student publication, I hope to see my newfound 
perspective put to good use. 
In journalism, we’re always trying to find 
fresh angles on the is-
sues.  At the Campus 
we strive to represent a 
diverse community of 
people who approach 
life from a vast range 
of angles. Living in 
Chile was like finding 
the ultimate new angle 
for my life.  What Chile 
did was prepare me — 
in the most un-Eng-
lish, un-journalistic, 
un-academic way pos-
sible — to be the best 
editor-in-chief I can 
possibly be.
Part of my job is 
to make sure that the 
miscellany of opin-
ions, beliefs, experi-
ences and backgrounds that comprises our com-
munity feels represented within the pages of this 
publication. I could never responsibly undertake 
such a task without having uprooted my physical 
and mental self once before. I gained a fresh out-
look with every bite of home-cooked charquiqán I 
swallowed. I feel ready to apply that knowledge to 
my work here: to lead an honest and comprehen-
sive news organization, to seek new perspectives 
and publish them.
Finding new angles means that sometimes the 
usual way of looking at a problem isn’t the best 
way. I want to find the best way, but I can only do 
that with your help.
Part of my job is to 
make sure that the 
miscellany of opinions, 
beliefs, experiences 
and backgrounds that 
comprises our community 
feels represented 
within the pages of this 
publication.
Check out our new website...
go/thecampus
The state of Vermont has been hit with one of the worst 
natural disasters in our history.  Lives have been lost. Vermont-
ers throughout the state have seen their homes, businesses and 
farms suffer terrible damage. Hundreds of roads, bridges and 
schools have been damaged or destroyed. Our state office com-
plex in Waterbury, which housed 1,600 workers, is unusable. 
We’re looking at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars to re-
build.
As I visited communities affected by the flooding, I was 
deeply moved by the compassion and good will that Vermonters 
are extending to their neighbors in need. Let me thank everyone 
who has lent a hand to help their friends and neighbors stricken 
by this disaster. I especially would like to commend and thank 
our emergency responders, the Vermont National Guard and 
our local officials for the remarkable job they are doing to assist 
communities and individuals in getting back on their feet. The 
people rebuilding our roads have been amazing. We also want to 
pay special tribute to Michael Garofano, a long-time employee 
of the Rutland City Department of Public Works who, along 
with his son Mike, lost their lives as they worked to protect their 
fellow citizens.  
While the men and women at the local level, in both the 
public and private sector, are making an extraordinary effort, 
the federal government also has an important role to play in di-
saster relief and recovery. The simple truth is that we are one 
nation. That’s why we are called the UNITED States of Amer-
ica. When disaster strikes, we stick together and help our com-
munities address the crises they face. When our fellow citizens in 
Louisiana suffered the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, people 
in Vermont were there for them. When the citizens of Joplin, 
Mo., were hit by a deadly tornado, people on the West Coast 
were there for them. When terrorists attacked on 9/11, we were 
all there for New York City. 
And that is why Sen. Leahy, Rep. Welch and I are working 
with Gov. Shumlin to do everything we can to ensure that Ver-
mont receives the resources from the federal government that we 
will need to rebuild our communities as quickly and successfully 
as possible. Disaster relief, funded on an emergency basis, is what 
Congress has done for decades and what we need to do now.  
Unfortunately, some in Congress have threatened to block 
urgently-needed emergency assistance unless the cost of that 
help is offset by cuts in other needed programs. They want to 
use Hurricane Irene as another excuse for a budget fight. Yes, 
we must continue to address our deficit problem, but not on 
the backs of communities in Vermont and other states that have 
been devastated by Hurricane Irene. For those states and com-
munities, we must get them the emergency help they need as 
soon as possible.   
Amazingly, this talk about budget offsets for disaster relief 
comes from some of the same people who repeatedly and con-
veniently ignore their own actions when it suits them. Congress 
provided $800 billion to bail out the largest Wall Street banks. 
No offsets. Congress extended tax breaks and loopholes for the 
wealthiest people in this country and for the largest corpora-
tions. No offsets. The United States spends $160 billion a year on 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, including billions to rebuild 
those countries. You guessed it. No offsets. 
We became a great nation, we are a great nation, because 
we support one another.  In fact, that’s what being a nation is 
all about. When our country calls, men and women from every 
state in the union come together and are prepared to risk their 
lives in combat. When Americans are injured or have a heart 
attack, teams of doctors and nurses work to save their lives and 
make them well. When we have children, we entrust them to lo-
cal schools, where teachers, administrators and other personnel 
help them successfully mature into adults. It has always been, 
and should continue to be, the same with natural disasters.      
Today, our hearts go out to those Vermonters who have lost 
their homes and their businesses. I have met with a number of 
them. They are hurting. As Vermonters, our communities will 
come together to support those in need. We should have every 
reason to expect that our national community, the United States 
of America, will be there as well.  
campusopinions             15 September 2011 11
Bernie Sanders has been a senator in Vermont 
since 2006, and was a U.S. Representative for 16 
years before that.
Notes from the Desk: Ian Trombulak
Oh, the places you’ll go
Class of 2015 — welcome to Middlebury! No doubt your ori-
entation has yielded many new friends, a handful of memorable 
nights and a desire to never attend another event with “square 
dance” or “ice-breaker” in the title. Let me assure you that the 
friends you have made are just a fraction of the amazing people 
you will meet over the next four years, the memorable nights a 
mere drop in the bucket of good times ahead and the social life — 
well, it will be what you make of it. 
Writing up a list of advice for first-years is a tradition that is 
almost more for the benefit of the writer than the reader. It makes 
them feel older, wiser and more like they actually learned some-
thing in the last three years. And they’ve been written over and 
over again, year after year, until there’s really not much more to say 
(although, that didn’t stop Cosmopolitan from successfully craft-
ing a magazine based on rehashing the same three basic pieces of 
advice every month). 
So, I could write about all the things I wish I’d known before 
I started at Middlebury, and maybe that advice would help you 
“master” the college you’ve chosen to attend. 
But let’s face it — it won’t take you four years to master 
Middlebury. It probably won’t even take you four weeks until 
you start referring to your dorm room as “home” and feeling as 
though you could teach a 101 course about dining hall ergonom-
ics. But don’t forget that you aren’t just coming to a college — you 
are joining a living, breathing community that extends beyond the 
borders of campus. Becoming a member of that community is 
just as daunting of a challenge as any class you will take or social 
drama you will weather. 
Let me help. 
First, full disclosure: I grew up in Middlebury. I went to 
all three public schools in town (Mary Hogan Elementary, 
Middlebury Union Middle School and Middlebury Union High 
School — go Tigers!), cut my working class teeth at the McDon-
alds for a brief but grease-filled month before working in Atwater 
Dining Hall for two years and finally completed the “terrible high 
school jobs trifecta” of food service/dishwashing/retail by moving 
to Kinney Drugs for my senior year. 
So, welcome to town. First, some facts: without students, 
our town population is roughly 6,000. We are the largest town 
in Addison County, which contains 23 total townships and sits 
right in the heart of the Champlain Valley (the major reason why 
Middlebury looks nothing like the photos you’ve been seeing of 
Irene damage in Vermont).
Without further ado, a couple things to keep in mind about 
Middlebury and Vermont in general during your first year:
1. There is no bubble except the one in your mind.
You may have heard the term “The Middlebury Bubble” 
tossed around here and there. Possibly a sophomore or FYC (or 
both) has told you, “Yeah, Middlebury is such a bubble.” What 
they mean is that it’s very easy to lose track of anything happening 
in the off-campus world and focus all your time and energy on 
college events.
Well, that’s only half true. If “The Middlebury Bubble” ex-
ists, it is nothing more than the collective laziness of many gen-
erations of Midd Kids before you. There’s no reason to feel like a 
helpless victim, trapped in an impenetrable but invisible sphere 
of isolation — it is entirely within your control to break out of it. 
We have a beautiful campus, but I promise you that it is nothing 
compared to the rest of Vermont. Get off campus — hell, get out 
of Middlebury, and if you’re really feeling adventurous, Addison 
County altogether! See the sights. You can read, write and party at 
any college in America. You chose one in Vermont. Take advantage 
of that. 
Okay, so you don’t know much about the surrounding area 
— since you just moved here, that’s understandable. I’m sure that 
if I moved to Random Town #54 outside of Boston, where you’re 
from, I would also be lost and clueless. But there ways to educate 
yourself, my friend. I recommend the following:
Read the Local News section of The Campus. This section is 
always packed with info about what’s happening in Middlebury 
and interesting stories about the town. It’s not easy, what they do 
(finding things that are happening in Middlebury, that is), but 
they are the best at it and that’s why we love them.
Or, alternatively, read The Addison County Independent. It’s 
a twice-weekly (Monday and Thursday) newspaper that serves 
all 23 towns of Addison County, and it’s based in Middlebury. 
Soon they will be publishing a special section about the fall foli-
age, which is probably one major reason why your parents were so 
stoked about you coming here. Look smart when they come for 
parents weekend and take them to some great spots that will make 
them forget all about the check they just wrote (and the seven 
more they have yet to write). 
Of course, you could just do some exploring yourself. Grab 
a map or GPS and explore the wild unknown of Addison County 
— check out Vergennes, Bristol or Brandon, which are all simi-
lar in size and atmosphere to Middlebury. Hop on your bike and 
tour Weybridge and Cornwall, two nearby farming towns. There 
is much to see off campus, but you won’t believe it until you see it. 
2. Crosswalk etiquette 101.
In Vermont, the law states that cars must stop for pedestrians 
at designated crosswalks. Most of the time, they do. But it’s always 
good to be careful and make eye contact with the driver before you 
cross because texting while driving is a growing epidemic. Here 
are some other things to keep in mind as well:
Jay walking is still illegal. And, because of our very pedestrian 
friendly crosswalk laws, there is much lower tolerance for people 
crossing 30 feet away from a perfectly good crosswalk. You’ll get a 
friendly smile and possibly a wave if you find the crosswalk, but 
the horn and an angry glare if you don’t. 
Don’t be a dick. If you’re ever curious about how native Ver-
monters feel about the crosswalk law, try driving up College Street 
right after classes get out. It can be frustrating to sit there and wait 
for mobs of students to finish crossing. While you don’t need to 
run across, a quickening of the pace is always appreciated. What-
ever you do, don’t slow your pace or cross diagonally on the big 
crosswalk by Adirondack Circle if there are cars waiting for you to 
pass. This applies all the time but is especially true during pedes-
trian rush hours. 
3. Shopping locally is good for everyone.
Before you plan a trip to Burlington to get another layer of 
foam for your mattress (yeah, they weren’t kidding about those 
beds) or a new sweatshirt to replace the one your roommate ru-
ined (try to forgive him/her), there are a few places worth check-
ing in Middlebury. And, it will have the added benefit of circulat-
ing money back through our local economy. And what’s good for 
the goose is good for the gander, right? (It’s probably pretty clear 
that I’ve never really understood what the phrase means.) 
A few all-purpose places to check before heading north (in 
order of proximity to campus): Ben Franklin, Kinney Drugs, the 
One Dollar Market, Rite Aid and finally, your last (but often suc-
cessful) resort, TJ Maxx. They specialize in cheap clothing, but 
have a ton of random stuff as well so they are always worth a visit.
All those places are worth visiting before you spend the time 
and money to go to Burlington or shop online. That being said, 
certain items are just not in Middlebury at all. But that’s no prob-
lem, because that gives you a good reason to … 
4. … Check out Burlington!
Burlington is a small town by most states’ standards, with 
a population around 40,000, but it is Vermont’s most populous 
town, so we call it a city. Don’t make fun of us. Seriously, that’s 
not cool. We don’t make fun of the way you say “bagel” and “milk” 
(and if we do, come on — it’s not “melk,” you weirdo), so give us 
a break. 
It is a fantastic city. Church Street is a great shopping area 
and the ultimate in pedestrian-trumps-vehicle satisfaction. It has 
good food, cheap food and both (or neither, if overpriced French 
food is your thing). 
Also, if you have any friends at the University of Vermont, go 
visit them. It’s exciting to spend the weekend on campus for the 
first few months, but it won’t be long before you’ll be ready for a 
night off campus. They know how to party at UVM, and you’ll 
find a much different scene than at Middlebury. A change of pace 
is always a good idea, and it will make you appreciate your own 
stomping grounds more when you come back. 
Burlington is also a choice location for seeing concerts and 
shows. Aside from the fall and spring concerts at the College, not 
many big names roll through Middlebury. At Higher Ground in 
South Burlington, chances are you’ll find an artist that you can get 
genuinely excited about and organize a trip up with a few friends. 
The Flynn Theater has world class acts and performances if you’re 
into that (and have the money for it). 
The bottom line is that Burlington is only 45 minutes away by 
car and contains more than enough fun for an entire day, or even 
a weekend. Once you get sick of campus (and trust me, you will), 
your respite is close by. It’s also worth mentioning that the drive 
north on Route 7 has some great landscape views (and a camel! 
Be the first of your friends to spot it) that are especially amazing 
around sunset. Now you will finally understand why Vermont’s 
law against billboards is such a good idea. 
So that’s it — read about local news, learn the geography, 
cross safely, shop locally where possible and go to Burlington! If 
you want to graduate feeling like you made a connection to a place 
and not just an institution, these steps will help you get there. 
One last note: there are others like me lurking among you. In 
the class of 2015 alone, there are six MUHS graduates. If you can 
find and befriend one or more of them, your knowledge about the 
surrounding area will increase exponentially. 
Welcome to Middlebury, everyone. Welcome back and wel-
come home. 
”
The simple truth is that we 
are one nation. That’s why 
we are called the UNITED 
States of America. When 
disaster strikes, we stick 
together and help our 
communities address the 
crises they face.
Op-ed: Sen. Bernie Sanders
We’re all in this together
Ian Trombulak ’12 is an opinions editor from 
Middlebury, Vt. 
HANNAH 
EPSTEIN ’12
NORA
DALY ’13
BEHIND THE SCENES
ALL HANDS ON DECK
PIPELINE, 
PROTEST, 
PRISON
BEN
WESSEL ’11.5
MIDDLEBURY EDITION
I know 
what you 
did last 
summer
Every Midd kid did something 
incredible this summer. Here’s a 
peek into the lives of four students 
who traveled the continent for 
amazing experiences. 
STORIES COMPILED AND WRITTEN BY SHANNON FIEDLER, FEATURES EDITOR
PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW PODRYGULA, PHOTO EDITOR
features  13 12 15 September 2011
The Middlebury Campus
CAROLINE
KENTER ’14HELPING HOPE
Caroline Kenter ’14 spent her summer volunteering for Common 
Hope, which originally focused on providing stipends for impoverished 
parents in Guatemala and but now o!ers healthcare, housing, and social 
support for students and families. 
Common Hope currently runs the New Hope School in Guata-
mala.  Kenter’s younger sister’s elementary school developed penpal re-
lationships with students at the New Hope School. Teachers from the 
New Hope School come to Chicago, Kenter’s hometown, every winter to 
better understand education in the United  States and how it 
can work in Guatamala.
Last year, Kenter’s mom o!ered to host a few of the 
visiting teachers, and the connection was instantaneous. 
By April, the Kenters were invited to visit "e New Hope 
School over spring break.
Far from the Windy City, Caroline quickly became 
emotionally invested in the Land of Eternal Spring. 
“My family and I fell in love with the people and the 
culture of Guatemala,” she said. “Physically, Guatemala 
is absolutely one of the most beautiful places I have ever 
been. Unfortunately the majority of the population lives 
in stark poverty. On our #rst visit in April, my family got 
a taste of what Common Hope does by visiting two of the 
schools Common Hope supports; the one with the highest 
standardized test scores and the one with the lowest. A$er 
volunteering in the classrooms and doing art projects with 
the children, I realized I de#nitely wanted to come back.” 
And go back she did, with very little time to waste. 
Kenter spent the end of her summer vacation working 
again in Guatemala. "is time, she brought along another 
Middlebury student, Lindsey Boles ’14. 
Kenter is currently trying to organize a group of peo-
ple to make a trip down over February Break. "e students 
would volunteer in classrooms, work in clinics, and aid the 
environmental restoration group.
“I’m only a sophomore,” said Kenter, “but I’m pretty 
sure I’ll move there a$er college for a year or two.”
"ere are many reasons Kenter has fallen in love with 
the New Hope School, but the biggest factor is the Guate-
malan culture.
“It’s so welcoming and happy,” she said. 
“My fondest memory from the trip this August was 
a$er Lindsay and I had volunteered at a clinic in San Pe-
dro. We were walking down a dirt road #lled with bumps 
and holes due to the rainy season, and lack of funding for 
pavement. We passed small wooden huts where smoke 
billowed out with the unmistakable smell of tortillas; men 
lead packs of cows down to grassy areas for grazing; shy, 
smiling children peaked out from behind their doors to see the ‘gringos.’ 
I realized that despite their poverty, people in Guatemala seemed incred-
ibly happy and grateful for what they had.”
"e Guatemalan school has #lled Kenter with hope and ambition, 
along with an unquenchable desire to help. She encourages anyone with 
interest to look into the New Hope School and see how the Guatemalan 
culture can change their lives as it has changed hers. 
D
ES
IG
N
 B
Y 
IA
N
 S
TE
W
A
RT
, D
ES
IG
N
 E
D
IT
O
R
"is summer, Nora Daly ’13 chan-
neled her inner Ishmael. Daly spent her 
vacation in the Gulf of Mexico looking 
at the e!ects of the BP Oil Spill on large 
marine animals, speci#cally the sperm 
and bryde’s whale.
Daly was part of an eight-year study, 
interning with a lab through the Univer-
sity of Maine.  
“"e research is sponsored by a 
group called Ocean Alliance,” said Daly, 
“which is a small non-pro#t based in 
Glouster, Mass., that focuses on whale 
conservation.”
“Whales are my favorite animal,” 
she said, “so everytime I saw them I was 
just as excited as the #rst sighting!”
But as fun as the whale work was, it 
wasn’t easy.
“A typical day started at 5 a.m. when 
the sun came up,” said Daly. “We took 
two hour shi$s in the crows nest looking 
for whales, which are typically spotted 
a mile away. When we would see them 
the 15-foot sailboat would approach and 
we would take skin and blubber samples. 
"is would continue throughout the day 
until 6 p.m. when we would stop to sam-
ple water and process the krill and whale 
samples from the day.”
“I think it was an amazing oppor-
tunity for me,” said Daly, “but de#nitely 
very speci#c. I think you would really 
have to be passionate about the ocean to 
enjoy this much time aboard our boat, 
!e Odyssey, which I am and I did!”
With her background in marine bi-
ology and hopeful future in the subject , 
Daly was able to truly bene#t from her 
unusual internship.
“I was able to learn so much in such 
a short time,” she said. “It was so di!er-
ent from anything I’ve ever done. I’d nev-
er gone that long without seeing land!”
Daly hopes to spend future sum-
mers continuing work with this project 
and doing all she can to help her beloved 
whales in the a$ermath of the BP spill. 
"is summer, Ben Wessel 
’11.5 did not pass Go. He did not 
collect 200 dollars. In fact, he lost 
100 dollars. But he did go directly 
to jail.
Wessel’s arrest was not a re-
sult of delinquency. Instead, in late 
August, Wessel stood outside of 
the White House with 137 others 
in an act of civil disobedience to 
protest the Keystone XL Pipeline. 
Bill McKibben, Schumann Distin-
guished Scholar, was also present.
"is was not Wessel’s #rst 
time at the White House over 
the summer, however. During 
June and July, Ben interned at the 
Democratic National Committee 
helping to get President Obama 
reelected next November.
“It was pretty strange to be 
risking arrest in front of the White 
House while protesting to get the 
President to reject permitting for 
a new oil pipeline from Canada to 
Texas,” said Wessel. 
“I totally respect the Presi-
dent and hope that he wins in 
2012,” he continued, “but on envi-
ronmental issues it seems like he’s 
really forgetting his base in favor 
of appeasing stubborn Congres-
sional Republicans. "at’s why I 
felt so comfortable giving him a 
‘friendly reminder’ that the envi-
ronmental community is counting 
on his support with this pipeline.” 
"e climate movement is very 
important to Wessel; he’s an envi-
ronmental studies major, very ac-
tive in the college’s environmental 
group Sunday Night Group and 
took the fall of 2009 to work with 
climate policy in DC and go to 
Copenhagen for United Nations 
climate negotiations.   
A$er all this experience in 
policy and the environment, one 
would think Wessel’s protest for 
the pipeline would be nothing dif-
ferent for him. But this time, one 
thing that made Wessel’s summer 
unlike any before: he was arrested.
“Getting arrested was totally 
di!erent than anything else I’d 
ever done before in the climate 
movement,” said Wessel. “While 
normally I’m pleading my case 
with talking points and graphs, all 
I had to do to make a di!erence 
on the Keystone XL pipeline was 
show up.”
“I was a little nervous about 
it all,” said Wessel. “Am I going to 
have to go to jail? Would an ar-
rest be on my permanent record? 
Do permanent records even ex-
ist? But we had a training for folks 
involved in the action and they 
answered all our questions and as-
suaged our fears.”
On the second "ursday of 
the action, Ben and 137 others 
were arrested for their civil dis-
obedience. 
“"e actual arrest was pretty 
anti-climactic,” he recalled. “We 
stood in front of the White House 
and refused to move and, a$er 
three warnings, the park police 
told us we were all under arrest.
“It took a couple hours to get 
everyone in the paddywagons, so 
I was sweating in the sun for a 
while before getting escorted to a 
processing station and ultimately 
into a cage in the back of a police 
truck with #$een other arrestees. 
It was a hot but exciting ride to the 
station.”
In an admirable act, Wessel 
risked serious consequences to 
stand up for what he believes in. 
But despite the arrest, some things 
didn’t end up too bad.
“When we got to the station 
our zip-tie cu!s were cut o!,” 
said Wessel, “and we were given 
the choice to pay 100 dollars or 
get put in the jail. It was an easy 
choice for me, even though I’m 
out a hundred bucks.”
True Life: Hannah Epstein ’12 
spent her summer interning at MTV. 
Yeah, some might even say she had it 
MADE.
Epstein is a #lm and media cul-
ture major, so the chance to work at 
a television studio piqued her interest 
the minute she saw the opportunity.
“I found out about the internship 
#rst just by looking on the MTV web-
site,” said Epstein, “and then I talked to 
my #lm professors about it. "ey hap-
pened to know a recent Middlebury 
grad who works at MTV as an editor, 
so I got in touch with him to ask about 
the internship program, and then ap-
plied online. From there it was a pretty 
standard interviewing process, meet-
ing with the head of the production 
department in New York.”
"e MTV internship focused on 
what Epstein is interested in. 
“Middlebury’s #lm major focuses 
more on #lm studies,” she said, “but I 
am speci#cally interested in a produc-
tion track, so I was excited to gain an 
internship that would put me in the 
heart of all aspects of television pro-
duction.”
Epstein was one of eight produc-
tion interns working at MTV this 
summer, the ‘eight on top’ if you will. 
Because the #lm industry is somewhat 
unpredictable, her hours and tasks 
varied daily.
“"e shows that MTV Produc-
tions puts on the air are Made, !e 
Seven, and Ten On Top, so the eight of 
us were rotated every week or two to a 
di!erent show,” she said. 
“Although !e Seven was actually 
cancelled and taken o! the air part 
way through the summer, that was 
the most fun show to work on because 
it was shot daily in the MTV Studio 
in Times Square,” Epstein said. “We 
would observe and assist in the studio 
and on the &oor through rehearsals 
and then through the live taping. On 
other days when working for a show 
like Made, we were asked to log the 
raw footage for the producers, and 
then make lots of runs delivering cam-
era equipment across Manhattan. We 
got to know the sta! at DVDepot very 
well!”
"e idea of a lowly intern doesn’t 
seem to exist at MTV; Epstein was 
heavily involved in production 
throughout her summer.
“"e high point was working in 
the MTV Studio alongside the di-
rector in the control room, and then 
on the &oor with the stage managers 
and cameramen,” she said. “Everyone 
working in this area was so much fun 
and let us get involved by wearing 
headsets, learning camera maneuvers 
on special rigs and logging time code 
through the live taping.”
And things didn’t stop at MTV.
“Some of them were even anxious 
enough to teach that they allowed 
me to come along with them to other 
morning gigs while they shot con-
certs in central park for Good Morning 
America,” said Epstein.
Epstein both enjoyed her intern-
ship and gained experience from 
working at a major television sta-
tion. But the most valuable lesson she 
learned?
“While it was great to learn about 
the production process of a television 
network, I actually learned that TV is 
not where I want to be,” said Epstein. 
“Having now seen the processed of 
both #lm and television, I realize that 
#lm is where I want to end up in the 
end!” 
Lea Calderon-Guthe ’11.5 is the senior sta! 
writer from Chapel Hill, N.C.
14 15 September 2011 campusfeatures
Free Note-taking Lined Paper from http://incompetech.com/graphpaper/notelined/
The L-Word
Working as a camp counselor this sum-
mer, I didn’t expect to learn anything about 
sex, especially given the necessary (temporary) 
neutering that goes on working with children. 
But the sta! orientation for my camp was the 
"rst time I had met hundreds of new people 
all at once since my "rst year at Middlebury, 
and I had forgotten how sexually charged that 
atmosphere of constant introductions can be. 
Even though no one showed up to camp (or 
to college) just to "nd the next hook-up, most 
of our free time quickly turned into a meat 
market. Even my boyfriend and I, who worked 
for the same organization speci"cally to be 
together, both found ourselves automatically 
categorizing co-workers into “Attracted To” 
and “Interested In.” I didn’t pursue them, but 
a#er two days I had crushes on various fellow 
counselors, along with a vague, crush-like en-
thusiasm about everyone just for being goofy 
enough to work with kids.
Perhaps it was the heat of the Vermont 
summer, or the abundance of con"dent, 
outdoorsy and good-natured people — like 
Middlebury with more free time — but every-
where I turned I heard giggles coming from 
the woods and stories of semi-orgies going 
around the breakfast table. And then suddenly 
all of that sexual exuberance went $at: the kids 
arrived. At least for a while, the sta! became 
more invested in our campers’ social interac-
tions than their own. 
My camp was for girls ages nine to 14, and 
while some of them were de"nitely interested 
in each other, for most of them camp was 
a uniquely sexless environment. Interac-
tions with our brother camp around the lake 
breached our platonic community: during 
joint projects with the boys’ camp, previously 
functional friendships fell apart in "ts of 
jealousy or because of mismatched interests — 
some girls went boy crazy, some girls wished 
everyone would just calm down. We had cabin 
discussions to help heal the strained friend-
ships a#er days with the boys’ camp, and my 
campers spoke sincerely about the depth of the 
friendships they formed with each other and 
the lack of pressure when the boys were not 
around. %e other counselors and I de"nitely 
chuckled over the soap operas that grew out 
of co-ed interactions — who wouldn’t laugh at 
A-frame hugs and the all-too-obvious strutting 
adolescents adopt when they’re trying to show 
o!? — but it wasn’t as if we were above awk-
wardness on the prowl, or beyond silly drama. 
When I listened to my girls talk about the 
importance of our camp community, relatively 
sheltered as it was from both the joys and anxi-
eties of sex, I thought back to the weeks of sta! 
orientation, and even to my "rst few weeks at 
Middlebury. For both I had crushes before I 
had friends; I sought out people to kiss before 
I sought out people to care about. I don’t think 
I’m alone in that particular imbalance, and it 
makes me envy the simplicity (at least in this 
regard) of being 13 at an all-girls’ camp where 
there are clear lines between people you might 
befriend and people you might be attracted to. 
In college, or the adult world generally, there 
is no simple dividing line between those peers 
you can be friends with and those you might 
spontaneously kiss. Many choose gender as 
that dividing line, but as someone who enjoys 
partners and friends of any gender, I have 
frequently found myself in the awkward situ-
ation of trying to kiss friends and trying to be 
friends with people who want me in their bed 
but out of their life.
My best friend just graduated and started 
a new job, entering again into that sexually 
fraught climate of constant introductions. But 
she decided that she would postpone her crush 
development (as much as anyone realistically 
can) in favor of friend development and focus 
on her job. I don’t know if I can stick to that 
plan in my last semester of college, but I’d like 
to give it a try, and I wish I could go back and 
tell my "rst-year self to do the same, to be open 
to possibilities but a little more intentional 
about how I choose to interact with potential 
friends. I’ll keep you updated … and I promise 
I have enough fodder for this column from 
past sexscapades to keep things interesting.
Free Note-taking Lined Paper from http://incompetech.com/graphpaper/notelined/
Finally, the day has come. Every type of four-wheeled 
vehicle imaginable rolls over the hills of Vermont like a 
thundering herd to a common destination: Middlebury 
College. Returning students sprint from car to car, calling 
out instructions to the new "rst years and their parents. 
%rough the fray one can make out our assistant-mover 
FYC’s, dragging bedding, lugging lamps and hauling laun-
dry baskets up the stairs. As an FYC soaked with sweat 
catches his breath by sitting on the one hundred pound 
mini-refrigerator he’s carrying (and almost throws his back 
out as he attempts to li# it again), I wonder what the appeal 
of being an FYC is. 
But today, it’s all about the new students. %is is Sept. 
6, 2011: Move-In Day, a day of "rsts.
Hadley resident Jack Dolan ’15 recalls ,“My "rst meal 
here tasted like Christmas morning, dude.”
It’s safe to say his classmates echo this opinion, a#er 
trying out the amazing pizza and sampling the so#-serve 
machine. A#er lunch, "rst years got acquainted with their 
surroundings. %e "nal posters were hung up, mothers 
cried while fathers waited in the car, and without time to 
feel homesick, students were whisked away to their "rst 
commons meeting. %e class was excited to meet their 
commons heads and First Year Counselors as well as all 
their hall mates a#er dinner. 
But the highlight of this opening evening was the 
Orientation Kick-O! and the Voices of the Class of 2015 
presentation in Mead Chapel. Emcees Christopher de la 
Cruz ’13 and Brittany Gendron ’12 prepared the amazing 
event, and Dean of the College Shirley Collado gave a riv-
eting address, inspiring us all to reap the fruits of Middle-
bury’s unique and unparalleled community. Dean Collado 
called for each student to immerse his or herself into life 
at Middlebury, to jump on opportunities and savor each 
second. 
%e Voices of the Class of 2015 presentation was a 
moving reading by returning students of the newcomer’s 
responses to questions we answered over the summer. %e 
responses ranged from heartfelt monologues and deep 
musings to witty one-liners and hilarious asides, leaving 
the audience enthralled, surprised and elated. Day one had 
ended, and the class of 2015 had spoken.
Wednesday gave the students a taste of what freshman 
year would bring academically. First years woke up before 
eight to grab breakfast before heading to their "rst year 
seminars. What followed was an a#ernoon of pre-advising, 
advising and families "nally leaving. 
When I asked Sean McQuillan ’15 if it was di&cult to 
see his parents go, he responded, “A little bit, but I know I 
have a great four years ahead of me and not a four hour car 
ride to cry.” 
Many "rst years were ready and excited to be living 
on their own. But on a day when students began life alone 
from family, the College brought us together to foster our 
new family, the Middlebury family, the family of the Class 
of 2015. 
Within their respective commons, students experi-
enced Middlebury Uncensored. In small discussion groups 
comprised of just four "rst-years, we began to understand 
our classmates on a much deeper level then the usual 
name/hometown introduction.  We also did “stands,” an 
exercise in which a statement is read aloud, and those to 
whom the statement applies stand up. 
A classmate noted, “%e stands were so interesting. 
People put themselves out there and stood for even the 
most serious statements, and a#er only knowing each oth-
er for a day or two, we proved what con"dence we have in 
this community.”
 %e tone of the exercise shi#ed from uneasy, shy, and 
full of small giggles and smiles, to a completely serious and 
trustful sharing of self. 
All that sharing must have made us hungry, though, as 
nearly the entire class headed to Proctor and Ross for din-
ner when Middlebury Uncensored ended. A rowdy square 
dance headlined the evening and kicked o! $annel season, 
and the barnyard band "ddled and twanged through the 
night in Kenyon.
%e following morning was yet another frenzy, as 
students grabbed a quick breakfast and prepared for the 
Academic Forum, a great opportunity to "nd out more 
about speci"c classes, departments and maybe get to know 
a professor or two. We were advised, however, to not set 
our hearts too completely on our "rst choices — heart-
break is unfortunately common during registration. De la 
Cruz was there to inspire us with con"dence and reassure 
us with his registration stories of girls crying and nervous 
"rst years $ying around Kenyon in running shoes. 
On Friday morning, some students visited their ad-
visers’ o&ces for a meeting before the looming registra-
tion period while others enjoyed a session entitled Living 
Deliberately: Finding Balance at Middlebury. %e seminar 
was a presentation of research material showing us all how 
to maintain a healthy lifestyle by closely monitoring the 
way we eat, how much sleep we are getting, and how ef-
fectively we are budgeting our time. 
And before we knew it, the appointed hour "nally ar-
rived. Registration. Some were elated upon riding the tidal 
wave of "rst-years into Kenyon to "nd that all their desired 
classes were available and ready to accept them. Others 
with high registration numbers were crushed, entering the 
hockey rink only to "nd that they must reschedule them-
selves and reevaluate their options. Overall, we were as-
sured by all the professors, FYC’s and returning students, 
that everything, as cliché as it sounds, was going to be okay. 
With the stress of registration li#ed o! our shoulders, 
students prepared themselves for the GLOrientation fes-
tivities in the Pepin Gym later that evening. Walking out, I 
asked one neon-clad fellow what he thought of the techno/
dubstep-infused dance party, to which he responded, “%e 
whole, like, essence of the night, like, the music and the 
raging and dancing and the lights and everything was so 
unbelievably sick.” %e gentleman walked away from me 
steadily about 15 paces in his haggard clothes, smeared 
with the radiant stu! of a broken glow-stick, and he turned 
back to face me with an eerie con"dence, as if he was 
standing atop the monumental words he had just uttered, 
high and mighty and so impossibly colossal in such a small 
circumstance. %ough temporarily caught up in the stupor 
of this strange moment, I headed back to my home in Ross 
to get rest for the next morning’s Commons Olympics.
Ross, Wonnacott, Brainerd, Cook and Atwater con-
verged on Battel Beach on Saturday morning for a clash 
of the Titans. Inter-commons competitions were held to 
determine "nalists, and each commons sent forth one 
team to the "nal competition. Ross brought the Cameron 
Cup home in heroic style. Chants of “R-O-S-S ROSS ROSS 
ROSS!” could be heard throughout campus as the card-
board rhino made its way to the dining hall for a celebra-
tory meal. 
Cece Burkey ’15 said, “It was really fun competing be-
tween the commons and even though my $oor didn’t make 
it to the "nals, I felt like I could get behind any of the $oors 
or commons and root for them.”
Our long week ended with an ice-cream social and en-
tertainer Craig Karges in Mead Chapel. With convocation 
dawning and the "rst week of life on our own complete, us 
"rst-years are ready to begin our Middlebury careers a#er 
a sensational, and busy, freshman orientation.
— Edmund Murphy ’15
“I could watch water for hours.” Meet 
Jeremy Cline. Many of you may know him 
as one of the most active kids on campus: 
always dancing, canoeing, hiking or doing 
some other form of physical activity. He 
is a yoga enthusiast, a traveler, a recently 
evolved tracker and explorer and a teacher 
and practitioner if capoeira, a Brazilian 
form of martial arts that mixes song, dance 
and !ghting. 
Despite all the movement that seems 
to be a constant in Cline’s life, what Cline 
is most passionate about is just being, in his 
words, “here and alive.”  “Sometimes I just 
lay on my back and watch the sky, or sit next 
to a river and watch the water "ow. I could 
watch water for hours,” he said.
Perhaps this is hard to believe coming 
out of the mouth of someone who leads 
such an animated, vibrant lifestyle. How-
ever, Cline maintains that his dynamic hob-
bies actually help him achieve harmony with 
his surroundings and himself. “My favorite 
thing about any of my interests is when 
they help me reach a state of mind where 
all thoughts stop and I am just "owing, 
just being, whether that is while dancing or 
singing or just sitting still by a tree,” he ex-
plained. One of Cline’s fondest memories at 
Middlebury is from when he once went on 
a walk behind John McCardell Bicentenial 
Hall in winter and saw a beaver swimming 
under the ice, directly below where he was 
standing. “#at was beautiful,” he said.
But having a relationship with nature 
and feeling alive through simply “being” is 
not all that makes this super senior who he 
is. Hailing from Bar Harbor, Maine, Cline 
has seen a fair share of the world. He studied 
at the United World College in India during 
his last two years in high school, an experi-
ence that he truly appreciated.
“It was an amazing school, mostly for 
the way that it pushed you to examine your 
own perceptions and prejudices constantly,” 
Cline said. “India was also its own school, 
like a di$erent world, where the laws of 
physics were di$erent.” During those years 
Cline was even fortunate enough to meet the 
Dalai Lama himself, as part of a youth class. 
“[You] have all the questions in the world, 
and then he enters the room and all you 
can say is ‘duhhuhh...bububu,’” said Cline. 
“#e experience was stupefying.” Cline’s 
joint dance/religion major re"ects his in-
terdisciplinary nature. “I wanted to become 
a fully embodied human,” Cline says of his 
choice to study dance. In his eyes, dance is 
a “beautiful marriage” of arts and athletics, 
two aspects of life that pushes us to new lim-
its. One of his dreams is to dance with Su!s, 
a mystic religious order, because they “look 
so free and blissful.” Ultimately, Cline would 
like to use his education to work towards 
achieving global peace. “#e natural world 
has so much to o$er,” he said. 
Cline would like to extend the sense 
of harmony and beauty of nature into the 
realm of humanity, and is inspired by peo-
ple who use patience and kindness with 
others. “#ey are my teachers, whether they 
collect trash or lead nations.”  Overall, you 
could say Cline is a pretty involved, passion-
ate and cerebral guy, even for a Midd kid. 
Some may refer to him as He-man, his name 
used in capoeira, and others may even call 
him JC or Big Daddy, but everyone knows 
him as someone with a dynamic and curi-
ous personality. Cline would like to remind 
everyone to “Keep to the Silence.” Oh, and 
to come to his senior dance performance 
on Nov. 18 and 19 in Kevin P. Mahaney ‘84 
Center for the Arts.
During the last week of August, 
Middlebury athletes drove and "ew from 
across the country to start preseason prac-
tices. But by September, many of their prac-
tices had become works of disaster relief as 
much as of sports training. 
On Sept. 1, roughly 90 football players 
walked to Jackson’s On the River, a restau-
rant on the shore of Otter Creek. #ey !lled 
sandbags and stacked them by the founda-
tions and basements to protect the business 
and homes from the impending "ood, a 
result of the run-o$ from Hurricane Irene’s 
rainfall. 
“We were able to complete it in almost 
no time,” said Bob Ritter, head coach of the 
Panthers football team.
#e next day, the football team coordi-
nated another blitz of "ood relief for towns 
where the "ooding had already hit. #ey 
split into two groups, one going to Han-
cock and the other traveling further south 
to Rochester. In Rochester, the team helped 
empty "ooded homes of debris and dig out 
mud-caked lawns and basements. 
For captain Matt Rayner ’12, the service 
was both rewarding and humbling. 
“#e devastation of the streets, bridges, 
and homes was clearly a wake-up call,” said 
Rayner, “and for several hours we worked 
to aid the a$ected homes and families dig-
ging and emptying out the "ooded homes. 
Some of the families had lost nearly every-
thing, and to witness such devastation truly 
opened the team’s eyes as to how lucky we 
all are.” 
Rayner a%rmed the importance of help-
ing the local community from the perspec-
tive of a Middlebury student. “For all that 
Middlebury and the surrounding communi-
ties have given to us over the past years, the 
work we were able to perform was the least 
we could do,” he said.
Football was not the only team to reach 
out to the local community. Many other 
teams helped as well, including some not 
mentioned in this article. 
Two groups from the ski team helped 
farms outside of Rochester, VTt #e vol-
leyball team cleared debris from a baseball 
diamond also in Rochester. 
#e !eld hockey team drove Hancock to 
work on homes that were heavily damaged 
from the "ood. Armed with three bottles of 
Clorox bleach, three packages of rags and 
some uncomfortable gas masks, they went 
to work. 
“We went and helped to clean up some 
of the homes that were in particularly bad 
shape,” said !eld hockey captain Liz Gary 
’12.  “Some were virtually inaccessible due 
to damaged roads, some basements were 
completely "ooded, some homes’ new ad-
ditions had completely washed away and in 
the house that I was working on, a !re had 
wiped out most of the kitchen.”
A&er three hours of !ghting through 
fumes of debris, the team dropped full trash 
bags of Irene’s !lth and went straight to a 
scrimmage against Williams College. Aside 
from the minor disruption to training sched-
ule, the service facilitated team bonding. 
Varsity football safety Patrick 
O’Callaghan ’13 said, “It was good to come 
together as a team o$ the !eld. I was able to 
spend time with the !rst-years.” 
In an unusual course of preseason 
events, athletes learned what teamwork re-
ally means: working hard, working together, 
and making an assist in the clutch to some-
one who needs it.
By Jackie Park 
Staff Writer
Athletic teams bail out !ooded Vt. towns
15 September 2011 15campusfeatures
Campus Character:
By Alexandra Strott
Staff Writer
Jeremy Cline ’11.5
Jeremy Cline ’11.5 sits still by a tree and contemplates his epic life, just being “here and alive.”
Photos by Anna Clements, Photos Editor
!e College’s varsity football team helps "ll and stack sandbags to protect businesses and 
residences in downtown Middlebury from a cresting post-Hurricane Irene Otter Creek.
Courtesy
For all that Middlebury and the surrounding 
communities have given to us ... the work we 
were able to perform was the least we could do.
— Matt Rayner ’12
&
winners
Bye-bye, covered bridges.losers
Plates
Take-away containers now per-
mited; plates safe from looters.
Reunited with nostalgic seniors 
who spent their 1st year in Allen.
Su$ers setback in career, loses 
anti-plate the& ad campaign.
Solar Housing
Solar Decathalon ships its eco-
friendly house to D.C.
Mosquitos
According to #omas Malthus, 
overpopulation will lead to a
population decline.
Atwater Terrace
Bridge Housing Aunt Des
arts&science16
The Middlebury Campus
15 September 2011
Because dusk had a habit of falling before 
I’d finished putting on my mascara. Because you can’t 
read by the light of an onion and I’d never seen
my name written in calligraphy. Because I was so lonely
I talked to the radiators. Because of the dogs
of Cherry Street and the cats of Bliss Road. Because home
was a series of broken Mr. Coffees and the cotton hems
of my nightgowns had all frayed. Because once
there was a fair maiden. A fair maiden who rode
the bus to her job at the supermarket. Because of the canned
peaches. And the fire. Because I’ve never held a full pitcher
without my wrist shaking. Never broken a bone.
Because a loose thread came teasing its way from the sleeve
of my blouse and I couldn’t stop pulling. Bundle
of fibers. Because I was thusly unsleeved. Because there once 
was a goose girl who was only a goose girl. Because 
someone’s sister turned a corner and died. Because someone
else’s sister never called. Because I was unconvinced
by commercials asserting my inalienable right to loveliness:
beauty like smooth milk. Because the snow came early that year 
and I lay in my bed at dawn, worrying about every
single word I’d ever said. Because I said no, said yes. 
Because the sky was a vintage filmstrip reel and the concrete
smelled like driving too slowly, like the fear of death. 
Because the only ticket I could afford was to a city 
where no one knew me and I’d never wanted to go. 
Because I was pretty sure I’d eventually go there anyway.
Why I Did It
by Karin Gottshall
Visiting Lecturer in English and American Literatures
SEE SPOTLIGHT ON... ON PAGE 17
campusarts&science          15 September 2011 17
spotlightON...
Karin Gottshall 
Visiting Lecturer in English and American Literatures
As we scuttle around campus at the 
beginning of the semester, it’s hard to 
remember that we go to a school rich 
in literary history. Every few years, the 
Department of English and American 
Literatures sponsors a poet to teach on 
campus, hold workshops and contrib-
ute to the literary life of the school. We 
spoke to its newest appointment, Karin 
Gottshall, about her work as a poet and 
her role at the College. 
The Middlebury Campus: Can you tell 
us a little bit about what you like to 
write and what kind of projects you 
have taken on in the past? What do you 
plan to work on in the future?
Karin Gottshall: I write both poetry 
and short stories. My first poetry book, 
Crocus, came out in 2007 with Fordham 
University Press, and that was a collec-
tion of poems that were written over a 
few years, including the years that I was 
in graduate school. I have a chapbook 
called Flood Letters, which just came out 
this spring with a beautiful little press in 
Brooklyn, Argos Books, and that is much 
more of a “project” book — it’s a series 
of poems about a catastrophic flood, told 
in the voice of a woman who has been 
isolated in her home by the rising waters. 
Right now I’m finishing up another full-
length manuscript of poems. 
MC: What about when you’re not writ-
ing? How do your other interests and 
everyday life relate to your poetry?
KG: I hope it all relates in some way: 
the things I love to do, like taking pic-
tures and listening to music, but also 
things I kind of hate, like folding laun-
dry. I hope my poems can hold and make 
use of it all. Ultimately everyday life is 
where poems are made, so I try not to 
get into a habit of thinking one kind of 
experience goes into the category of po-
etry while other kinds of experience get 
thrown away.
MC: Why do you write and why do you 
think it’s important?
KG: I’ve been writing poems since 
I was a little kid. I remember reading a 
poem called “Requiem” by Robert Louis 
Stevenson when I was very young, which 
is maybe a strange poem for a child to 
respond to because it’s about the accep-
tance of death, but I had this powerful 
sense of recognition. I thought, finally, 
something that makes sense! It was a way 
of arranging language that seemed to 
match the way I thought and felt things. 
I think I’d feel like a space alien if there 
were no poetry in the world. It’s a lonely 
thought. 
MC: What do you think of the criticism 
that has been leveled against the writ-
ing workshop and MFA programs? Can 
writing be taught?
KG: I’ve seen students make amaz-
ing progress and grow enormously over 
the course of weeks or months. I’ve seen 
students surprise themselves with their 
accomplishments, and create things they 
never thought possible. So yes, I think 
elements of craft can be taught. A lot 
of what makes someone a writer is self-
taught, though: you can take classes all 
through college or do an MFA program 
and get a lot out of that instruction, but 
unless you teach yourself how to make 
writing a priority in your life, how to 
practice, when you leave the academic 
setting you will lose a lot of the fluency 
you picked up while you were in classes. 
People do start out with varying degrees 
of talent — it’s a great mystery why. But 
the most gifted people sometimes lose 
their gifts through neglect, and people 
who start out less promising but persist 
with sheer tenacity and love and desire 
sometimes create amazing things.
MC: What’s your favorite poem and 
why? (This is not meant to cause an ex-
istential break down…) Or your favor-
ite poet? Or just some stuff you like?
KG: This is a hard question! My 
preferences and affinities seem to shift 
around a lot, like the weather. But two 
poets I return to again and again are 
Emily Dickinson and Elizabeth Bishop. 
A contemporary poet it would be very 
hard for me to live without is Mary Rue-
fle. A couple of books I’ve read recently 
and just loved are Carl Phillips’ Double 
Shadow and Elizabeth Willis’ Meteoric 
Flowers. A poem I’m in love with right at 
this moment is Traci Brimhall’s “Envoi,” 
from the spring issue of the New England 
Review.
MC: How do you go about reading a 
poem critically verses creatively? How 
do you balance guiding people’s work 
while still allowing the work to be their 
own?
KG: In the workshop setting, I hope 
that critical reading is creative, in that it 
imagines new possibilities for the poem, 
new connections and directions for it. I 
also think it’s creative to investigate how 
a poem is working, its moving parts — to 
really become conscious of what’s on the 
page in terms of syntax, sound, perspec-
tive, form, and everything else. The “no-
ticing” part of workshop is so important. 
What I hope I can facilitate, as a teacher, 
is the process of helping students make 
their work even more their own, often 
by pointing out the places in the poem 
where they’re using language in uncon-
scious ways.
MC: Do you have any advice for young 
writers?
KG: I can tell you the advice I’d give 
myself if I could go back in time, and that 
is to relax. I took creative writing class-
es all through college, and I loved them 
and I loved writing — but I was such a 
perfectionist and that sometimes made 
me play it safe in ways I regret. The as-
pects of poetry writing that I loved as a 
small child — the playfulness of it, the 
tactile sensation of fiddling around with 
language — really got lost for me a little 
bit with all that anxiety, and I don’t feel 
like I recovered it for several years after 
college. I guess I’m still recovering it. I 
see that kind of anxiety in my students 
sometimes, and it can be hard to break 
through. Maybe it’s just something we 
need to experience as serious writers, at 
some point. I am so heartened, though, 
when students are able to overcome their 
fear of failure — whatever that is! — and 
see all the possibilities and potentialities 
for their work. My students’ wild, cou-
rageous and passionate creativity is in-
tensely inspiring to me. It’s a gift to be 
able to witness that.
By Emily Scarisbrick
Arts & Science Editor
 
16
Students interested in this Winter 
Term faculty musical should prepare 
a Broadway song and be prepared 
to read. Auditions on the 17th will 
be held at 1 p.m. !e sign up sheet 
is posted outside the Music Depart-
ment o"ce.
editors’ 15
Sebastian Junger and Tim Hetherington’s 
Oscar-nominated #lm was compiled af-
ter spending a year dug in with the Sec-
ond Platoon in one of Afghanistan’s most 
strategically crucial valleys. Sponsored by 
the Hirsch#eld Film Series. 
!is exhibit displays pieces selected by 
members of the Spring 2011 course Art 
Museums: !eory and Practice. It will 
also discuss the context from which they 
come and the signi#cance of their addi-
tion to the collection. Free.
17picks
HAIRSPRAY 
Auditions
CFA Room 221
Through Sept. 
17
6 p.m. 
Restrepo
Dana 
Auditorium
3 p.m & 8 p.m 15
In celebration of its 25th anniversary, 
PTP/NYC presents two plays: Territories 
and Spatter Pattern. A post perfomance 
discussion will be o$ered a%er the Sept. 15 
and 16 performances. !e Sept. 17 perfor-
mance will be at 2 p.m. Tickets: $25/20/6. 
PTP/NYC
Seeler Studio 
Theatre
Through Sept. 
17
8 p.m. 
How Did I Get 
Here?
Museum of Art, 
Overbrook 
Gallery
10 a.m.
Want a show on WRMC? Come to the man-
datory all-DJ meeting on +ursday, Sept. 15 
at 9 p.m. in the McCullough Social Space.
On May 1, 1949, WMCRS began 
broadcasting from a chicken coop behind 
then-Professor John Bowker’s house, with 
a signal that barely reached the College’s 
considerably less sprawling dormitories. 
Since then, the station has been renamed 
WRMC, has moved from the chicken coop 
to the upper level of Proctor,and has ex-
panded its wattage from 10 to 2900, reach-
ing all over the Champlain Valley.
So, why do you care? You care because 
the station has been an invaluable student 
resource for all kinds of musical styles, 
commentary, humor and current a$airs, 
and it’s legacy continues to thrive in an era 
in which our methods of consuming media 
are constantly evolving. Most importantly, 
WRMC continues to serve as a place for 
students to explore untapped interests.                  
Have a newfound passion for gamelan 
music a%er a semester in Bali? We’ll give 
you two hours a week to explore all the 
genre has to o$er. Interested in reporting 
on agriculture in Addison County? We’ll 
give you the platform you need to get your 
message out.  
In addition to 24/7 original program-
ming, we host two large-scale concerts 
each year, including Sepomana, the spring 
music festival that has seen the likes of 
!eophilus London, Das Racist, Animal 
Collective, Andrew Bird, Dan Deacon, 
Oberhofer, Phenomenal Handclap Band 
and more.
Legendary former WRMC General 
Manager Don Kreis ’80 once remarked, 
“Middlebury, a%er all, isn’t a college with 
a radio station; WRMC is a radio station 
with a college. But such is the magical in-
toxication of the airwave, as vital and om-
nipresent as the air we breathe.” 
So, join us as we begin our 63rd year of 
rocking the airwaves.
THIS WEEK ON
WRMC91.1FM
Something’s different...
Experienced readers of +e Campus 
might have been quite surprised as you 
turned the page and discovered a brand-
new heading for what used to be the Arts 
section. Don’t worry, we are still the same 
Arts section you all know and (hope-
fully) love. We will continue to cover the 
College’s theater productions, senior 700 
shows, musical performances and book, 
movies, music and video game reviews. 
However, we also wanted to expand 
our readership to a section of campus cul-
ture that has rarely been focused on in past 
years. We also realized that current news 
publications, college weeklies included, 
usually combine the arts with sciences as 
well.  We came to the decision that from 
this year onward, the Arts section would 
undergo a transformation and also be de-
voted to exploring a side of campus some 
students never get a chance to experience: 
the scienti#c community!
Our goals include showcasing stu-
dents who conduct research in McCardell 
Bicentennial Hall,  highlighting profes-
sors’ achievements and exploring how sci-
ence a$ects our campus as a whole. Any 
and all suggestions on how our section 
could be improved are always welcomed. 
To the class of 2015, we wish to wel-
come you to the College and thank you 
for picking up a copy of +e Campus! We 
hope that you enjoy reading our newspa-
per and gain new viewpoints on both the 
arts and science cultures on campus. 
Deirdre Sackett, Santiago Azpurua-Borras 
and Emily Scarisbrick
Arts & Science Editors 
why we are now 
the Arts & Science Section
Photo by Paul Gerard 
Allison MacKay ’13
Research Professor: Assistant Professor of Psychology 
Kim Cronise
We researched the neurosteroid Epipregnanolone and 
the development of ethanol tolerance in male C57BL/6J 
mice. This neurosteroid blocked ethanol tolerance in oth-
er strains of mice in previous studies. We tested Epipreg-
nanolone on this especially alcohol-preferring strain of 
mice that readily develops alcohol tolerance, hoping to 
show that the neurosteroid blocked alcohol tolerance.
We were able to test Epipregnanalone on 200 mice to de-
termine if this neurosteroid effectively reduced the de-
velopment of alcohol tolerance. Through analysis of Ro-
taRod, a mouse treadmill, and balance beam data from 
each of the mice, we were able to determine that Epipreg-
nanalone did not significantly reduce the development of 
alcohol tolerance. During the fall, our team will analyze 
blood samples to determine the blood alcohol concentra-
tion for each mouse to confirm intoxication levels during 
testing.
Allison’s Summer Experience: We had a great team in the lab 
this summer. We worked well together and were able to reach several 
important conclusions about alcohol tolerance. Working in the lab along-
side Professor Cronise was a great experience. I particularly enjoyed getting to 
know my professor inside and outside the lab. She is an excellent mentor and took us 
on several fun excursions, including kayaking and lunches. Middlebury is a spectacular 
place to spend a summer.
18 15 September 2011 campusarts&science
FOR THE 
 record
by Zach Blair
  Science!     ... in the summertime
For those of you who thought For Emma, 
Forever Ago was the greatest thing to happen 
to the indie world since !annel, this album 
might be a bit of a surprise. No, the agonizing 
melancholy that characterized that "rst album 
isn’t completely gone, though Bon Iver frontman 
John Vernon has said that this album is “a little 
less of the laying with your face on the !oor kind 
of scene.” Instead, this album is much bigger 
and fuller than its predecessor. Unlike the fragile 
isolation conveyed by the stripped -down For 
Emma, Bon Iver "lls every inch of sonic space 
with layers of horns, strings and synths. Yes, 
Vernon has "nally made it out of his little cabin 
in northwestern Wisconsin and moved into a 
studio.
Such stylistic metamorphoses are always 
risky (ask Lil’ Wayne or Weezer), especially on 
the heels of a critical smash like For Emma. A 
lesser band would likely succumb to Second 
Album Syndrome, collapsing in the face of the 
nearly insurmountable hype surrounding a fol-
lowup. But with a songwriter as talented as Justin 
Vernon at the helm, Bon Iver has no problem 
surpassing even the highest expectations. #e 
key is Vernon’s ability to maintain the band’s 
most essential asset, its mood, despite the chang-
es in instrumentation. Vulnerable, sincere and 
haunting, Bon Iver pushes the spirit of For Emma 
into a more lush and experimental setting.
Take “Towers,” for instance, one of the 
album’s crowning achievements. #e track 
patiently layers drums, sax and synths over 
Vernon’s falsetto until it bursts into a swinging 
spaghetti western soundtrack only to return to its 
original swelling grace. #is is not the Bon Iver 
you used to know. And yet with themes of cor-
rupted love and innocence and melodies at once 
sweet and forlorn, “Towers” picks up right where 
For Emma le$ o%. Even album highlight “Beth/
Rest,” the entirely unironic, ‘80s-inspired "nal 
track that belongs in a Top Gun montage, is so 
sincere and intimate that it mirrors many of the 
hyper-emotional moments on For Emma.
Yet another constant is Vernon’s vocal 
performance. Sure, there are various textures 
here that weren’t on the last LP, but with his 
warm, haunting voice at the front of the mix, 
Vernon ensures that these new elements don’t 
overwhelm or distract from his delivery. Perhaps 
the best example of how the instrumentation 
complements Vernon’s vocals is “Holocene,” 
one of my candidates for best song of the year. 
Guitars, bells, hand claps, shakers, basses, synths, 
saxophones and frantic drumming boil under 
the surface of the track while Vernon delivers a 
tear-jerking, Sigur Ros-esque performance.
It’s this mastery of subtle detail, like the bi-
cycle bell on “Michicant” and the military drums 
on “Perth,” that makes Bon Iver such a success. 
#e tracks morph and evolve as melancholy 
strings swell and fade and regal horns enter 
only to disappear moments later. But despite its 
changing sonic landscape and constant dynamic 
shi$s, this LP never loses focus of its intentions. 
Everything from its mood to its instrumentation, 
its melodies to its lyrical themes, makes it a uni-
"ed album, not just a collection of tracks.
Sure, I could gripe about the way “Calgary”’s 
buildup never seems to reach its climax because 
the bass never kicks back in for the "nal chorus, 
or about how the synths on “Hinnom, TX” and 
“Lisbon, OH” sound a little too polished and 
even alien for what is an otherwise earthy and 
grounded album, but these are mere blips on the 
screen compared to the successes on Bon Iver. 
Certainly, fans of the sometimes-painful, always-
vulnerable For Emma, Forever Ago will "nd 
plenty to love here, so next time you’re looking 
for a song to kick the crap out of your emotions, 
pick up one of the best albums of the year, Bon 
Artist | Bon Iver
Album | Bon Iver
When the curtain falls to signal the end of the spring semester, students’ summer plans are usually as diverse 
as they are. Some students choose to return home, while others travel to far-off places. However, some students 
stay on campus during their summer to explore the sciences. Their hard work culminates in the Summer Research 
Symposium in late July.  Much like the yearly Spring Symposium, the Summer Research Symposium showcases the 
work and research completed by various students and professors alike. 
“The Summer [Research] Symposium is focused on research that derives from the natural and social sciences, 
with work that is relevant to biology, chemistry, physics, computer science, psychology and geography as the pri-
mary focus.”  said Grace Spatafora, Given Professor of Biology and Pre-Medical Science.” The Spring Symposium 
involves students campus-wide and provides an opportunity for students of all disciplines (including the arts and 
humanities) to showcase their senior capstone experience whether it be a theatrical performance, a reading of po-
etry or a proof in theoretical physics.”
By Santiago Azpurua-Borras
Arts & Science Editor
Claire Bovet ’12
Research Professor: Asso-
ciate Professor of Biology 
Jeremy Ward
The Ward lab studies the 
genetics of reproduction 
in mice, an understudied 
field with important impli-
cations in human fertility, 
cancer biology, and many 
other fields of health. My 
summer project [along with Phil Camille ’12] is the 
foundation for both of our theses, and involved learn-
ing more about a gene that causes male infertility 
when mutatewwd. Specifically, we are studying Akap9, 
a “scaffolding” protein that holds intracellular signal-
ing proteins in place so cells can communicate prop-
erly. We think that this mutation prevents Sertoli cells, 
the cells that help sperm cells in the test is to mature, 
from communicating effectively with the germ cells, 
leading to their failure to develop into spermatozoa.
This summer, we isolated, purified and concentrated 
the Akap9 protein in order to make antibodies to it, 
which we will use to detect where and when the pro-
tein is expressed in cells and how these patterns differ 
in mutant mice. These studies have never been done 
— in fact, no Akap9 antibody exists — so any results 
we obtain will be completely new to science! Needless 
to say, Phil and I are both very excited to see what our 
thesis research this year yields.
Claire’s Summer Experience: Working in Jeremy’s lab 
has been a fun, fulfilling, and challenging process. He 
is an excellent researcher and mentor, and everyone 
in the lab gets along great! Our lab dinners and inside 
jokes make the whole experience way more fun, and 
the other students and our wonderful lab tech, Nancy 
Graham, are good sounding boards for research ideas. 
I enjoyed the Summer Research Symposium — it was 
highly satisfying to turn our projects into a coher-
ent poster, and it really helped solidify our 
plans for future research. I also loved 
seeing exactly what my friends 
and other professors are 
working on!
Courtesy
My two research students presented posters on their work regarding the modi"ca-
tion of proteins by sugars.  High levels of sugars in cells tend to cause reactions 
in the cell which can lead to malfunctioning proteins and, perhaps, 
cell death.  My two students, Michael Downey ’12 and Casey 
McGowen ’12, were investigating the reaction on two di%erent 
cellular proteins.   Both made amazing strides this summer on 
their research and they were extremely excited about talking 
about studies to the symposium audience.
Associate Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry Roger Sandwick
Courtesy
Michael Downey ’12, Casey McGowen ’12 and Associate Professor of 
Chemistry and Biochemistry Roger Sandwick pose at a lab gathering.
Have an awesome research project? 
      Know a professor doing something cool?   
 Want to share your opinion on science at Midd? 
Let us know!
campus@middlebury.edu
 15 September 2011 19campusarts&science
One Life 
Left
by Santiago Azpurua-Borras
!e year is 2021, a great time for in-
novation as human augmentation technol-
ogy takes o" and is becoming more available 
than ever. But what is human augmentation? 
Basically, it’s the science behind modern 
robotic prosthesis that can range from 
replacing a lost limb to the ability to see 
through walls and turn invisible. Welcome 
to the world of the Deus Ex series. 
In the third entry of this series, the 
player is cast in the role of Adam Jensen, the 
head security o#cer of Sarif Industries, one 
of the corporations designing and selling 
augmentation technology. Right before a 
very important presentation, the head of-
$ces are attacked by a group of augmented 
mercenaries and everyone is killed on sight, 
including Adam himself. Well, almost killed. 
Sarif Industries rebuilds him, replacing his 
head, arms, torso, legs, eyes and skin, and 
turning Adam into more machine than man. 
Adam is then tasked to track down these 
mercenaries and $nd out what they wanted 
and who hired them. While it sounds like 
a very basic plot, it opens up as the player 
completes missions and $nds out the truth 
behind everything. 
At a glance, Human Revolution plays 
like a $rst person shooter. But the develop-
ers added a cover element that quickly turns 
the action into a third person a"air with 
the squeeze of the le% trigger. !e constant 
transitioning between $rst and third person 
is incredibly &uid and becomes almost 
instinctual to the player. And you will want 
to play more; the developers have created a 
world that is very much alive and allows you 
to explore it. 
What Human Revolution achieved was 
something few games have ever been able 
to: the illustration of a political topic. In 
this case, the augmentation debate. Like 
any new technology that alters day-to-day 
living, all aspects of the social strata are 
a"ected by augmentation (“augs”). Augs are 
used for gang wars, prostitution and even 
professional sports. One citizen exclaims his 
shock as new world records are being set by 
augmented athletes, a criticism that players 
cannot help but compare to current steroid 
debates. 
Art, drugs, job security, the black mar-
ket, terrorism, class warfare and even gender 
identity are all elements that are impacted 
by augmentation and are illustrated as such 
in very subtle fashions that can easily be 
overlooked by more over-zealous players. 
!ese socio-political themes only increase 
as the plot takes a few turns for the worst. 
During the missions, the game never 
forces you to do things any certain way. In 
fact, most, if not all, the problems in Human 
Revolution have multiple solutions. To make 
the experience more streamlined, these 
solutions mesh perfectly with the char-
acter customization. As Adam completes 
objectives and the like, he will be gaining 
experience that can later be spent on his 
various augmentations. Want to be stealthy? 
Focus on the cloaking and silent augmenta-
tions. Want to be Rambo and run in with 
guns blazing? Focus on the skin-armor and 
aim stabilization augmentations. !ere is 
even an augmentation that allows for ad-
ditional dialogue paths so one may coerce a 
character into doing something, or talking 
one’s way out of a situation (my personal 
favorite). 
Along the way, the game will occasion-
ally present the player with some decisions 
that only alter certain aspects of the plot. 
Sometimes, these decisions are presented 
informally in such a manner that the player 
is not even aware that he or she has a deci-
sion to make. In some instances, time is of 
the essence, such as this following scene that 
occurred in my playthrough (no spoilers, I 
promise!): 
In the very beginning of the game, 
a%er Adam receives his augmentations, 
you are free to explore the o#ces of your 
workplace. Your boss calls you in because 
there’s a “situation” you need to deal with. 
He adds, “If you don’t come now, something 
bad will happen!” Religious extremists who 
believe augmentation is a sin have taken 
over a manufacturing plant and are holding 
the employees hostage. See, I didn’t know 
this because the player doesn’t $nd out this 
information until Adam actually reports in 
with his boss. I decided to ignore the boss 
and mess around the o#ces for a while, just 
exploring. About 10 minutes later my boss 
calls me back and said, “Damn it Adam! 
!e situation just got worse, just come by 
and I’ll explain.” Turns out the terrorists just 
executed all the hostages as I come to a re-
alization that about 28 people died because 
I was messing around the o#ce! If that’s not 
immersion, I quit video games. And yes, 
if you take action quickly enough, these 
people can be saved.
Human Revolution o"ers an experi-
ence that will suck players right in, although 
combat-heavy players may $nd some of the 
areas a little unforgivable and stealth-based 
players will $nd the unavoidable boss $ghts 
a pain. My biggest complaint is one certain 
plot twist in which I literally groaned at how 
clichéd it was. Overall, however, it’s a game 
that’s worth your time and money, especially 
if you’re a fan of the Deus Ex series. 
Deus Ex: Human Revolution gets a 9/10.  
Game | Deux Ex:  Human
Revolution
Platform |PC, PS3, Xbox 360
Rating |Mature
!is summer marked the 25th anniver-
sary of the Potomac !eatre Project (PTP), 
an o"-Broadway theatre company associ-
ated with the College. In its 25 seasons, the 
project has addressed the necessity and dif-
$culty of subjects such as art, AIDS, home-
lessness, censorship, totalitarianism and 
gender wars.
Professor of !eatre and Women’s and 
Gender Studies Cheryl Faraone, Isabel Riex-
inger Mettler Professor of !eatre Richard 
Romagnoli and Director of Boston Univer-
sity School of !eatre Jim Petos founded 
the Potomac !eatre Project (PTP) in 1987 
as an outgrowth of !e New York !eatre 
Studio, an o"-o"-Broadway company cre-
ated by Romagnoli and Faraone in 1977. 
!e company produced in Manhattan until 
1985, then relocated to Washington, D.C., 
and Maryland, where it became Potomac 
!eatre Project. From 1987 to 2006, PTP 
produced 75 main stage productions as well 
as many new play readings and experimen-
tal productions. In the summer of 2007, PTP 
returned to New York and held an annual 
month-long repertory season featuring full 
productions and play readings. In addition, 
its abbreviated name changed to PTP/NYC, 
to re&ect the project’s return to 
its New York roots. 
Since its creation, PTP/
NYC has collaborated with the 
College, whose support enabled 
students to receive professional 
experience in acting, technical 
theater and arts administra-
tion, and allowed them to study 
under some of New York and 
Washington’s most pro$cient 
actors and directors. Approxi-
mately 200 students participat-
ed as company members, and 
many now work in the profes-
sional acting company.  Nota-
bly, PTP/NYC’s relationship 
with the College is the only such 
collaboration in the country 
between a professional theatre 
company and an undergraduate 
liberal arts college, and under-
scores the College’s support for 
the arts.  
!is summer, PTP/NYC 
produced three plays: Spat-
ter Pattern: or How I Got Away 
With It, Territories and Victory. 
On July 25, PTP/NYC celebrat-
ed its 25th anniversary with a 
production called 25 on 25. !e 
day-long event featured 11 new 
plays that actors read, staged 
and discussed. Playwrights Dan 
O’Brien ’96, John Kolvenbach, 
Visiting Assistant Professor 
of !eatre Dana Yeaton, Jake 
Jeppson ’06, Emily Feldman ’09, Willie Or-
bison ’08, Andy Mitton ’01, Jesse Holland 
’02, Daniel Sauermilch ’13, Noah Mease ’11 
and Daphne Gil ’87 saw their work brought 
to life by many actors and directors. 
“!e idea behind PTP/NYC is that it 
creates theatre that truly makes you think 
and feel, while additionally creating wonder-
ful opportunities for Middlebury alumni,” 
said Cori Hundt ’12. Hundt began her PTP/
NYC experience this past Winter Term, 
where she served as dramaturg for the two 
shows that are part of  Territories  (a light 
gathering of dust and "e Spoils) and acted in 
the stage reading of "e Spoils. !is summer, 
Hundt was cast in another role in "e Spoils. 
“Having the opportunity to work with 
both equity actors in addition to my fellow 
peers who I have gotten to know very well 
over the years has been an amazingly help-
ful and educational experience,” said Hundt. 
“Additionally, having ["e Spoils playwright] 
Steven Dykes acting in another show [Vic-
tory] that was in rep with the company was 
really helpful to the process of putting on an 
o"-Broadway piece of theatre.”
Carlie Crawford ’11 was a costume de-
signer for Victory, along with her adviser, 
Artist-in-Residence Jule Emerson. Crawford 
and Emerson co-designed Victory as part of 
her senior thesis last year, keeping in mind 
that she would redo the show in the summer 
for PTP/NYC. 
“!e way that PTP/NYC works is that 
they start in Middlebury to rehearse and 
build costumes and sets, then they move 
down to New York,” Crawford said. “!at 
turned out a little di"erently than expect-
ed, though, since I ended up winning the 
American College !eatre Festival costume 
design award, which meant that I had won 
a trip to Prague during June when we were 
supposed to be redesigning the show [at the 
College].   I had to jump right into things 
once I got to New York.” 
Working with professionals was a new 
experience for Crawford, who found it very 
di"erent than working with students in a 
College production. 
“!ey tended to have a lot more to say 
about the costumes,” Crawford said, “and 
you’re not really allowed to brush them o" 
the way that you brush o" student actors 
when they complain about their costumes.”
Despite the challenges of working in a 
professional theatre company, the group’s 
hard work paid o" when their reviews began 
to publish in newspapers, including "e New 
York Times. 
“!e reviews had been slowly rolling in, 
mostly good, some bad, and most of them 
even mentioned the costumes, which I was 
happy about,” said Crawford, who hopes that 
the company retains its ties with the College 
for years to come. Faraone shared this senti-
ment. 
“[PTP/NYC] is an extraordinary physi-
cal expression of both the College’s commit-
ment to the arts and of the wealth of talent 
which passes through the !eatre Program,” 
Faraone said. “!e work of the company 
must be an expression of the artists who 
head it. We are hoping that this year will see 
the creation of an artistic advisory board 
composed of many involved alums … to 
discuss and advise on the company’s future.” 
Two of PTP/NYC’s summer produc-
tions, Territories and Spatter Pattern, will be 
performed on Sept. 15–17 in the Seeler Stu-
dio !eatre, and cast talkbacks will be held 
a%er the Sept. 15 and 16 performances. 
By Deirdre Sackett
Arts & Science Editor
PTP/NYC celebrates 25th anniversary  
Visiting Assistant Professor of !eatre Megan Byrne ’96.5  
contemplates her situation in a light gathering of dust.
Lucy Van Atta ’12 and Adam Ludwig ’93 
share a tense moment in Spatter Pattern.
Photos courtesy of Stan Barouh 
campussports20 15 September 2011
Rank TeamN/A Siggy’s Sidebars
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
––
––
––
––
––
––
––
––
Volleyball
Field hockey
Women’s tennis
Cross country
Women’s soccer
Men’s soccer
Midd Olympians
Second by a stroke in the St. Lawrence Invitational = 
good enough for second in the Great Eight.
Won some and lost some, but as soon as Jane Handel 
’12 gets back in the game, this team is gonna be a 
force.
Winning in PKs is legit. Especially when it’s against a 
top-10 rival.
Some solid individual e!orts at the Williams tourney.
Where are the "rst place "nishes that are all I’ve come 
to expect from the women’s team?
Scoring at/just a#er the buzzer in double OT just 
proves that this is a team that never lets up.
Saw some sparks on Saturday, but a tie to the Jumbos 
is not ideal. I expect more.
Women’s golf
Field hockey was the only 
team to make it back 
from Tu!s with a win; 
way to uphold Panther 
dignity!
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
The Middlebury Great Eight
Just because we’re division three, doesn’t mean we 
don’t have world-class athletes.
and Marshall  — seven for men and three 
for women. As head coach at Middlebury, 
he will encourage his student-athletes to 
take greater ownership in their training 
and strive for the highest level of success. 
Additionally, he wants Middlebury’s swim-
mers and divers to be disciplined both in 
and out of the pool.
“I expect them to understand that with 
academics being the centerpiece they are 
to lead a lifestyle of balance and I sincerely 
believe that the college provides the per-
fect framework for this and our program 
will bene!t from that,” said Rueppel. “I am 
very lucky to have walked into a situation 
where there is an incredible foundation in 
place with this program among the elite in 
the nation.”
Middlebury’s swimming and diving 
teams took a hit last year when portions 
of both the men’s and women’s schedules 
were cancelled following a hazing con-
troversy. Additionally, the Panthers must 
replace national champion John Dillon 
’11, who graduated following last season. 
However, Rueppel says that the teams are 
unfazed and determined to move forward.
“"is team has a very unique opportu-
nity to begin a new era in Middlebury Col-
lege swimming and I know the student-
athletes will embrace this,” he said.
 Swimming and diving will see their 
!rst competitive action later this Novem-
ber. Men’s tennis begins their fall season 
on Sept. 17 at home in the Middlebury In-
vitational.
Continued from page 24
reuse of the turf was a priority for those spear-
heading the project, as the Athletic Department 
prides itself on its commitment to incorporating 
sustainability.
“We try to put the lens of sustainability 
on our operations whenever possible, so rather 
than simply disposing of the !eld, looking into 
more sustainable options was important,” said 
Athletic Director Erin Quinn. “We were all very 
glad that Mark Gleason was able to !nd suitable 
options for the disposal.”
"us, 20 percent of the 95,000 sq. 3 carpet 
will stay right in Middlebury where it will be do-
nated to the town’s sports center.
“Regarding recycling of the carpet, the Col-
lege was very interested in bene!cial reuse of the 
turf,” said Gleason. 
 “I made inquiry with my contacts at 
Friends of Middlebury Hockey to see if the 
town’s Memorial Sports Center had interest in 
the turf for use in the sport center when the ice 
is not in.  "ey responded that they did.” "e re-
mainder will be shipped to a facility in Georgia 
where it will !nd new purpose in batting cages, 
mini-golf courses, and other recreational facili-
ties.
"e successful and sustainable renovation 
of Kohn Field provides a strong testament to the 
pride taken in College athletics, as well as in the 
green footprint that characterizes so many of 
the College’s endeavors. 
Continued from page 24
Hansen and 
Rueppel take 
over programs
Recycled turf used for mini golf course, 
new surface gives Kohn "eld needed li#
                     Visit the Website
              http://itsthejobsstupid.com
                      Read the Book
                 ISBN: 9781 4620 21437
                      21451(ebook)
You’re invited...
to stop by and check out the finest slice 
case in Vermont, and pickup our new 
menu featuring 39 delicious chicken, 
vegetarian, and classic meat pies.
Sicilian Pizza & Jumbo Wings
In-Town Delivery
Daily from 5 pm–Closing
We suggest you call early  
to reserve “prime times”  
(min. $3 delivery charge)
Carryout Service
Mon–Thurs: 11am–8 pm
Fri & Sat: 11am–9 pm
Sun: 3 pm–8 pm
  21 MacIntyre Lane, Middlebury, Vermont
Located next to Middlebury Discount Beverage
Open Daily for Carryout and In-Town Delivery
388-7755
15 September 2011 21campussports 
While the women’s lacrosse team fell 
short of their ultimate goal last spring, senior 
goalkeeper Lily Nguyen ’12 took home the 
nation’s top goaltending prize. A!er posting 
a .510 save percentage and allowing just 9.25 
goals per game, Nguyen was named the C. 
Markland Kelly Division III Goalkeeper of 
the Year. 
"ough the Panthers goalkeeper has 
been a force in net since she took the start-
ing job she credits her teammates for her 
success. 
“I am very grateful but feel undeserv-
ing of the honor as an individual because if 
anything, it really is a testament to our team’s 
defense,” she said. “We’re only as good as the 
teammate standing next to us. We set the 
tone for one another.”
Nguyen certainly has set a tone in net 
for the Panthers over the course of her ca-
reer. "e team has a 17-12 record with Nguy-
en in goal, as the senior has boasted a .519 
save percentage and allowed less than 10 
goals per contest. 
Despite being named an All-American 
as well as receiving Goalkeeper of the Year 
honors, she feels there is room for improve-
ment. Nguyen, who made the transition 
from soccer to lacrosse in high school be-
cause of injuries, has used her athleticism to 
excel in goal. Now she believes she can im-
prove her mental approach in net. 
“"ere’s a pretty big mental component 
to lacrosse, and I’d say the position of goalie 
is a predominantly mental role,” she said. 
“I’m going to focus on being a smarter and 
more deliberate member of the defense. At 
the same time I’m going to try not to think 
too much and mess with instinct.”
With the best goalkeeper in the nation 
as the cornerstone of the team, the Panthers 
have their sights set high for the upcoming 
season. 
"e Panthers will need to #ll the holes 
le! by a tremendous senior class that in-
cluded one of the best attacking players in 
Middlebury history. Sally Ryan, who led the 
team in goals scored and ranks 10th all time 
in Panthers history also earned All-Amer-
ican honors alongside Nguyen. Finding a 
replacement for the proli#c goal-scorer will 
not be easy, but Nguyen believes new players 
will ful#ll their roles. 
“I think the leadership from our senior 
class will be a huge driver for our success,” 
she said. “Stephanie Gill ’12 is the top draw 
taker in the NESCAC, Hannah Epstein ’12 is 
a power defender, Liz Garry ’12 is a sniper 
attacker and Lucy Jackson ’12 is one of the 
most dynamic players in the game. We all 
have high hopes for ourselves and are ready 
to make things happen.”
A!er a heartbreaking exit from the 
NCAA tournament in 2011, the Panthers 
are looking to take the next step in 2012 and 
Nguyen, as always, will be in the center of it. 
By Damon Hatheway
Sports Editor
Lily Nguyen ’12 earns Goalkeeper of 
the Year for prowess bewteen the pipes
Men’s tennis kicks o! preseason 
Questions Katie Siegner Damon Hatheway Dillon Hupp Alex Edel
Will Michael Schmidt ’12 
defend home turf and win 
the Panther Invitational this 
weekend?
YES
He only gets faster.
YES
He runs fast and we’ve got a great 
home !eld advantage … Slam 
dunk. 
FOR SURE
Rule 1 of editor’s picks - never pick 
against Schmidty.
YES
A"er winning NESCAC player of 
the week, he has it in the bag. 
Who will lead women’s soccer 
in scoring this weekend 
against Colby?
SCARLETT KIRK ’14
Girl is due for a breakout game.
SCARLETT KIRK ’14
Is she better at soccer or 
basketball??
RACHEL MADDING ‘13
She was the only one to score last 
weekend - can she do it two games 
in a row?
RACHEL MADDING ‘13
She is on !re!
Will men’s rugby record a 
victory in their !rst game as 
a Division I program against 
UMASS on Saturday?
YES
We are Invictus.
YES
#ey will continue their undefeated 
streak against D-I schools.
DEFINITELY
#ey haven’t lost a regular season 
game in 15 years. I’m pretty sure 
they don’t plan on starting now
YES
#ey are de!nitely up for the 
challenge.
Will the struggling Boston 
Red Sox regain !rst place in 
the A.L. East by the end of the 
weekend?
NO
But we damned well better by the 
end of the month.
NO
#e Red Sox are struggling to win 
like Katie struggles to make correct 
picks
HELL NO
#ey can’t beat anyone these days. 
Unlike Manny Ramirez.
NO
Like my knowledge of baseball, 
the team’s knowledge of the game 
continues to hurt their stats. 
Will the Arkansas 
Razorbacks put up their third 
consecutive 50-point game 
against Troy on Saturday?
SURE
Dillon, you’re the only one who 
cares about the Razorbacks. Stop 
making questions about them.
YUP
Troy is defenseless against all barn 
animals. First the horse now the 
pigs. Sooie!
YES
Katie, if you don’t like it you can 
write the questions next week. Woo 
Pig Sooie!
SURE
Really two pro questions. I can feel 
my record slipping away. 
Career Record 47-63 (.430) 0-0 (.000) 61-51 (.545) 25-24 (.510)
Editors’
Picks
As one of many teams back on campus 
early this year, men’s tennis continues to 
train in preparation for their #rst matches 
at the Middlebury Invitational. With half of 
their season in the fall and the last half in the 
spring, the team only had the summer months 
to relax before the starting up again. Along 
with new #rst years, the team will welcome in 
Bob Hansen, who will take over as head coach 
from Rob Barr.
Last season, while most Middlebury stu-
dents were kicking o$ their summer, the team 
competed all the way until the quarter#nals of 
NCAAs. A!er hosting the regionals against 
fellow NESCAC School, Bowdoin, the team 
traveled to Southern California to attempt to 
earn another NCAA win. 
In the quarter#nals the men played 
against top-ranked Emory, losing 5-2. Mid-
dlebury’s number two doubles team of Der-
rick Angle ’12 and Mike Malhame ’11 brought 
home the #rst win an 8-2 victory. "e second 
win came from Anthony Lunghino ’13 in the 
number four singles spot. 
Some members then went on to play in 
the NCAA singles and doubles champion-
ships. Andy Peters ’11 advanced to the quar-
ter#nals before being defeated 6-2, 6-2 by 
Dylan Pottish of Emory. Bratner Jones ’14 
and Peters competed in the doubles champi-
onship, making it to the round of 16 before 
falling to 6-2, 6-4 to Pereverzin/Wu of Clare-
mont. 
"e team will start competition this com-
ing weekend at home. "ey will #nish up the 
fall season in October and the Bates invita-
tional and then will begin competition again 
in the spring. 
By Alex Edel 
Sports Editor
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
Although a club sport, the crew team kicked o! their season early with a practice on the 
Saturday of move-in. All members of the crew team arrived on campus one day before the 
designated move-in day. Coach Noel Wanner explains how to use ergs to the novice team. 
The crew Team kicks off Their season wiTh early Training
File Photo
Men’s tennis made it to the quarter!nals of the 
NCAA tournament last season before losing.
                     Visit the Website
              http://itsthejobsstupid.com
                      Read the Book
                 ISBN: 9781 4620 21437
                      21451(ebook)
With a brand-new turf !eld to their 
name, a strong class of incoming !rst-
years, and a penalty-stroke win against a 
strong NESCAC rival already under their 
belts, Panther !eld hockey is o" to an aus-
picious start to the 2011 season. A#er an 
arduous yet clearly productive preseason, 
the Panthers jumped right into conference 
play, traveling to Tu#s focused and ready 
to compete. $e !rst game of the season 
for the team was certainly one of the most 
important — the match was a showdown 
between two top-10 ranked teams and rep-
resented a crucial !rst hurdle for the Pan-
thers to overcome, which they surmounted 
in thrilling fashion. $e visiting Panthers 
ended regulation and both overtimes knot-
ted in a 2-2 tie with their Medford, Mass.-
based rivals, before !nishing with a 3-2 win 
in penalty strokes.
$is year’s team is bolstered by eight 
!rst-years, and the newcomers have had 
an immediate impact. First-year Madeleine 
Despins ’15 notched a goal and an assist in 
her collegiate debut, and rookie goalkeeper 
Emily Knapp ’15, who entered the game 
for the shoot-out, came up huge with two 
saves. 
“We had contributions across the 
board and the !rst-years really stepped into 
big roles very well,” said senior tri-captain 
Becca Shaw ’12. “$e game showed a lot of 
heart from everyone and it also allowed us 
to see what we are capable this season.”
While Middlebury came out strong 
in the !rst period, the momentum of the 
match soon swayed in Tu#’s favor, and the 
Jumbos were !nally able to convert in the 
opening minutes of the second half. Down 
1-0, rather than put their heads down, the 
Panthers buckled down and ramped up 
their o"ense. $eir on-!eld problem solv-
ing paid o" less than halfway through the 
period, when Lauren Greer ’13 scored on a 
cross from Despins to even the score at one. 
Middlebury continued to put high pressure 
on the Tu#s’ defense, and scored again with 
13 minutes le# when Despins struck a ball 
home in the midst of tra%c in front of the 
Tu#s cage. 
Tu#s, always dangerous on corners, 
nearly evened the score with less than two 
minutes remaining, but Shaw made a heroic 
save on the shot to keep the Panthers ahead. 
$e home team kept up the pressure, how-
ever, and one of their own !rst-year play-
ers, Brittany Nor&eet, netted a ball during a 
scrum near the goal to tie the game just as 
the !nal horn sounded. 
“We didn’t get down a#er the scored on 
us with 2 seconds le#,” said Shaw. “We kept 
!ghting and controlled the ball for a major-
ity of the time in both overtimes.” 
Middlebury did indeed dominate both 
15-minute overtime periods, outshooting 
Tu#s 12-0 in the second OT, and combin-
ing up top for several dangerous chances 
on goal. However, with the score still tied 
a#er the additional half an hour, the game 
went to penalty strokes. Fortunately for the 
Panthers, their rookie goalkeeper proved to 
be a shot-stopping ace, as she saved two of 
the !rst three Tu#s’ penalties, with the !rst 
hitting the post. $e Panthers, meanwhile, 
converted on three of their shots –– Greer, 
Margaret Souther ’13, and Catherine Fowl-
er ’15 all scored on their penalties –– to win 
it 3-2 and take the only victory of the day 
from the Tu#s Jumbos.
With the goal of bringing home Mid-
dlebury’s !rst ever win on the Tu#s !eld, the 
women’s soccer team went into their !rst 
game of the season with high hopes. At the 
end of a long and tough 110-minute battle, 
the team came out in a 2-2 tie. 
A#er arriving on campus almost two 
weeks before regular students, the Pan-
thers welcomed onto the team seven new 
!rst-years to account for the loss of eight 
upperclassmen last year. Not only did they 
work on integrating this large number of 
!rst-years, but they also began to play in a 
completely new formation, the possession-
oriented 4-2-3-1. 
$is formation works on utilizing the 
back end and width to a greater extent while 
at the same time becoming more mobile. 
$e shape helps to integrate the talent of the 
members of the team to the greatest extent. 
$e formation has taken extensive work 
and did not result in many preseason goals; 
however, it did open up the !eld in the 
opening game against Tu#s. 
“We had some really good penetrating 
runs up the line,” said goalkeeper Elizabeth 
Foody ’14. Although no goals were made 
from the Panthers’ &ank play, the team’s im-
proved play through the back line and the 
width created several dangerous opportuni-
ties for goals. $e two goals netted for the 
visiting team came not from the run of play, 
however, but o" of corner kicks. 
Both goals were scored by Rachel Mad-
ding ’13 on corners served in from !rst-
year Claire Nishioka ’15. $e skilled junior 
proved to be an o"ensive threat from multi-
ple surfaces, scoring one with her head and 
one o" a &ick from her foot.  As a result of 
this standout playing by Madding she was 
named the inaugural NESCAC Player of the 
Week. 
As the buzzer of regulation time went 
o", Tu#s found themselves in a tie with 
Middlebury at 2-2, as the visiting team 
battled back twice from de!cits. In the !rst 
game of the season, two overtimes in, both 
teams were pressing hard yet clearly suf-
fering from fatigue. Middlebury was chal-
lenged by a few o"ensive threats from the 
Jumbos, but it was the Panthers who had 
the !nal close call, when Amy Schlueter 
’13 kicked a ball in from well outside the 18 
yard box, which Scarlet Kirk ’14 de&ected 
into the net just as the buzzer went o". 
With their record as 0-0-1, the team 
has many di"erent goals in approaching 
the rest of their season. $ese goals range 
from winning NESCACs to scoring a goal 
every game. $e Panthers have a two-game 
weekend of conference play ahead of them 
to start making these goals a reality.
campussports22 15 September 2011
Women’s soccer double 
OT battle ends in 2-2 tie
Women’s !eld hockey 
bests top-10 rival Tu"s
By Alex Edel
Sports Editor
Men’s soccer matches Tu"s 
with 1-1 tie in away opener
Fall Sports Kickoff
Middlebury women’s tennis kicked o" 
their season last weekend at the Williams 
Invitational, competing in singles and dou-
bles matches against Vassar, Skidmore, and 
the host school. Panther athletes fared well 
at the two-day event, played in the memo-
ry of Williams graduate Lindsay Stapleton 
Morehouse, who passed away in the Sep-
tember 11th attacks.
First-year player Lok-Sze Leung ’15 
and Leah Kepping ’13 combined to go 3-1 in 
Flight A singles action, while Kepping and 
teammate Tori Aiello ’12 went undefeated 
in doubles play, notching three wins. Sisters 
Dorrie Paradies ’14 and Katie Paradies ’15 
also both posted wins in singles competi-
tion.
“$e matches this past weekend helped 
us to identify what we need to work on as a 
team and individually and I think everyone 
has the motivation to put in the extra e"ort 
that will take us to the next level,” said Ai-
ello.
Last year’s women’s tennis team !n-
ished 11-6, eventually falling in the regional 
round of the NCAA tournament against 
Amherst. $ey had previously made it to 
the semi!nals of the NESCAC tournament 
before being defeated by the same Lady Je"s 
squad.
$is year’s team, under sixth-year coach 
Mike Morgan, will compete at the Harvard 
Invitational this weekend before travelling 
to Bates for the Intercollegiate Tennis Asso-
ciation’s Regional Tournament the follow-
ing weekend. $ey will host their !rst home 
event, the Gail Smith Doubles Tournament, 
in Middlebury from October 8-9.
Women’s tennis opens up their 
season at Williams Tournament
By Katie Siegner
Sports Editor
Last season’s thrilling NCAA run ended 
on a disappointing note for the Middlebury 
men’s soccer team, as they lost to Bowdoin in 
the quarter!nals of the NCAA Tournament. 
$e Panthers had just overcome the Polar 
Bears in penalty kicks to capture the 2010 NE-
SCAC championship before falling to them in 
an incredibly close contest in the Elite Eight. 
Nevertheless, the men ended their season 16-
4-1, capturing the second-most wins in school 
history. When asked about the 2010 season’s 
successes, head coach Dave Saward respond-
ed, “that’s not anything we talk about. It’s all 
about the next game.” 
Led by tri-captains Tim Cahill ’12, Otis 
Pitney ’12 and Tyler Macnee ’12, the 2011 
team has already begun moving forward with 
a season-opener against Tu#s on Sept. 10. 
Goalkeeper Cahill kept the game scoreless 
through the !rst half, making three saves in 
the opening 45 minutes. Middlebury and Tu#s 
exchanged a few dangerous chances, but both 
goalies came up with saves to keep the game 
scoreless. 
A#er controlling possession from the 
start of the second half, Sam Peisch ’14 !nally 
scored o" a cross from fellow sophomore Josh 
Lyvers ’14 in the 74th minute to give the Pan-
thers the lead. $e visiting team’s 1-0 advan-
tage did not last long, however, as the Jumbos 
answered with a goal just !ve minutes later, 
when !rst-year Gus Santos !red a shot that 
was de&ected right to sophomore Jono Edel-
man, who found himself in a one-on-one with 
Cahill and was able to net the goal.
$e Middlebury defense had to hold o" a 
late surge from Tu#s, in which Cahill turned 
in two diving saves in rapid succession during 
a scramble in the box, but the Panthers held 
on to push the game into overtime. In the 
20 minutes of extra time, there was only one 
failed shot from the Jumbos and both teams 
had to settle for a tie. Overall, Tu#s led with 12 
shots to Middlebury’s seven, while Cahill led 
with six saves to Tu#s goalkeeper Alan Bern-
stein’s two. With a !nal score of 1-1, both the 
Jumbos and the Panthers begin their seasons 
with a 0-0-1 record. 
$e Middlebury men continue their sea-
son this weekend with a home game Sept. 17th 
against Colby and an away game on Sept. 18 
at Amherst.
By Mike Oster
Staff Writer
By Dillon Hupp
Sports Editor
campussports 15 September 2011 23
Cross country takes on Division I programs 
at competitive Dartmouth Invitational 
!e Nicole Wilkerson era of 
Middlebury cross country took o" 
last weekend, with both the men’s and 
women’s teams trekking over the Green 
Mountains to compete in the Dartmouth 
Invitational. Wilkerson takes over as head 
coach for the #rst time this season, suc-
ceeding longtime coach Terry Aldrich 
following his retirement last year.
Middlebury was the only Division 
III team to compete in the Invitational. 
On the men’s side, Michael Schmidt ’12 
#nished 12th overall, helping the men to 
a third place #nish ahead of Brown and 
behind Boston College and host Dart-
mouth, who won the event. Schmidt was 
followed by teammates Jack Davies ’13 
in 14th place and Kevin Wood ’15, who 
#nished 24th. Nate Sans ’14 and Sam 
Miller ’12 also #nished in the top 30 run-
ners, #nishing 25th and 27th respectively. 
Schmidt, already one of the most decorat-
ed runners in Middlebury cross country 
history, was named NESCAC male ath-
lete of the week for his e"orts.
“We treated the meet as a tempo 
workout, getting back into the swing of 
competition and having a low-key meet 
to start the season,” said Schmidt. “Both 
the men and the women stayed very re-
laxed and controlled the beginning of 
the race and then moved up in the sec-
ond half. !e team as a whole trained 
very hard over the summer and saw that 
strength come through on Saturday.”
!e women, the defending Division 
III National Champions, #nished #$h out 
of #ve teams at Dartmouth, with the host 
school taking the victory. Addie Toulsey 
’13 was the top #nisher for the women in 
22nd place and was followed closely by 
Margo Cramer ’12, who #nished 24th. 
Also scoring for Middlebury were Em-
ily Atwood ’14, Chelsea Ward-Waller ’12, 
and Claire McIlvinnie ’12. 
Panthers cross country has been one 
of the more consistent programs in Divi-
sion III over the past few seasons, putting 
together a run of successful campaigns 
that culminated in the women’s cham-
pionship last season.  !e Panthers will 
look to build upon that success this sea-
son.
“A lot of the guys are in great shape 
and we should be able to have a very suc-
cessful season,” said Schmidt. “We had a 
great year last year and hope to improve 
on it in the weeks to come.”
Middlebury will host the Panther 
Invitational this weekend, before travel-
ing to NESCAC rival Williams and then 
participating in the Vermont state cross-
country meet in the following weeks.
By Dillon Hupp 
Sports Editor 
Volleyball looks to build 
o! .500 start to the season
Middlebury volleyball #nished last 
season 25-6, winning its third NESCAC 
championship, but falling to the Univer-
sity of Massachusetts at Boston. 3-1 in the 
NCAA Regional. In the conference tourna-
ment, the Panthers beat out Tu$s 3-1 to win 
their #rst title since 1998. !eir #rst-round 
win in the NCAA tournament over New 
York Polytechnic was the Panthers’ #rst win 
in the NCAA tournament in the team’s his-
tory. 
“We were very happy with how the sea-
son ended last year, but are looking to go 
even further this season,” said co-captains 
Jane Handel ’12 and Elissa Goeke ’12 . With 
10 veterans and four rookies, the team re-
turns this year ready to reach those goals. 
!e Panthers are excited about the potential 
of their new players: Nicki Lange ’14.5 as 
defensive specialist, Piper Underbrink ’15 
at middle hitter, Lizzy Reed ’15 at outside 
hitter, and Olivia Kolodka ’15 at right side 
hitter. !ey also welcome back last fall’s 
NESCAC rookie of the year Megan Jar-
chow ’14, all-NESCAC player Julia Gibbs 
’13 and NESCAC player of the year Jane 
Handel ’12. !e Panthers are boasting “a 
very deep team this year,” according to the 
co-captains. 
!e 2011 team opened their season this 
past weekend at the Endicott Tournament, 
where they #nished with a 2-2 record. !ey 
lost a tight #rst match to St. Mary’s of Min-
nesota, 3-2, before bouncing back against 
Endicott, winning 3-2. !e following day 
they lost to UMass Boston 3-0 and #nished 
the weekend with a 3-0 win over Salve Re-
gina. 
Although the weekend opened with a 
disappointing loss to St. Mary’s and a loss 
to UMass Boston, who beat them in the 
NCAA Regional last year, Handel called the 
weekend “a good start.” Goeke added that 
they were “able to pinpoint strengths and 
weaknesses that will help going into our 
#rst conference weekend.” Both captains 
said that they “hoped to see St. Mary’s later 
in the season.”  
!e Panthers had their #rst home game 
on Sept. 14 against Norwich at 7p.m. in Pe-
pin Gymnasium before taking on Wesleyan 
and Trinity on Sept. 17 and 18. 
By Al Boillot
Staff Writer
!e Panthers opened up the fall sea-
son with a solid fourth place #nish in the 
St. Lawrence Invitational for the men and a 
sparkling second place #nish for the wom-
en. !e women #nished the two round 
tournament with 676 cumulative strokes, 
trailing St. Lawrence by just a stroke. 
!e women’s team led all schools af-
ter the #rst round shooting a tournament 
low 337 strokes a$er the #rst 18 holes. !e 
Saints of St. Lawrence shot the lowest score 
of the second round to come from behind 
and steal a one-stroke win from the Pan-
thers. 
Flora Weeks ’12 led the Panthers with a 
157 cumulative score through two rounds. 
She placed #$h overall in the tournament 
and was followed by her teammates Keely 
Levins ’13 and Caroline Kenter ’14 who 
#nished sixth and seventh respectively. 
!e strong #nish gave the team con#dence 
for the season ahead.
 “We played really well for the #rst 
invitational of the season,” Caroline 
Kenter said. “It was a great weekend and 
the scores de#nitely re%ect the amazing 
weather. We can’t wait for next weekend 
when our [#rst-year] recruits, Jordan Glatt 
’15 and Michelle Peng ’15, will be able to 
join us at NYU.”
On the men’s side the Panthers main-
tained fourth place throughout the tourna-
ment. !e team’s total score of 608 strokes 
followed St John Fisher College, Waterloo 
and Elmira College. 
Chris Atwood ’12 and Billy Prince 
’13 starred for the Panthers, who #nished 
eighth and ninth respectively. Prince shot 
a #rst-round 72 tying the second lowest 
single round score of the tournament. 
A$er the #rst round the men had a 
great opportunity to vault themselves into 
second place as they sat just three points 
behind second place Elmira. Despite post-
ing a lower second round score, the Pan-
thers could not catch the teams in front of 
them and #nished fourth out of 15schools. 
!e men’s team hosts the Duke Nelson 
tournament at Ralph Wilson course while 
the women’s team travels to NYU. Both 
teams will look to build o" of their early-
season success.
Men’s and women’s golf 4th and 2nd 
place respectively at St. Lawrence 
By Damon Hatheway
Sports Editor
Football
!e Panthers kick o" their 2011 season at 
Wesleyan on Sept. 24. !e team will look drasti-
cally di"erent this year, as they have graduated 
key seniors on both the o"ensive and defensive 
side of the ball. !e quarterback position, which 
has been a model of stability for the past four 
years, is now the biggest question mark of all for 
the Panthers. 
“We still have a pretty #erce competition 
for the position,” said head coach Bob Ritter. 
“Whoever steps into that role we’re going to have 
to adapt to his skill set and get him comfortable 
with the o"ense. !e guys who are competing 
have showed a lot of promise and done a great 
job.”
While the Panthers will have a new signal-
caller this year, his targets will be largely the 
same. Starting wide receivers Zach Driscoll ’13 
and Nick Resor ’12, who combined for 82 catch-
es, 971 yards and nine touchdown catches last 
season, will lead the way on o"ense while Ken 
LeStrange ’12 will provide senior leadership on 
the o"ensive line.
On the defensive side of the ball, the changes 
are even greater. In addition to losing #ve start-
ers on defense, the Panthers have a new defensive 
coordinator as well. 
“!ere’s a lot of wholesale change with us 
this year,” Ritter said. “Doug Mandigo is our new 
[defensive] coordinator. !ere’s a lot of excite-
ment on [defense]. !ey’ve had a great camp. 
We’re still evaluating but some of the new guys 
have really stepped up to the occasion.”
!e Panthers defense will face an early test 
next Saturday against Wesleyan, who ran for over 
250 yards in the season opener last year against 
the Panthers. In particular the Panthers will need 
to contain the Cardinals’ dual threat quarterback 
Matt Coyne. 
“!eir quarterback is going to be the key 
to their o"ense,” Ritter said. “He’s a really good 
athlete and really good quarterback. Defensively 
that’s going to be our challenge.”
But Ritter believes his team will be ready 
to go in a little over a week. “We’ve had a real 
productive preseason, guys really worked hard. 
!ey’re excited to get things going.”
Flashback to the end of last season: a 
mud-covered Middlebury side, playing sev-
eral men short for much of the game, #nished 
four points shy of the national championship. 
Middlebury 3 - Wisconsin Whitewater 7. Giv-
en the gut-wrenching loss, it’s safe to assume 
that the Middlebury rugby squad is playing 
with a sizeable chip on its collective shoulders 
this year. Rowan Kelner ’12 and Brian Sirkia 
’12.5 are returning to captain the team in its 
#rst season playing Division I rugby. 
!e move up from Division II means fac-
ing teams from huge universities like Massa-
chusetts, Connecticut, and Northeastern. Big-
ger universities usually #eld larger players so 
the move to D-I also means that the scrappy 
Middlebury squad will have to rely more than 
ever on speed and skill to make up for the size 
disparity. Beating bigger schools with bigger 
players is pretty much par for the course at 
this point, however. For the past four years the 
coaching tandem of John Phillips, Ben Wells 
and Muchadei Zvoma ’07 has led the squad 
to a national championship in 2009, a second 
place #nish last year, two Northeast champi-
onships, a pair of New England champion-
ships and a number of wins that we can’t print 
here because it would take up too much space. 
Despite graduating eight starters from 
last year and sending #ve regular #rst-teamers 
abroad, Middlebury returns a talented group 
of players. !e departing talent places pres-
sure on the younger players to step up and #ll 
some important roles in the coming months. 
Middlebury plays its #rst home game against 
the University of Massachusetts at Amherst 
on Sept. 17 at 1p.m., when the team will re-
ceive its #rst taste of Division I competition.
Rugby
By Sam Hathaway
Staff Writer
By Damon Hatheway
Sports Editor
Sports Kickoff
!is past summer, the 11-year-
old turf on Peter Kohn Field was 
removed, recycled and replaced by a 
state-of-the-art new surface designed 
to foster world-class playing condi-
tions for its eager fall athletes, the 
women’s "eld hockey team. !e "eld, 
which is also home to the women’s 
lacrosse team in the spring, was the 
"rst arti"cial playing "eld installed at 
Middlebury, in 1999, and had been 
overdue for an upgrade. Guided by 
project manager Mark Gleason, the 
installation of the new green carpet 
features several improvements that 
have helped create a true "eld of 
dreams at the College. 
“Having good turf completely 
changes the game,” said tri-captain 
Lucy Jackson ’12. “With this new sur-
face out there, we don’t have to worry 
about any other variables other than 
our own game. It’s wet turf, with 
sprinklers that water it before every 
practice to encourage players to dive 
for hard-to-reach balls, giving us an 
edge and a con"dence other teams 
don’t have.”
!e biggest new development, 
as Jackson mentioned is the inclusion 
of a high-tech sprinkler system be-
low the carpet that will wet down the 
"eld before "eld hockey games, an 
improvement that head coach Katha-
rine DeLorenzo likens to a zamboni 
evening the ice between periods at an 
ice hockey game. !e "eld will also 
become more versatile thanks to the 
installation of lights around the turf, 
introducing greater #exibility into 
the teams’ practice schedule during 
the periods of limited daylight in the 
late fall and early spring. In addition, 
Athletic Director Erin Quinn notes, 
“there are times in the fall and spring 
when intramurals are not able to play 
due to unplayable, wet "elds, so lights 
on the "eld will give us the opportu-
nity to o$er Kohn Field as an option.”
!e project, which began in 
mid June, is essentially "nished, with 
only the light towers waiting to be in-
stalled. Other notable improvements 
include a new fence, refurbished pe-
rimeter concrete, new pathway and 
recon"gured spectator area. All to-
gether, the renovation cost $1.8 mil-
lion and was completed in just two 
months. !e "eld was playable just 
in time for the start of preseason, and 
reactions from the team have been 
immensely positive. 
“We are all really excited about 
the new turf,” said tri-captain Liz 
Garry ’12. “Having a newer surface 
makes the game so much faster and 
allows us to do more with our game.”
“Having the irrigation system 
really forces us to step up our passes 
and increases our pace of play,” added 
Madeline Brooks ’13. 
While the old turf is no longer "t 
to be used as an NCAA playing sur-
face, it will "nd new life in mini golf 
courses and other recreational fa-
cilities in Vermont and beyond. !e 
this week in sports
games to watch
Women’s and men’s soccer vs. Colby
Saturday, Sept. 17 11:00 a.m.
Women’s soccer
The team battled back from 
deficits twice to tie Tufts, 2-2.
Volleyball
The Panthers split a pair of wins 
and losses at their inaugural 
tournament. 
sports24 15 September 2011
The Middlebury Campus
New coaches named for 
tennis, swimming teams
As Middlebury kicks o$ its 
fall sports season, two teams are 
moving forward under new head 
coaches, both hired by the athletic 
department over the summer. 
Bob Hansen takes over men’s ten-
nis from Rob Barr, who served as 
interim coach last season, while 
men’s and women’s swimming 
and diving will be helmed by Bob 
Rueppel.
Hansen comes to Middlebury 
from the University of California 
Santa Cruz and inherits a program 
coming o$ back-to-back deep 
runs into the NCAA tournament, 
including a national champion-
ship in 2010. [He was the creator 
of the UCSC program, which he 
headed for 30 years before taking 
over the Middlebury program.] 
Hansen has been extremely im-
pressed by his Middlebury expe-
rience so far.
“It has been nothing short of 
magical,” he said. “!e people I 
work with are incredible, and my 
team is talented, motivated and 
has very strong relationships from 
which to operate.”
Hansen expects everyone on-
his team to exude the attitude of 
a champion in all aspects of the 
game, hoping to establish a strong 
tennis culture that will pave the 
way for continued success.
“My main goal is to become 
a championship team in the way 
we train, the way we communi-
cate and the way we conduct our-
selves,” he said.
 A juggernaut in the world of 
Division III men’s tennis, Hansen 
won seven national champion-
ships at Santa Cruz, the most re-
cent of which came in 2009. He 
has been named Intercollegiate 
Tennis Association Coach of the 
Year four times and was selected 
as the ITA’s coach of the decade 
for the 1990s, during which time 
his teams went undefeated against 
Division III opposition. 
Meanwhile, Rueppel takes 
over a swimming and diving 
program that ended last season 
with some individual successes 
in NCAA competition despite a 
year marred by controversy. He 
was most recently the coach at 
Franklin and Marshall University 
in Pennsylvania and succeeds Pe-
ter Solomon, who announced his 
resignation last June. Rueppel is 
excited to step in as the coach of 
the Panthers. 
“!e academic reputation of 
[the] College…combined with 
the exceptional accomplishments 
of the swimming program and 
breathtaking campus make this an 
incredible opportunity,” he said.
Rueppel won 10 conference 
titles during his time at Franklin 
By Dillon Hupp
Sports Editor
!e brand-new Peter Kohn Field features a high-tech sprinkler system and full light installation.
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
In with the new, recycled with 
the old, Kohn Field returfed
Middlebury athletes named 
to two U.S. Olympic teams 
Two members of the Middlebury community be-
gan competing for the U.S. on an international level this 
summer. Rob Cone ’14 will be taking a leave of absence 
from Middlebury a%er being named to the U.S. Nation-
al Ski team. Also announced this summer, Sarah Gro$ 
’05 was named to the 2012 Olympic Triathlon team. 
!is summer, Cone was selected for the 2011-2012 
US Olympic development team. Cone will be the "rst 
member of the development team to have competed 
on the collegiate level without having "rst taken a post-
graduate year a%er high school. 
A%er completing four years at the Burke Mountain 
Ski Academy, Cone was passed over for the develop-
ment team. Although most skiers in this situation would 
have taken a year to focus on training before attempting 
to make the team again, Cone came to Middlebury and 
trained with the ski team while also handling a full cur-
riculum load. 
Cone traveled to Mt. Hood on June 14 to start his 
training with his new team. He is currently training on 
snow in Chile and will continue to travel all over the 
world. 
A ormer swimmer at the college, Gro$ also quali-
"ed to compete for the U.S. at the Olympic level when 
she made the Olympic triathlon team this summer. In 
order to qualify to make the 2012 Olympic Triathlon 
team, contenders must have "nished in the top 10 at the 
World Championship Series which took place in Lon-
don this past summer. !e team only takes the top two 
American racers. 
Gro$ did not let this hard qualifying standard abea 
deterrent and was able to "nish seventh overall and sec-
ond out of all the American women earning her a spot 
on the 2012 Olympic team. 
!e 2012 Olympics will take place in London and 
the site of the World Championship series is a proposed 
site for the Triathlon races, giving a sense of familiarity 
to all of the racers who competed this past summer. 
Date Sport Vs. Results
9/10 Field hockey Tu"s 3-2
9/10 Men’s soccer Tu"s 1-1
9/09
9/10 Volleyball
Endicott 
Tournament 2-2
9/10 Women’s soccer Tu"s 2-2
9/10 Cross country Dartmouth Invitational
M: 3rd
W: 5th
9/09
9/10 Golf
St. Lawrence 
Invitational
M- 4th 
W- 2nd 
See Hansen, page 20
See Recycled, page 20
Bob Hansen, new men’s tennis coach.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
By Katie Siegner
Sports Editor
By Alex Edel
Sports Editor
Bob Reuppel, new men’s and wom-
en’s swimming and diving coach.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
