Thursday, September 22, 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Vol. 110, No. 2 Since 1905
th
is
 w
e
e
k Touring Vermont
Middlebury students ride and 
eat their way through Vermont,
page 5. 
Playing to learn
Read about the PSYC dept’s new 
play therapy class,
page 16.
A different Real World
Two Midd grads try their hands 
at reality TV,
page 15.
O’Rourke resigns 
SGA presidency
By Adam Schaffer
News Editor
By Kyle Finck
News Editor
Clifford to feature 
Middle East scholars
Andrew Podrygula, Senior Photos Editor
The College is now repointing the stonework of Old Chapel, due to mold that was discovered this summer. 
Deteriorating mortar, likely caused by condensation from the air conditioning, allowed the mold to grow.
Old Chapel undergOes de-mOlding
Courtesy of Mika Tan
Hundreds of first-year students participated in OINK (Outdoor Introductions for New Kids) trips 
over the weekend. Above, students pose at the top of the Mad River Glen ski area in Waitsfield, Vt.
First-years explOre the nOrtheast On OutdOOr trips
Midd summer minority speaks English 
By Dana Walters
Managing Editor
See SGA, page 3
See English, page 14
See Keynote, page 2
See Athletes, page 3
In a surprise move, second-
term Student Government As-
sociation (SGA) President Riley 
O’Rourke ’12 stepped down from 
his position only days after the start 
of classes. In accordance with SGA 
rules, Student Co-chair of Com-
munity Council Janet Rodrigues 
’12 has stepped in as interim presi-
dent until the Oct. 10 special elec-
tions.
He cited illness and a need to 
focus on other responsibilities for 
his resignation.
“[Being ill last year,] combined 
with my need to focus on finding a 
job and my studies, led me to be-
lieve I could not carry out my du-
ties to the level they deserved,” he 
wrote in an email. “It was not an 
easy decision, but I think it is best 
for myself and the school.”
“I would like to thank every-
one who helped me achieve both 
my victories and helped during my 
term,” he added. “It was an honor 
to serve and I will be more than 
willing to assist whoever my suc-
cessor is.”
Frustration, however, mount-
ed in a Sept. 18 meeting of the 
SGA senate. While senators agreed 
O’Rourke’s privacy should be re-
spected, several senators expressed 
considerable frustration over the 
manner in which O’Rourke stepped 
down.
“Whenever people were send-
ing emails [to the SGA] … they 
weren’t being responded to,” said 
Feb Senator Luke Brown ’13.5. 
“People [have been] coming to me 
saying ‘what the hell happened?’”
Questions regarding the delay 
between when O’Rourke ceased to 
complete his duties and when he 
formally resigned were also raised. 
O’Rourke formally submitted his 
resignation to the Dean of Students 
Sept. 13, while requests for SGA as-
sistance were not returned from as 
early as June. 
Several student groups on 
campus said they were not able to 
send the all-student emails they 
needed to announce deadlines or 
check on the status of funding for 
certain projects. 
Astrid Schanz-Garbassi ’12, 
for example, was unable to pro-
ceed with her project to open a bike 
room that produces electricity be-
cause of the de facto lack of an SGA 
president over the summer. 
With Rodrigues’s new ap-
By Kelsey Collins
Staff Writer
From Sept. 22-24, scholars of 
Middle Eastern studies will participate 
in the 18th annual Clifford Sympo-
sium at Middlebury College.  Entitled 
“(Re)Presenting National and Cultur-
al Identities in the Middle East,” this 
year’s symposium seeks to cultivate 
a deeper understanding of the com-
plexities of Middle Eastern culture 
and politics among the College com-
munity.
The symposium will cover a wide 
range of topics from human rights 
and journalism to Arabic poetry and 
dance, in countries such as Egypt, Ye-
men, Syria and Bahrain. 
This year’s Clifford Symposium 
was co-organized by Professor of Ge-
ography and Director of Middle East-
ern Studies Tamar Mayer and Pardon 
Tillinghast Professor of Religion Larry 
Yarbrough. They chose the topic for 
the symposium as the events of the 
Arab Spring began to unfold at the 
beginning of this year. They hope that 
this symposium will explore the cul-
tural roots of the current uprisings in 
the region. 
“This awakening in the Middle 
East is definitely worth paying atten-
tion to,” said Mayer. “What this raises 
is certain kinds of issues about cultural 
and national identities in the Middle 
Both Taylor Sundali ’12 and 
Chris Johnson ’12 use the phrase 
“second-class citizens” to describe 
living on campus last summer as 
student employees. Unlike the 1500 
students who descended upon 
the campus for intensive language 
study, Sundali and Johnson spent 
their summers living in Battell and 
speaking English to conduct their 
daily lives. 
“During the summer months, 
Middlebury College has a number 
of students who live in housing who 
are English-speaking,” said Associ-
ate Dean of Students for Residential 
Life and Student Life Policy Doug 
Adams. “We have a very different set 
of rules during the summer months. 
So the primary reason that some-
one is here is work. You can’t live on 
campus without a job. And there are 
no students who are studying for 
the summer months, so you are es-
sentially renting an apartment.”
Sundali, who was the residen-
tial intern Adams hired for Battell, 
said “You feel more like a worker 
than anything, but technically you 
are an employee during the sum-
mer. That’s what they tell you. “
Students remain on campus 
during summer months to work in 
offices such as the Career Services 
Center, the Admissions Office and 
Library Information Services. Stu-
dents also remain at Middlebury to 
conduct summer research, most of-
ten in the science departments.
This “second-class citizen” view 
is echoed in the words of Audrey 
Tolbert ’13 and Cody Gohl ’13 who 
kept a blog during the 2010 summer 
titled “English Spoken Here.” Their 
The College’s hazing policy 
was greatly strengthened over the 
summer as part of changes to the 
student handbook.
Changes to the policy were 
most evident in a new, extensive 
website dedicated to hazing. Along 
with outlining the policy and the 
review process after violations, the 
website gives 24 “Myths and Reali-
ties” that debunk misconceptions 
students may have. 
Dean of the College and Chief 
Diversity Officer Shirley Collado 
first reported the changes on her 
blog “One Dean’s View” on Sept. 
13.
According to Collado, the new 
policy was influenced by many 
different viewpoints.  
“We talked to colleagues at 
other institutions, looked at other 
websites, and then got some feed-
back from student workers over 
the summer,” she said. 
Christopher Batson ’13 
helped change the policy over the 
summer. 
“I highlighted some of the 
issues in the previous policy and 
presented the committee with 
my recommendations of other 
schools that I thought had done a 
good job of writing and explain-
ing their hazing policy,” he said. 
Batson, a member of the 
swimming and diving team last 
year, welcomes the new policy 
over the previous one, which he 
called vague. 
“It [the old policy] was a para-
graph without any examples, con-
sequences or definitions to clarify 
the language,” he said. “More sim-
ply, the new policy is just a much-
needed elaboration on the previ-
ous one, but I do not feel that it is 
any way stronger and stricter.” 
Batson’s main contribution 
was recommending a resource 
person available to both victims of 
hazing and the accused during the 
College hazing 
policies expanded
JOANNA ROTHKOPF NEW!
!at !ing Down !ere
DANE VERRET NEW!
Diverse Perspectives
MAYA GOLDBERG-SAFIR NEW!
Back to the Future
KATIE EARLE NEW!
Elephant in the Room
ZACH DALLMEYER-DRENNEN
Apply Liberallly
INTR    DUCING:
our columnists
campusnews2 22 September 2011
Keynote to consider Arab Awakening Crossroads 
to debut 
new items
By Ben Anderson
Staff Writer
A new school year means a lot of changes 
for everyone and Crossroads Café — the student 
operated café on campus — is no exception. 
During the 2011 spring semester, David 
Dolifka ’13 and Kate Strangfeld ’12 started the 
Crossroads Café in McCullough Student Center, 
downstairs from The Grille. The café consists 
of an entirely student run staff. Last spring, the 
menu included sandwiches, custom smoothies 
and a variety of other snack foods. 
While the ambience of the café continues 
largely unchanged, many things about the menu 
and hours of operation will be different this year. 
The café’s new coffee provider is Vermont Cof-
fee Company, a change from last year’s provider, 
Mocha Joe’s. This year, custom smoothies will no 
longer be offered, but the co-owners have prom-
ised that they will be expanding the variety and 
size of their existing, regular smoothie menu.
The biggest changes will be in the events 
that Crossroads Café will be hosting in Mc-
Cullough. The venue is planning on expanding 
upon the variety and number of different events 
that they host, including sushi nights, concerts 
and screenings of sports events. 
The owners of Crossroads also hope to play 
a larger role in catering events in McCullough. 
They expanded their catering menu to include 
items such as chicken wraps and shrimp skewers 
to compliment their more popular items from 
last year. 
Every Friday night from 6 to 8 p.m., they 
will host “specialty nights” and serve items not 
typically included in their menu. Such future 
events may include sushi night, waffles and ta-
cos. 
“Our goal is to get people into the Cross-
roads and McCullough on Friday and Saturday 
nights,” said Dolifka.  
The biggest complaint Crossroads received 
last year was about their seemingly inconsistent 
hours of operation. This year, their hours of op-
eration are as follows: Monday through Thurs-
days from 11:30 a.m. until 11:30 p.m. On Friday 
and Saturday they will be open from 8:00 p.m. 
until 11:30 p.m. They will also serve Sunday 
brunch from 2:00 p.m. until 4:00 p.m. 
Continued from page 1
TRIVIA
Thursday //  9 p.m. - 11 p.m.. // Food 
catered by Crossroads Cafe //  
The Grille
FFF: THE HANGOVER 2
Friday//  7 p.m. and 10 p.m. // Dana 
Auditorium
OTTER NONSENSE WITH SPECIAL 
GUEST 
Saturday // 9:30 p.m. - midnight 
// With special guest hosted by 
MCAB Concerts Committee // go/
downlow
WHAT’S 
HAPPENING 
AT MIDD?
MCAB PRESENTS
Wendell Steavenson will discuss the role of the Tahrir 
square protests at this year’s Clifford symposium.
Courtesy of the New Yorker 
DO YOU HAVE A 
TIP OR AN IDEA 
FOR A STORY?
GO/THECAMPUS
SEE 
SOMETHING
SAY 
SOMETHING1 2 SENDSOMETHING3
East. Although not every country in the Middle 
East has had an uprising, issues of cultural and 
national identities remain very important to all 
these places.
“The Middle East is crucial to United States 
foreign policy, and to that of European coun-
tries, and without understanding the complexity 
of nationalism, national identity, and cultural 
identity, we won’t understand enough about the 
region.”
The three-day symposium will begin on 
Sept. 22 with an address by the keynote speaker, 
the Anwar Sadat Professor of Peace and Devel-
opment at the University of Maryland Shibley 
Telhami. Telhami is an expert on U.S. policy in 
the Middle East and has conducted research 
examining the role of news media in shaping 
identity in the region. Telhami’s presentation, 
entitled “Identity and the Arab Awakening,” will 
introduce the symposium’s theme and lay out 
the current cultural and political issues in the 
Middle East. 
The following sessions will provide analy-
sis and observations on issues in Middle East-
ern culture and identity. In the first session, 
“The Reporter’s Challenge,” speakers Wendell 
Steavenson of The New Yorker and Amira Hass 
of the Israeli newspaper Haaretz will be talking 
about the challenges of reporting on and writ-
ing about the Middle East. 
The second session, “Responding to Revo-
lutions” will include two lecturers that will look 
at the various responses to the Arab Spring. 
First, Radwan Ziadeh, founder and director of 
the Damascus Center for Human Rights Studies 
in Syria and a visiting scholar at George Wash-
ington University’s Institute for Middle East 
Studies, will discuss the uprising in Syria. The 
second lecture, given by Assistant Professor of 
Political Science Quinn Mecham, will focus on 
the role of Islamists in the ongoing Arab Spring 
uprisings.
The third session, “Grassroots Activism,” 
will feature two lectures. The first will discuss ar-
tistic responses to the uprisings in Tehrir Square 
in popular culture and the way graffiti, songs, 
banners, posters, jokes and various other forms 
of popular expression became central to the 
movement. The second lecture will discuss the 
role of social media in the revolts in Bahrain.
The use of social media platforms such as 
Twitter and Facebook in these uprisings has been 
a hot topic in news coverage of the Arab Spring. 
“Social media have been huge in these upris-
ings,” said Mayer. “I think, now, this is a different 
Middle East, it is a more confident Middle East. 
The people are more confident in their abilities 
to voice their opinions and bring a change. Social 
media are affording the masses new forms of ex-
pression and taking the news from the hands of 
the very few to those of many. This decentraliza-
tion of knowledge is part of democracy and this 
is really, really big.” 
The final session of the symposium on 
Saturday, “Articulating Identity in Dance, 
Word, and Film” will focus on the essence 
of Middle Eastern culture and identity. Five 
speakers, including Assistant Professor of Ara-
bic Huda Fakhreddine, will explore topics such 
as Yemeni poetry and tribal dance, the mean-
ing of “homeland” in Palestinian writings and 
questions of Israeli identity in film. 
With its diverse group of speakers and 
range of topics, the Clifford Symposium’s mis-
sion is to illustrate the diversity and complexity 
of Middle Eastern identity, delving beyond the 
headlines.
“When you talk about the Middle East, 
it is not simply geographic, although there is 
geography there,” said Yarbrough. “One of the 
things we want to bring to the attention of our 
community is the tremendous complexity of 
the Middle East. There is not one Middle East, 
but many Middle Easts. 
“The symposium gives students a chance 
to hear world class scholars talking about these 
issues, and we’re confident that many of the 
things that are talked about during the sympo-
sium will reverberate through classes and orga-
nizations on campus. They will be talking these 
issues for the rest of the year, because these are 
central issues to what’s going on in the Middle 
East and in the world.”
DOS office consolidates student life
By Elizabeth Fouhey
Staff Writer
In a major administrative shift, Old Cha-
pel has reestablished the Office of the Dean of 
Students (DOS) to foster interdepartmental 
communication and collaboration. The DOS 
is made up of Judicial Affairs, Orientation, 
Outdoor Programs and Club Sports, Residen-
tial Life, Student Activities and Student Life 
Policy.
The former Center for Campus Activities 
and Leadership (CCAL) has been absorbed 
into this umbrella of the Office of the Dean of 
Students and is now called Student Activities.  
Dean of Students and Assistant Profes-
sor of the History of Art & Architecture Katy 
Smith Abbott is directing the new office.  She 
is working hard to increase cross-campus col-
laboration for student life.
The new organization, Smith Abbott said, 
is designed to help the DOS think of its work 
more “holistically.”
“Our mission [at the DOS] is to serve as 
a crossroads. We want the DOS to seem as a 
support for and a link to other elements [of 
student life] on campus,” she added.
The added support and collaboration 
from the new office, not finances, were the 
primary reasons for the reinvention of the 
DOS. 
Smith Abbott confirmed, “There was not 
a financial motivation behind this move at all.”
One of the more noticeable changes in 
the new office is the reorganization of the 
student activities office, formerly CCAL.  JJ 
Boggs, associate dean of students for student 
activities and orientation, will be leading the 
student activities office.  She will be working 
closely with Katy Smith Abbott. 
“I want to make it easier for students to 
navigate opportunities [on campus],” Boggs 
said.
As the hub of student life on campus, 
many student groups will be affected by the 
new structural change. 
Club sports teams, for instance will be 
working even more closely with the new stu-
dents activities office than ever. At MCAB, 
President Nadia Schreiber ’12 commented on 
some of the changes that she and the commit-
tee are already noticing. 
“I think the most noticeable change for 
me, and for MCAB overall, is the split of 
MCAB and the ICC (Inter-Commons Coun-
cil). Where the Executive Board of MCAB 
used to be made up of over 20 people (Com-
mittee Chairs and Commons Co/Tri-Chairs), 
we are now only nine people.” Despite the di-
vision, though, Schreiber hopes to continue 
communication between the two groups. 
 Doug Adams, former dean of students, 
has also changed positions in the administra-
tive shakeup. Now associate dean of students 
for residential life and student life policy, Ad-
ams will continue to work with JJ Boggs and 
the student activities office, though will no 
longer have a direct role in MCAB. 
The Student Government Association 
(SGA) is another student organization that 
falls under the realm of the new DOS office. 
The only noticeable change that the SGA is 
facing at the moment is the change in the or-
ganization’s adviser.  
“The changes with Katy Smith Abbott 
have not impacted me or the SGA,” said Janet 
Rodrigues ’12, SGA Vice President and cur-
rent interim President. “We now have Doug 
Adams, as he transitions out as adviser, and 
Katy Smith Abbott to advise myself and the 
SGA through this process.”
In addition to administrative changes, the 
DOS is engaging in discussions with the SGA 
to restart MiddView first-year trips, possibly 
as a requirement for all incoming students. 
The pre-orientation program was canceled 
due to financial restraints.
The DOS is also considering how best to 
strengthen the link between sophomores and 
their respective commons.
“The sophomore experience is one of the 
most exciting years [at the College].” Smith 
Abbott said. “What is the link to the commons 
that sophomores need?”
campusnews 22 September 2011 3
overseas
briefing
by Michelle Smoler ’13
TOKYO — Culture shock is a scary 
thing. In my first day of class here, my an-
thropology professor said that the com-
mon response to an overwhelming new 
culture is to withdraw, especially by over-
sleeping and reading novels. I thought 
back to my first week: I slept at least 12 
hours a day and read three novels. I re-
member walking around the streets and 
feeling as though everyone was staring at 
me: red hair, blue eyes, more than above 
average height, distinctly American sum-
mer clothes. When all I wanted to do was 
blend in and observe, doing so seemed 
nearly impossible. 
Then, a few days in, I went to the lo-
cal train station to wait for my brother to 
return from work. It was rush hour so I 
backed against the wall, put my head-
phones on and tried to be inconspicuous. 
I was just beginning to zone out when 
six Japanese women stopped in front of 
me and asked plainly, and in English, if I 
was American. In the next 10 minutes the 
questions came one after the other, from 
why I had come to Japan to how tall I was. 
I answered in Japanese, hoping to practice 
my speaking skills, and every time I spoke 
they were so excited — almost proud — 
even as I stumbled over my words. As I 
was leaving they offered to throw me a 
welcome party and we exchanged phone 
numbers. 
Two days later one of the women 
called to invite me over to meet her friends 
and eat some food. When I arrived I was 
told: “shoes off.” I stepped back out of the 
house, and removed my shoes, apologiz-
ing profusely. When it was time to clean 
up I was told: “wrap everything leftover 
that can be saved” — wasting food is gen-
erally unacceptable in Japan. I tried to 
help, conscious of the half-eaten food left 
on my plate. However, despite my general 
cultural insecurities, the in-between time 
was filled with discussion of our respec-
tive cultures, their similarities and differ-
ences, special tendencies and quirks. I left 
feeling a little more confident of my place 
as an American in their world.
It has been three weeks since, and I 
still feel like my voice is too loud when I 
whisper on the train and it still takes me a 
half hour to sort my trash into the various 
categories (combustible, etc.) Yet there is 
something clearly unique about the Japa-
nese approach to foreigners: they do not 
want me to change for them. Almost every 
Japanese person I have met has shown in-
terest in my culture and appreciation for 
my interest in theirs. They expect me to 
respect their traditions and to do my best 
to abide by their customs while I live here, 
but they appreciate my foreign identity 
for what it is, even as I live in Japan.  
While America is considered to be a 
“melting pot,” it seems that most Ameri-
cans have high-expectations for foreign-
ers living among them, especially when 
it comes to speaking English. Though 
the cultural line of who is Japanese and 
who is not is much less fluid than that in 
America, I have seen a propensity for ac-
ceptance here that continues to surprise 
me. When those six women praised my 
speaking skills, I immediately thought 
I was being patronized. It took me these 
past three weeks to realize it was simply 
appreciation that I had made the effort to 
learn their language. Though I still find it 
hard to keep up with all the Japanese dos 
and don’ts, I hope I can approach learning 
them with the same open mind that I am 
received with every day. 
SGA votes against expedited election
Continued from page 1
Athletes face increased hazing education 
pointment as interim President and the first 
convening of the 2011-2012 SGA Senate, 
though, the SGA should begin to resume its 
other functions as normal while the posi-
tion is being filled. Senators also vowed to 
pass legislation better outlining the process 
for presidential resignations to allow for a 
smoother transition of power, though no de-
cision was made. 
All-student emails for student groups, 
however, may 
not resume 
until the new 
president is 
elected, due to 
the backlog of 
email requests 
from the sum-
mer, Rodrigues said. An ad-hoc committee 
may be formed to review requests for email 
privileges until a new president is elected.
As this is the first time in recent SGA 
history such a resignation has occurred, set-
ting the date for the new elections was con-
siderably complicated. 
After originally discussing an expedited 
election process to fill the position, the Sen-
ate eventually voted to extend the electoral 
process in accordance with the SGA’s bylaws, 
which stipulate minimum waiting periods 
between steps in the electoral process. 
Should the expedited process have gone 
forward, the election rules, which were re-
written last year, would have needed to be 
circumvented. 
Charlie Arnowitz ’13, a co-sponsor the 
bill that rewrote some campaign rules, would 
not have supported a temporary suspension 
of the rule.
“I’m glad that the Senate decided not to 
override the bill,” he wrote in an email from 
abroad. “The bill intentionally builds in 
enough time for candidates to campaign and 
for the student body to get acquainted with 
the candidates.”
Rodrigues saw the decision whether 
or not to expedite the electoral process as a 
particularly dif-
ficult one, as it 
involved choos-
ing between vio-
lating their own 
bylaws and de-
laying the elec-
tion of a new 
president. 
After over an hour of discussion, the 
ultimate decision to delay was partially in-
fluenced by Associate Dean of Students for 
Residential and Student Life Policy Doug 
Adams, who advocated for respect of the 
already-established rules.
“Last semester the SGA successfully 
worked through some challenging election 
issues and put significant effort and time into 
improving the election process,” Adams later 
wrote in an email. “I was very pleased with 
the thoughtful discussion about the process 
[and how] the SGA gave due consideration 
to the speed of the process and the needs of 
the candidates and acted in the best interest 
of the student body.”
Continued from page 1
of hazing and the accused during the inves-
tigation process. 
“As a member of the swim team, I felt 
that we were missing many key details as 
to the possible consequences and what 
we could do to ameliorate the situation,” 
he said. “It would have been beneficial to 
have a disengaged third-party person with 
whom the extent of the investigation could 
be fully discussed.” 
Collado was quick to note that the haz-
ing changes were not all about athletes. 
“There were students and student lead-
ers involved, not just athletes” she said, add-
ing that “the clarifications were not just for 
athletes, but for all students on campus.” 
The College canceled the upperclass-
men women’s swimming and diving season 
last winter after the team was caught hazing 
the first-year girls. 
This year, athletic teams have gone 
through increased hazing education. All 
coaches received training and have relayed 
the anti-hazing message onto their teams. 
“The major change for the Department 
of Athletics is that we created workshops 
for all teams,” said Athletic Director Erin 
Quinn. “One of the issues we explore in 
depth in our workshops is hazing, so there 
is a workshop specific to hazing.” 
John Maher ’12, a member of the crew 
team, said that the team met with Athletic 
Director Erin Quinn about the basics of the 
new policy and relevant state laws. 
After meeting with Quinn, Maher said 
the team got the College’s hazing message 
loud and clear. 
“Hazing, as a warped attempt to create 
unity and cama-
raderie on an 
athletic team, re-
ally runs counter 
to the goals our 
athletics pro-
grams strive to 
accomplish ev-
ery day at prac-
tice,” Maher said. 
Collado said that while the swimming 
and diving team incident raised the issue, 
it was not the only motivator in changing 
the policy. 
“It certainly raised the issue that we 
need to be very clear about passive partici-
pation and what consent means, but it also 
gave us an opportunity to look at our haz-
ing policy and hazing issues more broadly,” 
she said. 
This year the College instituted a bystand-
er intervention program for all first-years. 
“It [the bystander intervention pro-
gram] wasn’t specifically about hazing but 
was about stepping up and intervening and 
being a leader in all kinds of social situa-
tions, ranging from alcohol behavior and 
dorm damage to sexual assault and hazing,” 
said Collado.  
Maher applauds the clarified policy 
and said that the team meeting with Quinn 
was well worth the time. 
“Taking the time out of a busy training 
schedule to clearly articulate our goals and 
overall identity as a program and have an 
open forum for discussion was very helpful 
for the team as we head into the thick of the 
fall season,” he said.
We need to be very clear about 
passive participation and what 
consent means
— Shirley Collado
SEPTEMBER23
Mandatory Interest/Informational 
Meeting for potential 
candidates--4:30, Crest Room
SEPTEMBER30
Candidates’ 200 signatures and 
letter of intent due
OCTOBER2
SGA will ratify candidates at 
Sunday meeting and Elections 
Council will meet with approved 
candidates
OCTOBER10
Polls open at noon
OCTOBER11
Polls close at noon
SGA 
PRESIDENTIAL 
ELECTIONS TIMELINE
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
I’m glad that the Senate 
decided not to override 
the bill.
— Charlie Arnowitz
public safety log
DATE TIME INCIDENT CATEGORY LOCATION DISPOSITION
9/12/11 1:30 a.m. Possession Drugs Prescott Referred to Dean of the College
9/12/11 9:00 a.m. Theft Kayak carriers Hillcrest Road Referred to Dean of the College
9/15/11 11:17 p.m. Smoking Use Gifford Referred to Dean of the College
9/16/11 8:55 p.m. Candles Violation Starr Hall Referred to Dean of the College
9/16/11 11:11 p.m. Party Illegal underage Gifford Referred to Dean of the College
9/18/11 2:30 a.m. Vandalism Structural McCullough Referred to Dean of the College 
9/18/11 12:39 a.m Drug violation Use Atwater A Referred to Dean of the College
9/18/11 12:25 a.m. Alcohol violation Open container Adirondack View Referred to Dean of the College 
9/18/11 2:15 p.m. Theft Property Davis Family Library Referred to Dean of the College 
9/18/11 2:35 a.m Disturbance Noise Coffrin Referred to Dean of the College
9/18/11 1:18 a.m Disturbance Noise The Mill Referred to Dean of the College
9/19/11 12:20 a.m. Noise Disturbance Atwater B Referred to Dean of the College 
9/19/11 1:00 a.m. Fire alarm Report Hepburn Referred to Dean of the College 
The Department of Public Safety reported giving 35 alcohol citations between Sept. 12 and Sept. 19, 2011
September 12 - 19, 2011
4    22 September 2011 campusnews campusnews
college
shorts
by Lander Karath, Staff Writer
California to vote on   
immigrant Dream Act
University of Iowa tweets 
its way into trouble
Slain student’s family      
sues Yale for damages
California is poised to add to its 
already immense student population 
as a bill allowing educational funding 
for undocumented immigrants awaits 
the signature of Gov. Jerry Brown.  The 
California legislature recently passed 
the California Dream Act, which gives 
undocumented immigrants the right to 
receive college scholarships and loans 
financed by the state. However, the $40 
million bill will not guarantee citizen-
ship or a green card. Earlier this sum-
mer, the legislature passed a similar bill 
that allows for private scholarships and 
funding of undocumented students; 
but for many of the potential recipients, 
state and government funding is what 
makes the difference between going to 
college and not. 
Opponents of the bill argue that it 
promotes illegal immigration to Califor-
nia and burdens the state’s already strug-
gling budget. Advocates believe that fi-
nancing this new batch of students will 
set them on the path to citizenship and 
enhance the future economic well-being 
of California.
— New York Times
The University of Iowa is apologiz-
ing for its recent tweet about presidential 
candidate Michelle Bachman. When ru-
mors of a cougar sighting in Iowa City 
surfaced on Thursday, the university 
tweeted, “I didn’t know Bachman was in 
town. Bah-dum-bum.” According to the 
Oxford English Dictionary, a cougar is 
defined as “an older woman seeking a re-
lationship with a younger man.”
The University removed the tweet 
after inquiries from The Associated Press 
and posted an apology. Bachman’s cam-
paign responded, saying she was happy 
to not be called “the old lady in the shoe.”
— Huffington Post 
The family of a Yale graduate student 
who was killed on campus in 2009 is su-
ing the university for failing to protect 
the security of women on campus. Law-
yers for the family of the deceased say 
that Yale allowed sexual harassment and 
assault, which promoted an atmosphere 
of hostility towards women. 
This hostility prompted several 
other women to file a Title IX complaint 
against the school, which is currently be-
ing investigated by the government. The 
university claims that there is no merit to 
the lawsuit, and denies any wrongdoing. 
While it remains to be seen if this is the 
case, the suit sends a message that uni-
versities may become increasingly liable 
for the atmosphere on their campuses.
— Chronicle of Higher Education
Health 
services
merge
By Hannah Bristol
Online Editor
Venture to promote 
entrepreneurial spirit
By Kylie Atwood
Staff Writer
EIA to fund more students
Health Services, Counseling Services 
and Sports Medicine formally combined 
this year to form the Parton Health and 
Counseling Center.
“The three departments have always 
been in communication with each other 
around health issues, but health care is be-
coming more and more complicated and 
we’re recognizing the need to think of peo-
ple holistically,” said Gus Jordan, executive 
director of health and counseling services.
As acting Dean of the College and 
Dean of Students, Jordan frequently had 
meetings with the heads of each depart-
ment, but they never met as a small group. 
A combination of recent research showing 
that patients benefited from comprehensive 
health care and conversations with people 
at the College convinced Jordan that merg-
ing the departments would be a good idea. 
Joint meetings began last spring.
“It just makes sense for us to be under 
one umbrella, to talk to each other more 
formally and structurally, to break down 
any artificial barriers that might exist in 
those areas,” Jordan said. “I’m very optimis-
tic about it.”
There are no direct financial benefits of 
merging the programs, although the health 
services department already faced financial 
cuts in the last three years by not replacing 
retiring staff. The merge, therefore, allows 
the Health and Counseling Center to more 
efficiently manage the staff they currently 
have.
“We had to think carefully about the 
utilization of our physician and our reg-
istered nurses in terms of thinking about 
direct patient care over and against admin-
istrative needs, so what we’ve done is try to 
remove at least a little of the administrative 
burden from the health center so that our 
physician and nurses can attend more di-
rectly to student needs,” Jordan said.
Students will benefit from easier access 
the health services provided on campus 
without jumping through administrative 
hoops. If an athlete is seriously injured, for 
example, he can readily have access to any 
counseling help he may need to process the 
stress of the injury, as well as the physical 
treatments he needs.
The Health and Counseling Center 
has also launched a new website, available 
at go/health. The website features “Health 
Topics A to Z”, a new resource which allows 
students to search a topic and receive reli-
able health advice. 
“We’re trying to make it as easy as pos-
sible for students to access medical infor-
mation that they might need for their own 
care as they think about their own issues 
or care,” said Jordan. “We’re going to try 
to find every way we can to bring services 
to students where they feel comfortable … 
[and] this is the first step in doing that.”
Parton Health Center sees reorganization.
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
Middlebury students have come to-
gether to encourage their fellow entre-
preneurial classmates to act upon their 
business ideas by creating the Middlebury 
Venture Community (MVC). 
MVC hopes to give passionate, creative 
and driven students a venue where they can 
find support and feedback on their business 
ideas. 
The committee consists of both profes-
sors and students. With 13 students assigned 
to different organizing and leadership roles, 
MVC hopes that this new initiative will take 
root and pull in all types of Middlebury 
students with business ideas.
“Considering most of the student lead-
ership team are seniors, I think our hope is 
that we can establish the MVC as a popular 
initiative on campus that has a strong fol-
lowing and will continue to draw interest 
and activity after we are gone,” said Alex 
Guynn ’12, MVC’s vice president of mar-
keting. 
MVC is planning monthly speaker 
events throughout the year, with each 
speaker delving into a specific theme. 
The hope is to draw on the successes of 
Middlebury grads and local entrepreneurs 
to feed the event. 
There will also be demo days in which 
students can present their business ideas. 
Theses demos will be held twice a semester 
to encourage students to practice express-
ing their idea and presenting it in front of 
a group. 
“The hope is that students, faculty, and 
local investors will come to these demo days 
and hear the ideas of the Middlebury stu-
dents,” said Kara Montbleau ’12, the chief 
operating officer of MVC. 
MVC held its first demo day last week, 
which included four contestants, all with 
wildly different ideas.  
More than 20 students attended the 
event at McCardell Bicentennial Hall. The 
demo was followed by a happy hour at 51 
Main, which gave the presenters a chance 
to talk with interested audience members 
about their project. 
Future potential investors will be en-
couraged to attend this happy hour, which 
will allow students to network and get feed-
back from people in their industry. 
Strabo GIS, which will use software to 
create a Smartphone application for Geo-
graphical Information Systems, won the 
most votes at the first demo day. 
Will Potter ’13.5, Nate Beatty ’13.5 and 
Parker Woodworth ’13.5 are developing 
the Strabo GIS venture. The idea originally 
came from Assistant Professor of Geogra-
phy Jeff Howarth. 
Potter said their idea would not have 
manifested without Professor Howarth’s 
help and the support of Chester Harvey ‘09. 
“I don’t really know what I will end up 
doing [after I graduate], but I will definitely 
apply business lessons I learned this sum-
mer to my future work,” said Potter.
Over the summer, the staff of the Center 
for Education in Action: Careers, Fellowships 
and Civic Engagement (EIA) expanded and 
shifted several roles. With these changes, the 
EIA has embraced new goals for the upcom-
ing year.
Last year, EIA was created by joining the 
resources of Career Services, the Alliance for 
Civic Engagement, fellowships and health 
professions advising. Lisa Gates took over the 
new center as part of her recent appointment 
as associate dean of the college and director 
for the EIA.
As the new director, Gates hopes to see a 
few changes in the EIA this year.
“The more that we can do to help stu-
dents to be mindful of their interests, where 
they want to go with their education, how it’s 
developing and what kind of options are avail-
able to them to further explore that through-
out their college years, the better,” said Gates.
The EIA hopes to reach this goal by in-
creasing the number of internships available 
to students, increasing the amount of students 
receiving funding from the EIA for unpaid in-
ternships, and engaging with students at an 
earlier stage of their college careers.
This past year, the EIA awarded a total 
of $125,000 to 90 students for unpaid intern-
ships. Their goal for this year is to fund 150 
students.
Associate Director of Civic Engagement 
and Internships Peggy Burns explained that 
the EIA’s definition of internship is very broad.
“There are students who work the 12-
week, commuter internship in the city, but 
then there are students who go abroad and do 
more intensive international service for three 
weeks, or even have self-developed projects 
that we fund,” she said.
In addition to the major efforts going 
into expanding the College’s internship con-
nections, the EIA is trying to connect with 
Middlebury students earlier than the fall of 
their senior year.
The EIA hosted an open house on Sept. 
16 for all first-years.
“We had about 70 students show up, 
which was great,” Gates said. “It was really nice 
to see the building so full, and there were so 
many great conversations going on between 
first-years and students who had gotten sum-
mer funding for internships through us this 
past year.”
By Jess Berry
News Editor
Students can seek career advice and internship funding at the EIA, based in the Adirondack house.
Andre Podrygula, Senior Photos Editor
local22 September 2011
  The Middlebury Campus
5
A, B, C, easy as 1, 2, 3
Susan Arenson, a history teacher at Middlebury Union High 
School, grades AP U.S. exams during the summer,
page 6.
Co-op hosts fall celebration
!e Middlebury Co-op served goodies to the town in 
honor of Vermont’s local food, 
page 7.
Courtesy of Molly Talbert
Cyclists sample local Vermont farm produce at one of the rest stops along the Tour de Farms route, helping them maintain the necessary energy to complete the course.
Vermont has perfect weather in the fall (when it’s not raining) for 
bicycling. On Sunday, Sept. 18, the roads around Shoreham, Vt. were 
full of smiling cyclists for the annual Tour de Farms bike ride. Accord-
ing to the event’s website, up to 600 people were expected to take part 
in this year’s ride.
Participants had the opportunity to stop at seven di"erent farms 
along the way (there were 10-, 22- and 30-mile route options) where 18 
di"erent farmers and producers were giving out free samples of their 
products, which ranged from heirloom tomatoes to raw honey to ma-
ple-glazed chicken.
!e second stop of the ride was at Doolittle Farm, home to sheep, 
chickens and cows as well as the Hammond family  — Bay, John, Hilary 
and Nick.
“We never have an open house,” Bay Hammond said, while stand-
ing in front of a table displaying three di"erent types of cooked chicken. 
“So being a part of the Tour de Farms is a good way to invite people to 
the farm and see what it’s like here.”
Bay and her daughter, Hillary, were manning several tables that dis-
played their produce — all of which is grown, produced and processed 
on their farm. Even their chickens, which they raise for both eggs and 
meat, are unique to their farm  — they have been cross-breeding chick-
ens for the past several years to produce a unique type of chicken.
Andrew Munkres of Cornwall was also at the Doolittle Farm stop. 
He displayed the raw honey that he produces and sells. His company, 
Lemon Fair Honeyworks, is special because their bees are “untreated.” 
Munkres said this means the bees “aren’t sprayed with chemicals to 
control mites, which is better for [them].” His honey booth was very 
popular among cyclists needing a little sugar rush before heading onto 
Golden Russet Farm, six miles farther down the road.
At Golden Russet Farm, an organic farm that produces a multitude 
of vegetables and herbs, cyclists enjoyed fresh tomatoes, samples from 
Tourterelle (a restaurant in New Haven) and ham samples from North 
Branch Farm and Garden in Ripton.
Kate Corrigan, the “main farmer” at North Branch Farm and Gar-
den, says she enjoys participating in the Tour de Farms.
“I love Rural Vermont [one of the organizations that helped put on 
the event],” she said. “It is very upli#ing to have waves of people inter-
ested in good food and good farms.”
Laurie Ross and Ned Gretchell, cyclists from South Burlington had 
a similar view. !is was the $rst time that either of them had partici-
pated in this event, and part of what made it fun for them, they said, 
were the people. !ey both agreed that “the beautiful day and the good 
food” sealed the deal. 
Many of the people participating in the Tour de Farms — cyclists 
and farmers alike — are chie%y interested in the sense of community 
that the event creates rather than the cycling. At least, that’s how it was 
for Sally Russell ’76.
Russell turned the event into a family a"air, bringing her husband, 
brother and sister-in-law along for the ride. !e day was particularly 
fun for them because they knew some of the farmers participating since 
they too were once farmers in the area.
Russell noticed that there weren’t very many college students par-
ticipating in the Tour de Farms this year and encourages the student 
body “to put it on your calendars for next year.”
Although they were hard to spot, there were a few College students 
who took part in the Tour de Farms. Lisa Coale ’13.5, from Weybridge 
rode in the Tour for the $rst time with her father.
“I enjoyed it because it’s a fun way of supporting the local agricul-
ture and farms,” Coale said. “And you get to chat with and meet di"er-
ent people from the community.”
Judy Russell, Sally Russell’s sister-in-law, expressed encouragement 
as well.
“If you have a bike with wider tires then the dirt roads are $ne,” 
she said. 
Indeed, although many people did have road bikes, there were an 
equal number of bikes that would have matched nicely with those on 
the bike rack outside Proctor. !e emphasis of the Tour is not about 
having the %ashiest bike, but it is about making a connection and learn-
ing a little bit more about the people and farmers who make up Ver-
mont.
Local farm food 
pysches folks 
on bikes Molly Talbert Sta! Writer
22 September 20116 
one in 8,700
 where the personalities of middlebury proper are celebrated
Susan Arenson is most content in her natural habitat  — her history classroom at 
Middlebury Union High School, where she has been teaching for !"een years.  
Becca Fanning
By Devin MacDonald
Local News Editor
By Becca Fanning
Staff Writer
James Corden brought the house down with his vaudeville style hilarity in his role as the 
“one man” of One Man, Two Guvnors, which was streamed live from London, U.K. 
Courtesy of Doug Anderson
On Sept. 15, the Town Hall !eater hosted a production of One Man, Two Guvnors put 
on by the National !eater in London. But instead of the curtain rising and a cast of British 
actors stepping onto the stage, a screen lowered from the ceiling and the so" glow of a projec-
tor illuminated the room.
!is audience was treated to the newest phenomenon in live theater. Instead of traveling 
to New York City or London to see a professional play or opera, Middlebury residents now 
can wander down the street to the Town Hall !eater for live simulcast screenings of plays 
from all over the world, which started with the Metropolitan Opera. 
At #rst the audience, made up of Middlebury residents and students from the College, 
treated the production like a #lm. !e hall was quiet and the audio of the real audience clap-
ping resounded without a live echo. One Man, Two Guvnors is a comedy with a plot that 
would be reminiscent of the schemes of Shakespeare, had it anything but hilarity involved. 
A sister impersonates a dead brother to collect the money owed him. Her boyfriend, who 
is also her brother’s murderer, is in the same town in an attempt to evade the police. !ey are 
still in love and plan to escape to Australia together. !e main character, however, is a poor 
man named Francis who #nds himself the aid of both the sister and the murderer separately. 
To avoid being #red, he must keep both his Guvnors apart.
With the layout of a potential drama of astonishing complexity, one wouldn’t expect to 
be laughing a great deal. A"er the #rst few minutes, during which decorum and an unspoken 
understanding that the screening held sway, the audience collapsed into #ts of laughter and 
spontaneous applause for the characters gallivanting around the stage.
 “It was one of the best shows I’ve ever seen,” said Christina Fox ’13.5, a theater major. 
“You forgot it wasn’t live theater a"er a while.” 
Because the cameras can capture up-close facial expressions, every seat in the house was 
better than orchestra. One Man, Two Guvnors included audience participation, constantly 
broke the fourth wall, and executed it so perfectly that no one was released from the magic 
of the play. 
Marnie Wood, Middlebury resident and member of the Town Hall !eater, has come to 
almost every production since the theater was renovated a few years ago.
 “I think it’s hysterical,” said Wood of One Man, Two Guvnors. “!e funniest, silliest, 
standard slapstick vaudeville comedy routine combined in a new way. Stupidly hilarious and 
comically funny.”
Wood is a big fan of the simulcast system installed in the Town Hall !eater. She loves 
opera but the productions are usually far away and expensive. Now, for $17 and a pleasant 
walk across town, Wood and others can see all the best productions of the world. 
!is new phase of world theater brought to Middlebury is due to the e$orts of Executive 
Director of the Town Hall !eater Doug Anderson. He opened the theater three years ago to 
encompass not just productions, but events such as a trunk show that happened on Sept. 17. 
!e stadium seating can be removed and an open %oor can be used for a number of purposes. 
“We installed a very elaborate screen and system that are built directly into the building.,” 
said Anderson. “Now that the technology is in place, tons of people have picked it up. We’ve 
been showing plays from the National !eater for two years now.”
!e new system has served to reinvigorate the attendance to theater in Middlebury and 
across the nation. 
“We have a full house on a !ursday night. It makes my job a lot easier, and it makes it 
cheap for everyone else,” said Anderson.
“Anderson is a genius to have done this,” said Wood, who is also an usher at the theatre 
on occasion. “In terms of the town, it is fabulous. Part of Doug’s talent is programming events 
and not just performances.”
!e Town Hall !eater also features a cabaret with comedians every month as well as 
a gallery that audiences can wander through during intermission. By giving everyone a full 
experience of di$erent kinds of art every time they come to the theater, it truly is a keystone 
to the Middlebury community.
One Man, Two Guvnors was a tear-inducing, hilarious play that no one in Vermont ever 
would have been able to appreciate without this new technology. It has allowed Middlebury 
theater students the opportunity to appreciate and learn from the best actors in the world.
For more information about upcoming screenings and live performances at the Town 
Hall !eater, please visit www.townhalltheater.org. 
Susan Arenson knew she wanted to teach history since fourth grade. 
“Before that I wanted to be Nancy Drew,” she said from behind her desk at Middlebury 
Union High School, where she has been teaching for #"een years. 
Arenson’s classroom is plastered from ceiling to %oor with myriad posters. Some are his-
torical, while others feature tropical beach scenes. Student work envelopes the room too. 
“I’ll probably teach here until I die,” she said. 
A testament to the liberal arts education, Arenson graduated from Amherst College as a 
joint Women and Gender Studies and American Studies major. She carries these interests into 
her love for history. Arenson continued her education at Harvard Graduate School of Education 
where she honed her skills in preparation for her work as an educator.
She appreciates the ability to bring that knowledge and experience to a small rural town 
like Middlebury. 
“[Moving here] was an adjustment,” she said. “I remember thinking how weird it was that 
people were so nice.” 
Growing up in New York, Arenson felt similarly when she moved from her New York sub-
urb to western Massachusetts for college. She now lives in Salisbury, Vt., and said several of her 
students have never le" the state, a much “di$erent” experience than her childhood. 
“[Middlebury] is also less fast paced, which is both a good and a bad thing,” she said. “On 
the one hand, there’s less overall stress. On the other hand, sometimes the slower pace means 
less of a bigger focus. Sometimes we forget that there’s more out there than our little corner of 
the sky.”
Arenson is liked and respected by her students. She demands a level of respect but also 
strives to keep things interesting during class. 
“I want to disprove that perception that history is boring,” she said. “It’s so awesome.” 
She warns that she could probably talk all day because history and teaching make her that 
happy.
!at must be because Arenson knows her stu$. She has worked on the AP U.S. History test 
development committee for the last three years, and spends a week each summer in Louisville, 
Ky., grading the AP exams. She really enjoys reading the essays with her fellow committee of 
educators, who hail from across the country. Last year, Arenson read 1185 essays, but said her 
record number of essays is 1200. While the days are intense, and monotonous at times, everyone 
reserves a half-hour at the end of each day to share the most comical essay responses. !e com-
mittee writes these responses on post-its and pastes them on a speci#ed wall. Arenson brings 
the more colorful quotes back to her AP U.S. students, hoping her examples will provide comic 
relief, along with a lesson in what not to do on test day.
Some of her favorite student quotes from past AP tests include, “I’m not good at history 
because it was before my time” and “I could really go for a cookie right now.”
While she takes her job seriously, Arenson has achieved a functional balance between 
teaching the material but doing so in an entertaining fashion. 
“I make horri#c puns and I love to mix metaphors,” she said. “When I #nally get one right 
the kids in class will cheer.”
From coming up with new ways to teach century-old facts, to grading AP tests, to day-
dreaming about Hawaiian beaches, Arenson keeps busy.
“If they could invent a 48-hour day, that would work for me,” she said.
London screens live at Town Hall !eater
localnews
localnews 22 September 2011 7
local
lowdownBy Kaylen Baker
Local News Editor
Car show
Sept. 24, 10 a.m. – 4 p.m. 
!e Bristol Recreation Field will be trans-
formed into a sea of cars this Saturday. 
!e Snake Mountain Cruisers and Five 
Town Business Council are excited to 
host their yearly car show, as part of the 
Bristol Harvest Festival. Questions can be 
directed to 802-388-7951, extension 1, or 
by visiting http://www.bristolharvestfest.
com.. 
Flood relief talent show
Sept. 24, 7 p.m. – 10 p.m.
Join fellow Vermonters at “Bristol Shines,” 
a talent show showcasing local skills from 
across Addison County. Music, comedy 
and drama are promised. !e event, 
hosted by the Bristol Recreation Depart-
ment, will be held at the Holley Hall, and 
donations will be sent to the United Way’s 
Vermont Disaster Relief Fund. Refresh-
ments will be o"ered to all in attendance. 
Money raised will help many get back on 
their feet a#er Irene’s destructive path rav-
aged homes.
Courtesy of Susie Marchand and Rosalyn Graham
Guild meeting
Sept. 27, 7 p.m. 
!e American Legion Building, located at 
49 Wilson Road in Middlebury, is hosting 
an event titled “Putting Whimsy in Your 
Quilt.” Connie Farrington, an award-
winning quilter, will lead the group, as she 
showcases her work from the last 20 years. 
She hopes to help individuals add stories 
and humor to their quilts. Following her 
session, the election of o$cers will take 
place. Contact Andrea Chesman at 802-
388-9782 for further information. 
Town chows down at Co-op’s Harvest Festival
If you happened to stroll down sunny Washington Street on Sept. 
17, enjoying the crisp autumn air between noon and 4 p.m., you would 
have been lured into a miniature maze of tents, tables, and %annel out-
side the Middlebury Natural Foods Co-op. !e smell of local beef pat-
ties sizzling in the air welcomed in townsfolk, families, teenyboppers 
and students from the College alike to Middlebury’s third annual Har-
vest Festival. 
!e Harvest Festival celebrates growing, producing and eating lo-
cal food by inviting farmers and producers from all over the state of 
Vermont to set up a stand outdoors, serving up taste-testers and in-
teresting stories about what it is like to participate in the local foods 
movement. 
“Exposure,” said manager Karin Mott. “It’s about the exposure cus-
tomers get when they’re shown to local vendors. !ere’s no one else 
who’s able to do this kind of thing here. We have some 200 to 300 local 
vendors, and it’s not a cost-e"ective or e$cient way to sell groceries.”
Just for comparison, you certainly cannot meet the producers who 
supply other grocers in Middlebury like Shaw’s Supermarket. 
About 20 vendors were able to come out to the event — quite a 
handful, considering the autumn harvest is one of the busiest times of 
the year for local farmers and producers. Apples are falling from trees 
in the orchards, and whatever is le# in the ground now needs pulling 
out, now. A frost the night before may have kept some produce farmers 
from considering the excursion into Middlebury, but it did not keep 
local producers from showing up.
“It’s easier for the producers who have more control,” said Glenn 
Lower ’84, an employee of the Co-op. “!ey’re selling things that can be 
packaged and saved. For vegetable growers, it gets stressful.”
Among the assortment of producers and farmers, you could taste 
Iced Co"ee Maple Shakes from the Vermont Co"ee Company, maple 
apple bread from Hillsboro Sugarworks, kombucha from Salisbury’s 
Aqua Vitea, apple pie from Sunrise Orchards, ke&r yogurt and cheese 
from Butterworks Farm, to"ee-chocolate from Vergennes’ Daily Choc-
olate, applebutter from Champlain Orchards and other local goodies, 
from local beer, wine and cider to %our, chicken and homemade bread. 
One woman, Whitney Lamy from Rutland o"ered maple, rye, 
wheat, rosemary and pumpkin crackers at her corner stand.
“I’m the only artisanal cracker producer in the state,” Lamy said. 
“With all the artisanal cheese we have in this state, it’s surprising that no 
one was making artisanal crackers to eat along with them.”
Lamy got her start at her local farmers’ market in Rutland in Janu-
ary of 2008. She got a kitchen license which allowed her to bake her 
crackers from scratch at home. Word must have gotten out about the 
earthiness in the rye, or the sweetness of the maple, because since then 
she has expanded to 34 states. Lamy has a contract with a bakery in 
Manchester, Vt., where her crackers are still baked to her speci&cations, 
while she works from her home o$ce, expanding her business and ex-
perimenting in the kitchen.
“I have a new cracker coming out in 2012,” said Lamy. “Yes, the 
%avor is a secret, and it’s really good.”
Jack Eckels, a familiar face to College students who have toured 
Bread Loaf on cross-country skis with him as their guide, has also had 
some luck this year at Lewis Creek Farm in Starksboro. Although the 
early %ooding in May set him back three weeks, Hurricane Irene did not 
a"ect his farm too much.
“!e river runs through our property, and %ooded everything for a 
while,” he said. “But by then we were pretty much settled in.”
You wouldn’t know it from the smiles on the faces of the North 
Hollow Farm crew, who were o"ering up mini burgers straight from 
the grill, but they have had to work around Irene’s damage with deter-
mination. 
“What you should know is Mike Bowen, the owner, takes his beef 
at 10 o’clock at night to the butcher, making sure they’re very comfort-
able for the night,” said Rhoda Stockwell, while she served up a patty. 
“Instead of driving the short way up and over the mountains at night, he 
drives along the river road. He wants to make sure he has happy cows.”
!ese cows must be pretty happy  — they are 100 percent grass-fed, 
which means they are healthier than grain-fed cattle. !eir meat has 
no antibiotics or hormones in it, so ultimately it makes for a healthier 
burger, and a healthier, and very happy, consumer.
While children made soap sculptures and churned homemade ice 
cream, parents slowly wandered over streetside, to sit at the warm pic-
nic benches, munch samples and listen to local band “In !e Pocket” 
crooning folk-bluegrass melodies.
“!e main singer was the old baker for the Co-op, and the &ddler 
is the husband of one of the managers,” said Lower. “It’s Middlebury — 
we’re all connected somehow.”
Free film
Sept. 23, 7:30 p.m. – 9:30 p.m.
!e Vermont Teddy Bear Company 
is sponsoring a free Friday &lm at the 
Vergennes Opera House. !e movie, Octo-
ber Sky, tells the true story of a boy who 
constructs a rocket in his West Virginian 
town in the 1950s. A coming-of-age tale 
that recounts themes of family and com-
munity, all are invited to attend.
Alpaca celebration
Sept. 24 and Sept. 25, 11 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Come play with alpacas at the Maple View 
Farm! Situated at 185 Adams Road, the 
farm will feature spinning and carding 
workshops and opportunities to learn 
about the alpacas. For further informa-
tion, contact the farm at mvfalpacas@
earthlink.net.
Run-hike-bike-athon
Sept. 25, 9:30 a.m. – 12 p.m. 
!e Trail Around Middlebury (TAM) will 
be buzzing with action this Sunday. To 
honor the 22nd anniversary of the TAM 
and to help raise money to continue trail 
maintenance, runners will compete along 
the 16-mile loop, opting to run di"erent 
distances. Contact info@maltvt.org with 
additional questions.
Shelburne FarmS harveSt FeStival hoStS record 
number oF attendeeS
The 33rd annual Shelburne Farms Harvest Festival was held on Saturday, Sept. 17. Approximately 7000 people attended the event, 
which is a record amount for the festival. Director of Community Relations at Shelburne Farms Rosalyn Graham said the weather, 
food, exhibits and hayrides combined for a picture-perfect day. A 318 hay bale maze had families running in circles, as they 
weaved in and out of the lanes. Graham said the roasted corn, “a favorite Harvest Festival taste treat,” was a crowd-pleaser too.  
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
!e Middlebury Co-op brimmed with activity at its harvest fair.
Approaching the drinks station in Ross dining 
hall last week, I gasped in surprise as I saw what I was 
nearing: “Look! Apple cider!” I screeched to no one 
in particular.
Despite the juice ubiquity during autumn, this 
had been my first sighting of the stuff in a College 
cafeteria.
“You haven’t had it yet?” a voice beside me said. 
A young male figure near me took a sip of a recently-
topped-off cup and smacked his lips with delight. 
“You clearly haven’t lived,” he said.
I shouldn’t really have been surprised when he 
next asked, “So are you a first-year?”
“No … I’m a senior, actually,” I sheepishly mur-
mured, qualifying after a 
moment, “But I was abroad 
all of last year.”
“Ah,” he said. “You just 
seemed so excited about 
that apple cider.”
I was excited. I am ex-
cited. My exclamation upon 
seeing the cider definitely 
held the joy of a first-year, 
my gasp the thrill of discov-
ering New England college 
life. But I am not discov-
ering it for the first time. 
Instead, this past week has 
been a time of re-discovery. 
After departing the rural 
setting of Middlebury for 
the Hogwarts-like halls of 
Oxford last summer, I re-
turn now only to find that 
the college is almost the 
same — with the exception 
of a few renovated buildings 
(Forest now has keypad entry … no big deal). What 
has changed vastly, however, is me. I should most 
likely be sporting the confidant exterior that goes 
with having “hung my Nalgene low” for at least two 
years on this campus, but instead I have the nervous 
hesitations of the rookie undergrad. 
Spending a year away has turned me into this 
quasi-first-year-meets-senior-amalgam, a muddle 
with so many dashes needed to define it that I’m 
aware the one of the only advantages to my new title 
is it means I’m multifaceted. Sure, I know where all 
the buildings are at the College, but the people that 
inhabit those buildings are now a blur of unknown 
faces wanting distinction and names waiting to be 
heard in the sound of introductions. If you are one 
of the eight people I know, I would briefly like to wel-
come you to what I would like to believe is an elite 
club (but is more likely just my first roommate, who 
is stuck living with me again, a boy I kissed once and 
now it’s too awkward for me to say hi to and my love-
ly editor-in-chief who probably deals with me only 
because it means she doesn’t have to be alone in the 
Campus office until 3 a.m. on a Tuesday night). 
There is one great benefit to becoming this jum-
ble of hyphens and adjectives and knowing no one. 
If I seem like a first-year, I’m going to damn well es-
pouse enthusiasm like a first-year, and more specifi-
cally, introduce myself like a first-year. To everyone. 
All the time.
Do you remember arriving on campus with your 
heart leaping from your chest with your audio-track 
of name, where you’re from and possible major on 
repeat? And then ingesting such quantities of others’ 
information that the time you had thought you were 
going to spend on Spanish 
101 homework was taken 
up by trying to recall if it 
was the male Alex or the 
female Alex who was from 
Georgia?
I remember the time, 
though I don’t remember 
all the names, and if I’m go-
ing to have that quasi-first-
year part in my new title, 
I’d like to think I can now 
find my old audio-track 
(slightly amended to make 
me sound cooler) and start 
finding out who people 
are again. After my embar-
rassed admission of my se-
nior status, my apple-cider-
companion asked for my 
name. It was refreshing to 
remember one of the best 
parts of the first-year scare: 
making new friends.
At only 2400 students, Middlebury allows people 
to settle into the complacent sense that they pretty 
much know everyone. But we really don’t know ev-
erybody. By my sophomore year, I only felt that I rec-
ognized everyone. While I was gone, two more years 
of classes descended upon the campus, and now I 
can’t even say that I recognize all the faces I see in 
Proctor. But I have an idea that if I knew the names, 
the faces would come easier too.
So this “Notes” serves as a warning, Middlebury. 
I don’t know you, but I’d like to. My name is Dana. 
I’m an English and American Literatures major, and 
I was abroad for a year. I’ve got one more year left 
before I have to become a real person, and I’d like 
to spend the interim finding out your favorite color. 
Maybe we can catch a movie too.
campus policies and information
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus provide a forum for constructive and respectful dialogue on substantive issues. With 
this in mind, The Campus reserves the right to deny publication of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This includes, but is not 
limited to: the making of assertions based on hearsay; the relation of private conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable events; 
the use of vulgar language or personal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article that contains any of the aforementioned will be re-
moved before publication. Contributors will be allowed to reference prior articles published in the Opinions section or announcements 
for the public record. If a reference is made to prior articles, the submission will be considered a letter to the editor.  The Campus will 
not accept or print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, 
editorial comics and other commentary, are views of the individual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Submit works 
directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To 
be considered for publications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all submissions.
opinions8
The Middlebury Campus
The Middlebury Campus
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the student newspaper of 
Middlebury College, is published by The Middlebury Campus Publica-
tions. Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, except dur-
ing official college vacation periods and final examinations. Editorial 
and business offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on Apple Macintosh 
computers using Adobe InDesign CS4 and is printed by the Press Re-
publican in New York. The advertising deadline for all display and clas-
sified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the following week’s issue. Mail-
ing address: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, 
Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address 
distribution concerns to the Business Director. First class postage paid 
at Middlebury, Vt., 05753. 
22 September 2011
Editorial
The staff editorial represents the official opinion of 
The Middlebury Campus as decided by 
the editorial board.
Dana Walters ’12 is the Managing 
Editor from Swarthmore, Pa.
Notes from the desk: Dana Walters
Hi, let’s be friends
I should most likely 
be sporting the 
confident exterior 
that goes with 
having “hung my 
Nalgene low” for at 
least two years on 
this campus, but 
instead I have the 
nervous hesitations 
of the rookie 
undergrad. 
Hazing has never been allowed at Middlebury College, but any-
one who has seen first-years dining in Ross or Proctor in all manner 
of ridiculous costumes — or joined a sports team or club themselves 
— knows that some form of initiation is commonplace among many 
campus clubs and organizations.
These rituals have often involved tasks such as choreographing 
and performing a group dance routine, writing skits about a club’s 
seniors or wearing something embarrassing to dinner. Unfortunately, 
there are also instances in which a team or club’s first-years are made 
to perform dangerous or humiliating acts in order to be accepted to 
the group. One such incident last year led to an entire varsity team be-
ing suspended from competition for the duration of the season. This 
year, to bring the College policy more in line with Vermont state law, 
the administration is cracking down on hazing violations this year by 
spelling out the guidelines more clearly than ever and speaking with 
teams and organizations at length about the new policy.
While the goal of preventing dangerous or harmful hazing is 
a worthy one, we are worried that Old Chapel is going too far with 
the policy’s boundaries. We don’t support hazing rituals that require 
drinking to excess or otherwise putting students in harm’s way, but 
there are undeniable benefits — to all parties involved — to first-year 
initiation rituals. By grouping harmless skits and dances with binge 
drinking and public humiliation, the administration is inhibiting a 
number of truly valuable aspects of joining a team or a club.
Nor are sports teams and clubs the only groups on campus that 
employ some form of initiation. Student organizations from perfor-
mance groups to social houses accept new members every year, and 
often engage them in initiation rituals. The inconsistency with which 
campus groups were informed of the policy — for example, we at the 
Campus were not told what we could or could not do with our 13 new 
editors this semester — illustrates the contradictions of an all-encom-
passing policy being applied only to select groups.
Regardless, not every initiation ritual produces the negative ef-
fects that have come to be associated with hazing. Such rituals, if em-
ployed properly, can lead to greater team unity and a sense of belong-
ing for first-year members, and can also help older team members get 
to know newer ones. They can be very positive experiences — which 
might explain why initiation rituals have persisted in so many domains 
throughout history. Many professions, from teachers to lawyers, prac-
tice initiation for new members, with the intention of instilling the 
message: “Welcome. You are now officially one of us.”
If initiation rituals did not perform an ultimately positive func-
tion within clubs and organizations, they would not be so deeply en-
trenched in the history and tradition of such groups. One form of dan-
gerous initiation should not mean the death of them all.
We understand that allowing any form of initiation creates a slip-
pery slope on which increasingly extreme actions may become accept-
able, but the slope is slippery in the other direction, too. Where do 
first-year orientation events fall in the College’s definition of hazing? 
What about the abominable parking options for first-years? Should 
first-years be forced to take a seminar about which they might have 
little to no interest?
The point is, boundaries can be set, and it is possible to set them 
he iddleb ry a p s
Managing Editor
Dana Walters
Editor-in-Chief
Kara Shurmantine
Business Manager
Ethan Schmertzler
  News Editors
Jess Berry
Kyle Finck
Adam Schaffer
  Local News Editors
Kaylen Baker
Charlotte Gardiner
Devin McDonald
  Opinions Editors
Kevin Carpenter
Isabel Shaw
Ian Trombulak
  
Features Editors
Cedar Attanasio
Shannon Fiedler
  Arts Editors
Santiago Azpurua-Boras
Deirdre Sackett
Emily Scarisbrick
  Sports Editors
Alex Edel
Dillon Hupp
Katie Siegner
Damon Hatheway
Photo Editors   
Anna Clements
Paul Gerard
Andrew Podrygula
Jiayi Shu
  Online Editors
Hannah Bristol
Kaireth Kim
Sarah Pfander
Ian Thomas
Design Editor   
Ian Stewart
Social Media Editor
Emily Pinto
such that initiation rituals that promote team bonding, healthy discourse and a sense of belonging are not 
senselessly prohibited. We respect the administration’s conviction in preventing the damaging types of hazing 
that have occurred in the past, but the “protect you from yourself ” tone of the explicit policy — as well as the 
lengthy lectures most sports teams received — smack of overprotection, at best, and condescension, at worst. 
We know that students — including those most intimately involved with the incident last spring — were con-
sulted while the policy was being reworked, but surely its far-reaching effects merit a more open forum for 
discussion and debate.
You never want to hear the types of stories that come out of hazing scandals like what occurred last spring. 
But the fact is, such rituals are an integral part of many groups and organizations, both within the college en-
vironment and beyond. And there is a reason for that — they can act as social lubricant for new members to 
display their personality and gain confidence within their club.
The world is not black and white. Though we know alcohol in excess is hazardous and can kill, we do not 
prohibit its consumption but rather educate the masses about its potential dangers. We know that casual sex 
has numerous dangers, from unwanted pregnancy to sexually transmitted diseases, and yet abstinence educa-
tion has consistently been shown to be less effective than safe-sex education in preventing these outcomes. In 
the same way, we must shape our initiation policy to prohibit anything that can be reasonably expected to bring 
someone harm, but leave team rituals that promote unity and tradition intact.
1991, New Orleans, Louisiana. David Duke runs for 
Governor of Louisiana. His name may not be familiar this far 
North. In Louisiana and much of the South he is well known 
for his connections with the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan; he 
became the Grand Wizard of the KKK soon after graduating 
from college. Louisiana’s economic decline from the 1980s 
is still felt across the state. Perhaps peoples’ minds 
are like dry brush; and Duke’s ideology of White su-
premacy and hatred is a wildfire devouring White and 
Black communities in Louisiana. His presence in the 
press grows alongside racial tensions, poverty rates 
and homicides.
My mother recently returned to her job from 
maternity leave. She is the only Black woman in the 
entire company. She has worked the same hours as 
her White co-workers for over 10 years but receives 
less pay. Despite this, she still gets along well with 
everyone despite the off-color humor she hears, the 
wage discrimination, the racism inherent in the sys-
tem she works in and the racist running for office.
1991, New Orleans,  Louisiana. David Duke is running 
for Governor of Louisiana. He founded the Louisiana chapter 
of the Klan in ’74. My mother’s White co-workers put a “Vote 
for David Duke” bumper sticker on the back of her car. She 
had just given birth to me in 1990. She gets off work at 5 p.m. 
She takes her car onto the interstate to drive home. Immedi-
ately, she is met by a barrage of middle fingers from car win-
dows. Angry horns become violent obscenities. An enraged 
driver begins riding her bumper. She can’t pick me up from 
my grandmother because that same driver is following her 
home, through the city to the outskirts where we lived. That 
driver tries to run my mother off the road into the swamp. 
The next day my pop’s voice is thunder when he 
confronts her co-workers in the parking lot at work. 
We didn’t have words for it at the time, but that day my moth-
er was a victim of passive racism (and terrible co-workers). 
Passive racism, unlike men in white sheets with pitch and 
nooses, manifests itself in off-color humor, personal biases 
and feigned ignorance of discrimination; let my mother’s 
story show that even passive racism can be life threatening.
Passive racism is the offspring of overt racism; that is, 
economic benefits granted to a person based on race. In the 
same way, discrimination, prejudices and racist ideologies 
are the offspring of overt racism. Passive racism is danger-
ous because it seems harmless or non-existent when really 
it wounds the mind of victim and attacker. In the victim it 
creates a wound that saps a person’s strength in the day and 
burns cold in the night. In the attacker it can mask the true 
existence of racism or reinforce the wrath of racism. An en-
vironment of lukewarm hate and mistrust defiles the streets, 
then divides them by skin, gender, class and other con-
structed identities.
I see it occur regularly, both in American politics 
and at Middlebury. It’s 2011 now. We let our Presi-
dent be forced to show his birth certificate; someone 
in my dorm jokes, “I’m proud to be racist!” after call-
ing a friend racist too; this year police unlawfully killed 
two unarmed Black men, one of whom was in college. 
Somehow, in this Black boy’s eyes, we’ve snowballed 
into one of the most dangerous, hateful chapters of 
American history. 
So what do we do? In these times intent on divi-
sion and faction-making, we must remain united and 
aware of what members of our communities are facing or 
have faced. We have to do like my father: put some bass in our 
voices, stop tolerating the bull and confront injustice.
This column is new to The Campus. Its goal is to provide 
a space for us to share our experiences with race, class and 
other markers of identity. I encourage anyone interested in 
writing for the column to contribute.
campusopinions 22 September 2011 9
 “On Wednesdays from 4 p.m. to 
8 p.m. the bike shop will be open 
to women, transgender folks 
and any female body identifying 
person.”
    — Elori Kramer ’13.5 on attracting 
different demographics to the bike shop
heardoncampus
”
That Thing Down There: Joanna Rothkopf
Allow me to reintroduce myself
The year was 1993 — I was a little mite of 
curiosity, a spirited toddler who had recently 
learned how to skip in a ballet class. Also, I had 
recently forgotten how to skip. One afternoon, 
bright, crisp, in the middle of a Washington, 
D.C., October, my mother and I were engaged 
in a serious discussion around our kitchen ta-
ble. She clasped a mug of steaming brew, and 
I, a plastic bottle of whole milk. We continued, 
mutually enraptured and in hushed tones un-
til my father appeared at the doorway. He was 
well dressed in slacks 
and a pressed shirt, 
home from the office, 
I mused. He asked us, 
“What are you two 
talking about?” “Girl 
stuff,” my mother said. 
“Yeah,” I chimed in, 
“You wouldn’t un-
derstand because you 
have that thing down 
there where your va-
gina is supposed to 
be!” Thus, my feminist 
urges began.
So, this is my col-
umn! And it is about 
“girl stuff.” More 
specifically: girl stuff 
that I consider to be 
remarkable and of 
importance to the 
Middlebury College 
community, whether it concerns an issue of 
sexual health, inequality, female animals (I’d 
just like to pet one once and think that this 
might give me the opportunity), hair removal 
or WAGS and why that sounds like it should 
be Middlebury’s pre-veterinarian program.
This week’s column will not cover a spe-
cific, pressing issue — check back for that 
sort of sober reflection in the coming weeks. 
Instead, I’ll take this opportunity to contextu-
alize myself within the college’s social and aca-
demic scenes and let you know why I deserve 
your valuable mind-space. I am a senior Liter-
ary Studies major who took a gender studies 
class last spring and realized that everything I 
once thought was true is in fact false! What’s 
more is that I read the feminist-y Gawker 
Media blog Jezebel about twice daily. Does 
that qualify me to tell you what you should 
and should not think about issues pertain-
ing to ladies and girls and others with a vag? 
It doesn’t!?
Let me tell you a story. Just last week, I 
made my long-term significant other drive 
me to Kinney Drugs for a quick dose o’ Plan 
B. To clarify: I do not endorse the casual use 
of emergency contraceptives and am usually 
a priggish innocent in coital matters, but I’m 
in college, so spare me your lectures. I ap-
proached the counter with a mixed demeanor 
of feigned confidence and unassuming apathy 
(as collected as I seem, I would like to avoid an 
uncomfortable encounter with Prof. X in his 
weekend sweatsuit), and as soon as I was sure I 
had made it through the gauntlet of judgment 
for my promiscuity, I felt a tap on my shoulder, 
“Joanna? Is that you?” I turned around slowly, 
increasingly horrified, 
as I realized that the 
mother of my former 
Community Friend 
was about to catch me 
in an act so damning 
to my meticulously 
cultivated air of up-
right responsibility. 
We had a nice conver-
sation (the details of 
which are irrelevant), 
followed by my high-
tailing it outta there to 
take refuge in the Hal-
loween prop n’ candy 
aisle until the coast 
was once again clear. I 
finally made the trans-
action and returned to 
my car, thoroughly 
shaken and worse for 
general wear. 
What’s the point of my sharing that? It 
is two-fold: 1) I have made some of the most 
uniquely Middleburian gaffs that I think are 
funny and that I am willing to share. 2) I can 
now instruct you to learn from my mistakes 
and seek Plan B at Parton Health Center for 
about one-fourth the cost that you’ll find in 
Kinney’s. How is that for valuable info? Don’t 
ask me why my desperate lengths to ensure 
privacy compelled me to spend so much ca$h 
only to share the story with you all now. Alls I 
know is that I care about the health, physical 
and emotional, and happiness, pretend and 
real, of fellow Midd chicas. Alls I know is that 
I am appalled at the lack of female writers on 
my major’s reading list, so much so that I am 
giving myself about 20 hours more work in a 
meager attempt to make up for that omission. 
Alls I know is that I had only a little self-re-
spect when I started Midd and slightly more 
now, and I am curious about the causes of all 
these things and more and I think you might 
be too.
Joanna Rothkopf ’12 is from 
Washington, D.C. 
Diverse Perspectives: Dane Verret
1991, New Orleans, Louisiana
Does that qualify 
me to tell you 
what you should 
and should not 
think about 
issues pertaining 
to ladies and 
girls and others 
with a vag? It 
doesn’t!?
Passive racism is dangerous 
because it seems harmless 
or non-existent when really 
it wounds the mind of the 
victim and the attacker.
“
Dane Verret ’12 is from New Orleans, La.
The week in tweets
9. went apple picking today. take that brown 
waitlist!! #predictingfreshmantweets
122
Trending Topics
#atwaterpitagasm
do we need 
more???
#staringatfresh-
men
#addcarddrama
#2scared2panini
#skypingmymom
#needmore-
posters
#pleasestopsend-
ingemailsjanet
#cutmyhairshort
upda te
8. 
caddy that perfectly sums up “me”
7.  it just doesn’t even seem worth it to go on din
ing now that i know my proctor crush is abroad
6. 
news
5.  didn’t realize the boner under my 80s 
spandex unitard was so easily visible #fml
4.  stressed that i don’t have a hook up story 
to share at brunch today #sundayproblems
3.  my boyfriend and i both have doubles.... thinking 
about applying for an old stone mill space! @MiddOSM
2.  still v much in the honeymoon phase of 
my relationship with a cappella #predicting
freshmantweets
1. 
Campus ‘cause no one reads it anyway!
              campusopinions10 22 September 2011 
I wasn’t sure whether to laugh or to yell in 
frustration and disgust when I read the news 
on Sunday morning. President Obama pro-
posed a tax increase on people making above 
a million dollars, and Republicans across the 
country were denouncing it as “class warfare,” 
as if the poor and middle class — or what’s 
left of the middle class — were rising up to 
steal the rightfully earned property of their 
wealthy overlords. Please. In an economy 
where the top 20 percent of earners control 80 
percent of the wealth, 
the Republicans have 
made yet another 
claim with little basis 
in the real world.    
There is a war 
between the classes 
going on in America 
right now, but it’s not 
a war of rowdy popu-
lists versus those who 
pulled themselves 
up by their boot-
straps. It’s a war of 
the new aristocracy 
against the middle 
and working classes 
of this nation. And in 
that war, the wealthy 
are winning handily.   
Over the last half-century, both tax rates 
and the consensus that taxes are a legitimate 
method of shrinking the wealth divide have 
fallen steadily in this country. We’ve gotten 
to the point where at one of the more recent 
Presidential debates, all of the Republican 
candidates renewed their vows not to increase 
taxes a single penny on the so-called “job cre-
ators of the nation.” At the same time, and 
with their characteristic lack of irony, pun-
dits on Fox news and across the blogosphere 
have begun to decry the fact that — get this 
— many poor people pay no income tax (nev-
er mind the fact that the working class pays 
more than its fair share in payroll, sales and 
other regressive taxes).  
There is a war between the classes going 
on in America, and the wealthy are winning. 
In the name of fiscal “conservatism,” tax rates 
for the rich and for corporations are slashed 
and then slashed again. Conservatives speak 
in favor of the capital gains tax, under which 
the richest of the rich can earn money off the 
interest of their investments, while paying a 
lower tax rate than the men and women who 
spend their waking hours paving our roads or 
teaching the next generation.
Could conservatives really believe that 
the middle-class teacher is somehow less wor-
thy of a comfortable existence than the mil-
lionaire stockbroker or the heir to some cor-
porate empire?  That kind of thinking leads 
something like 40 percent of MIT engineers 
to careers in finance — they can make more 
money building client lists than they can 
building bridges. That kind of thinking will 
prove catastrophic for the American economy 
in the long run.  
In a sane world, where the representatives 
actually represent the interests of the average 
voter, President Obama’s modest tax proposal 
would sail through 
Congress with minimal 
opposition. It stems 
from Warren Buffett’s 
laudable complaint 
that he pays a substan-
tially lower tax rate 
than his own secretary. 
More than 75 percent 
of Americans agree 
with the President and 
with billionaires like 
Buffett and Bill Gates 
— raising taxes on the 
rich is a better solu-
tion to the deficit issue 
than to slash benefits 
to working families. A 
strong America, after 
all, requires a strong, 
happy and well-educated middle class. Yet the 
tax increase won’t go anywhere fast because 
the House of Representatives is controlled by 
a group of people who believe that taxes are 
the eighth deadly sin. 
One out of every six people in this coun-
try — the richest in the world — now lie un-
der the poverty line, struggling to pay their 
grocery bills or to educate their children. 
More than 1.5 million kids now are homeless. 
While average income has increased over the 
last decade, median income has fallen, show-
ing that the rich continue to gain wealth while 
the working classes struggle more and more to 
make ends meet. How fair is that? 
America has more than enough wealth 
for all of its citizens, but we are slowly be-
coming a nation divided between the wealthy 
“haves” and the impoverished majority. The 
recession has only amplified this problem. It’s 
time to raise taxes on the top one or two per-
cent so that the same people who teach our 
children (or younger siblings), who build our 
roads and who clean our hallways can live the 
comfortable lives they’ve worked so hard for. 
It’s time to push back against the conservative 
war on the working class.         
Apply Liberally: Zach Dallmeyer-Drennen
The real class warfare
Zach Dallmeyer-Drennen ’13.5 is from 
Canamdaigua, N.Y. 
It’s a war of the 
new aristocracy 
against the 
middle and 
working classes. 
And in the war, 
the wealthy are 
winning handily.
The Id and the Eco: Rhiya Trivedi
“Check to see if it was impossible only after you are done”
Why am I a Republican? Although I fre-
quently watch Fox News — my poor brother 
can attest to our many battles over the clicker 
as he attempts to change the channel to ESPN 
— I can assure you it is not because I have 
been brainwashed by the likes of Bill O’ Reilly 
or Glenn Beck. To explain, let me start with 
a quote.
 “We the People of the United States, in 
Order to form a more perfect Union, establish 
Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide 
for the common defense, promote the general 
Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to 
ourselves and our Poster-
ity, do ordain and es-
tablish this Constitution 
for the United States of 
America.”
 Writing 101 stipu-
lates that the emphasis 
of a list should fall at the 
end. Abiding by this con-
vention, our Founding 
Fathers distinguished the 
“Blessing of Liberty” as 
the preeminent tenet of 
the American creed.  
 To ensure the right 
to life, liberty and the 
pursuit of happiness, 
the authors of the Con-
stitution not only enu-
merated, and thereby 
restricted, the rights afforded to the federal 
government, but also yielded the powers not 
explicitly specified in the Constitution to the 
states through the 10th Amendment. The fur-
ther dilution of a central dominant authority 
manifested itself beyond Federalism, in the 
creation of checks and balances through the 
overlapping responsibilities of the executive, 
legislative and judicial branch.  
 The Founders entrusted the government 
with no more than the defense of the rights 
and property of its citizenry. Therefore, as I 
watch President Obama’s overbearing poli-
cies creep further and further into the lives 
of Americans, I am reminded of the principle 
reason I registered myself as a member of the 
Republican Party — the belief in a limited 
government.
The Consequences of a Meddling Gov-
ernment
Let’s start with the first half of the 20th 
century. What if Prohibition had never been 
repealed, and you couldn’t kick back with 
a beer when watching a football game? The 
loss of tax revenue and jobs during the Great 
Depression, the rise of Al Capone and orga-
nized crime and the upsurge in alcohol-relat-
ed deaths due to moonshine and bootlegged 
hard liquor illustrate the danger of an over-
protective nanny state. The government has 
no place meddling in the day-to-day lives or 
moral standards of Americans. So the next 
time you pop open a bottle of bubbly, clink 
your glasses in celebration of the resurgence 
of individual liberty against the banning of al-
cohol sales and an intrusive government.
 Today, debate over ObamaCare has be-
come one of the main battlegrounds for the 
proper scope and size of the federal govern-
ment. Most recently, the U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the 11th Circuit declared that the insur-
ance mandate, which 
requires nearly all 
Americans to own 
health insurance, 
violates the 10th 
Amendment. I could 
not agree more. The 
Founders created a 
government not with 
the power to keep us 
healthy, but with the 
power to keep us 
free.  
By the 2012 
Presidential Elec-
tion, higher esti-
mates from a recent 
Politico article sug-
gest that, by the end 
of Obama’s first 
term, the government debt could increase by 
approximately $7 trillion. This is equivalent 
to $22,500 in new debt for every American 
man, woman and child. To put this number 
into perspective, it is comparable to around 
4,737 “Love Me Tender” sandwiches from the 
Grille. So, start cutting back on your late night 
snacks and instead begin filling up your piggy 
banks, because an administrative state comes 
at a cost. The coddling of the American people 
has not only stifled individual responsibility, 
but also increased U.S. debt. Look no further 
than Athens or London to see the economic 
and moral collapse of a population that has 
become over-dependent on a welfare govern-
ment.  
The American Dream doesn’t include a 
government security blanket. The nonnego-
tiable supremacy of liberty in our Constitu-
tion makes certain that the American people, 
and not the government, bear the responsi-
bility to create opportunities for themselves. 
The Founders protected our individuality by 
ensuring that government can only act at the 
people’s consent and not vice versa.
Elephant in the Room: Katie Earle
With government and justice for all?
The Founders 
protected our 
individuality by 
ensuring that 
government 
can only act at 
the people’s 
consent.
Katie Earle ’12 is from 
Bedminster, N.J.
If the Obama Administration had rushed into a large 
loan guarantee to Chevron, and Chevron had filed for 
bankruptcy the following year, I am tempted to say that 
few would have crucified the White House. Few would 
question the original decision based on the ‘obvious ne-
cessity’ of the goods and services that Chevron provides. 
We need not guess what the media response would be 
to a situation where Chevron was instead Solyn-
dra, a Silicon Valley solar panel manufacturer, 
and employer of 1100. Because this very situation 
has recently taken place, and the ensuing outcry 
has blown the lid off of the kind of institution-
alized hypocrisy and pessimism that has perme-
ated the nation’s public and private sectors.
To make a long story short, the Obama Ad-
ministration pressured the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget to approve a $530 million loan 
for Solyndra so that Vice President Joe Biden 
could announce the initiative at the ground-
breaking of the company’s factory in September 
of 2009. Two weeks ago, Solyndra collapsed. 
The media outcry has been entirely unsophisticated, 
focusing on the haste of government officials and the scan-
dalous nature of pursuing energy options like solar power 
in a world of abundant fossil fuels. And while I agree that 
the approval process for such large loans should be exten-
sive and unhindered by biased actors, I do believe that the 
subtext here is being thoroughly misinterpreted. 
Because even if Solyndra was not the right company 
to take a gamble on (and it certainly wasn’t, based on their 
performance at the time), solar power is worth invest-
ing in. The solar industry is one of the fastest growing in 
America, recording 102 percent growth last year alone. The 
U.S. had a $1.9 billion trade surplus in solar power prod-
ucts in 2010, with 73 percent of economic value of solar 
power installations remaining in the country. Over 93,000 
people are employed by the industry, with more than half 
of companies expecting to hire more people this year. 
Fossil fuel companies record colossal profits — no one 
need take risks on them and yet the government repeat-
edly does (to the tune of $41 billion in tax breaks, loan 
guarantees, and subsidies annually). Alternative energy 
companies are beginning to generate sustained profits, but 
without repeated and scaled-up investment, renewable en-
ergy costs are never going to fall at the rates necessary to 
broaden their feasibility. $530 million is a lot of money 
(especially in a recession), and much more careful, deliber-
ate decisions must be made in the future as to not confuse 
this effort with cronyism. 
But we need not shy away from these important ener-
gy alternatives, not only because of the immense 
potential for economies of scale that remain un-
tapped, but because we cannot afford to wait until 
all the oil, gas and coal have been drilled, refined 
and burned. The Canadian tar sands (#1 source 
of U.S. oil imports) contain enough greenhouse 
gas emissions within them to cause a six-degree 
increase in average global air and water tempera-
tures. To provide some context, the late ice age 
was the result of a six degree cool. 
We can choose to crucify Solyndra and cook 
the planet, or we can make a commitment to 
dreaming big and thinking long-term; to explor-
ing the full potential of alternative energy sources un-
til cost-effectiveness and large scale feasibility have been 
achieved. In the end, environmentalist Paul Hawken says 
it better than anybody: “Don’t be put off by people who 
know what is not possible. Do what needs to be done, and 
check to see if it was impossible only after you are done.”
And while I agree that the approval 
process for such large loans should 
be extensive and unhindered by 
biased actors, I do believe that the 
subtext here is being thoroughly 
misinterpreted. 
Rhiya Trivedi ’12.5 is from Ontario, Canada. 
Last semester, I participated in the Swarth-
more-Middlebury domestic exchange program 
despite the fact that it has only been utilized 
sparingly in the past three decades. Long story. 
In a lot of ways, Swarthmore was very 
similar to Middlebury. Both schools have small 
and intensely intelligent student bodies. Both 
schools are set in beautiful locations (Swarth-
more’s Pennsylvania campus boasts an arbo-
retum). Both schools have challenging and re-
warding liberal arts curricula. 
There were a few startling differences, 
though. For example, when I first arrived, 
I asked my roommate what Swarthmore’s 
drug and alcohol policy was like. I was set to 
turn 21 the following day, and I didn’t want 
to get a citation for downing Yuengling (or 
some other delicious brew) in the dorms. 
He laughed.  “There IS no drug and alcohol 
policy!”
Well, as it turns out, my roommate was 
only partially correct. Swarthmore most certain-
ly has a drug and alcohol policy on the books. 
It looks like something you would read in the 
Middlebury handbook — stuff about comply-
ing with state law and all that. The difference 
was that Swarthmore College Public Safety had 
no interest in enforcing any of its rules pertain-
ing to drugs and alcohol.   
Spoiler alert: before you call the Swarth-
more police, they already know all this, which 
was why I met with one dean at Swarthmore 
to ask her what on earth was going on. She ex-
plained to me that the College had decided a few 
years back that it was utterly futile, and perhaps 
even harmful, to have students hide in clan-
destine locations when they are imbibing alco-
hol (or smoking pot) so that they won’t get in 
trouble.  
“You’ve got a school with hundreds of peo-
ple, most of whom are going to drink no mat-
ter what anyway,” the dean told me. “The last 
thing we want to waste our time with is ‘Where 
is the alcohol?  Where is the alcohol?’ So we sat 
down with the Swarthmore Police Department 
a couple of years ago and said, “Look, we are a 
College, not the police. It’s not our job to enforce 
the law, and we don’t think you need to come 
on campus unless we call you. Let’s establish a 
good relationship, check in with each other ev-
ery month to review alcohol and drug related 
incidents, and talk about how we can be of con-
tinuing help to each other.”  And they agreed to 
retain their jurisdiction in town and only enter 
campus if they were called.’” 
At this point in her narrative, I almost 
screamed, “WHO ARE YOU AND WHAT 
HAVE YOU DONE WITH THE DEAN?!”
Instead, I said something to the depressing 
effect of, “Wow, it’s not like that at Middlebury.” 
Another thing that struck me was that sev-
eral dorms at Swarthmore were inhabited by 
both underclassmen and upperclassmen.  My 
dorm, Willets, was one such residence. The 
friends that I made over the following weeks and 
months were first-years, sophomores, juniors, 
and seniors. It was really easy for underclassmen 
and upperclassmen to hang out, not least of all 
because they could have a drink together if they 
so wanted without fear of interruption or pun-
ishment.   
Additionally, the concept that students at 
Swarthmore were responsible for their actions 
and for helping others who were in trouble did 
not need to be codified in the student hand-
book. It was an everyday reality.  Not coinciden-
tally, Public Safety was a virtual non-presence.  
Remember those wonderful lines from 
a May 5, 2011, Op-Ed in the Campus by Peter 
Weinberg ’11 (“How to train your Middkid”)?  I 
read his piece on my laptop with great interest. 
Here’s an excerpt that drives home his thesis:
“Prohibition has never worked, and it never 
will, and this college should be on the right side 
of the battle, fighting it tooth and nail instead of 
surrendering to a mindless and repressive attitude 
that stands in opposition to all the brawny intel-
ligence and imagination that rules Middlebury 
classrooms.” 
Peter was right, plain and simple.   
Meanwhile, our administration has led us 
to believe that the current ailments of student 
life at Middlebury (howsoever defined) can only 
be addressed through appeals to individual re-
sponsibility (see, for example, the new language 
on “Community Standards” in our student 
handbook) instead of profound changes in Col-
lege institutions, policy and yes, even values.  
We think we’re pretty smart, but we could 
learn a few lessons from Swarthmore. 
campusopinions             22 September 2011 11
Back to the Future: Maya Goldberg-Safir 
Middlebury through the ages
I did all the things I was supposed to in 
Middlebury this summer: I crashed Span-
ish School parties, went swimming at Dog 
Team and realized that Otter Creek Bakery 
also sells sandwiches. But I also did one 
completely odd thing: I spent hours and 
hours hunched over a microfilm machine 
in the back of the library. 
Before this summer, I thought the mi-
crofilm machines were 
antiquated computer-
thingies from 1992 that 
no one ever uses. What 
the machines actually 
do is project film of old 
periodicals — and it’s 
amazing. 
Looking at micro-
film gives my stom-
ach the same swoop-
ing feeling I once got 
while pretending I was 
Harriet the Spy. In a 
well air-conditioned 
corner of the library, I 
become an epic detec-
tive. A Covert Investi-
gatory Agent of Micro-
film CIA(M), let’s say. 
I comb through issues 
of The Campus like I’m 
Jack Bauer’s research 
assistant, or like I’m in-
side Old Chapel in the 
dead of night, squeak-
ing open file cabinets, 
exposing the secret scandals of Middle-
bury’s past.
By July, I was spending more time at 
the microfilm machine than I was in Proc-
tor, and I couldn’t stop reading articles from 
1973-74 — the same year that my parents 
began college. Thinking about their lives 
back then creeps me out, but I keep doing 
it anyway. It’s like looking at photographs 
of the Titanic, or watching “Law and Order: 
SVU” when you’re home alone. You’ve got 
to know the dirty details, no matter how 
many fictional women your age get killed 
in the process. So I kept creeping through 
the microfilm, imagining the ex-students of 
Middlebury the way I imagined my parent’s 
ex-lovers — those mysterious names who, 
in 1973, claimed what is now mine.  
So that’s where we begin —1973. Ev-
ery week, I’ll attempt to re-cap an entire 
year of trauma/gossip/generally pointless 
Middlebury news from The Campus. I’ll an-
swer questions like: when did streaking first 
become popular at Middlebury? Who was 
Erika Wonnacott? What kind of food was 
served in McCullough 
before “Love Me Ten-
ders” became a thing? 
Consider this 
something of a class. 
Skip your assigned ar-
ticle on the Cold War 
and read about pre-
1990 Middlebury tra-
ditions like the Demo 
Derby and the Blackout 
Dance and saying the 
word “sozzled” instead. 
There will be no tests or 
essays, only prompts — 
mostly just to help you 
daydream in your other 
classes. 
So here’s your first 
prompt: We’re all go-
ing to be old one day. 
Like getting our butts 
wiped by someone 
else kind of old. Can 
you imagine it? I can’t. 
Nor can I imagine the 
Middlebury students 
of the future, eating their solar powered 
energy bars and clicking through archived 
Campus articles. And perhaps they’ll stum-
ble upon this column … oh hello, future! 
What do you think of 2011?! We don’t 
even know what Beyonce’s baby looks like 
yet! It’s a crazy world right now: Atwater 
doesn’t have a full salad bar and we don’t 
really know when LIB 242K is going to 
work again. We all hope modern technol-
ogy improves soon. 
Back to the future!  
Looking at 
microfilm 
gives my 
stomach 
the same 
swooping 
feeling I once 
got while 
pretending I 
was Harriet 
the Spy.
Robert LaMoy ’12 is from 
Georgia, Vt.
Op-Ed: Robert LaMoy
Swarthmore alcohol and drug policy 
Maya Goldberg-Safir ’12.5 is from 
Oakland, Calif.
Letter to the Editor: Fran Putnam
Pedestrian safety 
To the Editor,
I read with interest the Campus article 
aimed at new students by Ian Trombulak, “Oh 
the Places You’ll Go.”  In his advice to students, 
he forgot one important message:  students who 
walk or run on rural roads in Vermont should 
do so facing traffic. If you walk or run with the 
traffic, you can’t see what the car behind you is 
doing, and you are seriously at risk for being hit 
by a vehicle.
I live in Weybridge, on a favorite loop used 
by many students — a road with no shoulders 
and limited sight distances.  I have seen many 
close calls between pedestrians and vehicles. 
Students should also wear light colored cloth-
ing and pay attention to traffic on the road.  As 
much as we would like to do so, if we can’t see 
you, we can’t avoid you on the road.  
Sincerely,
Fran Putnam
Weybridge, Vt.
Interested in 
studying abroad? 
 
 
Come to the 
Study Abroad Fair! ! !  
 
Thursday, September 22, 2011 
12:00 - 4:00 p.m. 
McCardell Bicentennial Hall Great Hall 
 
Come gather information and talk to representatives 
from programs and universities around the world! 
 
International Programs and Off-Campus Study, ext. 5745 
 
 
 
icture this: It’s late Novem-
ber. You are riding your 
bike down to Bi Hall to 
study. And then, it hap-
pens. You hit a rock. And just like 
that, your tire’s !at.
It’s cold out, you’re burdened 
with a ten-ton backpack, and the 
last thing you want to do is walk 
into town to get your bike "xed. But 
there seems to be no other option.
And that’s where you’re wrong. 
For a more rewarding, convenient 
and cheaper experience, walk that !at 
tire down to the campus bike shop! 
#e basement of the Adirondack 
House is home to the Middlebury 
Bike Shop. Unlike your typical bike 
shops, Midd’s store o$ers something 
exclusive: a chance for the bike rider 
to see how their mode of transport 
actually works. 
“We don’t "x your bicycle for 
you,” said General Manager Cris 
DiOrio ’12. “We will show you step-
by-step instructions on how to do it. 
But anyone that comes in to the bike 
shop has to be the actual person "x-
ing it. You can’t leave the bike at the 
shop get it "xed.”
DiOrio began working with 
bikes a%er building one of his own.
 “I’ve been riding a bike since I 
was a little kid,” said DiOrio, “but I 
got really into it when I lived in New 
Orleans for a year between high 
school and college. I commuted to 
work by bike. I built a bike at Plan B, 
a bike collective similar to the one 
on campus, and then began volun-
teering there.”
#e idea behind the bike shop 
is the idea behind most things at 
Middlebury: an educational expe-
rience. #e shop is a friendly and 
informative environment where 
people can come and learn how to 
work on their bicycles, or even build 
their own bike.
“We have a number of frames 
from old bikes that we get from 
Public Safety and also a whole 
bunch of used parts,” said DiOrio. 
“Some bicycles are almost complete, 
some bikes only have the frame and 
you can build a bike with the used 
parts.”
#ough building a bike can be a 
challenge, it’s a worthwhile experi-
ence if you want to really know the 
ins and outs of how bikes work, and 
many students can build a whole 
bike without having to pay any-
thing. 
Joseph Putko ’12 shared the story 
of his "rst bike-building experience. 
“I "rst went to the shop because 
I wanted a bike,” he said. “I heard 
that if you build it, it’s yours. #is 
sounded like a two-for-one deal, 
since learning how to put a bike to-
gether would also be very valuable 
and enjoyable. I had no experience 
in working with bikes before, but 
I think I was playing with Fisher-
Price tools before I could speak. 
With a little guidance, I knew I 
would have no problem using all 
the tools in the shop on my own. 
#at "rst bike I built I ride every 
day, rain, shine or snow. Riding a 
bike in general is awesome. It feels 
like !ying to me: above the ground 
and windy, mechanical, and fast. 
Especially when you know you put 
it together from various parts lying 
around a shop. As an FYC, I put to-
gether a few more bikes for my hall 
to share.” 
“It’s very peaceful to be in the 
shop, to focus and to get your hands 
dirty,” said Putko. “Building a bike 
in the shop is also a nice way to save 
money and to do a good planetary 
deed.”
#e bike shop tries to do every-
thing it can at no expense. #ey 
hope that through free services they 
can promote more bikes and bikers 
on campus.
 “An educational bike shop on 
campus makes perfect sense to me,” 
said Putko. “For one, it wouldn’t 
be appropriate for the College to 
compete with local businesses that 
charge for bike maintenance. Stu-
dents helping and teaching each 
other in an interactive way 
seems to "t with our 
school’s culture — 
more learning and 
more fun.”
Wayne Darling, 
who works for the 
Department of Pub-
lic Safety, said, “#e 
Middlebury College 
Student Bike Shop 
is more than a place 
to have your bike re-
paired. It is a small 
educational compo-
nent of a great educa-
tional institution. It 
teaches people how to 
maintain, and in many 
instances how to build, 
a bicycle. It promotes 
a mode of transporta-
tion that uses human 
power and it supports 
the environmentally-
friendly goal of reducing the Col-
lege’s carbon footprint.”
So how did this wonderful insti-
tution begin?
In 2002, a group of students de-
cided to rebuild old bikes and paint 
them bright yellow, starting the 
“Yellow Bike Program.” #rough the 
program, these bright bikes were 
le% around campus unlocked. If you 
needed a bike, you could just take 
one of these. #is idea was commu-
nal and cheap in the beginning, but 
Darling and other Public Safety o&-
cers started "nding the neon wheels 
in weird places, such as the bushes, 
the middle of the quad and other 
random corners of the campus. 
Hubert d’Autremont ’07 took 
action and got together with the 
Sustainability O&ce, CCAL and the 
Department of Public Safety to cre-
ate a bike shop on campus. 
“With [d’Autremont’s] e$orts, 
the direction changed 
to providing commu-
nity members an op-
portunity to own and 
maintain old bikes by 
investing personal ef-
fort and time,” said 
Darling. “#is gave 
people vested interest 
in bikes and eliminat-
ed the lost expendi-
ture on new bikes. #e 
Department of Public 
Safety established the 
Bike Shop as the "nal 
resting place for un-
claimed lost bicycles 
and helped fund me-
chanics’ salaries until 
the "rst bike sale in 
April of 2008. Since 
2008, summer storage 
of bikes and bike rent-
als provide funding for 
the shop, paying the 
wages of bike shop mechanics,” said 
Darling. 
Elori Kramer ’13.5, another bike 
shop mechanic, is trying something 
di$erent this year. On Wednesdays 
from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. “the bike shop 
will be open to women, transgender 
folks and any female body identify-
ing person,” she said.
“We [the bike shop] are doing 
this because it seems like through-
out all major cities and also at 
Middlebury bike maintenance is 
pretty male-dominated, orientated 
towards men, and there is no reason 
for that,” said Kramer. 
Kramer believes that women 
should be just as involved in "xing 
their bikes as men.
“I wanted to create a space where 
women felt really comfortable learn-
ing about taking care of bikes and 
where they can be vulnerable and 
not be afraid to ask questions and 
not be afraid to have grease smeared 
all over their face,” she said. “I heard 
from a lot of people on campus that 
they want to learn more about bikes 
but are intimidated by the employ-
ees or by other people that work 
on bikes at the shop. And as a bike 
shop employee, I’ve de"nitely seen 
far more boys that come to the shop 
than girls.” 
Kramer also noticed that “men 
ask questions that are just as silly 
as women’s questions, and that it 
[gender] has nothing to do with 
how much you know about bikes.” 
She is establishing a women’s night 
in hopes of getting more women to 
know about their bikes and be ex-
cited about their bikes. 
“I really hope that by creating 
women’s night, it will give people 
a place where they feel comfort-
able and where they realize that 
they should feel comfortable and 
that they are free to come any other 
nights,” she said. “And hopefully this 
will be the doorway into bike main-
tenance.” 
 “I like being self-su&cient,” Kram-
er continued. “It feels good to be able 
to get myself places and to be able 
to "x my own bike and know how it 
works. Also, I think biking is the per-
fect speed to get to know a place. You 
go slowly enough that you can notice 
details, but you can go far enough and 
fast enough to see a lot.”
 “I think 
biking is the 
perfect speed 
to get to know 
a place. You go 
slowly enough 
that you can 
notice details, 
but you can go 
far enough and 
fast enough to 
see a lot.”
Under the Adirondack House there 
is a place most students have never 
seen, a workshop full of tires and 
wrenches and pliers and glue. And 
people especially passionate about 
one thing: moving on two wheels 
elori 
kramer 
’13.5
bik
e s
hop
 
ser
vic
es
+w
alk
-in
 bi
ke 
ren
tal
s: $
25
/se
ms
ter
. 
loc
k i
ncl
ude
d.
+su
mm
er 
bik
e s
tor
age
: $1
5. 
+bi
ke 
sal
e a
t th
e b
egi
nni
ng 
of 
eac
h 
sch
ool
 ye
ar.
 
*Al
l th
e m
one
y f
rom
 th
e 
ren
tal
s‚ s
tor
age
 an
d b
ike
 
sal
e d
ire
ctl
y g
o i
nto
 
ma
nag
ing
 th
e s
hop
. 
(pa
id 
em
plo
yee
s‚ 
too
ls‚ 
ma
ter
ial
s 
suc
h a
s 
gre
ase
‚ 
cab
les
 
etc
.)b
ik
e
 s
h
o
p
 
h
o
u
rs
 
w
e
d
n
e
s
d
a
y
 w
o
m
e
n
’s
 
n
ig
h
t 
4
p
m
 –
 8
p
m
 
th
u
rs
d
a
y
 5
p
m
 –
 
8
p
m
fr
id
a
y
 +
 
s
a
tu
rd
a
y
 
4
p
m
 –
 8
p
m
Tools: Tire Irons, 
Patches, Patch Glue, Sand 
Paper, Pump
           360º this composite image of the inside of the bike shop was stiched together from eighteen individual photographs by andrew podrygula‚ senior photos editor
provided by cris diorio ’12
how to fix a flat in 16 (detailed) steps
story by jackie park‚ staff writer
design by ian stewart‚ design editor
buy it‚ fix it‚ ride it.
Release all remaining 
air in the tire
Place 
2 tire irons 
in the rim with the 
curve underneath the 
tire. !ey should line 
up with the spokes and 
should be spaced two 
spokes from each 
other. 
Sand the area 
around the whole. 
Make sure you sand 
larger than the area of 
the patch to ensure it 
sticks.
Put a dab of glue 
over the puncture and 
spread it out to area 
slightly larger than the 
area of the patch. 
Let glue dry until it is 
slightly tacky (don’t let 
it dry completely).
Peel 
metal from 
patch and push 
patch over the center 
of hole. With thumbs, 
apply a lot of pressure 
from center and push 
to outsides. 
Place one side of the 
tire back in the rim 
and place tube in 
the tire.
Check to make sure 
the rim liner covers the 
nipples (the nuts on the 
end of the spokes).
Revise 
the inside of the 
tire with your thumb 
to feel for whatever 
caused the "at. Remove 
anything sharp or 
abrasive.
In"ate tube to check 
if the patch worked. If it 
holds air de"ate it so it 
loosely holds form.
Push the valve 
through the hole in the 
rim and put the open 
side of the tire back into 
the rim. 
Make sure the 
tube is not pinched 
between the tire and 
rim by looking inside 
the rim. Push the tube 
into the tire if it is 
pinched. 
In"ate with air to 
suggested PSI.
In"ate tube to twice 
its normal width and 
search for the hole. You 
should be able to hear it 
or feel the air slowly 
leaking out.
Pull the tire 
irons down to the 
spokes and hook one 
around a spoke. Use the 
other tire iron to pull 
the tire out from the 
wheel.
Remove the tube from 
the tire.
p
12 22 September 2011 13features
mission, they stated in their !rst post from 
May 21, 2010, was “to give a voice to the Eng-
lish-speaking minority on campus.”
Johnson, who has spent two summers 
here, !rst worked in the Admissions O"ce 
during the summer of 2010 and spent this last 
summer in the Alumni O"ce. He described 
a number of restrictions meant to keep the 
language school students and the English-
speaking workers separate. #is included the 
meal options, the noise level of English music 
and the living arrangements — most of the 
student workers are housed in Battell.
“#e major point of possible interaction 
is dining,” Johnson said. “So, all the Lan-
guage School kids have set dining spots at 
set times. So we could only ever potentially 
interact with Spanish and French school kids 
because they were the only ones who would 
eat at the same time as us in Proctor [dur-
ing the 2011 summer]. But even then, we’re 
supposed to stay away from them. We have 
to eat in Red!eld Proctor, or out by the pic-
nic tables, so we’d always be nicely segregated 
from the Language Schools. And obviously 
we couldn’t speak English around them. So 
even in the dining hall you weren’t techni-
cally supposed to speak English if there were 
Language School students there.”
Audrey Martino ’14, who worked in the 
Career Services O"ce, said that there was 
sometimes tension in the dining area. “#ere 
was actually a formal complaint by one of 
the schools, I’m pretty sure it was the French 
School,” she said. “Because at the very begin-
ning of the summer, we were sitting on the 
patio at Proctor, and English-speaking work-
ers weren’t supposed to sit on the patio. So 
they !led this complaint. I do understand 
that they do have to keep a personal pledge, 
and they want that to be respected, but I don’t 
know. #e English-speaking people were also 
sitting away from them, so they were doing 
their best. #at restriction was maybe under-
standable. Maybe.”
Adams echoed Martino’s thoughts, say-
ing, “Dining is the biggest issue. Proctor in 
the summer is where we allow the English-
speaking workers to eat. We have a room in 
Red!eld. But in the summer, it’s nice to eat 
outside. Students in the languages also like to 
eat outside.”
Besides the formal complaint, both the 
administrators and students interviewed 
for this article believe that the majority of 
Language School students and the English-
speaking workers hold a general attitude of 
cooperation and respect toward the di"cult 
environment that needs these necessary divi-
sions during the summer.
“You get some friction every summer,” 
admitted Vice President of Language Schools, 
Schools Abroad and the Graduate Program 
and Professor of German Michael Geisler. 
“You get English-speaking students who are 
not part of the language schools every sum-
mer who feel that wherever they are, this is 
their campus, and they can speak English as 
loud and for as long as they want to no matter 
where they are. You get students who don’t 
understand that we need to separate out din-
ing groups to maintain the Language Pledge 
and are upset that they can’t go to whatever 
dining hall they want to go because that’s 
what they can do during the academic year 
and eat wherever they want to eat. And I 
actually try to explain to them why we have 
this semi-arti!cial environment that works. 
And on the other hand, we have over-zealous 
Language Schools faculty sometimes and di-
rectors who tend to crack down on students 
more than they have to sometimes and I try 
to mediate between those — it’s part of my 
job — two extreme situations.”
In one incident, Johnson says he entered 
into an altercation with one of these “over-
zealous” faculty members. Quietly working 
on some freelance video work in a computer 
lab, a German professor approached him 
and asked him persistently to leave, despite 
his overall respectful demeanor and lack of 
English-speaking. Johnson le$, but incensed, 
he wrote a letter to Geisler. 
Johnson was impressed with the re-
sponse he received. Geisler gave him the op-
portunity to meet with the professor and ex-
plain his displeasure with the situation.
“[It] meant a lot to me that he took it se-
riously enough that he was willing to go to 
that level, but at that point I didn’t want to 
make a mountain out of a mole hill,” Johnson 
said.
#e Language S chool students study-
ing during the summer have to manage the 
divisions too. Kelsey Collins ’13.5 attended 
Spanish School during the 2011 summer and 
spoke of her attempt to strictly use Span-
ish: “I’m a student here throughout the year, 
which most students aren’t, so I know the 
dining hall sta% and the people that work in 
the Grille, so when I’m there, I say, ‘Hi,’ ‘How 
are you?’ or ‘Good morning.’ I think it’s just 
rude to walk by and not talk to them. And I 
don’t think I was restricting my education by 
greeting them in English. It was a little awk-
ward at times if a dining hall worker or some-
one would try to engage me in conversation 
because other students would say, ‘Why are 
you speaking English?’ But for the most part, 
I kept it [the Language Pledge].”
Creating a segregated environment dur-
ing the summer requires very clear distinc-
tions between regions of the campus and 
town. In certain places like the Career Center 
and the hospital, the Language Pledge is not 
enforced.
“Students of the Language Schools are 
expected to respect the Language Pledge at all 
times, except when they are interacting with 
people from the town and English-speaking 
sta% on campus,” said Geisler. “We realize we 
have so far failed to educate every person in 
town in 10 di%erent languages. We have also 
failed to educate me in 10 di%erent languag-
es, so when students come in here for o"ce 
hours, the Language Pledge is suspended.”
#e Language Schools have been oper-
ating for over 100 years, and the Language 
Pledge is key to ensure the success the schools 
promise. With cooperation and respect, the 
sta% of both the schools and the College 
ensure to keep as much balance as possible 
between all of the students on campus. But 
even with all their e%orts, Sundali and John-
son still echo one another with that phrase, 
“second-class citizens.” 
Jiayi Zhu ’14 is an environmental studies major with a 
focus on human ecology from China.
14 22 September 2011 campusfeatures
By Alexandra Strott
Staff Writer
English speakers tiptoe around Pledge Tas t e  
 Cheese
 W it h 
 Chops t icks
Campus Character: John Diebold ’11.5
Sept. 12, the !rst day of school this year, 
was also Chinese Mid-Autumn Festival. #e 
Festival is on lunar calendar Aug. 15 every 
year, on which day the moon is biggest and 
brightest. It is like #anksgiving in U.S., 
when families gather together and celebrate. 
Mid-Autumn Festival also has a beau-
tiful story. Once upon a time, Chang’e, a 
pretty young lady, and Houyi, a strong im-
mortal, are a couple living on earth. At that 
time, there were 10 suns in the sky and the 
earth was about to burn. Using his archery 
skill, Houyi shot down nine suns. In order 
to reward Houyi, the emperor gave him a 
pill that granted eternal life. One day when 
Houyi le$, another immortal named Peng 
came in and wanted to steal the pill. To stop 
him, Chang’e’s only recourse was to swallow 
the pill. #en she started to &oat and &oated 
to the moon. A$er that, Chang’e and Houyi 
could only meet once every year on the 
moon on the 15th day of the eighth month. 
#at’s why the moon is the roundest. In 
order to celebrate this reunion, people eat 
mooncakes that have the shape of the moon 
and resemble all the best wishes. 
Chinese people imagined romantic 
stories happening on the moon. Poems and 
songs were created to appreciate the beauty 
and meaning of the moon. #e whole Mid-
Autumn festival is a time when family and 
friends admire the moon. No one ever 
thought of being on the moon to disturb the 
peaceful life of Chang’e and her pet hare, or 
to !nd out the truth that they are not there. 
Chinese people can hardly be practical; we 
invented gun powder, but we only use it for 
!reworks.
If I mention the moon in the U.S., it will 
be a totally di%erent story: Apollo Program, 
Cold War, conspiracy theories and Apollo 
11 Hoax. #e !rst impression of moon is 
full of scienti!c explanation. It is earth’s 
natural satellite; there is no life on it; and the 
moonlight we see at night is only the re&ec-
tion of the sun. #is is so boring! If Debussy 
learned all this information, he wouldn’t be 
able to compose Clair de Lune.
American people love to explore. #ey 
love to study every single mystery in every 
single detail to understand it better. #ey 
love the answer, and they believe there is 
an answer to every question. But it is some-
times beautiful not to know the answer.  A 
rose is a rose. I don’t need to know that the 
structure of its cell is the same like any other 
&owers to appreciate it. A rainbow is a rain-
bow. I don’t need to know that it’s caused by 
sun shining on to droplets of moisture to 
adore it. A crush is a crush. I don’t need to 
know that pheromones are the reason. And 
I don’t want to. 
It is harder to ignore facts than to learn 
about them. We are so used to exploring 
and criticizing that we almost equate not 
knowing to unwisdom.  Well, the real un-
wisdom is to have the starry sky above you 
but never look up to it, or staring at the 
moon only thinking about Apollo 8 but not 
mooncakes.
When John Diebold ’11.5 walked into Mc-
Cullough for our interview, it didn’t take long 
for his easy-going vibes to come to my atten-
tion. Soon, I would !nd that John Diebold is a 
pretty chill guy, plain and simple. He’s president 
of Prajna, Middlebury’s meditation club, he 
enjoys playing mandolin and listening to blue-
grass music and his plans following graduation 
are, !rst and foremost, to “take it easy.” Enough 
said?
Not quite. Although Diebold is certainly a 
laid-back, down-to-earth kind of person, there 
is de!nitely more to his character than this brief 
description can imply. 
Known to his friends as “#e Blond Beast,” 
Diebold admits he “can be disruptive at times.” 
#is became clear when I asked Diebold 
what the best piece of advice he had ever re-
ceived was.“Take o% your shirt when ‘Like A 
Prayer’ comes on,” he said.
“#ey let me live in a Mod once,” he con-
tinued. “I think the rest is history.” 
Diebold lived in one of the modular homes 
on campus with some friends who were on the 
soccer team last year, but was more or less 
evicted at the start of spring term.   
In addition to causing ruckus on campus, 
Diebold admits he was also chased by police in 
India during his semester abroad there. Why? 
For driving a moped without a valid license. 
“It’s not too hard,” Diebold stated. “#e 
tra"c police are on foot. #e police in India 
are notoriously corrupt, which isn’t too bad be-
cause the standard bribe is four dollars.” 
Clearly, Diebold knows how to have a 
good time. But that’s not the extent of why he is 
a campus character. 
As an International Studies major with a 
focus on South Asia, 
Diebold was able to 
study abroad in India, 
a place that has inter-
ested him for years. 
“When I was 
a !rst-year,” he re-
counted, “I realized 
that very few people 
in this country knew 
anything about India 
while it was, and con-
tinues to be, one of 
the largest and fastest-
growing countries on 
earth.”
While in India, 
Diebold studied Hin-
di under an intensive 
language program, 
made some good 
friends, and grew to appreciate the country for 
its unique culture and people. 
In fact, Diebold loved India so much, he de-
cided to go back this past summer to stay with 
some people he had met in his previous travels.
“India is an incredible place that you can-
not begin to understand until you’re right in the 
thick of it,” he said. “Living there for a semester 
and another summer really showed me how 
di%erently people can understand and view the 
same world.”
India has had a profound impact on the 
way John Diebold lives his life, and he does 
not plan on losing touch with the land he has 
come to love any time soon. A$er graduation, 
Diebold plans to go into international business 
consulting, preferably dealing with business fo-
cused in India. 
But that will all come with time. For now, 
Diebold is still a Midd Kid doing Midd Kid type 
things. 
When I asked him what he would do with 
a million dollars, Diebold said, “Help out all 
the Vermonters who lost their homes to Irene. 
#ere’s more damage and pain in Vermont than 
any of us can see from Middlebury.” 
So, clearly he has a conscience. Not atypi-
cal for a Midd Kid to have, but I will admit that 
I was still impressed nonetheless. 
At this point, I am sure it is clear that John 
Diebold is much more than the simply chill guy 
with the mandolin I described him to be at the 
start. 
And so, I asked Diebold to describe him-
self, using just three words. He responded:
“Magnanimous. Bold. #irsty.”
A$er hearing his story, I think these few 
colorful adjectives do a better job of re&ecting 
his colorful personality than I could even hope 
to do in a few hundred words or more. 
#at’s John Diebold for you. Diebold ’11.5 celebrates in front of his (former) luxurious modular home.
Anna Clements, Photos Editor
Continued from page 1
In this bi-weekly column, 
Jiayi uses a Chinese lens to 
reframe everyday Ameri-
can experiences. She hopes 
to dissolve the dichoto-
my of seemingly opposite 
cultures, “like two rivers 
flowing into the same 
ocean.” If you have any 
comments on Jiayi’s arti-
cles or suggestions for her 
column, you can write her 
at jiayiz@middlebury.edu.
For Sophie Clarke ’11 and Frank Sweeny 
’11, graduation was a dose of reality. Reality 
television, that is.  Both graduates spent their 
!rst summers out of Middlebury starring on 
well known reality television series. 
A"er living in the Middlebury “bubble,” 
where some of our biggest worries are whether 
or not we’ll bump elbows with our Proctor 
crush at the panini machine, the thought of 
having to enter the real world can be a bit in-
timidating. Not for Sweeney. 
Premiering next Wednesday, Sept. 28, Swee-
ney will appear on MTV’s infamous series, !e 
Real World. In its 26th season, the program is 
practically a household name.
“I watched the show on and o# growing 
up and can de!nitely recall some crazy char-
acters that played a role in my idea of going 
out, hooking up and dealing with adversity,” 
said Sweeney. “Really, watching !e Real World 
shaped my idea of pop culture and the lifestyles 
of 20-somethings !guring out their identities.”
$e premise of the Real World is to throw 
together a group of seven strangers as room-
mates for several months. $ey are given free 
range of the city, and have to learn how to live 
with and cooperate with one another.
Sounds a bit like our !rst year at Middlebury. 
$e only di#erence is that this time, there are 
cameras following your every move. Would 
you want it documented on !lm and broad-
casted to the entire country?
Yeah, didn’t think so.
Sweeney, however, has no reservations.
“I’m not worried about people judging me!” 
he said. “My friends and family know who I 
am through and through, without any of the 
masterful editing, and that’s what is the most 
important to me.”
$ere may be some surprises, though, even 
for Sweeney.
“So I thought that I couldn’t be !lmed hav-
ing sex because of some ‘porno’ law,” he said, 
“but apparently that doesn’t exist. So get ready 
for some, should I say, steamy scenes of me, 
and all of me, humping and pumping!”
In fact, in just the show’s preview, Sweeney 
declares, “I hook up with, like, everybody,” and 
also runs by the camera wearing only a towel, 
calling out, “I’m having sex.”
Having to live with the other characters, 
Sweeney’s relationships during !lming were 
more than just sexual encounters.
“$e relationships on the show were so 
crazy up and down!” he said. “We are de"nitely 
very di#erent individuals, and we had a ton of 
clashes but also had amazing times together. 
I wouldn’t take back any laugh, cry or scream 
— I am who I am, unapologetically, and my 
roommates had to deal with that!”
$at was all Sweeney could tell us about the 
plot. Everything else we’ll have to !nd out with 
the rest of the country on Wednesdays at 10 
p.m. EST as we watch this panther prowl out-
side the bubble. 
“I can only hope that despite the rollercoast-
er that was my summer, people will take from 
it that mistakes are important and that being 
human means learning from these ups and 
downs,” said Sweeney.
Sweeney considers his stint on !e Real 
World as a jumping-o# point for the future.
“$e show has helped me to establish an 
identity and a platform,” he said, “and I hope 
that I can use it in any capacity to build a career 
and work in LGBT non-pro!ts. I hope to be a 
positive in%uence for LGBT youth.”
While Sweeney was living a city life in San 
Diego, Clarke spent her summer in the seclud-
ed South Paci!c.
Clarke starred in Survivor, a well-known re-
ality TV show on CBS. $e show premiered on 
Wednesday, Sept. 14, and thus far she has been 
surviving quite well. 
Clarke has approached the competition 
with con!dence and a strong desire to win.
In CBS’s “Meet Sophie” video, Clarke opens 
with the statement, “I’ve always been super-
competitive.”    
Clarke also mentions her college experi-
ence.
“I was a major in economics and Russian, 
but I’m really not going to use those now be-
cause I’m going to go to medical school,” she 
said.
Even if she doesn’t plot PPC curves or 
greet her competitors with “privet,” Clarke still 
knows her Middlebury education is indispen-
sible, and serves as a leg-up. 
Clarke initially agreed to an interview with 
the Campus, but couldn´t due to a combination 
of scheduling and contractual obligations.  But 
her teaser video shows elements of her Middl-
bury character that set her apart from the rest 
of the Survivor cast. 
“I probably am on paper the smartest per-
son here,” said Clarke in the video, “and we’ll 
see. I think I’ll be the smartest socially, and the 
Survivor smartest as well.”
“I think I’m de!nitely coming across as very 
self-assured,” she continued, “very con!dent, 
smart … I guess that’s me. I’m ok with it. I’m 
not ready to pretend I’m dumb.”
Clarke has one goal. “I’m here to win it,” she 
said. “And I think I’m smart enough, I’m ath-
letic enough, I’m not socially-awkward enough 
that I think I can get by.”
In the same promotional video, Clarke dis-
cusses how being a female a#ects her experi-
ence on Survivor. In her determined quest to 
win, she describes the role of a winning woman 
in the same way one might describe as a power-
ful Shakespearian heroine.
“I think the women who did win [in the 
past] were very strong, very conniving, very 
aware women,” said Clarke. “I like to think that 
I’m in that group, and if I can get far enough, I 
can win.” 
It looks like Wednesday nights are going to 
be busy for Middlebury students and alumni, 
watching Clarke !ght for the Sole Survivor title 
at 8 p.m., and then watching Sweeney “hump-
ing and pumping” at 10 p.m. 
Maybe these realities are a little less than 
real for us still in “$e Bubble.” But still, it is 
worth watching prime time TV to follow the 
lives of these newly-notable alumni and seeing 
how Midd kids go on a"er graduation to sur-
vive the real world.  
22 September 2011 15campusfeatures
&
Turns out they’re still stolen 
at breakfast and dinnerlosers
Improv groups
Middlebrow and Otters shows 
all in the same week?!
Taking that theater course you 
love despite your bio major
Wait ... how many clubs did I 
sign up for last week?
Apple cider
Hot or cold, a delicious way to 
ring in the fall
Add/Drop 
Going on a wild goose chase for sig-
natures on those little green cards.
Cool new classes
Plates Excessive emails
winners
Middlebury alumni star on reality television
By Shannon Fiedler
Features Editor
Clarke, a contestant on this season of the CBS hit show Survivor, poses in the South Paci!c.
Courtesy of CBS
Sweeney will compete on this fall’s installment 
of hit MTV reality show !e Real World.
Courtesy of MTV
seeking:
bloggers, writers, photographers
and generally creative minds
to apply or for more information, 
e-mail campus@middlebury.edu
The Middlebury Campus
www.middleburycampus.com
hot.
www.middleburycampus.com
www.middleburycampus.com
www.middleburycampus.com
www.middleburycampus.com
arts&science16
The Middlebury Campus
22 September 2011
 
24
!is world-wide rally resolves to "nd 
solutions to the world climate crisis 
!e rally involves bycycling, skate-
boarding and dancing. Start your 
day with yoga at 11 a.m. and go from 
there. 
editors’ 24
Adapted from Wajdi Mouawad’s ac-
claimed play, this "lm tells the powerful 
tale of two young adults’ voyage to the 
core of ingrained hatred, never-ending 
wars and enduring love. Sponsored by 
the Hirsch"eld International Film Series.
Teena Marie battles and performs inter-
nationally with her crew Venus Fly Trap, 
an all female street dance crew, as well 
as her local Pittsburgh crew, Get Down 
Gang. Teena Marie will set a new piece 
for the Dance Company of Middlebury. 
27picks
Moving 
Planet: a 350.
org event
MCFA Dance 
Theatre
11 a.m. 
Incendies 
Dana 
Auditorium
3 p.m. & 8 p.m. 24
!e Music Department announces audi-
tions for the faculty Winter Term musical, 
HAIRSPRAY. Interested students should 
prepare a Broadway song and be prepared 
to read.  !e Winter Term musical can be 
taken as a credit course. 
HAIRSPRAY 
Auditions
MCFA 221
11 a.m.
Teena Marie 
Custer
MCFA Dance 
Theatre
9:30 a.m. and 
3 p.m.
!e children "le into the classroom. !eir eyes scan the 
rows of college students, notebooks and pens at the ready. !e 
children’s attention, however, is soon drawn to the toys laid out 
for them, and with 20 students watching them, they begin to 
play.  But this is not mere playtime. !is is an average day in 
PSYC 312, better known as Play !erapy: !eory and Practice. 
!e class meets Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings, 
and is taught by Associate Professor of Psychology Suzanne 
Gurland, who also teaches Psychological Disorders. 
When beginning to design the course, Gurland noticed 
that student interest in the clinical "eld was high, and that psy-
chology courses that taught similar principles were becoming 
popular. 
 “For a long time, students have been expressing interest 
in the more clinically relevant classes,” Gurland said. “Psycho-
logical Disorders, which is a somewhat clinical class, has been 
a very popular course, and students have asked about the pos-
sibility of having other classes that are also … clinically rel-
evant.”
“I think that psych majors, myself included, were drawn 
to the course because it deals with such a practical and pro-
fessional topic and is a concrete example of something that 
we could eventually be doing with our psych education,” said 
PSYC 312 student Doug Parizeau ’12. “Someone joked on the 
"rst day that Play !erapy reminded them of the psychiatrist 
on Law and Order: SVU (who is someone that all psych majors 
secretly want to be).”
While designing the structure of the Play !erapy course, 
Gurland decided to emphasize a liberal arts approach to this 
form of therapy, which is a predominantly clinical topic. 
 “For a long time, I … resisted [creating a clinically-fo-
cused class], on the grounds that clinically-oriented classes 
tend to be very professionally-oriented, in the sense that 
they’re geared toward training therapists how to be therapists, 
and I saw that as counter to the liberal arts, really” said Gur-
land. “But then slowly over time my thinking has changed, and 
I’ve started to feel like you can still apply the 
liberal arts principles even if there’s some-
thing quite professionally-oriented … that 
you take as your subject matter.”
Gurland wanted to combine the real-
ity of clinical practice with the principles of 
research and scholarship. 
“Sometimes clinical practice becomes 
divorced from that kind of thinking, and 
operates as if there’s no need to examine 
evidence, so what we’re trying to do in class 
is to bring those two together,” she said. 
“I’m not hoping for students to become 
play therapists … Instead, I want them 
to use their critical thinking skills as lib-
eral arts students to question things about 
play therapy and to ask questions about 
why we’re doing this, is there evidence to 
support this, how does this relate to other 
things we might do. !at’s the marriage 
that I’m talking about.” 
In addition to the course’s unique approach to blending 
practice with theory, the atmosphere in the classroom is unlike 
most at the College — notably, students have the opportunity 
to observe and interact with local children as they play. 
“I felt like it would be silly to do a course in play therapy 
where we didn’t actually get to interact with any kids,” Gurland 
said.
For the course’s "rst Friday class period, students were al-
lowed to view a nonscripted play session — the children had 
the freedom to choose from a variety of toys strewn about 
the room, or they used their imagination to play with others. 
Students observed and made note of the children’s play styles, 
interactions and behavior, keeping in mind topics they had 
learned in the week’s lectures. 
Gurland noted that the style of the Friday class would 
become more in-depth as the semester pro-
gressed.
“For some future [sessions],” she said, 
“students in the class will actually inter-
act with these kids, trying to try out or try 
on some of the principles about interacting 
with kids … and also practicing on the more 
critical thinking, liberal arts side of things 
[…]they’re reading and thinking about. For 
example, taking a particular theoretical per-
spective and trying to enact, face to face with 
a child, the kinds of things you would do in 
practice if your practice is informed by that 
theory.” 
To understand these theories and pre-
pare for the Friday session, students read 
from a variety of di#erent sources, starting 
o# by solely studying play. Later on in the 
semester, students will study principles of 
therapy, and "nally, they will pair the two 
topics together and investigate theories of 
play therapy. 
 Gurland also implements lectures she calls “evidence 
checks.” For instance, during a Monday lecture, students will 
discuss the cognitive and social processes that occur during 
play. On Wednesday, they will perform an “evidence check” 
to investigate the empirical literature surrounding such pro-
cesses. 
Student reaction to the course has been positive, and les-
sons have radically changed their views on play. 
“I always thought playing was something children did for 
fun. !ere wasn’t anything more to it” said Andrew Majek ’13. 
However, I didn’t consider all the complexities that actually go 
into playing. When kids play, they may be exploring their sur-
roundings or practicing actions they saw their parents doing. 
!ey learn communication and con$ict resolution skills. !ey 
learn how to regulate their emotions when they’re feeling em-
barrassed or sad. It’s so much more complicated than what I 
originally thought.”
Parizeau noted that the Friday sessions were particularly 
engaging.  
“We made observations on the childrens’ play with our 
previous night’s reading assignments in mind,” he said. “It 
seemed like one of the "rst times in my psych career that I 
could practice clinical skills. !is was interesting to me as a 
senior because I might be practicing these same clinical skills 
as a career in a few years.”
In a course that revolves around the study of play and the 
therapy associated with it, the unique combination of clinical 
practice and liberal arts methodology lends itself to Gurland’s 
dynamic class environment and ultimately reveals the process-
es that lie beneath the everyday childhood experience.
“I anticipate that I will enjoy the class most because it 
gives us the opportunity to both learn the theory behind play 
therapy as well as practice some clinical skills,” Parizeau said. 
“I think Prof. Gurland is one of just a few teachers to really em-
phasize the importance of practicing these kinds of skills, and I 
am grateful for it because it gives me a better sense of what life 
as a clinical psychologist is like.”
Playtime in 
     the classroom 
by Deirdre Sackett
 Arts and Science Editor 
Introducing Play Therapy: Theory and Practice
     Gurland’s students note their observations while children play in the lab.
Photos by Paul Gerard
A girl plays with various toys found within Gurlands lab during a Friday class.
!e Potomac !eatre Project (PTP) be-
gan 25 years ago in 1987 and has been mas-
tering their cra" ever since. Even now, two 
of the original members of this company are 
still with it today. !ey have come together 
to return to the College to perform Territo-
ries, a show containing two di#erent plays, 
both written by Steven Dykes.
!e $rst show, a light gathering of dust, 
tells the story of three individuals, all with-
out name, who live together in a “state in 
which personal betrayal has been e#ectively 
institutionalized.” Although the characters 
have no names, their personal histories can 
be deduced by the way they act towards 
one another as well as their dialogue. As-
sistant Professor of !eatre Alex Draper ’88 
takes on the role of a washed-up writer who 
cannot decide between Woman 1, an older, 
faithful, passive-aggressive redheaded piano 
instructor (Visiting Assistant Professor of 
!eatre Megan Byrne ’96.5) and Woman 2, 
a younger woman with a fevering sexuality 
who is also the object of women’s 1 jealousy 
and rage (Stephanie Jansen ’99). 
!e entire show takes place in two 
rooms that feel just as creepy and claustro-
phobic as the plot. In this play,  however, 
creepy and claustrophobic are part of the 
charm. !roughout the story, Woman 2 is 
fully aware of the a#air that the writer and 
Woman 1 are having, but never makes this 
knowledge known to the lovers. !e story 
explores themes of sexuality within the 
realms of betrayal in a world where betrayal 
is commonplace. While the tempo is quick, 
it’s still easy to keep a pace, thanks to the de-
velopment and execution of the characters. 
!e graphic nature of some 
of the actor’s actions showed 
just how normal these things 
have become in their new 
world, as these sex scenes 
are accompanied by coolly 
delivered monologues from 
Byrne.  
!e Spoils, Stephen 
Dykes’ second play, follows 
a similar scene and setting: 
a dark area (this time a jail 
cell) inhabited by $ve secre-
taries played by Nesba Cren-
shaw, Cori Hundt ’11, Gil-
lian Durkee ’11.5 and Lilli 
Stein ’11, and their captor, 
a musically-inclined inter-
preter named Shilling played 
by Draper in his second per-
formance of the evening. 
!e Spoils 
creates a sense 
of the outside 
world away 
from the stage. 
W h a t e v e r 
these women 
have been 
$ghting for is 
lost and their 
very way of life 
will never be the 
same. !eir cap-
tors have won 
and hope seems 
like a distant memory at this 
point. 
What the play doesn’t 
do so well is give an idea of 
what is going on inside the 
cell itself. Shilling calls in the 
secretaries, one by one, and 
asks them about their duties 
to a political entity known as 
“the party” as well as about 
a piece of folkloric music that is used as a 
transitional motif between the scenes. It was 
frustrating not being able to know Shilling’s 
motives, but that may as well have been part 
of the illusion. By the end, !e Spoils leaves 
you with an unsure feeling.
a light gathering of dust, on the other 
hand, is a thoroughly enjoyable play. And 
the performances together are compelling 
enough to capture your attention. I’ll keep 
my eye on them in the future.
By Santiago Azpurua-Borras
Arts and Science Editor
campusarts&science          22 September 2011 17
PTP/NYC expresses betrayal, eroticism
The lore of The Planet of the Apes franchise 
throughout history is not necessarily one of quality 
filmmaking. From the camp of the original Charlton 
Heston version to the downright disaster that was 
the Tim Burton remake, resurrecting the franchise 
was certainly an uphill battle. However, Rise of the 
Planet of the Apes “rises” to the occasion, presenting a 
thoughtful, emotional and modern take on the story.
The film stars James Franco as Will Roadman, a 
bleeding-heart bioengineer working to cure Alzheim-
er’s disease, which afflicts his father (John Lithgow). 
Initially, the film starts by presenting the conflict of 
money versus ethics in the medical field. Will wants 
to begin human testing on new medicine he’s been 
experimenting on apes that has proven to dramatically 
increase their intelligence, while his boss is excited 
about the potential payday this discovery might bring. 
During the presentation, the intelligent ape gets loose 
and wreaks havoc on the biotech lab, causing the 
investors to back out and the ape to be put down. Will 
decides to take home the ape’s newborn son, a chimp 
he names Caesar, and raises him like a child. He 
discovers that the intelligence is genetic, and teaches 
Caesar sign language and other human sensibilities. 
Eventually, Caesar is sent to an ape shelter where he 
learns that the apes are treated poorly and kept cap-
tive. Managing to steal some of the medicine from 
Will, Caesar induces all of the captive apes with the 
medicine and leads a gang of super-intelligent apes on 
a revolt against their keepers. They end up over the 
Golden Gate Bridge, free from human captivity. 
The film uses motion capture technology to 
bring the apes to life, employing Andy Serkis (who 
also played Gollum and King Kong) to “play” Caesar. 
This non-gratuitous use of digital technology is what 
brings the film to life. It allows for a wide range of 
emotion to be given to the apes and relates them to 
the humans in a way that the previous films failed to 
do. The film’s focus on Caesar as the true protagonist 
“The Rise of the 
Planet of the 
Apes”
by Brad Becker-Parton 
THE REEL 
CRITIC
Visiting Assistant Professor of !eatre Megan Byrne ’96.5 inspects a face-down Assistant Professor of !e-
atre Alex Draper ’88 in a light gathering of dust. !e play was rife with themes of sexuality and intrigue.
Assistant Professor of !eatre Alex Draper ’88 embraces 
Steohanie Jansen ’99 in a light gathering of dust, continuing 
their a"air.
Photos by Stan Barouh
WRMC’s fall semester 
of programming officially 
started Monday, Sept. 19, 
and it is packed with a 
variety of quality shows, 
new and old.
Notable shows include 
Angry Fans with Brad and 
Spencer, a veteran sports 
talk show on Sundays 
from 11 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m., S&M at 8 a.m on 
Fridays, humorously 
entitled for its primary 
subject matter (sports and 
meteorology) and The 
Jiggy Block, a ’90s hip-hop 
show at midnight on Fri-
day nights, featured here 
because we love that such 
a block now exists.
Also, be sure to catch 
band Apollo Run in the 
first of the WRMC and 
Gamut Room co-spon-
sored small concert series, 
this Friday, Sept. 23, at 9 
p.m. in the Gamut Room.
On the verge of a research breakthrough? 
  Finally found your muse? 
 
             Recently melted-down tires? 
We want to hear about it!
campus@middlebury.edu
is important in giving the film a hero when the two sides to root for are apes wiping out humanity and humans bru-
talizing apes. Caesar’s personal struggle is the core of the film.
Franco and Lithgow serve the film well as intelligent onlookers on the world of ape torturers. Franco plays his 
role straightforward and without the snark and arrogance we’ve grown accustomed to in his recent work. Frieda 
Pinto plays Franco’s love interest and unfortunately isn’t given much to work with, essentially being relegated to a 
pretty face with lines dripping in plot exposition.
Overall, Apes is a solid and enjoyable reboot for a franchise in need of a new direction. This prequel does drag 
for the first hour, spending too much time on the minutia of Caesar’s upbringing and less time on the bigger issues. 
One of those bigger issues is even revealed in an animated tag during the credits, which seems like a gimmicky 
way to gloss over neglecting a major story point. In many ways, this film does stand alone for people who have no 
familiarity with the franchise or interest in seeing a sequel, but at times it feels exclusively like expository ground-
work being laid for the next film. Although titled Rise of the Planet of the Apes, it might be better thought of as 
a prequel to a film with that title. The apes are free, united and pushed to the brink of a revolution, but the film 
might have been better served taking us one step further than that.  
THIS WEEK ON
WRMC91.1FM
18 22 September 2011 campusarts&science
George R.R. Martin, you incredible 
man, you’ve done it again! In the fifth 
installment of the A Song of Ice and Fire 
series, Martin has nearly outdone him-
self with his breadth of plot and depth 
of character. For those unfamiliar with 
the series, Martin has created the world 
of Westeros, a vaguely British-feeling 
medieval land that is embroiled in a 
massive “game of thrones” as various 
powerful families and outside forces 
vie for the Iron Throne and lordship 
over the vast realm. We’ve followed the 
Houses of Stark, Greyjoy, Targaryen, 
Lannister, Baratheon and a host of oth-
ers as they rebel, defend and die at each 
others’ hands. Meanwhile, far to the 
North at The Wall, the first defenders of 
the realm, The Nights Watch, has begun 
an assault upon a supernatural force that 
descends from the haunted forest and 
frozen wastes inhabited only by murder-
ous and wild clans. Already, you can tell 
that this book, let alone the series, is not 
for the faint at heart. 
Martin manages to juggle these 
many plots as they stretch out over 
time and oceans with a mastery that 
has linked him to Tolkien many a time. 
However, there is a different feel to 
these books than in Lord of the Rings. 
People die, characters that I begin to 
love are ripped away from me and the 
plot is constantly evolving, never stag-
nating into the same quest that started 
way back in book one. Each chapter is 
written from the perspective of a dif-
ferent character, rotating without any 
specific order through approximately 
ten separate points of view. Thus one 
can jump from battlefield to dungeon to 
whorehouse in the span of a few pages, 
becoming enlightened to several new 
plot developments all at once.
It is hard to write a review like this 
without completely ruining the plot for 
other readers, because I had so many 
moments during A Dance With Drag-
ons where I literally dropped the book, 
yelled “WTF!” and then had to freak out 
for several moments before being able to 
continue on my way. It is a testament to 
Martin’s skill that I felt so much com-
passion and connection with a character 
that is otherwise completely not relat-
able to a contemporary reader such as 
myself. Although, don’t get me wrong I’d 
like to feel closer to a 15-year-old exiled 
queen who just happens to own three 
dragons and leads an army of a hundred 
thousand.
While Martin’s ability to rip the 
floor from under you is certainly ad-
mirable and makes for exciting reading 
early on, there were moments towards 
the later half of the novel (you know, 
around page 700 or so) where his 
formula for character arches becomes 
a bit predictable. After my initial freak 
out, I was able to realize that I probably 
could have seen it coming. However, 
those moments are few and far between, 
overshadowed by the immense plot lines 
that weave back and forth throughout 
the novel.  
It is the plot that is perhaps my 
favorite aspect of A Dance With Drag-
ons. It’s just so good. And I realize that 
makes me sound like an inarticulate 
sixth grader, but it has to be said. At its 
heart, the book is a story of the ambi-
guity of what is good and right and an 
attempt to answer questions about who 
has the ultimate right to power. There 
are religion, statesmanship, academia 
and even the odd romance thrown 
in along the way to make the human 
connections between the vast casts of 
characters compelling while also actu-
ally forcing the reader to think a bit. It’s 
a novel that starts a conversation. I’ve 
spent evenings with several friends try-
ing to predict what might come next or 
rehashing our favorite bits or even just 
laughing over a clever jape made by the 
soon-to-be infamous character of Tyrion 
Lannister.
I say soon-to-be-infamous because 
many of you are reading this review 
have perhaps heard of a little television 
phenomenon called Game of Thrones 
on HBO. Yes, this is the series that it 
is based upon. Yes, you should watch 
the show because it’s tremendously 
well done and breathtaking to behold. 
And yes, yes, a thousand times yes you 
should start reading the series because 
there is magic to Martin’s words, ideas 
and entire world that no TV series, no 
matter how wonderful, can ever hope 
to attain. So there you go ... pick up A 
Dance With  Dragons (after reading the 
first four books of course!) and delve 
into the Seven Kingdoms. Just watch out 
for rogue dragons and the occasional 
by Hallie Woods
Author | George R. R. Martin
Book | A Dance With Dragons
Booking it
You’re invited...
to stop by and check out the finest slice 
case in Vermont, and pickup our new 
menu featuring 39 delicious chicken, 
vegetarian, and classic meat pies.
Sicilian Pizza & Jumbo Wings
In-Town Delivery
Daily from 5 pm–Closing
We suggest you call early  
to reserve “prime times”  
(min. $3 delivery charge)
Carryout Service
Mon–Thurs: 11am–8 pm
Fri & Sat: 11am–9 pm
Sun: 3 pm–8 pm
  21 MacIntyre Lane, Middlebury, Vermont
Located next to Middlebury Discount Beverage
Open Daily for Carryout and In-Town Delivery
388-7755
news.
local news.
opinions.
features.
arts.
sports.
it’s all online.
visit
middleburycampus.com
or go/thecampus
today to discuss articles
and vote in the weekly poll.
The Middlebury Campus
seeks staff writers for 
all editorial departments.
e-mail campus@middlebury.edu 
for more information.
 19 22 September 2011advertisements
ePanther
  2 ATMs on campus 
(Student Center and The Library) 
plus 2 free ATMs  
near campus  
(Middlebury Market & Cafe  
and 30 Main St.)
  Over 100 additional 
free ATMs (Falcon Network)
  No Minimum Balance
  No Monthly fee
  eStatement
  Free Online Banking
  Free Bill Pay
  Free Mobile Banking
Call or visit us TODAY 
and switch your account 
to NBM hassle-free!
1-877-508-8455
Serving Vermont Communities Since 1831
advertisements20 22 September 2011
THE MIDDLEBURY SHOP
Featuring Middlebury College Sweats, Tees & Gifts at
802-388-3444 ! 800-540-3447 ! 68 Main Street ! www.forthngoal.com
 
Middlebury College will undergo a comprehensive evaluation visit October 30 
– November 2, 2011, by a team representing the Commission on Institutions of 
Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges. 
 
The Commission on Institutions of Higher Education is one of seven accrediting 
commissions in the United States that provide institutional accreditation on a 
regional basis. Accreditation is voluntary and applies to the institution as a whole. 
The Commission, which is recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, 
accredits approximately 240 institutions in the six-state New England region. 
 
Middlebury College has been accredited by the Commission since 1929 and 
was last reviewed in 1999. Its accreditation by the New England Association 
encompasses the entire institution, including the Monterey Institute of 
International Studies, Language Schools, C.V. Starr-Middlebury Schools Abroad, 
and the Bread Loaf School of English. 
 
For the past year and a half, Middlebury College has been engaged in a process of 
self study, addressing the Commission’s Standards for Accreditation. An evaluation 
team will visit the institution in the fall of 2011 to gather evidence that the self 
study is thorough and accurate. The team will recommend to the Commission a 
continuing status for the institution. Following a review process, the Commission 
itself will take the final action. 
 
The public is invited to submit comments regarding the institution to: 
 
 Public Comment on Middlebury College 
 Commission on Institutions of Higher Education 
 New England Association of Schools and Colleges 
 209 Burlington Road, Suite 201 
 Bedford, MA 01730-1433 
 E-mail: cihe@neasc.org. 
 
Public comments must address substantive matters related to the quality of the 
institution. The Commission cannot settle disputes between individuals and 
institutions, whether those involve faculty, students, administrators, or members of 
other groups. Comments will not be treated as confidential and must include the 
name, address, and telephone number of the person providing the comments.
 
Public comments must be received by November 2, 2011. The Commission 
cannot guarantee that comments received after that date will be considered.
Invitation for Public Comments
Don’t go/campus...
go/thecampus
22 September 2011 21campussports 
Date Sport Vs. Results Comments
9/17
9/18 Men’s soccer
Colby
Amherst
1-0 L
3-0 L
!e men dropped both games in the double 
header, losing a heartbreaking home opener 
in OT before falling to Amherst on the road.
9/17
9/18 Women’s soccer
Colby
Amherst
4-0 W
2-0 L
Saturday’s dominating win brought to you 
by sophomore stand-out Scarlett Kirk ’14, 
who netted a hat trick.
9/17 Cross country Aldrich Invitational 1st
Margo Cramer ’12 was named NESCAC 
player of the week a"er her #rst place #nish 
on the home course. 
9/17
9/18 Field hockey
Colby 
Amherst
5-1 W
3-1 L
In the home opener on the newly turfed 
Kohn #eld, Charlotte Gardiner ’13 and 
Lauren Greer ’13 each scored two goals.
9/16
9/17 Volleyball
Trinity
Wesleyan
3-1 L
3-1 W
A"er two weeks of play, the volleyball team 
came out .500 in NESCAC play. 
32 Number of shots on goal that men’s soccer failed to convert into points in their double header.
3 Number of goals scored by Scarlett Kirk ’14 in the women’s soccer home opener on Saturday.
643 Number of strokes recorded by women’s golf in their second place #nish at N.Y.U.
25 Number of #rst-years joining the football team.
432
Number of passing yards recorded by Carolina Panther 
quarterback Cam Newton, making him the #rst NFL rookie 
with back to back 400-yard passing games.
Men’s, women’s tennis 
teams !ght for wins at 
home and at Harvard
It was a busy weekend on the tennis courts 
for both the men’s and women’s tennis teams, and 
a satisfying one at that.
Starting at home, the men’s team hosted the 
Middlebury Invitational, which took place on 
Sept. 17 and Sept. 18. !is tournament yielded 
great results for the Panthers, and in the words of 
coach Bob Hansen, Middlebury dominated the 
competition.
In fact, Middlebury was so dominant that 
both the A and B "ights in the singles competition 
featured an all-Panthers #nal. Each of the C and D 
"ights also featured a Panther in the #nal.
For the doubles competition, "ight A 
featured yet another all-Middlebury battle while 
"ight B was captured by Middlebury duo James 
Burke ’14 and Zach Bruchmiller ’14.
Hansen was very pleased with the way his 
team performed at their home tournament.
“I was thrilled. !ey played hard … I 
couldn’t be happier,” he said.  “We practiced really 
hard and it really re"ected this weekend.”
His thoughts were echoed by Chris Frost ’15, 
who #nished as the runner-up in "ight D. 
“Overall, we performed really well. I think 
the results re"ect well what’s to come,” said Frost. 
“!e way we’ve been practicing has been paying 
o$.”
!e men are now setting their sights on 
the Intercollegiate Tennis Association Regional 
Tournament on Sept. 24 and Sept. 25, where 
they will face traditionally strong teams such as 
Williams and Amherst.
Meanwhile, the women’s tennis team 
travelled to Cambridge last Saturday, where they 
participated in Harvard’s Fall Classic. !is was 
somewhat of a special invitation as all other teams 
present — Harvard, Boston University, Temple, 
the University of Massachusetts and Long Island 
University — belong to Division I.
!e six Middlebury players performed well 
nonetheless. In the singles tournament, Lok Sze 
Leung ’15 captured her "ight, crushing her UMass 
opponent in the #nal 6-0 and 6-1. Two other 
Panthers reached the quarter#nals of their "ights.
On the doubles side, Middlebury entered 
three duos. !e pairing of Leung and Sally Wilkey 
’12 went all the way to the #nal of their "ight and 
defeated their BU opponents 8-6. !e duo of Tori 
Aiello ’12 and Leah Kepping ’13 lost their semi-
#nal match by that same score, while the Paradies 
sisters [Dorrie ’14 and Katie ’15] exited in the #rst 
round.
Leung, who won two titles over the weekend, 
was very pleased with her performance at 
Harvard.
“!is is my second collegiate tournament 
and I am happy about my game at the moment,” 
said Leung.
!e women’s team is also entered in the ITA 
Regional Tournament, though their matches will 
begin on September 30th.
By Danny Zhang
Staff Writer
Bratner Jones ’14 #nished second in the “A” singles $ight, losing to a Middlebury teammate.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
Questions Katie Siegner Damon Hatheway Dillon Hupp Alex Edel
Who will start at QB 
for the Panthers in their 
season debut at Wesleyan?
MACK
Gotta love inside sources.
MAC FOOTE ’14
With Donnie McKillop gone they 
may just run the ball on every 
down. If not, something tells me it 
will be transfer Mack Foote.
MAC FOOTE ’14
Look for the transfer to make an 
immediate impact for what should 
be a decent Panthers squad.
MACK FOOTE ’14
Transfering from a Div. I program 
at Brown, I am sure the Panthers 
will entrust their o%ense to him.
Which team will record a 
shutout against Bowdoin 
on Saturday?
WOMEN’S SOCCER
Maybe if we don’t even let them get 
a shot o%, the refs can’t screw it up.
WOMEN’S SOCCER
!e Panthers are angry a"er a 
controversial loss to Amherst and 
will take it out on the Polar Bears.
NONE
I like Middlebury’s chances, 
but look for some o%ense by all 
involved parties.
WOMEN’S SOCCER
A"er splitting wins this past 
weekend, the girls are ready for 
revenge.
Who will win men’s soccer 
between last season’s 
NESCAC champs (Midd) 
and NCAA semi#nalists 
(Bowdoin)?
BOWDOIN
I’m not seeing it from our men yet.
MIDDLEBURY
Because there’s only one of them.
MIDDLEBURY
!e men need to bounce back a"er 
a tough previous weekend in the 
NESCAC.
MIDDLEBURY
Determined a"er two losses, I think 
the boys will #ght hard for this win.
Which team will be the NL 
wild card?
ATLANTA
Much as I love D.C., I have to 
say playing the Nationals almost 
ensures they maintain their lead.
ALTLANTA BRAVES
...before getting swept in the #rst 
round.
ST. LOUIS
!ey’re playing the Mets this week. 
!at’s like automatic wins.
ATLANTA BRAVES
But they are going to have to pull 
it together a"er their loss Monday 
to the Marlins.
Who will win the Monday 
Night Football Redskins-
Cowboys game?
DALLAS
Clearly I’m not much of a 
hometown fan.
DALLAS
!e ‘Boys need to get their swagger 
back and will trounce the ‘Skins on 
MNF.
DALLAS
Because Jerry Jones, like 
most Arkansans, won’t accept 
mediocrity for long.
COWBOYS
With Texas behind them on 
home turf they can put away the 
Redskins.
Career Record 50-65 (.435) 3-2 (.600) 63-54 (.538) 27-27 (.500)
Editors’
Picks
Following last Wednesday’s home-open-
ing win vs. Norwich, the women’s volleyball 
team hit the road last weekend to inaugurate 
NESCAC conference play with two matches 
against Connecticut rivals Trinity and Wes-
leyan. !e team came home with a 1-1 split, 
and a strong sense that they can use their 
play from the weekend as a springboard to 
even higher levels of play for the rest of the 
season.
“We su"ered a hard-fought loss on Fri-
day against a tough Trinity team, but were 
able to come back with a vengeance against 
Wesleyan on Saturday,” said Meg Anderson 
’14 of the team’s performance. 
In Friday night’s 3-1 loss to Trinity, the 
team felt that the match was actually closer 
than the score implies, and indeed many 
of the games scores indicate that the teams 
were very evenly matched: Trinity won the 
#rst game with a slight 25-21 edge while the 
Panthers bounced back to take the second 
set 25-20. Despite dropping the next two sets 
and the match to Trinity, Middlebury proved 
considerable fortitude in their ability to leave 
that loss on the court, coming back Saturday 
to take away a win against Wesleyan. 
!e Panthers defeated the Cardinals by 
another 3-1 score, in a game that marked a 
potential turning point in the team’s chem-
istry.
“We had our ups and downs, but in the 
second set against Wesleyan we #nally got in 
a groove that worked well,” said formidable 
outside hitter Megan Jarchow ’14, who led 
the team in kills and digs in the Trinity match 
and collected 10 more kills against Wesleyan. 
“We should be able to play more con#dently 
now that we have worked out the kinks.”
A$er dropping the #rst set on Saturday, 
things did indeed seem to fall into place for 
the Panthers, who took the second set 25-11 
and swept through the next two for the win. 
Momentum is a crucial factor in the fast-
paced games that make up a volleyball match, 
and on Saturday the re-focused Middlebury 
squad took the game back into their hands. 
!e team will look to build on the les-
sons learned from this Connecticut weekend 
as they prepare to take on their next two op-
ponents at the Amherst Classic. Although 
they are both non-conference matches, 
Middlebury has now set its ambitions on 
NCAA tournament play, riding o" of an ex-
tremely successful season last fall, and these 
matches are instrumental in proving that the 
team can compete outside the NESCAC.
head winning streak.
Amherst scored just seven minutes into 
the game with a shot from sophomore Jae 
Heo. !e Lord Je"s continued to dominate 
the #rst half of the game, building a 2-0 lead 
with another successful shot from junior 
Spencer Noon in the 28th minute. !ere was 
no giving up for 
M i d d l e b u r y, 
however, as the 
Panthers domi-
nated the sec-
ond half of the 
game. 
Luck, sadly, 
did not seem to 
be on the Pan-
thers side. !ey 
a c c u m u l a t e d 
a spectacular 
series of near 
misses from a Martin Drolet ’12 diving 
header, a Robbie Redmond ’12 free kick that 
soared just over the crossbar, Jon Portman’s 
’13 beautiful shot from long range and a shot 
o" a corner by Alex Collucci ’12. 
“A$er a di%cult #rst half against 
Amherst on Sunday, we played the second 
45 minutes at a much higher level, as much 
of the half was played in Amherst’s end of 
the #eld,” said Ethan Galiette ’13. “We were 
unlucky not to #nish, but we look forward to 
getting better in practice this week and are 
con#dent that we can get a result against a 
good Bowdoin side on Saturday.”
In the #nal 45 minutes, Middlebury led 
with 13 shot to Amherst’s two, but while the 
Panthers failed to capitalize on this shots 
advantage, Am-
herst’s Heo man-
aged to sneak 
another shot 
behind Cahill to 
extend the home 
team’s lead to 
three with just 
7:52 le$ to play.
 Ultimately, 
the Lord Je"s 
came out on 
top and sent 
the Panthers 
home with their second straight shutout, 
3-0. Middlebury ended the weekend with a 
record of 1-2-1, and has its #rst chance for 
redemption Saturday, Sept. 24 at Bowdoin. 
“Although the results from the weekend 
were disappointing, we showed the ability to 
possess the ball and attack that will result in 
more goals in future games,” said Galiette.
campussports22 22 September 2011
Men’s soccer looks to build 
momentum in weeks ahead 
Scrum-Half Don Song ’13 looks to retrieve the ball from the MCRC scrum on Sept. 17.
Sopheak Chheng
  
Continued from page 24
Volleyball .500 in NESCAC play, 4-3 overall
Volleyball split a win and a loss with two Connecticut competitors, opening 1-1 in NESCAC.  
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
By Katie Siegner
Sports Editor
Men’s rugby falls just short 
in !rst Division I contest
In a game that featured #ve lead chang-
es including two within the last ten min-
utes, the University of Massachusetts at 
Amherst rugby squad bested the MCRC on 
Sept. 18.In their #rst home game of the sea-
son, Middlebury and the Minutemen put 
on quite a show for the hundreds of fans in 
attendance, though the end result was not 
what the home supporters would have de-
sired.
UMass opened the scoring a$er a 
bout of MCRC possession resulted in a 
missed penalty kick. However, Middlebury 
stormed back with consecutive tries by 
Geo" Kalan ’12.5 and Ross Berriman ’12. 
!e Minutemen would respond to even the 
score at 12 apiece at the half.
 Middlebury took the lead deep in the 
second half when captain Brian Sirkia ’12.5 
showed that his circulatory system runs 
purely on ice water and sent a penalty kick 
all the way from the sideline through the 
uprights to put Middlebury up by three. 
However,  UMass drove down the #eld on 
their next possession and punched it into 
the end zone to go up 24 –20. Taking pos-
session with just moments remaining, 
Middlebury kept the play alive and the 
clock rolling all the way down the #eld. 
!eir bid for the improbable win, however, 
fell just two meters short, when Berriman 
desperately tried to reach the try-line for 
the game-winning score a$er a nice run but 
was ultimately unable to maintain control 
of the ball and committed a penalty, which 
resulted in the end of the game.
!e end result may have been a loss, 
but the future is looking good for the young 
squad. First-year Laird Silsby ’15 in par-
ticular played a brilliant game in his debut, 
which included scoring his #rst collegiate 
try in the second half. With only a handful 
of practices under their belts, it was di%cult 
for the smaller Middlebury side to counter 
the size of their opponents with their usual 
combination of quick pace and sti5ing de-
fense.
“!ey had some big boys,” said Nick 
Derrico ’12, who made his #rst career start 
in the game. “It was tough to win the rucks 
against them, because we just haven’t had 
the chance to go through the drills we usu-
ally do.”
Once they shake o" the rust, the MCRC 
looks like the real deal, again. With #ve reg-
ular-season games remaining in their #rst 
Division I season, the MCRC can still cap-
ture a playo" berth with a strong campaign 
the rest of the way. Middlebury rugby plays 
its next game at home vs. Southern Con-
necticut at 1 p.m. on Sept. 24.
By Sam Hathaway
Staff Writer
We showed the ability 
to possess the ball and 
attack that will result 
in more goals in future 
games.
— Ethan Galiette ’13
Josh Lyvers ’13 dribbles past his oppenent in the tough 1-0 loss to Colby on Sept. 17.
Sopheak Chheng
VOLLEYBALL
Friday, September 16
Middlebury
Trinity
1
3
Saturday, September 17
Middlebury
Wesleyan
3
1
campussports 22 September 2011 23
Athletes held to unfair  
double standard over 
illicit substance abuse
Cross country sweeps at Aldrich Invite
In their second race of the season, 
Middlebury cross country stayed home to 
compete in the team’s annual invitational, 
now titled the “Aldrich Invitational,” a 
tribute to their longtime head coach, Terry 
Aldrich, who retired last year. !e Panthers 
paid a "tting homage to the beloved Aldrich 
by claiming a convincing "rst place on both 
the men’s and women’s side. As Aldrich 
was fond of telling his runners a#er a good 
performance, it was indeed “a great day to 
be a Panther.”
In perfect racing conditions on 
Saturday, the Panthers took advantage of 
their only home meet of the season early 
on, as both the men and women controlled 
the grueling course from the gun. On the 
men’s side, co-captain Michael Schmidt ’12 
led the charge, winning the race by nearly 
15 seconds, with a time of 26:04, marking 
both the fourth year in a row he’s won the 
race as well as setting a career best time.
On Schmidt’s heels were Jack Davies 
’13, Nate Sans ’14, Kevin Wood ’15 and 
co-captain Sam Miller ’12, as they rounded 
out the rest of the top "ve, "nishing second, 
third, fourth and "#h, respectively. With 
a mere 15 points, the best total score a 
team can attain, the men easily outran 
runners-up Plattsburg State, 46 points, and 
St. Michael’s, 94 points, in addition to four 
other schools. 
“Our goal on Saturday was to practice 
race strategy, as we were facing some 
weaker teams at a relatively low-pressure 
meet,” said Miller. “We wanted to start 
conservatively and practice picking up the 
pace as the race went on. Our guys look as 
"t as they ever have, and the average of our 
"ve scorers was 55 seconds faster than last 
year, which bodes well for the rest of the 
season.”
!e women, who are the defending 
Division III National Champions, fared 
with almost equal dominance as the men, 
as eight of the top 10 women, including 
positions "rst through fourth, were 
Panthers. Captain Margo Cramer ’12 led 
the team, winning the race with a time of 
18:46. !e rest of the Panther’s top "ve were 
rounded out by Addie Tousley ’13, Katie 
Carlson ’15, Emily Attwood ’14 and co-
captain Chelsea Ward-Waller ’12. With 17 
points Middlebury easily bested the other 
six schools, including runners-up Plattsburg 
State and St. Michaels, who "nished with 53 
points and 72 points, respectively.
“!e team wanted to be conservative 
for the "rst mile and then lay it out for 
the second two,” said Cramer. “I think we 
executed that plan very well. We look great 
going forward into the season. We have a 
small roster but some serious strength and 
talent.” 
Next weekend, Middlebury ventures 
south to rival Williams College for the 
Purple Valley Classic, where they will face 
opponents who pose a more formidable 
challenge. 
“!e competition will be much higher 
quality, and the course is a di$cult one,” 
said Miller. “Our "nish at the Purple Valley 
Classic will be a good indicator of where we 
stand in the NESCAC and will let us know 
what we speci"cally need to focus on for the 
rest of the season.” 
With the heart of their season fast 
approaching, coach Nicole Wilkerson and 
her runners will certainly look to gain 
momentum and build on the success of this 
past weekend. 
Golf teams turn in solid weekend rounds
Unsurprisingly, it was Michael Schmidt ’12 who led of the pack of Panthers on Saturday.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
By Brandt Silver-Korn
Staff Writer
What do Charlie Sheen, Lil Wayne 
and Michael Phelps all have in common? 
For one they are all millionaires. But they 
also have a history of illicit substance 
abuse. While Sheen and Lil Wayne have 
publically promoted their use of cocaine 
and codeine cough syrup through the 
media and in song, Michael Phelps was 
photographed without his knowledge 
taking a hit from a bong at a party. Phelps, 
however, was raked through the coals 
by the media and apologized profusely 
in the a#ermath of the incident. Sheen 
and Lil Wayne, meanwhile, have received 
drastically di%erent treatment from the 
media and their fans. 
In a Baltimore Sun article earlier this 
year one writer suggested that Lil Wayne 
“needs to get back on drugs to sound good 
again.” And while Phelps’ incident cost 
him millions of dollars in sponsorships, 
Sheen’s struggle with drugs has only 
increased his popularity. In February of 
this year the Hollywood Reporter found 
in a survey of 700 people that more than 
90 percent of Two and a Half Men viewers 
wanted Sheen to return to the show. 
Incredibly, 26 percent of everyone polled 
said that their views on Sheen improved 
a#er the star acknowledged allegations of 
systematic drug use and a long history of 
spousal abuse. Phelps, on the other hand, 
su%ered an expensive setback when one 
of his primary sponsors, Kellogg, decided 
not to renew their sponsorship, citing 
the swimmer’s use of marijuana as the 
reason for dropping the Olympic gold-
medal winner. Further, USA Swimming 
suspended Phelps for three months as 
punishment for upsetting the hundreds of 
fans who idolize him.
Phelps’s treatment from the media and 
fans mirrors the treatment of other athletes 
who have struggled with substance abuse. 
When Ricky Williams decided to retire 
from the NFL in 2004 a#er two positive 
tests for marijuana in a two-year span, he 
became at best a league-wide joke and at 
worst a pariah who had caused detrimental 
damage to the image of the NFL.
While drug use can be a death 
sentence for the career of an athlete, many 
entertainers use drugs as a way to endear 
themselves to viewers. In 2006 Mary 
Louise-Parker won a Golden Globe for her 
performance as a drug-dealing mother in 
the popular television show Weeds. In the 
popular HBO show Entourage, the beloved 
character Turtle serves little purpose other 
than to provide his friends with marijuana 
and is one of the show’s most popular 
characters as a result of his role in the 
group. 
And yet these characters, albeit 
"ctional, do not come under the immense 
scrutiny and criticism that athletes face 
under similar circumstances. 
!is double standard exists because 
traditionally, athletes have served as 
role models for kids. But as drug use 
has become more visible than ever in 
television and entertainment, how can 
we continue to hold athletes to a higher 
standard than singers or actors for their 
a%ect on children? At the end of the day all 
three serve the same purpose: to entertain. 
And are people really convinced 
that ten year-old kids look up to Michael 
Phelps any more than Lil Wayne or Charlie 
Sheen?
If athletes face harsh consequences 
as a result of drug use then so should 
other entertainers. If the media believes 
that drug use should not be condoned to 
kids then they need to take a harder line 
on the actors and actressess who use illicit 
substances and end this double standard.
Rank TeamLast week Siggy’s Sidebars
The Middlebury Great Eight
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
––
1
3
––
6
2
—
8
Field hockey
Cross country
Women’s soccer
Men’s soccer
Rugby
Football
Tennis
!ese girls are on the up-swing!
!ey have some serious junior "repower up top.
It’s a great day to be a Panther when you sweep your 
home event.
Bad refereeing aside, the team is keeping their heads 
high going forward from Sunday’s tough loss.
Bouncing back from the tough weekend is going to be 
critical for Saturday’s Bowdoin game.
Despite the loss, you couldn’t have asked for a more 
exciting game.
Here’s to hoping they start o# the season strong on 
Saturday.
Women’s golf
Winning seems to come naturally to the Panther tennis 
program, whether their competition is D-III or D-I.
Both cross country teams 
stepped up in a big way 
to honor their celebrated 
former coach in the 
home race named for 
Aldrich.
Andrew Podrygula,
Photos Editor
!e men’s and women’s varsity golf teams 
had solid performances in tournaments last 
weekend, placing "#h and second, respectively. 
!e men’s team hosted the 28th Duke Nelson 
Invitational at the Ralph Myre Golf Course, 
while the women competed in the New York 
University Invitational at Spook Rock Golf 
Course in Su%ern, Ny.
!e men "nished with a total combined 
score of 611, 23 strokes behind champion 
Skidmore.  Rounding out the top "ve were 
Williams, RPI and Spring"eld.  !e Panthers 
were lead by Robert Donahoe ’14 with a score 
of 149, which tied for seventh overall in the 
tournament.  
Much of Middlebury’s success was due 
to depth, with all "ve golfers "nishing in the 
top 50 out of 118 participants.  Max Alley ’14 
(153), Charlie Garcia ’15 (155), William Prince 
’13 (156) and Chris Atwood ’14 (158) all had 
good weekends with great stretches of golf. 
!e women put in a strong second-place 
performance in New York, "nishing 13 strokes 
behind tournament winner Williams and 18 
strokes ahead of third-place Amherst.  !e 
Panthers were led by Flora Weeks ’12, who was 
the match medalist with a score of 151.  Weeks 
trailed NYU’s Kristina Shalhoup by one stroke 
a#er the "rst round of play with a three-over-
par 75.  However, Weeks shot a day-best 76 on 
Sunday, cruising to a "ve-stroke tournament 
victory.  
“We have seven players who are 
committed to golf and want to do well,” said 
coach Bill Mandigo.  “!e two "rst-years, 
Jordan Glatt ’15 and Michelle Peng ’15, 
had top-ten "nishes in their "rst college 
tournaments.  [Everyone] had great weekends.”
!e women exacted revenge on St. 
Lawrence, who had snuck past Middlebury the 
previous weekend with a one-stroke win.  !e 
Saints "nished fourth, 36 strokes behind the 
Panthers.
“We had great weather down in New 
York this weekend,” said Caroline Kenter ’14. 
“Our "rst years Jordan and Michelle played 
fantastically. We’re so excited for them- they 
really are awesome golfers.”
!e men head to Williamstown, Mass. 
this weekend for the Williams Invite, while the 
women head to South Hadley, Mass. to play in 
the Mount Holyoke College Invitational.  
By Kevin Yochim
Staff Writer
By Damon Hatheway
Sports Editor
this week in sports
games to watch
Women’s soccer vs. Plattsburgh
Today, 4 p.m.
Rugby vs. Southern Connecticut
Saturday, Sept. 24 1 p.m.
Rugby
Find out how the MCRC men 
fared in their D-I debut, pg. 22
Cross country
The men and women honor their 
former coach with sweeping 
performances, pg. 23
sports24 22 September 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Field hockey splits 
1-1 in doubleheader
No amount of pushing and shoving could give Colby an advantage in Saturday’s game, which Middlebury won 4-0.
Hannah King
Women’s soccer shuts out 
Colby, shut out by Amherst
!e Middlebury women’s soccer 
team ran the gauntlet of emotions last 
weekend, going from an exhilarating 
blowout win at home immediately 
to a gut-wrenching shutout loss on 
the road, with both games coming 
against NESCAC rivals. !e win and 
loss were respectively the "rst of the 
Panthers’ season; their only other re-
sult being a 2-2 draw against Tu#s.
In Saturday’s game, Middlebury 
took the lead 10 minutes in and never 
looked back, when Julia Favorito ’14 
set up Scarlet Kirk ’14 with a chip 
pass from mid"eld that beat the de-
fense, and Kirk was then able to beat 
the Colby goaltender. Favorito added 
a second score 14 minutes later, and 
the rout was on. !e Panthers took a 
2-0 lead into the half.
In the second half it was Kirk 
again putting on a clinic in front of 
the hapless Mule defenders, this time 
taking an assist from Rachel Madding 
’13 and "nding the back of the net 10 
and a half minutes into the period. 
With the Panther defense blanketing 
the "eld and sti$ing any chance of a 
Colby comeback, Kirk decided to add 
a third goal with just three minutes 
remaining in the match for a hat trick, 
sending a laser of a shot into the net 
from 18 yards out. Kirk’s third goal 
of the a#ernoon put the exclamation 
point on the dominating Middlebury 
win. Panther goaltender Jocelyn 
Remmert ’13 earned her "rst career 
shutout patrolling the space between 
the posts in the victory.
!e elation of the Colby victory 
was short-lived, however, as the Pan-
thers were forced to travel to Amherst 
on Sunday for their second game 
in as many days. !is time around, 
Middlebury was not so dominant of-
fensively, and a controversial call in 
Amherst’s favor helped them to defeat 
the Panthers by a "nal tally of 2-0. 
A#er some impressive goaltend-
ing by both sides in the opening mo-
ments of the game, Amherst was able 
to open up the scoring 21 minutes 
into the match a#er a successfully 
completed corner kick. Less than 10 
minutes later, Middlebury was dealt a 
crucial blow, not by an Amherst shot, 
which seemingly had been corralled 
by Remmert well short of completely 
crossing the goal-line, but by the side-
line referee, who from a position well 
away from the action called the shot 
a goal, whereas no call was made by 
the center referee, who was prepared 
to play on. A#er that controversy, 
Middlebury was unable to convert on 
the o%ensive side of the ball, despite 
dominating play through the mid"eld 
and maintaining possession for much 
of the second half. Remmert recorded 
"ve saves in the loss, which dropped 
the Panthers to 1-1-1 on the season.
“What’s frustrating about the 
Amherst game is that we outplayed 
them,” said one of the captains, Colby 
Gibbs ’13. “!e hard thing about soc-
cer is that sometimes you need a little 
luck. !ings just weren’t going our 
way. However, the team is viewing the 
loss as an incentive to play that much 
harder.”
Middlebury takes on Plattsburgh 
this a#ernoon before returning to 
NESCAC play this weekend at Bow-
doin. A win against the Polar Bears 
would do much to help the Panthers 
get back into the thick of the confer-
ence title hunt.
Men’s soccer "nishes 0-2 vs. 
underdog Mules and rival Je%s
By Dillon Hupp
Sports Editor
Tim Cahill ’12 bats away a dangerous shot in Saturday’s Colby match.
Sopheak Chheng
!e men’s soccer team spent 
the weekend "ghting two hard 
battles against NESCAC rivals. Af-
ter last weekend’s tie against Tu#s 
and a win at Norwich later in the 
week, the Panthers faced Colby 
in their home opener on Sept. 17. 
!e Mules might appear medio-
cre in the standings, but they have 
been notoriously di&cult for the 
stronger Middlebury team to de-
feat of late, and this game proved 
to be a continuation of that trend.
Both teams played an impres-
sive yet frustrating match that saw 
shot a#er shot $ying just wide of 
the goal. Middlebury’s Jack Free-
man ’13 missed le# with a free 
kick at the 21-minute mark, fol-
lowed by Sam Peisch’s ’13.5 diving 
header that went just wide at 33 
minutes in.
!e Mules had their fair share 
of goal opportunities as well. In 
the 62nd minute, the Middlebury 
defense scrambled to stop two 
goal attempts. Goalkeeper and 
tri-captain Tim Cahill ’12 stopped 
the "rst shot while defender Matt 
Martin ’12.5 cleared the second. 
A#er a scoreless game, the 
Mules and Panthers entered over-
time, as they have for the past 
three seasons, with less than de-
sirable results. In an all-too-fa-
miliar, gut-wrenching moment, 
Colby snagged the victory o% a 
Nick Aubin shot to the top cor-
ner of the far post. Cahill, who 
was barely tested in the match 
up to that point, could do little to 
stop Aubin’s game-winner, which 
came 4:28 into overtime to give 
the visiting team the 1-0 victory. 
Middlebury led on shots by a wide 
margin of 15-4, while Colby senior 
goalkeeper Ben Joslin led with "ve 
saves to Cahill’s one.
A day a#er the close loss, the 
18th-ranked Panthers boarded 
the bus for Amherst to take on 
the seventh-ranked Lord Je%s. 
As soon as the Middlebury men 
stepped on the "eld, their rivals 
showed a strong determination to 
break Middlebury’s 3-0 head-to-
By Mike Oster
Staff Writer
See Men’s soccer, page 22
Field hockey kept the pressure on Colby’s backs in their home opener.
Hannah King
On Saturday, the Middlebury 
women’s "eld hockey team picked 
apart a visiting Colby squad to win 
their home opener on the newly 
re-surfaced Kohn Field. Forwards 
Lauren Greer ’13 and Charlotte Gar-
diner ’13 tallied two goals apiece and 
spear-headed the Panther o%ense for 
much of the game. 
Greer’s "rst goal of the season 
came unassisted 15 minutes into the 
game, and fellow forward Greer took 
charge of tallying the next two scores 
for the Panthers. Greer’s inaugural 
goal came o% a feed from Heather 
Karpas ’12, and her second was the 
result of a beautifully executed pen-
alty corner taken by tri-captain Lucy 
Jackson ’12. Elinore O’Brien ’14 also 
found the back of the cage once, with 
the help of Greer on a penalty corner, 
to end the match 5-1. Colby’s only 
goal was also the result of a penalty 
corner, one of just nine shots that 
they managed to get o% in a game 
that Middlebury largely dominated.
But celebratory cheers were 
short-lived as the Panthers prepared 
to handle the Lord Je%s of Amherst 
the very next day. Middlebury’s tired 
legs were very evident as Amherst 
pierced through the defense time 
and time again, outshooting the 
Panthers 22-10. !e victorious mo-
mentum from the day before was not 
enough to carry the team, as the "nal 
whistle blew with a score of 3-1 in fa-
vor of Amherst. 
“Unfortunately we just had a 
bad game against Amherst,” said 
tri-captain Liz Garry ’12. “We didn’t 
play a great game in terms of our 
"eld hockey technique and Amherst 
was able to really exploit that.”  
But with the leadership of Becca 
Shaw ’11, Lucy Jackson ’11 and Liz 
Garry ’11, the team looks to build on 
these game experiences and help the 
fairly young team mature. 
“Fortunately,” Garry continued, 
“[bad technique] can be "xed. We 
have a great next few days to work on 
our form and technical aspects of the 
game that were missing on Sunday, 
and that’s easy.  We have another big 
game against Bowdoin this week-
end, and as soon as we were leaving 
Amherst that was the next area of 
focus. !ey are another very skilled 
team, but we know we just need to 
correct the little things in our game 
and we will be back on track.” 
!e seventh-ranked Panthers 
(2-1) have a long road ahead, includ-
ing matchups with ranked programs 
such as #4 Bowdoin,  #5 Skidmore 
and  #15 Trinity. Despite the chal-
lenges that lie ahead in this competi-
tive conference, the team’s focus re-
mains on getting better every day in 
practice and on the game ahead, this 
Saturday at Bowdoin.
By Vincent Mariano
Staff Writer
