The College has maintained 
its position in the U.S. News & 
World Report’s annual rankings 
for national liberal arts colleges 
posted on Sept. 13. 
Ranked fourth amongst its peer 
institutions, the College is now 
tied with Swarthmore College. 
Previously, the College had been 
tied with Wellesley College, 
Bowdoin College and Pomona 
College. Wellesley College is now 
ranked third, Bowdoin College 
sixth and Pomona College seventh, 
tied with Carleton College. 
“While we’re always honored 
to be recognized in this, and other 
rankings, it’s important to put 
all rankings into perspective and 
not place too much importance 
in them,” said Bill Burger, the 
College’s vice president for 
Communications and chief 
marketing officer. 
Per U.S. News, the rankings 
are derived from an institution’s 
scoring in seven areas, each of 
which has a designated percentage 
weight: undergraduate academic 
reputation (22.5 percent); 
graduation and retention rates 
(22.5 percent); faculty resources 
(20 percent); student selectivity 
(12.5 percent); financial resources 
(10 percent); graduation rate 
performance (7.5 percent); and 
alumni giving (5 percent). The 
institution’s performance in each 
of these categories comprise a 
final 100 point score. The College 
received a score of 93. 
“What’s important at the end of 
the day is that prospective students 
find a school that speaks to them, 
that feels right and that is a good 
fit for them given their academic 
and extracurricular interests,” 
Burger said. “No one should 
choose a college based solely or 
even primarily on its ranking. We 
make a point to emphasize that in 
our admissions process.”
Contractors took down the 
modular homes known as the 
“mods” from their Ridgeline loca-
tion along Route 125 last week, 
clearing the site for 62 new parking 
spaces to be paved in their place.
The parking addition, slated for 
completion in mid-November, is 
the final stage of the Ridgeline de-
velopment project, plans for which 
were submitted to the town’s de-
sign review board and approved in 
May 2015.
The removal of the mods, which 
housed 35 student beds, began on 
August 18 and ended last Friday. 
The College sold the buildings to 
Acker Excavating Co. in Bristol, 
who will reuse them for a housing 
development in town. As part of 
the arrangement, Acker is oversee-
ing the parking expansion.
The parking lot will include a 
retention basin to manage storm 
water run-off in order to meet 
new State of Vermont regulations, 
according to Tom McGinn, the 
project manager. The regulations 
are part of a 2014 amendment to 
Vermont Act 250, a land use law 
that now places stricter limits on 
sprawl by encouraging developers 
to fill in around existing structures 
rather than extending strip devel-
opment.
The Ridgeline parking lot, 
which currently has spaces for 
sophomores, juniors and seniors, 
was expanded in 1998 to accom-
modate an unexpected influx of 
students who had enrolled over 
the College’s capacity. A section 
of the 1998 parking lot expansion 
provided the site for the mods.
The College had originally 
intended to build eight student 
residences in Ridgeline Woods to 
accommodate 300 new students, 
when in 1995 President John Mc-
Cardell decided to increase the 
student body from 2,000 to 2,350 
students. Contractors hired by the 
College began clearing the Ridge-
line woods in July 1996, but they 
did so before obtaining a land-use 
permit with the state through Act 
250. A court battle ensued, lasting 
from August until January, that 
forced the College to reduce its 
plan to four residences.
While litigation between the 
College and the state of Vermont 
continued, the planning commis-
sion for the town of Middlebury 
was reviewing the College’s pro-
posal.
In a 29-page document is-
sued in January 1996, the plan-
ning board rejected the proposal 
because the plan did not address 
the town’s zoning ordinances. The 
College had conducted a profes-
sional study on the impact of traffic 
caused by the project. But in their 
permit denial, the zoning board 
indicated that the parking study 
lacked sufficient detail, accord-
ing to documents obtained by The 
Campus.
The zoning board found that 
SEPtember 22, 2016 | Vol. 115 no.2  | middleburycampus.com
SOS FEST, A 
SMASHING 
SUCCESS
PAGE 14
STUDENT 
ORGANIZATIONS 
WITH LOCAL FOCUS 
PAGES 4-5
COLLEGE 
REPUBLICANS 
MEMBERSHIP GROWS 
3000 PERCENT
PAGE  12in
sid
e
By Phil Bohlman
News Editor
Newly tenured (clockwise from top left): Marybeth Nevins, Edward 
Vazquez, Leticia Arroyo Abad, Linda White, Mario Higa and Marta 
Manrique-Gómez (not pictured).
College Communications
Co-Chair Wants 
Legitimacy For 
Comm. Council
The ‘mods’ were torn down and sold to a developer in Bristol to clear space for new student parking.
Michael O’hara
SEE LOOKING, PAGE 2
New Parking to Replace Ridgeline ‘Mod’ HOMES
By Ethan Brady
News Editor
SEE RIDGELINE, PAGE 2
This week The Middlebury Campus 
sat down with David Ollin Pesquei-
ra ’17, the new Student Co-Chair of 
the Community Council (CC). 
Middlebury Campus (MC): 
What are some of your goals for CC 
this year?
David Pesqueria (DP): To make 
it a relevant and known body on 
campus. I want to make sure that 
we have a written constitution and 
bylaws governing who we are, how 
we go about business, how we mea-
sure whether or not we’re actually 
meeting our goals. I think what has 
happened in the past is that a num-
ber of issues are brought to CC ei-
ther from the members themselves 
or other community members but 
we don’t have a way to prioritize or 
to organize those issues. When we 
create proposals, we have to put a 
lot of data and a lot of research into 
them so that it’s easier for whoever 
we’re giving [the proposal to] to get 
it done. I would like to make Com-
munity Council more than just a 
recommendation generator. I want 
to create policy that will ultimately 
govern our campus. 
MC:What challenges do you antici-
pate the CC will face this year?
DP: A lack of legitimacy. I think 
we’re gonna run into a lot of hesi-
tancy from students and staff mem-
bers and faculty, [who will] say why 
do we want to put this information, 
these inquiries, these issues to the 
community council? More broadly, 
I think that there are remnants of 
the divisiveness, at least the appear-
ance of divisiveness, that happened 
last year that will affect some of the 
issues we cover in CC. I think [the 
divisiveness] is a national trend. 
We’re at this stalemate where we 
have somebody who feels person-
ally attacked from something that 
somebody does or doesn’t do or 
says or doesn’t say and they have 
the inability to really communicate 
that, or at times feel that that they 
don’t have to explain why they feel 
angry. You have that on one side 
and on the other side another stu-
dent has a willingness to try and 
understand why the offended per-
son feels that way but they have an 
inability to stick it through. That 
has a lot to do with Laurie Patton’s 
saying, this rhetorical resilience. I 
think if we apply that effectively it 
will really fit in well with this stale-
mate. It’s part of a national trend. 
But I think resilience is a big thing 
that both sides need right now.
MC: Where does the community 
council fit in making Middlebury 
more inclusive? 
DP: Just by its name: community. 
We have all important sectors of the 
community at this one table meet-
ing weekly and they’re tasked with 
talking about issues and passing 
resolutions. You have staff mem-
bers, including administrators, you 
have faculty members and you have 
students that are trying to create 
these policies that will inevitably 
lead to trying understand the dif-
ferent perspectives on campus. I 
think Community Council is at a 
College Communications
THIS WEEKEND: COLLEGE WELCOMES ALUMNI FOR HOMECOMING
The Homecoming football game against Bowdoin College will take place on Sept. 24. In addition to 
sports games, alumni can enjoy the annual Clifford Symposium and other campus events. 
Midd Stays at No. 4 in 
‘U.S. News’ Rankings
By Will DiGravio
News Editor
SEE SIX FACULTY, PAGE 2SIX FACULTY RECEIVE TENURE
| September 22, 20162 NEWS
Six Faculty 
Gain Tenure
Outdoor Nation Campus Challenge
The Middlebury Mountain Club has en-
tered the Middlebury community in the Out-
door Nation Campus Challenge for the sec-
ond consecutive year. 
Created three years ago by the Outdoor 
Foundation, the Outdoor Nation Campus 
Challenge is a national effort aimed to inspire 
and create a generation of young people that 
are actively engaged in the outdoors. The 
challenge calls for participants to engage in 
a variety of outdoor activities, from outdoor 
yoga and walks around campus, to backpack-
ing and kayaking. Individuals can log a maxi-
mum of five activities per day.
From Sept. 4 to Oct. 15, members of the 
Middlebury community will be able to com-
pete against communities from 87 other 
colleges across the country, including Bates 
College, Brown University, Dartmouth Uni-
versity, Johns Hopkins University and more. 
“While the Middlebury community is like-
ly more active than other college campuses, a 
divide still exists between students who are 
very experienced in the outdoors and those 
who are less experienced, and the goal of this 
Challenge is to work to bridge that gap,” said 
Anahi Naranjo ’17, the former Middlebury 
Mountain Club outreach coordinator.
To join the challenge, participants must 
create an account and log completed activi-
ties. After submitting a photograph and short 
description of the activity, participants begin 
to receieve points, the totals of which differ 
for each activity. Students, faculty and staff 
members, alumni and all other members of 
the community can join the Middlebury team 
at www.oncampuschallenge.org. 
By Oct. 15, the school with the most points 
will win the competition.  Individual compet-
itors can also win prizes throughout the com-
petition period, including “Most Outdoorsy” 
person — an award given to a student from 
each college. Other prizes include gear, in-
ternships and more. Sponsors include REI, 
North Face, Chaco, Adidas, Keen, Grand 
Trunk, the National Park Service and the 
Conservation Fund.
To bring the community together, the 
Middlebury Mountain Club plans to engage 
with local outdoor clubs and retailers, such 
as the Bike Shop and the Middlebury Moun-
taineer shop. The Middlebury Mountain Club 
hopes to create lasting connections between 
outdoor organizations on and off campus. 
College Selects Mark Orten as 
New Dean At Scott Center
By Elizabeth Sawyer
Contributing Writer
Mark R. Orten joined the Scott Center for 
Spiritual and Religious Life as the new direc-
tor and dean of spiritual and religious life this 
past July. Prior to his arrival at Middlebury, 
Orten served as university chaplain and di-
rector of the Center for Religious and Spiri-
tual Life at Denison University for 13 years. 
Orten succeeds Larry Yarbrough, Pardon 
Tillinghast Professor of Religion, who served 
as the director of the Scott Center from 2014-
2016.  
“In his role as Dean and Director, [Orten] 
is charged with engaging the campus in 
exploring the roles of religion, spiritual-
ity, contemplation and action in the quest 
for meaningful lives, and for promoting vi-
brant multi-faith dialogue and cooperation 
throughout the community,” Dean of the Col-
lege Katy Smith Abbott said in an all-school 
email sent over the summer.  
“All of us here at the Scott Center are re-
ally enjoying working with him. We are all 
very pleased that the College has created 
this new high-profile position for spirituality 
at Middlebury, and we are already working 
on exciting new plans,” said Ellen Blackmer 
McKay, administrative program coordinator 
of the Scott Center.
Orten cited expanding the presence of the 
Scott Center on campus to achieve a sense 
of inclusion as one of his main goals for this 
year. “I’m trying to get a sense of what it is 
that the Scott Center can do to make sure that 
people know that we’re here, we’re accessible, 
and we deal in radical hospitality,” he said.  
Another goal includes creating a multi-
faith intentional living learning community. 
This initiative would be comprised of “a 
house full of students coming from many dif-
ferent religious traditions and establishing 
a living learning covenant where we would 
agree to certain community norms,” he said. 
Orten emphasized the importance of in-
clusion in any new initiatives. “I want to do 
things in the right way and in the right time 
such that people bring their own identities 
and are utterly included in the process,” he 
said. 
Orten noted the potential tension of hav-
ing a religious space on a secular campus. 
“Some people may still hold the idea that aca-
demic institutions aren’t places for matters of 
the heart and the soul and the spirit. I think 
it’s going to be a challenge to make sure peo-
ple know that this position is not intended 
to make Middlebury more religious, per say, 
but rather to enhance the overall education 
experience [by] acknowledging this very im-
portant dimension of our lives,” he said. 
While at his previous position at Denison 
University, Orten led the establishment of 
Denison Religious Understanding, a multi-
faith dialogue group in which students share 
a weekly meal and take part in discussion on 
a specific topic. Students were invited from 
different faith traditions, including those 
commonly characterized as non-religious or 
spiritual. 
Orten also managed the creation of a 
multi-faith center called The Open House. 
Before his position at Denison, Orten 
served as the Presbyterian chaplain at Princ-
eton University from 1992 to 2003. He re-
ceived a bachelor’s degree from the Univer-
sity of North Carolina-Chapel Hill and holds 
a master of divinity degree from Princeton 
Theological Seminary. 
By Kitty Pollack
Contributing Writer
On May 26, the College announced that 
six faculty members had been granted ten-
ure, marking their promotions from assistant 
to associate professor.
The newly-tenured faculty are Leticia Ar-
royo Abad in the Economics Department, 
Mario A. Higa in the Portuguese Depart-
ment, Marta Manrique-Gómez in the Span-
ish Department, Marybeth E. Nevins in 
the Anthropology Department, Edward A. 
Vazquez in the History of Art & Architecture 
Department and Linda E. White in the Japa-
nese Studies Department.
In the College’s press release on May 26, 
Andi Lloyd, Vice President for Academic 
Affairs, described Arroyo Abad as a “lead-
ing scholar of the economic history of Lat-
in America and the Caribbean,” was praised 
for being “a dedicated teacher who strives to 
foster in her students the core liberal arts ca-
pacities of critical thinking skills, construct-
ing and evaluating arguments and assessing 
empirical evidence.”
In an email to the Campus, Arroyo Abad 
explained the significance of tenure to her 
own life as an academic.
“Tenure gives you freedom, freedom to 
adopt different teaching strategies and ex-
plore risky research opportunities,” Arroyo 
Abad said. “Tenure can also mean sharing 
your true voice and place in this community 
and beyond.”
“After all these years I have learned how 
my identities as a Latina, as an economist, as 
a histori-an and as a foreigner create unique 
spaces and dynamics in the classroom and 
in the community,” she wrote. “Hence, those 
challenges (and opportunities) still continue 
and the stress does not disappear.”
Arroyo Abad added that she hopes to uti-
lize her increased free time to write a book, 
audit classes, and develop more inclusive 
pedagogies.
Higa was credited in the press release for 
his “deep knowledge of the literature of Por-
tugal and Brazil.”  
Lloyd commended him for “creating an 
atmosphere of infectious enthusiasm that 
motivates students to learn.” 
Like Arroyo Abad, Higa wrote that in-
creased free time may be the biggest boon of 
his newfound position.
“Before tenure, everything is provisional,” 
Higa said in an email. “You cannot think in 
terms of long-time projects. Now that I re-
ceived tenure, I am able to look further down 
the road and plan my academic life accord-
ingly.”
In terms of his day-to-day teaching duties, 
Higa foresees little change. “Although teach-
ing is tied to my research, I have class to-
morrow and I am worried about my current 
students,” he wrote. “I want to provide them 
with the best of my abilities as an instructor.”
Vazquez, applauded by Lloyd for his ex-
pertise in the history of sculpting and for “his 
ability to provide lucid explanations of diffi-
cult and abstract material,” also expressed a 
feeling of increased freedom.
White wrote in an email, “Tenure provides 
a certain level of employment security and it 
establishes a kind of continuity through time 
for students, faculty and the institution as a 
whole.”
Manrique-Gómez is the author of mul-
tiple books on Spanish literature, and was 
described by Lloyd as “a compassionate and 
understanding professor who fosters an en-
vironment in which all students are encour-
aged to participate in discussions, strive for 
deeper understanding and make linguistic 
achievements.”
Nevins is an expert in several indigenous 
languages, and drew praise for her knowl-
edge, patience, accessibility and “contagious 
passion for linguistic anthropology,” accord-
ing to Lloyd.
In an email to The Campus, Lloyd elabo-
rated on the importance of tenure as an in-
stitution, as well as which qualities stood out 
amongst this year’s promoted faculty.
“Each of these newly tenured faculty 
members embodies the ideal of a teacher-
scholar,” she said. “They are recognized by 
colleagues here and by scholars outside the 
institution, as having made important contri-
butions to their field as scholars.”
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
The 2016 Clifford Symposium, titled Fully 
Present: The Art and Science of Mindful En-
gagement, will take place from Thursday, 
Sept. 22 to Saturday, Sept. 24. 
Amishi Jha, associate professor of psy-
chology at the University of Miami, will deliv-
er the keynote address, titled Strengthening 
the Brain’s Attention System with Mindful-
ness Training, at the Mahaney Center for 
the Arts on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Additional 
speakers include eco-poet and philosopher 
Tim Lilburn, members of the Holistic Life 
Foundation, and more.
The symposium will also feature Middle-
bury faculty, staff, and students who will be 
hosting a variety of events, including work-
shops, film screenings and meditation les-
sons. More information can be found at go/
Clifford. 
ANNUAL CLIFFORD 
SYMPOSIUM BEGINS
By Will DiGravio
News Editor
Ridgeline 
Parking Lot 
to Expand
place where it’s almost an obligation to try 
to [create] inclusivity because if you don’t 
have inclusivity, nothing will come out of 
community council. Once you’ve formed [an 
inclusive community council] then I think ef-
fective policies will run through it. We have 
diversity — we definitely have that. Each and 
every year you see this big push from the 
administration, from admissions, to admit 
more and more “others”. That’s leading to 
this awesome diversity we see on campus. I 
think what we run into some trouble with, 
sometimes its unintentional, sometimes it 
might be deliberate, making campus inclu-
sive. How do you make people feel safe and 
comfortable and wanted on this campus? I 
think its going to be important to apply Lau-
rie Patton’s rhetorical resilience to that. We 
have spaces like JusTalks, like the Posse Plus 
Retreat. What I would like to see are spaces 
where we can naturally meet one another and 
have different perspectives and apply that re-
silience into those conversations.
Looking 
Forward for 
C.C.
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
pedestrian travel along Route 125 caused 
by the Ridgeline development “would rep-
resent a substantial safety hazard which will 
be aggravated by the proximity of the pro-
posed parking expansion,” according to the 
1996 document.
After revisions by the College, the plan-
ning board eventually passed the proposal. 
With approval from the town and a success-
ful settlement in Vermont environmental 
court later that year, construction resumed 
and was completed in 1998.
College-wide parking policies are devel-
oped and implemented by Public Safety.
“We try to develop a pedestrian campus 
philosophy, according to guidelines from 
the town of Middlebury and the resulting 
parking plan from the early 2000s,” said 
Lisa Burchard, director of public safety. 
“Since that time, there have been changes on 
campus and in the town, but we continue to 
use this same philosophy to modify the plan 
as parking areas are added or removed.”
The last major parking change occurred 
in 2014, when the lots around the athletic 
complex were reconfigured during the con-
struction of Virtue Field House, according 
to Dan Gaiotti, associate director of public 
safety.
“The plan includes the philosophy of a 
pedestrian campus with student parking in 
peripheral lots to allow long-term parking 
and encourage pedestrian and bicycle circu-
lation throughout the grounds,” Gaiotti said.
The parking addition at Ridgeline sup-
ports the pedestrian philosophy because it is 
on the periphery of campus, he said.
By Nick Garber
Senior Writer
The parking addition where the former mods once stood will add 62 spaces for students.
Facilities Services
3AdvertisementsSeptember 22, 2016 | 
GREEN
The new official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
PEPPERS
LOCAL | HANDCRAFTED | FRESHLY PREPARED |AT YOUR CONVENIENCE
[802] 388-3164
Student Orgs
local
Charter House Coalition
The Charter House Coalition is a volunteer-based, non-profit organization devoted to 
offering housing and food in Middlebury. Their programs include an emergency warming 
shelter, day station, community lunch and dinner and a farm-to-table initiative. In total, the 
volunteer staff serves up to 28,000 meals a year and houses 75 men, women and children 
in their winter shelter and transitional housing programs. In 2015 alone, 970 members of 
the community volunteered. Because of all the volunteers, club president Roger Winters ’17 
said, “anyone in the Middlebury area can get a free meal 7 days a week.” The club will be 
having an informational meeting on Oct. 3 in Ross B11 to pair new volunteers with mentors. 
Anyone who wants to get involved can also email chc@middlebury.edu.  
For the Kids
(pictured below)
For the Kids is a student organization that raises money for the University of Vermont 
Children’s Hospital, and spreads awareness about childhood illness. The Middlebury chap-
ter of the organization is part of a nationwide movement of over 300 schools that support 
local children’s hospitals. According to the website for Children’s Miracle Network Hospi-
tals, 62 children enter a Children’s Miracle Hospital for treatment every minute. The For 
the Kids organization holds many events throughout the year such as Fall Family Carnival, 
fundraising dinners, holiday card decorating and educational symposiums. Their biggest 
event is the Annual Dance Marathon. Every year, students and members of the community 
come together with families and patients of the hospital for 10 hours of dancing, celebrating 
and fundraising. Last year, the organization raised over $18,000 at the Dance Marathon. 
Jake Turtel ’18.5, loved his experience at the event last year. He said, “when the kids at the 
hospital we work with come, you can see exactly where the money goes and it’s amazing.”
Relay for Life
This organization focuses on raising money for Cancer research. The main event of the 
organization is to host an overnight community fundraising walk where teams of people 
camp out and take turns walking around the track. The Middlebury chapter of this organiza-
tion made some changes to make the event more accessible. Last year’s event was hosted 
throughout the day instead of being an overnight event. Also, participants did not need to be 
on a team or even actually run a relay. In addition to the relay component of the event, event 
goers could participate in activities like Cornhole, CanJam, getting henna tattoos and having 
food. At last year’s event, there were 40 teams and 391 participants that raised $56,404.06 
for Relay for Life.
Kathryn Bullen ’18, co-president of Relay of Life, commented, “I love being involved with 
Relay for Life because it gives students a chance to participate in an organization that raises 
money for an amazing cause: cancer research. Everything we do raises awareness about the 
disease, allows students to get involved both on campus and with the greater Middlebury 
community, and ultimately helps move research a step closer towards finding a cure.” If 
you would like to get involved with Relay or has any questions about the organization email 
kbullen@middlebury.edu.
Community Friends
Community Friends is a program that seeks to create bonds between Middlebury College 
students and children living in Addison County. Each Student Mentor from the College is 
matched with a child between ages six and twelve. The organization prides itself on mak-
ing efforts to match students with mentees who they can relate to on some level. To begin 
the process, mentors and mentees attend a “Match meeting” (organized by a Community 
Friends Student Coordinator) in which the flow of contact between the mentor and the men-
tee’s family is established, and ground rules are set in place. 
Community Friends gives Middlebury students the opportunity to serve as influential 
“playmates” for children in surrounding areas. Mentor and mentee typically spend about 
two hours together per week, participating in activities both on and off campus. Both men-
tors and mentees have something to learn from this experience. “When I first met my men-
tee she pulled me into a game with all her friends at Mary Hogan and they made me feel so 
welcome and like we’d known each other forever,” notes Mikaela Chang ’19. “Kids are so 
blissfully ignorant of things that people our age are so caught up over.” For any questions, 
you can contact comfriends@middlebury.edu.
Brother to Brother
Brother to Brother is a youth mentorship program that works with middle school boys 
from around Middlebury in attempts to foster positive conceptions of masculinity. The club 
aims to prevent gender-based violence through education as well as cultural change. The club 
meets on Tuesday nights at 7:30 in the Chellis House. 
“The idea of what it means to be a ‘real man’ in terms of hyper-masculinity is still very 
much a thing in that age group and it becomes more and more clear to me when working with 
these boys,” explains Adam Fisher ’19, a member of the organization. “It’s nice to be able to 
form a relationship with a kid who respects and looks up to you, and do right by him by being 
a good role model and talking through issues he may be having.” 
Page One Literacy
(pictured above)
Page One Literacy is a Student Organization that allows students at the College to share 
their love for reading with elementary school students in the local community. The volun-
teers in this program hope to actively promote all forms of literature as positive creative 
outlets. In its mission statement, Page One Literacy indicates that it “hopes to help children 
find a creative outlet and improve their comprehension skills.” 
To achieve these goals, groups of volunteers make trips to schools around Addison Coun-
ty about once a week to share books and help the school children with crafts. A few of the 
elementary schools that have been involved in the program include Weybridge Elementary, 
St. Mary’s, Mary Hogan Elementary, Bridge School and Ripton Elementary. To further en-
gage the children, Page One implements themes for different sessions. Some past themes 
included in the program have been All Around the World, Daring Detectives, Deep Blue Sea, 
Fairytales and Fables, Into the Wild and Stories with Shel Silverstein.The club also tries to 
organize one-time community events so as to engage as many students as possible in their 
program. These one-time events include a Halloween party, a reading carnival and a birth-
day celebration held for Dr. Seuss. 
“What’s great is that these kids are eager and willing to learn and so they’re usually en-
gaged in the stories we read to them,” comments Inez Lee ’19, a member of the club. “Over-
all, it’s just a great experience to spend time with the kids and promote a love for reading.” 
For more info, contact the club at pageone@middlebury.edu.
Service Cluster Board
The Service Cluster is the name given to the collective whole of student service orga-
nizations and continuing initiatives. The Service Cluster Board is a peer-advised council 
that exists to support each of the organizations that make up this Cluster. In large part, 
the Board’s role is to provide training, oversight and funding for each of the student ser-
vice organizations. More specifically, the Service Cluster Board plans a retreat and monthly 
workshops for Student organization leaders. In providing a variety of trainings, the Board 
aims to improve effectiveness of budget planning, leadership transitions and new member 
recruitment. The Board is successful in facilitating ways for leaders to think of new program-
ming ideas for their respective service organizations. In addition, the Service Cluster Board 
is responsible for administering the Flex Fund. This provides funding for community service 
projects designed by students. 
Juntos
Juntos is a network connecting student and local migrant farm workers. One aspect of 
their organization is events on campus, such as movie screenings or talks, to illuminate is-
sues of migrant farm workers. Another aspect is policy advocacy, especially in conjunction 
with Migrant Justice, an organization out of Burlington. The third branch of their organi-
zation is the Compañeros program, which establishes partnerships between students and 
individual farmworkers. They meet regularly for fun events, such as soccer games and col-
laborate on tasks such as helping farmworkers study English to get their driver’s license. “It 
[migrant workers] is such an unseen part of the community…and in a lot of ways they are 
isolated from the rest of the community, but they make up a huge part of the dairy industry 
here in Vermont,” said Lindsay Grigg ’17, an active member in the organization. Please con-
tact rzaratemorales@middlebury.edu for more information.
Courtesy Page One Literacy
Courtesy For the Kids Facebook page
By Annie Grayer, Rebecca Walker and Alessandria Schumacher
Local Editors
 | Septemeber 22, 2016 5Local
With a Local Emphasis
Friends of John Graham Housing and Services 
(pictured below)
The John Graham Shelter provides shelter, housing, food, services and hope to homeless 
individuals and families throughout Vermont. Homelessness continues to be a persistent 
issue in Vermont. According to Vermont Housing and Conservation Board, as of Oct. 2015, 
Vermont has a rate of homelessness that is 20 percent higher than the national average. Be-
tween 2012 and 2013, the Board also found that there was 25.34 percent increase in overall 
reported homelessness and a 48.52 increase in family homelessness.
Last year, the John Graham Shelter reported that it helped more than 200 people with 
housing and services. The organization is comprised of the Main Street Emergency Shelter 
and four Shelter-owned apartment buildings that serve as transitional housing. The organi-
zation works to incorporate the necessary services, support, prevention and intervention for 
each individual. Please contact fojgs@middlebury.edu for more information.
Volunteer Services Organization 
(pictured above)
Volunteer Services Organization (VSO) is a service group that allows students to engage 
themselves in a number of volunteer activities and opportunities throughout the Middlebury 
Community. The board has regular logistical meetings that members are encouraged to at-
tend. Weekly volunteer worksites are planned through the Volunteer Services Organization. 
In addition, the organization holds some traditional annual events such as a canned goods 
Trick-or-Treating event on Halloween and a fundraiser to purchase Thanksgiving meal sta-
ples to be donated to the local food pantry. Other popular activities facilitated by this club 
include carving pumpkins for the Helen Porter Nursing Home, working on farms, facili-
tating after care programs at Mary Hogan and making blankets in the winter for Mothers 
Without Borders. The Volunteer Services Organization encourages students to participate 
in activities that match their interests and are enjoyable to them. Members have control in 
choosing which community partners to engage with and which events to schedule. When 
asked his thoughts on the club, student leader Jay Silverstein ’19 remarked, “To me, VSO is 
comradery…As we familiarize ourselves with the people and organizations in the commu-
nity, the town feels more like a place to call home rather than a transparent element in the 
background of on-campus life.” To get involved, email vso@middlebury.edu.
DREAM
DREAM Mentoring is a group mentoring organization open to all college students. They 
meet every Friday with a group of kids, all of whom live in affordable housing in Middlebury. 
Sometimes they do informal activities, like play outside, and other times they attend events 
at the College. Kids involved range from 6 to 17. Sadie Dutton ’19 is the leader of the orga-
nization. “Personally, it’s helped me feel more involved in Middlebury as a town, not just a 
school, because they are very different,” Dutton said. She also sees it as a great way to expose 
kids to higher education and open their minds to the opportunities available in the world. If 
this interests you, email sdutton@middlebury.edu.
Sister to Sister
Sister-to-Sister is a group mentoring program between Middlebury College women stu-
dents and middle school girl in Middlebury, Vergennes and other surrounding towns. The 
club hosts monthly events where everyone—college and middle school students alike—gets 
together for a different activity ranging from pumpkin carving to making a bonfire to inter-
national cooking. Some events are more light-hearted, while other times members discuss 
issues, such as women in power and body image. Every November, the club hosts their an-
nual summit, a day-long event. Sylvia Al-Mateen ’17 has been a long-time member. “The 
girls are super interesting, really fun and remind me of my middle school days, for better or 
the worse,” she said. She loves getting to know and mentor the girls and finds it a great way to 
break out of campus life. Please contact mlavallee@middlebury.edu for more information.
MiddVote
(pictured below)
While not a strictly local organization, MiddVote is a non-partisan, student-led group 
that works to get students engaged in local, state, and national politics. One of their major 
roles is registering students to vote and get absentee ballots. One of their local community 
oriented events was attending the Vermont gubernatorial debate in 2014, an event that may 
happen again this fall. According to Hazel Millard ’18, the organization leader, MiddVote is 
always looking for new ways to expand their mission and use their resources to increase stu-
dent engagement with politics. “It’s always ‘shame on the young people for not getting out to 
vote’…we [MiddVote] are trying to do our part to reverse that,” she said. Contact hmillard@
middlebury.edu with any questions. 
NOM (Nutrional Outreach and Mentoring)
NOM is a newer organization, currently in its third year, and aims to introduce kids to 
different, healthy foods, especially in an affordable way. In the past they have collaborated 
with the Boys and Girls Club of Vergennes; this year they are working more with Mary Ho-
gan Elementary School in Middlebury and Bingham Memorial School in Cornwall. In the 
schools, college students come weekly and do taste testing of different foods, such as beets, 
or teach nutrition lessons using fun, food-related activities including cooking and garden-
ing. “I really love when the students try something new and seeing their reactions,” said 
Chelsea Colby ’17.5, president of NOM. She loves the opportunity to introduce kids to some-
thing that is new and healthy. To get involved, contact ccolby@middlebury.edu.
Courtesy John Graham Shelter Facebook Page 
MAlt (Middlebury Alternative Break Trips)
Organized through the College’s Community Engagement office, MAlt plans alterna-
tive break programs for Middlebury students. The program offers six trips during February 
Break, including both national and international destinations, and one Vermont-based trip 
during both Fall and Spring Breaks. The goal of the program is to offer students the oppor-
tunity to engage with all different kinds of communities. Each MAlt leader is able to choose 
the theme, community partner and participants of their trip. The program has a needs-blind 
acceptance policy and therefore does fund-raising throughout the year to make sure anyone 
who wants to go on a trip, has the opportunity to do so. 
Hayley Howard ’17 MAlt co-president and treasurer said, “I love that (MAlt) allows stud-
nets to explore social and enviornmental issues outside of a classroom setting and observe 
directly how communities are impacted by problems like educational inequality, homeless-
ness and malnutrition.” There will be an informational session about upcoming trips on 
Sept. 29 at 8p.m. For further questions go to go/malt.
Volunteer Services organization (VSO) Facebook Page
Courtesy Alessandria Schumacher
Last year’s hit Spotlight depicts a 
scene in which the Boston Globe’s new 
Editor-in-Chief Marty Baron tells long-
time Globe Editor Robby Robinson that 
readership 
is down 
and the 
internet is 
threatening 
the news-
paper’s sur-
vival. Bar-
on asserts 
that he hopes to resuscitate the paper by 
“finding a way to make this paper essen-
tial to its readers.” 
Same. But instead of the Boston 
Globe, I’m talking about my column in 
this here esteemed publication. 
So who’s ready for a 10-part investi-
gation into Catholic Priests accused of 
molesting under-aged boys? 
Important topic. Maybe not right for 
this column. 
In past issues of the Campus, I’ve 
written about the divestment from fos-
sil fuels movement, socially responsible 
investment and immigration justice. 
After three years of writing in favor of 
fossil fuel divestment, student support 
for divestment was described in a Cam-
pus editorial last fall as “lukewarm,” 
though I still contest this descriptor be-
cause the most recent Middlebury Cam-
pus/NBC/NYT poll shows over 50% of 
students support divestment and over 
700 current students (or almost 1/3 of 
the school) have signed the petition to 
divest (!). 
Nonetheless, my column has gained 
one avid reader (shout-out to Stuart 
Warren), and although I suspect it has 
a strong underground niche following, I 
took some time on a long bus ride this 
summer to reflect on how I can better 
make my column essential to Campus 
readers. 
I concluded that, being in the zenith 
of my Middlebury career, I can best use 
this column to spread my incredible ma-
triarchal wisdom. 
Jokes. This is not an advice column. 
More accurately, it is a a chronicle of 
mistakes I’ve made over the past three 
years ranging from working (alternately) 
all of the time and none of the time, try-
ing to be best friends with professors, 
falling in love with guys who don’t love 
me, wanting to work in finance, not 
reaching out to the off-campus Middle-
bury community and the trials and tra-
vails of environmental and social justice 
activism. 
Some people make school and life look 
easy. I am not one of those people. All of 
the wisdom I have gained throughout my 
time at Middlebury has been acquired 
through perhaps an unnecessary amount 
of internal and visible pain. (I once went 
a whole finals week without shower-
ing.) But my hope is that this pain may 
not have been in vain, that some of you 
(future) loyal readers may go through-
out your time at Middlebury a little less 
pained and a little more fulfilled because 
of my experiences. 
For starters, next week I will address 
the topic most essential to every Middle-
bury student’s life: sleep. Stay tuned for 
an exclusive interview with sleep evan-
gelist Barbara McCall and stories from 
the semester I believed sleep was unnec-
essary. (Spoiler alert: it didn’t go well.) 
Finally, a note on the title. I was on 
campus early this year and one of my 
best friends (and fellow seniors) Malkie 
Wall and I stood at a table eating chex-
mix and observing the first-years danc-
ing. Malkie commented that we looked 
like SWUGs, which was a term I had nev-
er heard before and which she described 
stands for “Senior Washed-Up Girl.”
I took offense to this SWUG term and 
so was happy to find out that three won-
derful senior women—Maeve Moynihan, 
Maggy Mulhern and Elana Schrager—
thought up a new interpretation: “Senior 
Willfully Uninhibited Goddess.” 
Thus, in addition to spreading my in-
valuable wisdom this column seeks to 
co-opt this sexist and derogatory term 
and transform it into one of empower-
ment and self-love for the Senior God-
desses among us. 
As Middlebury Homecoming week-
end approaches, one might feel a bur-
geoning sense of 
school pride. This 
could be coming 
from excitement 
about seeing grad-
uated classmates, 
a sense of spirit 
from cheering on 
the football team 
as a crowd, or perhaps just the fervor 
around the ubiquitous free cider donuts, 
but, without a doubt, the feeling of a 
“Middlebury” identity becomes palpable 
during Homecoming. The sentimental-
ity surrounding this weekend therefore 
causes us to stop and ask ourselves – 
what is our campus identity and how do 
we foster it?
Over the past year, the College has 
participated in national conversations 
surrounding inclusivity. This dialogue 
has forced us to recognize that a monop-
oly on tradition exists at Middlebury. 
Many of our institutional and popular 
traditions ref lect the elite nature that 
our school was founded on. We still find 
ourselves lionizing athletes at the an-
nual Homecoming football game and 
partaking in expensive pastimes, such 
as ski races at Winter Carnival. While 
we do not wish to condemn these impor-
tant parts of Middlebury’s identity, as 
they are part of what makes the school 
uniquely “Midd,” we would like to chal-
lenge ourselves to expand our traditions 
to be more representative of Middle-
bury’s evolving identity.
Today, our school’s traditions can 
bring us all together: we all share the 
ritual of passing Gamaliel Painter’s cane 
— a moment that unites us from the day 
we enter Midd to the day we leave. Ad-
ditionally, the College’s faculty and staff 
foster traditions of academic excellence, 
such as the Spring Symposium where 
students can pres-
ent their research. 
Middlebury offers 
the possibility for 
a variety of other 
opportunities as 
well. Having a 
winter term ev-
ery January al-
lows students to 
go explore the outdoors – in ways other 
than buying lots of equipment and ski-
ing through the woods – and it enables 
students to mix and mingle in their in-
creased free time. Even at Homecom-
ing, the annual football game and the 
Clifford Symposium offer two unique 
experiences, both of which represent 
fundamental parts of our Middlebury 
culture.
While these traditions ref lect many 
aspects of the Middlebury identity, a 
key component is missing. Our culture 
is changing and our traditions must 
change with 
it. No longer is 
the Middlebury 
identity solely 
about established 
forms of excel-
lence; instead, 
we must prove 
ourselves as an 
institution that 
prioritizes excel-
lence in inclusiv-
ity and diversity. 
And what better 
way to do so than 
incorporate new 
traditions, fo-
cused exclusively 
on celebrating diversity and inclusivity?
Currently, our school’s privileged 
practices prove a point that many on 
campus are trying to make: Middlebury 
does not always include every student. 
It’s time to give representation in the 
form of traditions to the full range of 
Middlebury students. Without eliminat-
ing those traditions that we hold dear, 
Middlebury must introduce new, more 
inclusive traditions 
that represent the 
dynamic and evolv-
ing culture of our 
campus, a culture 
that is itself work-
ing to foster inclu-
sivity.
As a school with 
so much to offer, we 
should have no trouble developing new 
traditions. For this, we call on both Col-
lege administrators and the architects 
of student traditions, namely MCAB and 
the traditions committee, to incorporate 
new traditions that celebrate diversity 
and inclusivity. 
When President Patton hosted an 
all-school barbeque on Battell Beach 
last Friday, we took a step in the right 
direction. The event allowed the student 
body to come together outside on our 
beautiful campus and get to know fel-
low students, faculty and staff we oth-
erwise would not 
have known. It was 
a great example of 
the kind of tradition 
the Campus would 
like to see moving 
forward. It included 
all students and re-
volved around to-
day’s student body, 
not the student 
body of a Middle-
bury past. All stu-
dents, no matter 
where they came 
from, what econom-
ic background they 
were raised in or 
what they were interested in could co-
alesce around a picnic on the lawn. 
This sort of tradition – one that sets 
everyone on an equal playing field – is a 
start for new traditions. 
Having contemporary, representa-
tive traditions is one of the best ways 
to bring Middlebury together and move 
Middlebury forward. It is a start to ad-
dressing larger grievances by members 
of our community and can begin as soon 
as this weekend. 
Homecoming is a great opportunity 
for members of our community to come 
together and appreciate everything that 
makes Midd feel like “Midd,” but also to 
recognize that there is room for an ex-
panded and dynamic definition of what 
is “Midd.” It isn’t our long history of 
traditions, customs and shared experi-
ences that make Middlebury so special. 
Instead, the Middlebury identity must 
also come from pride in the culture we 
create for ourselves in the four years 
that we are here, and the legacy we leave 
behind.
opinions
editorial board 
The content written within the 
Opinions pages may cause emotional 
distress. Please exercise discretion.
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor. The 
opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions 
section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial com-
ics and other commentary, are views of the individ-
ual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the 
opinions of the newspaper. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.
middleburycampus.com. To be considered for pub-
lications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. 
Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all 
submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
Let’s Try for New Traditions
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Ellie Reinhardt
MANAGING EDITOR
Christian Jambora
BUSINESS MANAGER
Julien Miller
NEWS EDITORS 
Caroline Agsten, Phil Bohlman, Ethan 
Brady, Will DiGravio, Eliza Teach
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Blackburn, Erin Van Gessel, Sara 
Hodgkins, Francesca Haass, Edward 
O’Brien
SPORTS EDITORS 
Will Case, Remo Plunkett, Andrew Rigas 
LOCAL EDITORS 
Annie Grayer, Harry Kramer, Alessandria 
Schumacher, Rebecca Walker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Henry Burnett, Renee Chang, Charmaine 
Lam, Alex Newhouse
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Toby Aicher, Finn Murphy, Dominick 
Tanoh, Elizabeth Zhou,
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Michael Borenstein, Anahi Naranjo, Mi-
chael O’Hara, Ivan Valladares
DESIGN EDITORS
Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway, Corde-
lia Prouvost
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Pyone Aye, Jerrica Davy 
COPY EDITOR
Rachel Iacono, Emma Walker
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOST
Nathaniel Wiener
OFFICE MANAGER
Sarah Koenigsberg
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
official opinion of 
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Disclaimer: Reader op-eds do not reflect the opinion of The Middlebury Campus editorial board. 
SWUG: Senior Willfully Uninhibited Goddess
SWUGlight
Sophie Vaughan ’17 
writes about the trials and 
errors of college.
“No longer is the Mid-
dlebury identity solely 
about established forms 
of excellence; instead, 
we must prove ourselves 
as an institution that 
prioritizes excellence in 
inclusivity and 
diversity.”
“It’s time to give 
representation in the 
form of traditions to the 
full range of Middlebury 
students.”
  7| SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 opinions
Can we Hold hands?
I have never fully been able to hold 
my boyfriend’s hand without looking 
around. My boyfriend drops my hand 
when he sees police officers. I drop his 
when we meet someone a generation older 
than us. This varies, of course, on where 
we are. At Middlebury, for example, I 
felt very little hesitation to hold his hand 
whereas 
in rural 
P e n n -
sylvania 
I just 
d i d n ’ t . 
But at 
s o m e 
p o i n t 
y o u 
learn to do it the majority of the time 
(space permitting) with a certain F-U at-
titude.
As we flew to D.C. this weekend, 
however, my brain had me wondering 
whether it was rude to sleep on my boy-
friend’s shoulder on the plane. I analyzed 
the woman in the aisle with us for signs 
of conservatism: How old was she? How 
educated? Was she likely to have a prob-
lem with us? Directly in 
front of and behind us, 
two straight couples slept 
on each other’s shoul-
ders. I found myself jeal-
ous. Why don’t they have 
to look around? Why am 
I thinking about what 
other people will think of 
us when they don’t have 
to?
Then I convinced 
myself that I was mak-
ing it up, that the prob-
lem was entirely in my 
head, that no one cared 
or even noticed when we 
held hands. Then we got to D.C. It was 
incredible how, without fail, passersby — 
bus drivers, families (parents and chil-
dren) and even people close to my age — 
would turn to look at us. As they walked 
by, their eyes would lock on us as they 
walked and they would continue on, even 
turning their heads to look behind them. 
So much for nobody noticing or caring.
In the interest of full disclosure, I 
don’t hate all attention. I have a distinct 
memory of one person on the subway, an 
old woman with white curly hair, who 
looked at us lovingly with a huge, grand-
motherly smile on her face. She didn’t 
say anything, but it was clear that she 
found our relationship heartwarming 
and being the source of that happiness 
was gratifying and heartwarming in it-
self. I couldn’t help but smile.
On the other hand, as my boyfriend 
and I lay in the grass in the park in D.C., 
the impassive stares from mothers and 
fathers felt invasive and somehow mini-
mizing. Not only were they not giving 
any indication of approval, disapproval, 
contempt or joy, but I’m not sure they 
knew I could see them. I’m not even sure 
they knew they were staring. They just 
locked their eyes and continued to study 
us as they walked across the grass. 
It was D.C., a place I consider queer-
friendly and liberal (though I have since 
been told that it is also an intersection of 
southern conservatism and young liberal 
p r o f e s s i o n -
als), so I’m 
sure many 
of them had 
good inten-
tions, though 
it’s possible 
many didn’t 
as well.
I real-
ized, or re-
a f f i r m e d 
p e r h a p s , 
that this is 
the differ-
ence between 
p o l i t i c i z e d 
identities and non-politicized identities. 
For people with politicized identities, it 
is unavoidably a political statement to 
be yourself. Depending on location, two 
men holding hands is still an aberration 
from the normal schema of life people 
have constructed in their heads. And for 
some reason, people feel justified impos-
ing their opinions on you. We can have a 
debate about whether it’s polite or rude 
for me and my boyfriend to hold hands 
on the plane, but we can’t have the same 
debate for the straight couple seated in 
front of us.
There is, therefore, a stark contrast 
between how people with politicized 
identities interact with politics and how 
people with non-
politicized identi-
ties do so. For peo-
ple with politicized 
identities, politics 
is too frequently 
your everyday life, 
what decisions you 
can make and where 
you will be able to 
go in life. For people 
with non-politicized 
identities, being gay 
can be a cerebral or 
Biblical question of 
morality, immigra-
tion can be a ques-
tion of the economy 
and foreign policy 
can be a question 
of projecting Amer-
ica’s influence or of 
oil prices. And this 
often creates a priv-
ilege-divided miscommunication around 
how different identities interact with 
politics. Some people react emotionally 
to others voting on their life decisions 
and others can’t understand why — it’s 
only politics after all. 
I remember one man at a network-
ing event who asked me where I wanted 
to live after graduation. I answered San 
Francisco, D.C., or Boston because they 
were the only places liberal enough for 
me. He wagged his finger at me and told 
me that Yankees and Red Sox fans all 
learn to live in the same city together. 
But the Yankees never voted on wheth-
er the Red Sox should have the right to 
marry, I thought.
And yet this man’s view of politics 
seems to almost perfectly represent 
how people with no politicized identi-
ties have the privilege to see politics. My 
father gave a talk on Donald Trump last 
Spring. The audience was predominantly 
wealthy and white, albeit liberal. Though 
no one in the audience actually support-
ed Trump (to my knowledge), the way 
they discussed Donald Trump’s short-
comings versus crooked Hillary’s was 
like they were 
spectators at a 
sporting event.
One man 
compared Hill-
ary’s un-likabil-
ity to Trump’s 
d e c i s i v e n e s s , 
saying he could 
see and under-
stand why people 
would vote for 
Trump over her. 
Others nodded 
in appreciation. 
They did not 
talk about the 
lives that would 
be affected, de-
stroyed or lost 
under a Trump 
presidency. They 
didn’t talk about 
how he treats 
women or his antagonistic approach to 
foreign policy. It was like they were talk-
ing about two equal teams and their re-
spective chances of winning this match. 
Oh ho hum, old chap, have you seen that 
one? Could come out ahead this season.
But the fact is that the two outcomes 
of this election are not equal, and it is 
not something that should be discussed 
like sports teams. Who wins the Super 
Bowl or the World Series impacts no one 
in any tangible way. Who will be presi-
dent does. And it will affect people with 
politicized identities far more than those 
non-politicized ones.
Notes from the 
desk
Edward O’Brien writes in 
about politics and identity.
“For people with no po-
liticized identities, being 
gay can be a 
cerebral or Biblical 
question of morality, 
immigration can be a 
question of the economy 
and foreign policy can be 
a question of 
projecting America’s 
influence or of oil prices.”
“For people with 
politicized identities, 
it is unavoidably a 
political statement 
to be yourself. And for 
some reason, people feel 
justified imposing their 
opinions on your life.”
WRITE IN ABOUT THE ELECTIONS!
SECRETLY LOVE THE 
DONALD’S HAIR?
REALLY MAD BERNIE 
ISN’T RUNNING 
ANYMORE?
FEEL THAT ELECTION 
COVERAGE HAS BEEN 
BIASED?
WHat is aleppo?
We want to hear your thoughts on the 
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
Submit 200-400 words by
Sunday, October 4 to see your name in print!
CARTOONS
Win homer
Emily Cox
Nolan Ellsworth
Kaitlynd Collins
URIEL ULLOA ADAN
KAITLYND COLLINS
9AdvertisementsSeptember 22, 2016 | 
WANT A PIECE OF THE ACTION?
The Middlebury Campus is seeking people to join our team for the fall 
semester. Writers are needed in the following sections:
To express interest, please send an email to campus@middlebury.edu detailing the section(s) for which 
you’d like to write.
NEWS
ONLINE  FEATURES
SPORTS
OPINIONS
ARTS&SCIENCES
WANT TO LEARN MORE?
New Writer Recruitment Meeting
Thursday, September 22 at 6 p.m.
Axinn 229
Join us for an opportunity to meet current editors of The Middlebury Campus 
and learn more about the different sections and roles on the newspaper. No 
previous journalism experience necessary. Anyone interested in design or 
photography is welcome to join, as well!
STUDENT 
ORGANIZATIONS    
 | september 22, 2016 10 features september 22, 2016 |  11features
       College Democrats
If you were walking through the Student Activities Fair a few years ago, you might have no-
ticed that, while the College Republicans Club was represented well, there was no sign of a Col-
lege Democrats Club. Although the College has technically had a Democrats chapter for years, it 
had lapsed during the political limbo between the 2012 and 2016 presidential elections.
Hazel Millard ’18, with the help of Margot Graham ’18 and Nora Lenhard ’18, resurrected the 
almost defunct club back in Spring 2015. It was not easy making a political club relevant during 
a non-election year, but Millard and Graham felt that there needed to be some sort of Democrat 
organization at Middlebury.
“I came to campus and I noticed there wasn’t a space [for the Democrats] on campus,” Millard 
said. “This something I knew I always wanted to get involved in. It’s really hard to organize when 
there’s not an election coming up. [But] people are political here, so it was a matter of finding 
ways to bring those people out of the woodwork in a non-election year.”
To Millard, the Democrats club represents more than just an organizing platform—it’s also a 
space for debate, conversation and education. “[The College Democrats] is a great forum for us 
to bring that energy to campus and to organize events that are welcoming to all,” she said. “We 
always say, anyone can come. And people do come from all political backgrounds. It makes it ten 
times more interesting to have that attitude and perspective in the room. It’s just great to have 
a space where I know I can talk with friends and peers who love to talk about this stuff as much 
as I do.”
And now that it’s an election year, the Democrats Club has big plans. In addition to co-spon-
soring watch parties of the debates with the College Republicans Club, the Democrats will be 
organizing volunteering opportunities for local campaigns and will continue meeting on a weekly 
basis. 
START STRONG 
THIS YEAR   
        Space Club
 Last year, a few students got together and founded the Space Club for the 
stargazers, hobbyist cosmologists and Neil deGrasse Tyson. President and co-
founder Roo Weed ’18.5 explained that the Space Club grew organically out of 
her and her friends’ love of all things space. It brought together a community 
of people interested in astronomy and cosmology, and it let people who might 
not otherwise have a chance to learn or talk about space express their curios-
ity about it.
But founding a niche club about a topic like space certainly has its chal-
lenges, Weed explained. An obstacle in attracting new members was “just get-
ting people to understand what we actually do, because we’re so new and no 
one knows we exist, or if they do, they think we’re some crazy nerdy Star Wars 
club,” she said. “Not that we’re not nerdy.”
As a result, one of Weed’s main goals this year is to appeal to students who 
might have a bit less interest than a space enthusiast—but who might still 
want to participate in the Space Club’s events. “I think [our emails] need to 
have more content that is interesting to someone that’s not quite as much of a 
space fan as anyone in our leadership, and videos,” she said.
The club holds regular discussion groups to talk about articles, videos, or 
news, and it also organizes bigger events. Weed said that she looks back par-
ticularly fondly on the Space Club’s rocket launch last year on Battell Beach. 
  Log Rolling Club
 
The unusual and difficult sport of log rolling has a long history in the 
United States, and it is also well-represented at Middlebury College. 
It pits two people on a log who each attempts to roll and jostle the log 
to knock the other off. The sport has a dedicated group of students on 
campus who participate and meet twice a week.
Octave Lepinard ’19.5, the current president of the club, recalled 
that he did not even originally intend to go to a meeting last year. “I 
heard of it at the club fair and thought the idea was pretty cool so I 
signed up, then mostly forgot about it,” he said. “On my way to the gym 
a friend of mine told me they were headed there and I decided to check 
it out. We had so much fun there we ended up going every week after 
that for the rest of the semester.”
One of the challenges Lepinard faces this year as the new president 
is making log rolling accessible to newcomers. “This year I’m hoping 
to make it very accessible and structured,” he said. “My main goal is 
to have more people return, and see the advantage of going more than 
once. People will come once and have a great time, but get the idea that 
if they weren’t good by the end of practice they never will be. Log rolling 
becomes truly enjoyable once you are able to compete against someone 
else, which usually takes someone two to three sessions to get to.” 
   Baseball Analytics Club
 
Mason Hinckley ’17 is a self-described statistics junkie. In his own words, he is a “weirdo possessing 
the dangerous combination of chronic sleep deprivation and a dubious moral compass,” traits which led 
him to now run Middlebury’s Baseball Analytics Club and participate at a high level at national baseball 
analytics competitions.
Hinckley stated that the club is open to everyone, including those who might not know as much about 
baseball statistics but just like the sport. “We try to structure our meetings so that they are interesting 
for everyone irrespective of how much they enjoy the numbers and statistics side of baseball, but we also 
have plenty of outlets for hardcore baseball statistics enthusiasts such as myself,” he said. He is looking 
to make it even more appealing this year for baseball fans of all types.
For the hardcore, though, the Baseball Analytics Club represents an opportunity to learn about and 
share in a passion for baseball statistics and management.“We [often] try to do some sort of analytics-
based group exercise that usually has us playing the roles of MLB general managers, such as mock trade 
scenarios and free agent bidding,” he said. “For the more motivated and statistically inclined, we partici-
pate in competitions against other schools that test our baseball analytics skills and are judged of a panel 
of MLB front office personnel.”
And Middlebury’s club holds its own against the rest of the country at these competitions, too. He 
said, “More often than not we place first, so it would be accurate to say we’re kind of a big deal on the 
undergraduate baseball analytics case competition circuit.” 
  Young Progressives 
  Demanding Action
 Young Progressives Demanding Action (YPDA) is a brand-new club at 
Middlebury this year that grew out of students who supported and organized 
for Bernie Sanders. Elizabeth Lee ’17, its founder, also started the Middlebury 
Students for Bernie Sanders group, and she intends for YPDA to harness the 
swell of progressive support motivated by Sanders’ presidential campaign.
“YPDA wants to translate the energy of students involved and inspired by 
the Bernie 2016 presidential campaign to a long-term push towards progres-
sive values and policy,” Lee said. “Progressivism is not only something to be 
carried out on the national stage, but also must manifest in local and com-
munal conversations. We hope to channel the power of the political revolution 
into conversations and concrete student action at Middlebury.”
Although Lee made it clear that YPDA is not a direct competitor to the Col-
lege Democrats club, the two organizations have different goals.
“In the short term, we would like to educate the campus on [progressive] 
issues and do two letter drops per semester,” she said. “In the long term, we 
want to create a team to build student center policy to present to the Congres-
sional Progressive Caucus, develop issue organizing team and train students 
to engage in the political system, whether it [be] running for office or doing 
public service to get a permanent seat at the table.”
YPDA is currently still an informal group, although it is beginning work 
immediately. Lee acknowledged one of the big obstacles YPDA faces is the dis-
couragement that many progressive students feel following Sanders’ defeat.
“We would like to re-invigorate students’ excitement for Bernie’s policy 
stances during the presidential campaign,” she said. “We need to let people 
know that the struggle isn’t over yet and there is much more to come.” 
Emma Helper ’19, Will Frazier ’19, Roo Weed ’18.5
George Valentine, Holton Huntington, Nico Plume, and Octave Lepinard (all ‘19.5)
Nic Valenti (‘17) and Jacob Dombroski (’17)
Photos courtesy of Michael O’Hara
             The Idle Time
The brainchild of Jackson Prince ’17, Kean Haunt ’17, and Nolan Ellsworth ’17, The Idle Times is a relatively 
new publication—and anyone can get published in it. The Idle Times compiles doodles, whether they be wacky, 
weird, ordinary, or funny, and it puts them out in a journal.
“Unless it’s egregiously offensive, you will be in The Idle Times,” Prince said, and he intends for the journal to 
be more a communal expression of idle art than any sort of formal publication.
Prince explained that The Idle Times arose from simply a shared love of doodles. “I just like doodling and I was 
always a doodler, and then I met [the other founders] and saw that they were good doodlers as well, and… this is 
what spawned from that.”
Even though it was only recently founded, The Idle Times has already gathered a lot of student doodles. When 
asked if any of the submissions stood out, Prince described one particularly memorable drawing that was submit-
ted by Alexander Khan ’17. “
‘The Curious Cowboy and Banzai Tree’ is hands-down the best there is,” Khan said. “It is a thin, stark drawing 
of a cowboy—pencil thin—praying or bowing to a tree, apparently greeting it, with a quote over it that says ‘Curious 
Cowboy and Banzai Tree.’ And it was just hilarious.”
As far as getting involved with the publication itself, Prince said that students can email him or the other mem-
bers of the leadership and express their interest in helping out. 
              Smash Club
 Mason Hinckley ’17 is a self-described statistics junkie. In his own words, he is a “weirdo pos-
sessing th Super Smash Bros. first launched way back in 1999 for the Nintendo 64, but the video 
game series is still popular among Middlebury students. As a result, Nic Valenti ’17 and Francia 
Martinez ’17 started the Smash Club to get a group of Smash Bros. enthusiasts together to share 
in their love of the fighting game.
“It is a game that has been around long enough so that most people have played it at some 
point, and it’s just a fun activity to get to know people over,” said Martinez. “There is nothing 
quite like a friendship born from a mutual desire to destroy one another on-screen.” As a result, 
the Smash Club has grown and now has a number of different setups—from the GameCube itera-
tion of the game with old CRT TVs to new, sleek gaming monitors and a Wii U.
The group tries to cater to all skill levels, and Valenti, the president this year, is making a point 
to increase the number and type of events that the Smash Club organizes. This year, Valenti said, 
the club will hold tournaments with both “amateur” and “pro” brackets to encourage newcomers 
to play.
“So many people have played Super Smash Bros and brushed it off as a party game,” Valenti 
said. “They don’t realize that Melee is one of the deepest, most intricate, most beautiful (in my 
opinion) competitive games in the world.” 
Proudly clad in a t-shirt bearing a 
monochromatic Reagan in front of a vi-
brant American flag, Phil Hoxie ’17.5 ex-
plained that he wore the patriotic garment 
in honor of Constitution Week. He will not 
be voting for Trump.
A member of the Middlebury College 
Republicans (MCR) since his first semes-
ter, Hoxie, along with the club’s Co-Pres-
idents Hayden Dublois ’17 and Alexander 
Khan ’17, comprised MCR’s only three 
members until last spring. In the fall of 
2015, they began a complete resurrection 
of the organization by coordinating events 
through which students could engage in 
political discussion and connect with fig-
ures such as Ohio Governor John Kasich 
and former White House Press Secretary 
Ari Fleischer ’82. 
The following spring, MCR gained 60 
new members, and an additional 30 joined 
at Friday’s activities fair. Did more stu-
dents become involved to endorse Trump? 
For the most part, no, said  MCR members.
“The majority [of MCR members] are 
very dissatisfied with our party’s nominee,” 
Dublois said. “Many of his statements, and 
even his policy positions have been both 
incredibly offensive to certain groups in 
this country and also, some might argue, 
have been incredibly unrealistic ... We also 
didn’t feel he was 
much of a Repub-
lican.”  
While a hand-
ful of MCR mem-
bers support 
Trump, others, 
including Dublois, 
who originally sup-
ported Kasich, are 
leaning towards 
the Independent 
candidate Gary 
Johnson, former 
Governor of New 
Mexico. Many stu-
dents have also 
turned their atten-
tion to supporting 
local politicians 
such as former 
Vermont Governor 
Phil Scott, who is 
now running for re-
election.  
Moreover, student organizations such 
as MCR cannot directly endorse or oppose 
a political candidate under the 501(c)(3) 
by-law of the Internal Revenue Code. To 
vocalize their strong dissatisfaction with 
the GOP nominee, Dublois, Khan and 
Hoxie turned to the Vermont College Re-
publicans - where all three sit on the ex-
ecutive board - which is not bound by the 
same legal restrictions. 
In collaboration with Republican 
student representatives from the Univer-
sity of Vermont and Castleton University, 
they composed a letter formally denounc-
ing their support 
of Trump. All but 
one student in the 
coalition voted to 
publish the letter. 
Had the agreement 
been unanimous, 
Hoxie, the vice 
executive chair of 
the VCR, specu-
lated that the letter 
would have been 
released to The 
Campus, the Burl-
ington Free Press, 
and the RNC.
As for the po-
litical statements 
that MCR is per-
mitted to release, 
“We are just going 
to bite our tongue 
on this one,” Hoxie 
said. “If you want 
to know why, just 
look at the Cornell College Republicans.” 
Two weeks ago, the College Repub-
lican National Committee revoked the 
charter of the Cornell Republicans after 
they refused to renounce their public en-
dorsement of Gary Johnson. Likewise, 
the Harvard College Republicans drew 
controversy in early August after formally 
renouncing their endorsement of Donald 
Trump; it is the first time in 128 years that 
Harvard is not supporting the GOP nomi-
nee in a general election.
Membership within the Middlebury 
College Democrats (MCD) also jumped 
within in the last year. 74 students have al-
ready joined this semester alone, totaling 
208 participants in the group. The similar 
trends in membership in both MCR and 
MCD come as both clubs have revamped 
their outreach to students and amidst the 
national expectation that college students 
will become more politically involved as 
the general election draws near. Even the 
number of students enrolled in election-
related political 
science classes has 
increased, accord-
ing to the Political 
Science Department 
Chair Bert Johnson. 
“The stakes are 
really high in this 
election,” Co-Presi-
dent of MCD Hazel 
Millard ’18 said.
Johnson, who 
is also an associate 
professor of politi-
cal science, also said 
this year is an un-
usual one. “It is not 
every presidential 
election that engag-
es young people to 
the extent that this 
one has,” he said. 
“2008 was one, but 2004, for example, 
did not seem to capture the imagination of 
college students to the same extent. This 
year’s race has thus far engaged a lot of 
people, perhaps because it is an open-seat 
race, and perhaps because of the unusual 
field of candidates [such as] Sanders [and] 
Trump.”   
The abundance of Sanders supporters 
at the College also helped bring the elec-
tion to the foreground of campus politics 
and sparked new forms of student political 
activism and engagement during the past 
year. In August, Elizabeth Lee ’17 led the 
official launch of Young Progressives De-
manding Action, a group comprised of for-
mer leaders of College Students for Bernie 
who are linked to 
Progressive Demo-
crats of America.  
Looking ahead, 
both the College 
Democrats and Col-
lege Republicans 
plan to collabo-
rate to allow their 
members to engage 
in debate and po-
litical discussion. 
MCR Co-President 
Khan observed that 
several members 
had recently joined 
MCR who pos-
sessed left-leaning 
views. 
“Our group 
is open to anyone 
who wants to be 
involved,” he said. “Anyone who wants to 
be a part of what we’re doing on campus, 
which is working to promote conservative 
ideas, but also working to promote the de-
bate of ideas and discussion.” 
College Republican Membership Grows 
by 3000 Percent in Less Than One Year
By Tess Weitzner
Senior Writer
12 features | September 22, 2016
Members of the Middlebury College Republicans attended a dinner in Burlington with Ohio Governer John Kasich in Oct. 2015.
“Our group is open to 
anyone who wants to be in-
volved. Anyone who wants 
to be a part of what we’re 
doing on campus, which is 
working to promote conser-
vative ideas, but also work-
ing to promote the debate of 
ideas and discussion.”   
alexander khan ’17
co-president, middlebury college republicans
ELSA ALVARADO
“The majority [of MCR 
members] are very dissatis-
fied with our party’s nomi-
nee. Many of his statements, 
and even his policy positions 
have been both incredibly of-
fensive to certain groups in 
this country and also, some 
might argue, have been in-
credibly unrealistic...We 
also didn’t feel he was much 
of a Republican.”  
Hayden dublois ‘17
Co-president, middlebury college republicans
Columnists Wanted!
Do you go on adventures? Do you want to write 
about them? Start a column for the Features 
section!
Interested columnists please email 
campus@middlebury.edu
Proudly clad in a t-shirt bearing a 
monochromatic Reagan in front of a vi-
brant American flag, Phil Hoxie ’17.5 ex-
plained that he wore the patriotic garment 
in honor of Constitution Week. He will not 
be voting for Trump.
A member of the Middlebury College 
Republicans (MCR) since his first semes-
ter, Hoxie, along with the club’s Co-Pres-
idents Hayden Dublois ’17 and Alexander 
Khan ’17, comprised MCR’s only three 
members until last spring. In the fall of 
2015, they began a complete resurrection 
of the organization by coordinating events 
through which students could engage in 
political discussion and connect with fig-
ures such as Ohio Governor John Kasich 
and former White House Press Secretary 
Ari Fleischer ’82. 
The following spring, MCR gained 60 
new members, and an additional 30 joined 
at Friday’s activities fair. Did more stu-
dents become involved to endorse Trump? 
For the most part, no, said  MCR members.
“The majority [of MCR members] are 
very dissatisfied with our party’s nominee,” 
Dublois said. “Many of his statements, and 
even his policy positions have been both 
incredibly offensive to certain groups in 
this country and also, some might argue, 
have been incredibly unrealistic ... We also 
didn’t feel he was 
much of a Repub-
lican.”  
While a hand-
ful of MCR mem-
bers support 
Trump, others, 
including Dublois, 
who originally sup-
ported Kasich, are 
leaning towards 
the Independent 
candidate Gary 
Johnson, former 
Governor of New 
Mexico. Many stu-
dents have also 
turned their atten-
tion to supporting 
local politicians 
such as former 
Vermont Governor 
Phil Scott, who is 
now running for re-
election.  
Moreover, student organizations such 
as MCR cannot directly endorse or oppose 
a political candidate under the 501(c)(3) 
by-law of the Internal Revenue Code. To 
vocalize their strong dissatisfaction with 
the GOP nominee, Dublois, Khan and 
Hoxie turned to the Vermont College Re-
publicans - where all three sit on the ex-
ecutive board - which is not bound by the 
same legal restrictions. 
In collaboration with Republican 
student representatives from the Univer-
sity of Vermont and Castleton University, 
they composed a letter formally denounc-
ing their support 
of Trump. All but 
one student in the 
coalition voted to 
publish the letter. 
Had the agreement 
been unanimous, 
Hoxie, the vice 
executive chair of 
the VCR, specu-
lated that the letter 
would have been 
released to The 
Campus, the Burl-
ington Free Press, 
and the RNC.
As for the po-
litical statements 
that MCR is per-
mitted to release, 
“We are just going 
to bite our tongue 
on this one,” Hoxie 
said. “If you want 
to know why, just 
look at the Cornell College Republicans.” 
Two weeks ago, the College Repub-
lican National Committee revoked the 
charter of the Cornell Republicans after 
they refused to renounce their public en-
dorsement of Gary Johnson. Likewise, 
the Harvard College Republicans drew 
controversy in early August after formally 
renouncing their endorsement of Donald 
Trump; it is the first time in 128 years that 
Harvard is not supporting the GOP nomi-
nee in a general election.
Membership within the Middlebury 
College Democrats (MCD) also jumped 
within in the last year. 74 students have al-
ready joined this semester alone, totaling 
208 participants in the group. The similar 
trends in membership in both MCR and 
MCD come as both clubs have revamped 
their outreach to students and amidst the 
national expectation that college students 
will become more politically involved as 
the general election draws near. Even the 
number of students enrolled in election-
related political 
science classes has 
increased, accord-
ing to the Political 
Science Department 
Chair Bert Johnson. 
“The stakes are 
really high in this 
election,” Co-Presi-
dent of MCD Hazel 
Millard ’18 said.
Johnson, who 
is also an associate 
professor of politi-
cal science, also said 
this year is an un-
usual one. “It is not 
every presidential 
election that engag-
es young people to 
the extent that this 
one has,” he said. 
“2008 was one, but 2004, for example, 
did not seem to capture the imagination of 
college students to the same extent. This 
year’s race has thus far engaged a lot of 
people, perhaps because it is an open-seat 
race, and perhaps because of the unusual 
field of candidates [such as] Sanders [and] 
Trump.”   
The abundance of Sanders supporters 
at the College also helped bring the elec-
tion to the foreground of campus politics 
and sparked new forms of student political 
activism and engagement during the past 
year. In August, Elizabeth Lee ’17 led the 
official launch of Young Progressives De-
manding Action, a group comprised of for-
mer leaders of College Students for Bernie 
who are linked to 
Progressive Demo-
crats of America.  
Looking ahead, 
both the College 
Democrats and Col-
lege Republicans 
plan to collabo-
rate to allow their 
members to engage 
in debate and po-
litical discussion. 
MCR Co-President 
Khan observed that 
several members 
had recently joined 
MCR who pos-
sessed left-leaning 
views. 
“Our group 
is open to anyone 
who wants to be 
involved,” he said. “Anyone who wants to 
be a part of what we’re doing on campus, 
which is working to promote conservative 
ideas, but also working to promote the de-
bate of ideas and discussion.” 
College Republican Membership Grows 
by 3000 Percent in Less Than One Year
By Tess Weitzner
Senior Writer
12 features | September 22, 2016
Members of the Middlebury College Republicans attended a dinner in Burlington with Ohio Governer John Kasich in Oct. 2015.
“Our group is open to 
anyone who wants to be in-
volved. Anyone who wants 
to be a part of what we’re 
doing on campus, which is 
working to promote conser-
vative ideas, but also work-
ing to promote the debate of 
ideas and discussion.”   
alexander khan ’17
co-president, middlebury college republicans
ELSA ALVARADO
“The majority [of MCR 
members] are very dissatis-
fied with our party’s nomi-
nee. Many of his statements, 
and even his policy positions 
have been both incredibly of-
fensive to certain groups in 
this country and also, some 
might argue, have been in-
credibly unrealistic...We 
also didn’t feel he was much 
of a Republican.”  
Hayden dublois ‘17
Co-president, middlebury college republicans
Columnists Wanted!
Do you go on adventures? Do you want to write 
about them? Start a column for the Features 
section!
Interested columnists please email 
campus@middlebury.edu
Four students from Middlebury Col-
lege participated in an intensive, four-week 
service-learning program in Japan over the 
summer that took them from the busy city 
streets of Tokyo to the quiet, rural com-
munity of Tenryumura. Two students from 
International Christian University and four 
students from The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong joined them. 
The group of ten students came from 
different countries, academic disciplines 
and varying levels of Japanese proficiency. 
Despite their differences, they all engaged in 
service activities such as planting soybeans, 
clearing blueberry patches, teaching in el-
ementary classrooms 
and interacting with 
elderly Japanese citi-
zens. 
Sanae Eda, direc-
tor of the Middlebury 
C.V. Starr School in 
Japan, and Kristin 
Mullins, coordina-
tor for the College’s 
Language in Motion 
program created and 
piloted the program. 
They realized that the 
service learning cen-
ter at ICU in Japan 
allowed students to 
participate in service 
learning projects in 
countries throughout 
Asia and Southeast 
Asia, but not in Japan. 
“[We] really wanted to have a program 
where students [came] to Japan from other 
countries, colleges and universities. The 
program is not just different institutions col-
laborating but also students from different 
institutions collaborating,” Mullins said.
Mullins and Eda wanted an intercul-
tural program that encouraged students to 
explore the meaning of service within an in-
ternational context.
“The question we kept looking at was, 
‘What is service?’ Do we have a shared un-
derstanding of service within this group? 
And then when we are working with com-
munities and community members it’s not 
as if you have one community, one personal-
ity and one perspective,” Mullins said. 
Michiko Yoshino ’17, a Japanese Studies 
and Sociology double major and a member 
of the service-learning project, said that dur-
ing orientation the students discussed the 
idea of service, but did not leave with one 
concrete definition.
Imagine Yoshino’s surprise, then, when 
the vice mayor of Tenryumura, instead of 
asking the students to perform labor-inten-
sive tasks, requested that they share a meal 
and converse with older members of the 
community. The vice mayor emphasized the 
value of young people spending time inter-
acting with Japan’s aging population.
Reflecting upon the program Yoshino 
recalled, “At that point I questioned every-
thing. It was a pilot program, so I didn’t 
know what to 
expect. Mak-
ing connections 
and hanging out 
with residents 
in Tenryumura 
didn’t feel like 
‘work’ and I kept 
wondering when 
we would actu-
ally start helping 
people.” 
It was not 
until Yoshino let 
go of her precon-
ceived ideas of 
service that she 
began to under-
stand.
“ S e r v i c e 
isn’t about ‘fixing 
what is broken,’” Yoshino said. “It’s [about] 
strengthening a community in whatever way 
that we can. And if people were happier be-
cause we played in the water and helped pick 
blueberries, then that is serving a commu-
nity. I didn’t realize how much of an impact 
I would have on the community – I still get 
updates via Facebook about the soybeans we 
planted.” 
Mullins explained that spending time 
in Tenryumura was important because the 
town is struggling with an aging popula-
tion. 58 percent of the population is 65 years 
or older, which means that older residents 
do not spend a lot of time around younger 
people. While Yoshino questioned whether 
or not spending time with host families ben-
efitted the community, she later realized 
that the elderly residents loved talking with 
the gaikokujin, or “foreigners”, and hearing 
about their lives outside of Japan. 
Both Mullins and Yoshino enjoyed 
playing ‘gate ball’ – a 
game similar to cro-
quet – with residents. 
After the game, those 
residents laughed 
along with service 
learning students 
at how games and 
sports can unite peo-
ple regardless of their 
culture or language. 
Students also 
participated in ser-
vice projects in Tokyo 
where they facilitated 
classroom activities and helped out with 
after school programs. In one school, the 
Japanese children taught the daigakusei 
san (or college students) how to play with 
traditional Japanese toys.
“It was a wonderful mutual learning op-
portunity,” Mullins said. She described how 
the Japanese elementary school students 
loved sharing their culture’s customs and 
traditions with their “teachers,” who then 
reciprocated with games from their home 
countries. 
When asked about the activity, Yoshino 
laughed and said, “I thought it was cute. 
None of us, the college kids, knew how to 
play with the toys 
and the kids really 
enjoyed interacting 
with us.” 
The four Middle-
bury students who 
participated in the 
program were se-
lected out of about 
eighteen other ap-
plicants. Mullins said 
she hopes to continue 
the program but is 
unsure of its future.
The One Middle-
bury Fund, a one-time grant administered 
by the Office of the Provost dedicated to 
strengthening interactions between various 
Middlebury programs, the College’s Japa-
nese Studies department and the Center for 
Community Engagement’s cross cultural 
fund originally covered all the expenses. The 
one-time nature of the funding, however, 
means that the program may not continue.
The Observatory, located on the roof of 
Bicentennial Hall, held the first open house 
of the season on Friday, Sept. 16 to welcome 
students back to school. The event was open 
to students, faculty, staff and the general 
public and showcased several smaller tele-
scopes where viewers could see features of 
the night sky including the full moon. The 
larger, 24-inch telescope on top of the Ob-
servatory was also open and viewers were 
able to glimpse both Mars and Saturn. The 
Observatory, which is the best-equipped ob-
servation facility in the state of Vermont, has 
another open house scheduled for Sept. 30 
where visitors will also be able to view both 
planets.
Jonathan Kemp, Telescope Specialist 
and acting Observatory manager, collabo-
rated with students to plan the event. 
“We often get up to a few hundred peo-
ple attending our Observatory public open 
house events,” Kemp said. “These usually 
involve a healthy mix of students, faculty, 
and staff, and members of the public from 
surrounding communities–both adults and 
children.”
At the event, students from the College 
were stationed at the smaller observation 
stations to assist and educate viewers while 
Kemp operated the 24-inch telescope. Toby 
Aicher ’16.5, who has worked as a telescope 
assistant for the past three years, helped at-
tendees to view the full moon. Aicher said 
stargazing can be a humbling experience. 
“I think astronomy gives an important 
perspective on our place in the universe,” 
he said. “We’re floating on a speck of dust 
revolving around a vanishingly small point 
of light in a vast cosmos, and it makes you 
appreciate the preciousness of the earth and 
human life.”
For students interested in exploring as-
tronomy on campus, Aicher recommended 
checking out astronomy classes in the phys-
ics department as 
well as taking advan-
tage of the extracur-
ricular space-related 
activities. 
“There are a few 
great opportunities 
for students who 
want to get more in-
volved with the ob-
servatory,” he said. 
“The Space Club, run 
by Ben Belinski ’18.5 
and Roo Weed ’18.5, 
brings together students who want to talk 
about astronomy and be notified about as-
tronomy events on campus.”
 Sam Cartwright ’18, one of Aicher’s fel-
low telescope assistants, also said that stu-
dents of all interest levels are welcome to 
explore astronomy by attending Observatory 
events. 
“Whether someone is a die-hard space 
junkie or is just curious about what constel-
lations they can see, the open house events 
are great opportunities to feed their curios-
ity,” Cartwright said. 
No matter interest level or prior knowl-
edge, Cartwright said he hopes that the peo-
ple who attend the Observatory open houses 
walk away with a new enthusiasm for space. 
“I hope that people learn something in-
teresting or even inspiring about space that 
will change the way that they look at the 
night sky,” he said. “In a place where our 
focus is often locked onto the happenings of 
our small campus, I hope people walk away 
from the events having gained at least a small 
sense of the vast beauty of the universe.”
Kemp echoed Cartwright’s sentiment. 
“I hope that people who attend our events 
gain an appreciation for our place in the Uni-
verse and the wonders of the night sky,” he 
said. “Many people 
who view an object 
through a telescope 
have an emotional or 
visceral reaction to 
what they see, and I 
hope to help inspire 
both a curiosity about 
and an understand-
ing of the cosmos.”
According to 
Kemp, the Observa-
tory does not host 
open houses regularly 
later in the semester because the depart-
ment needs to use the facility for academic 
purposes. 
“After our fall outreach programming 
ends, we will again start scheduling public 
Observatory events in the spring, and gener-
ally offer approximately weekly opportuni-
ties in the summer when Language Schools 
are in session,” Kemp said. “However, I also 
try to keep students apprised of potential 
visitor scholars who may be available to talk 
to and meet with students.”  
Kemp also emphasized that one doesn’t 
need fancy equipment to deepen their appre-
ciation for the stars. 
“Any reasonably dark location with a 
largely unobstructed view of the night sky 
can allow you to observe constellations, 
planets, artificial satellites, and the moon,” 
he said. “We have a variety of resources on 
our Observatory web site to help people en-
joy the night sky from wherever they might 
be.”
September 22, 2016   
Students Particpate in Service-Learning Program in Japan 
13features
By Sarah Asch
Senior Writer
Observatory Opens for Public Glimpse of Planets 
service learning program facebook page 
Student participants pose with Language in Motion Coordinator Kristen Mullins, 
right, for a photo during the Japan service-learning program during summer 2016.
By Tabitha Mueller
Contributing Writer
“Service isn’t about ‘fixing 
what is broken. It’s [about] 
strengthening a community 
in whatever way that we can. 
And if people were happier be-
cause we played in the water 
and helped pick blueberries, 
then that is serving a commu-
nity.”
Michiko yoshino ’17
Service Program participant
“The question we kept 
looking at was, ‘What is 
service?’ Do we have a 
shared understanding of 
service within this group?”
kristen mullins
coordinator, language in motion
The Observatory had its first public opening on Friday, letting people glimpse of 
Mars and Saturn. There will be two more observation events on Sept. 30 and Oct. 7.
Jonathan Kemp
“I hope people walk away 
from the events having 
gained at least a small sense 
of the vast beauty of the uni-
verse.”
Sam Cartwright ’18
arts &  sciences
don’t
miss
this
Open Space: An Improvisational Laboratory
Open Space is a place to inhabit your body, be with 
yourself and others physically and release agendas. 
Come dance, play, sing, touch, watch and listen. The 
first hour is in silence, and the second hour is open for 
the musicians to join and play as they wish. 
SATURDAYS, 1:00-3:00 PM, MAHANEY CENTER FOR THE 
ARTS, ROOM 110
The BreakPoets
Editors from The BreakBeat Poets of Chicago facilitate 
a short open mic, featuring participants from the after-
noon workshop and members of the local poetry and hip 
hop community. The editors then perform an interactive 
reading from the BreakBeat Poets anthology.
9/28, 7:30-8:30 PM, AXINN ABERNETHY ROOM
Contemplative Coloring at the Museum
Studies have pointed to the therapeutic benefits 
of coloring. Spend a mindful moment with our 
collection as you color beautiful line renderings 
of the Museum’s treasures. Feel your stress melt 
away as you invent your own color schemes.
FRIDAYS, 12:15 P.M., MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE MUSEUM 
OF ART
 When I first heard that WRMC was 
putting on an “S.O.S Fest” to kick off the 
school year, I begged The Campus to let 
me report on it. As a longtime fan of all 
bands that got their start on Disney Chan-
nel, I was super excited to attend what I 
thought would be a concert where groups 
came together to perform their covers 
of the Jonas Brothers’ 2007 smash hit 
“S.O.S.” Unfortunately, the relevant par-
ties let me know that S.O.S Fest is actu-
ally an annual outdoor concert put on by 
WRMC (the campus radio station), com-
pletely unrelated to the JoBro discogra-
phy. So, on Friday night, I walked over 
to the stage on Battell Beach in my usual 
fashion: completely alone and slightly sick 
to the stomach as a result of that cup of 
way, way too sweet lemonade that I drank 
all of because I didn’t have a taste of it 
until I had already sat down and at that 
point I didn’t want to get up and walk all 
the way back across the field to get water 
instead so the lemonade would have to 
do even though it was way, way too sweet 
because I was two cornbreads down and 
very, very thirsty.
I approached the stage at 7 o’clock 
sharp to find a small crowd of students 
dressed in varied amounts of cool, sec-
ondhand clothing, lackadaisically chat-
ting while waiting for Pouty, the first 
group scheduled to perform. To the right 
of the crowd, there was a merchandise 
table scattered with t-shirts and cassette 
tapes. 
At the far end, a student was collect-
ing donations for WomenSafe, a local or-
ganization committed to combatting do-
mestic and sexual violence. Eventually, I 
found the WRMC Business Manager, Tim 
Hansen ’18, in the crowd, and asked him if 
he could elaborate on how S.O.S Fest be-
came connected to WomenSafe.
“It just made a lot of sense to take 
donations at a free concert, especially in 
a place like Middlebury where many stu-
dents come from backgrounds of privilege 
and have the ability to donate to great 
organizations like WomenSafe,” Hansen 
said. “And while all of the artists perform-
ing don’t explicitly speak to sexual vio-
lence towards women, there was a reso-
nance to me between having a line-up 
of exclusively female-fronted acts and 
collecting donations for an organization 
that’s doing great work to keep women 
safe.”
As the College’s largest student or-
ganization, WRMC has been looking for 
ways to use its substantial infrastructure 
for greater social engagement, and Fri-
day night seemed a perfect opportunity to 
marry that mission with music.
Completely unfamiliar with all four of 
the bands on the S.O.S Fest lineup (and 
feeling incredibly unqualified to write this 
article), I began to ask around about just 
what we were about to see, first approach-
ing a hip-looking couple wearing quite a 
lot of denim. (By this reporter’s count: 
two denim jackets, two pairs of denim 
jeans and a chambray shirt that may or 
may not have been made out of denim. 
Sadly, I neglected to look at the material 
of their footwear.). 
“We haven’t really heard of the first 
two bands,” one of them piped in, refer-
ring to Pouty and Human People. “But 
I’m actually a big SPORTS [the third band 
scheduled to perform] fan. And, of course, 
we both adore Mitski.”
As I continued to mingle with the 
crowd, this seemed to be the general 
sentiment: Pouty and Human People 
are newer, local bands that most people 
there did not know but had looked up and 
viewed with vaguely positive regard. The 
real cool people there were familiar with 
SPORTS, and I was slightly uncool for not 
knowing who they are but could be for-
given because they have not been featured 
by Pitchfork yet and also I was dressed 
in a Volcom tee and generally look like a 
dork. Mitski, though – what rock had I 
been hiding under that I didn’t know who 
she is, because Mitski is amazing. Just as 
I was beginning to watch a very entertain-
ing YouTube video in which Mitski her-
self weighs in on whether various things 
are over- or under- rated, I saw Pouty 
walk onto the stage and anxiously put my 
phone back in my pocket.
Pouty is a Philadelphia group fronted 
by Rachel Gagliardi (you might know her 
from her previous band, Slutever – I did 
not). They just released their first project, 
Take Me to Honey Island, in February of 
this year. As was to be expected with an 
album name that references a commonly 
used sugar substitute, Pouty’s music had 
a sweet, undeniable pop sensibility that 
swam just under the surface of all the dis-
tortion, anchored by Gagliardi’s emotive, 
distinctly feminine wail. Each of the songs 
they played had the undeniably fun qual-
ity of that obligatory, inoffensive punk 
rock track that plays over the climax of 
pretty much every Nickelodeon animated 
movie and gets all the kids in the theater 
bobbing their heads and smiling as the 
protagonists, of course, save the day.
Soon after Pouty left the stage, Hu-
man People, an all-female band from 
New York City, began their set, excited 
to promote their new EP, Veronica, that 
had just been released on the day of S.O.S 
Fest. They performed with a caffeinated 
punk rock energy and self-awareness that 
allowed them to begin verses with lines 
like “Every single night I dream about get-
ting murdered” and totally get away with 
it.
By the time they had played a couple 
songs, the crowd began to loosen up in the 
way that college crowds do the later in the 
night it gets, dancing energetically instead 
of swaying appreciatively.
One student was thrashing outra-
geously all by himself right up front, 
and continued to do so for the rest of the 
concert. Vocalist Hayley Livingston com-
mented that we are “way better” than 
crowds in New York (the band’s home), 
who will stand with their arms crossed for 
an entire show and then come up to her 
afterwards and say they loved it. Toward 
the end of their set, a student who had just 
joined the crowd remarked that he wished 
he had arrived earlier. “They’re just so 
fun!” he said.
Up next was SPORTS, a female-front-
ed group from Philadelphia, specializing 
in infectious, energetic indie-rock buzz-
ing with this liberated earnestness that 
sounded like it was plucked from a base-
ment deep in someplace suburban.
“You’re the reason why I can never 
hide, you left my keys inside,” vocalist 
Carmen Perry sang, simply and honestly 
capturing the then and there of the love 
we do not want to forget about.
As the band began playing a number 
of short, up-tempo tracks from their three 
albums, the crowd continued to grow, 
both in terms of population and energy, 
head bobbing and hair flipping and gener-
ally “rocking out.” As the audience became 
more dense, my spot in the crowd became 
terribly mediocre, so I made a play for the 
middle right after SPORTS finished their 
set, edging my way past people when they 
were not looking and generally not being 
very considerate of others for the sake of 
journalism.
Mitski appeared onstage with just a 
guitar and suddenly it was all quiet shov-
ing and darting, everyone in the crowd 
pushing forward to get a better look at the 
stage. The previously flashing lights set-
tled to a stagnant red and, for a moment, 
everything sat in stasis. A guitar strum, 
and suddenly she was singing “Townie” 
from her critically acclaimed 2014 album 
Bury Me At Make Out Creek. I was prob-
ably the only person there who had never 
heard this song in my life, but I was just as 
speechless as the rest of them – this music 
was gorgeous. 
As she stood, completely unadorned, 
Mitski’s voice flitted achingly over simple 
chords, and a powerful statement about 
the ability of art to speak to identity be-
gan to take shape. Mitski self-identifies 
as “half Japanese, half American but not 
fully either” and by choosing indie rock 
– a traditionally whitewashed genre – as 
her medium, there is a powerful, politi-
cal sense of reclamation to everything she 
does that seemed to fall perfectly in line 
with the goals of WRMC in organizing this 
event. 
When Mitski sang, “Your mother 
wouldn’t approve of how my mother raised 
me, but I do, I finally do,” she was using 
her platform to preach self-acceptance in 
a way that felt decidedly non-preachy. Af-
ter Mitski left the stage, the chatter slowly 
built and the crowd began to disperse, 
marking the end of this year’s S.O.S Fest, 
an annual tradition that encapsulates the 
very best of the College – acceptance, di-
versity and above all, fun.
Annual S.O.S. Fest a Smashing Success 
By Cole Merrell
Contributing Writer
The Key XPN
Mitski, a New York-based indie rock performer, closed out this year’s S.O.S. Fest with a powerful, political sense of reclamation.
Brooklyn-based band Human People describes their music as “sloppy poppy punk.”
Walter Wlodarczyk
15arts & SCIENCESSeptember 22, 2016 |  
Syncopated Ladies Empower Onstage
On Friday, Sept. 16, the College wel-
comed three members of the Syncopated 
Ladies: A Los Angeles based tap dancing 
troupe who pride themselves on creating 
spaces for women in an art form that is 
traditionally dominated by men. In ad-
dition to their efforts at empowerment, 
Chloe Arnold, Melissa Tanus and Anissa 
Lee also used the venue to highlight the 
impact that belonging to this group has 
had on their lives. 
In between two of her group’s dy-
namic tap dance routines, Arnold 
stepped up to the microphone and shared 
how her dreams motivated her to escape 
urban poverty and eventually graduate 
from Columbia University before she 
went on to found one of the most prolific 
tap dance groups on the planet. In anoth-
er, Tannus stepped up to share how her 
mother became one of her biggest fans, 
and how after her mother’s death, her fel-
low dancer surrounded her with love that 
felt like that of true sisters. In yet anoth-
er, Anissa Lee shared how she endured 
long hours of work and school to finally 
receive her degree and how she used that 
same dedication to better herself and the 
group around her.
After sharing parts of their stories, 
each woman proudly stated that they 
were a Syncopated Lady.
Their declarations were not just fact. 
They doubled as a message of female em-
powerment and strength, two ideas that 
get to the very heart of what it means to 
be a Syncopated Lady.  
Through their originality and sheer 
skill, the group has created memora-
ble performances, including a choreo-
graphed dance to Beyoncé’s “Formation” 
that has garnered millions of views and 
a note of support from Beyoncé herself. 
The group then shared their choreogra-
phy with women all over the world as a 
way to share the sentiments of indepen-
dence present in the song and all of the 
group’s work. 
The combination of social conscious-
ness and vibrant performances ensured 
that the ladies enjoyed a warm reception 
from the Middlebury community. Their 
decision to perform here was largely fa-
cilitated by Middlebury’s own Danilo 
Herrera ’18. 
Herrera first came into contact with 
Arnold at the age of 12, when she offered 
tap lessons in his home town of Uber-
lândia. Between that and his childhood 
friendship with Tannus, Herrera was 
well placed to organize their appear-
ance. He accomplished this with funding 
from the Rothrock Family Fund for Expe-
riential Learning in the Performing Arts. 
Established in 2011, the Rothrock 
Fund was designed as a program that 
“supports opportunities that broaden the 
scope of Middlebury students’ experience 
in the performing arts.”  The Syncopated 
Ladies accomplish this by not only giving 
an electrifying performance, but also of-
fering free contemporary dance and tap 
master classes. 
In the contemporary class, the Synco-
pated Ladies offered an eclectic selection 
of dance routines that focused on rhythm 
and movement that did not require any 
tap dancing equipment. The tap dancing 
master class was also available to all stu-
dents, but had a deeper focus on develop-
ing skills in that style of dance. 
Throughout the day, the Syncopated 
Ladies offered new venues for tap danc-
ing and physical expressions of confi-
dence to the entire community. Through 
their energy and philosophy, they created 
an atmosphere of positivity that went far 
to welcome Middlebury student for a new 
year.  
By Dominick Tanoh
Arts & Sciences Editor
Huffington Post
The Syncopated Ladies offered a dynamic performance to the community, mixing stunning dances with personal stories. 
“Florence Foster Jenkins” was re-
leased in 2016 and stars Meryl Streep as 
the titular character. The film’s direction 
and meaning in life stemmed from Jen-
kins’ almost religious devotion to the mu-
sical arts, and from this devotion sprung a 
lifetime of sponsoring and fostering such 
arts in New York City. Innumerable pro-
ductions would not have existed without 
her exuberant support, yet she is remem-
bered not for these contributions. Instead, 
the exceptional 
woman is remem-
bered by many 
for the nickname 
coined by those in 
the musical world she so endlessly sup-
ported: the worst singer in the world. 
The musical life of Florence Fos-
ter Jenkins began at a young age when it 
was discovered she was a piano prodigy, 
and so she toured under the name “Little 
Miss Foster.” She made it all the way to 
the White House to perform for President 
Rutherford B. Hayes. A supremely inde-
pendent individual from a young age, she 
pushed back against her father’s wishes 
for her to marry rich and settle down in-
stead of pursuing music. She eloped with 
Dr. Frank Thornton, who failed to support 
her pursuits, gave her syphilis and ulti-
mately left the marriage.
Director Stephen Frears rightly 
chooses to not attempt and tell the en-
tirety of Jenkins’ life. The movie picks up 
50 years after her contraction of syphilis, 
when she is living in New York City with 
her husband St. Clair Bayfield, an actor 
whose talent never quite lived up to his 
aspirations, something shared by them 
both. Played here by the immensely tal-
ented Meryl Streep and Hugh Grant, we 
are whisked into their lives as they stage 
a series of performances at the Verdi Club. 
What becomes immediately apparent is 
that Ms. Jenkins lives for performance, 
even as the extent of her involvement is 
costume changes and facial expressions. 
The movie traces her life from this 
point, only making reference to the past 
when its repercussions are vital to the nar-
rative. Frears never 
uses flashbacks, 
and the majority of 
the expository dia-
logue feels natural, a 
result of Simon Helberg’s rendition of Ms. 
Jenkins new accompanist Cosmé McMoon 
being introduced to her world. Such a de-
cision is vital to the narrative, and avoids 
the issue of narrative overcrowding that 
often plagues bio-pics. There is no attempt 
to tell her whole story from childhood on-
ward; this gives Streep the chance to dig 
into the late life of a woman who has been 
wrecked by such a horrible malady for de-
cades without having such development 
spelled out in set pieces. It is a high mark 
of the film that it knows how to limit its 
scope. 
However, Frears, like the woman 
whose story he is directing, cannot seem 
to find a melody he is entirely comfortable 
following. While he makes the right choice 
in limiting his time period, within such 
limitations he never quite grasps on to a 
direction that allows the film to do justice 
to the rather incredible story it is tasked 
with telling. At the outset, it seems that 
the focus of the film will be Ms. Jenkins’ 
performance aspirations with her as the 
rightful center, but as the story progresses 
it moves away from that narrative to spend 
substantial time exploring the unorthodox 
relationship between her and Mr. Bayfield, 
and then returns to the stage for its finale. 
While both stories are engaging, the lack 
of consistency throughout results in a fail-
ure to fully engage 
the emotional heft of 
either. 
Nonetheless, a 
supremely talented 
cast saves the movie 
from being derailed 
by the lack of a clear 
vision. Hugh Grant 
has often been writ-
ten off as nothing 
more than a hand-
some face capable of supplying wit and 
charm to romantic leads, but here he 
blends this preconception with the frenet-
ic energy of someone who loves Florence 
so dearly he cannot conceive of anyone 
who would want to do her harm. Such a 
character could easily present as naive or 
trite, but Grant commits so wholeheart-
edly to the role that it is instead one of the 
best roles of his career, and a performance 
that should garner him some overdue Os-
car attention. 
However wonderful Grant is though, 
he joins the long list of performers who 
must step aside for the thespian power-
house that is Meryl Streep. It has become 
an expectation that Streep will be a revela-
tion whenever she appears on screen, but 
the immense talent that the woman pos-
sesses shouldn’t be taken for granted. It 
is an enormous fault of the film that Ms. 
Jenkins feels relegated to a supporting 
character when her relationship with Mr. 
Bayfield is being explored, but still Streep 
finds ways to be unforgettable at every mo-
ment on screen. 
In a particularly moving moment with 
Helberg’s superb McMoon, Streep cap-
tures the pain of be-
ing unable to play 
her beloved piano. 
Jenkins could have 
been turned into a 
self-absorbed hack, 
too oblivious to the 
world to notice that 
she was a joke, or 
too concerned with 
herself to care. In-
stead, Streep brings 
to life a woman who, even though she has 
suffered every day since she was 18, over-
flows with a warmth and joy that makes 
the audience understand why Mr. Bayfield 
is so devoted to her. Streep may well win 
her fourth Oscar for a performance that 
stands with some of her most affecting 
work. 
Ultimately, “Florence Foster Jenkins” 
is only a good film, elevated by exception-
al performances, that should have been 
great. It is an engaging and unexpectedly 
inspiring biopic that never quite knows 
how to tell the story of incredible women, 
but the story it settles on telling is well 
worth the time. 
By Devin McGrath-Conwell
Staff Columnist
San Antonio Current
The performance included a tap tribute to Prince and a salute to tap’s long history.
THE REEL CRITIC
Florence Foster Jenkins
“[The film] is an engaging and 
unexpectedly inspiring biopic 
that never quite knows how to 
tell the story of an incredible 
women, but the story it settles 
on telling is well worth the 
time.”
16 arts & SCIENCES   | September 22, 2016
Speaker on Experience in Forensics 
Last Friday, September 16th, Colby 
College Professor of Chemistry Julie Mil-
lard spoke on forensics and her work at 
the Maine State Crime Lab. Her talk, both 
fascinating and thought-provoking, sum-
marized how DNA evidence is used in 
criminal investigations and detailed the 
large genetic data-
bases used by law en-
forcement to connect 
people to crimes. 
Millard began 
the talk with the de-
velopment of genetic 
fingerprinting. Ge-
netic fingerprinting 
can be dated back to 
1985, when the UK 
scientist Alec Jeffreys 
invented a method 
to analyze hyper-
variable regions of 
the human genome. 
These regions are 
unique to every indi-
vidual, and the odds of two people having 
a random match are 1:3 trillion. 
Soon after Jeffreys’ discovery, there 
were a series of murders in the small town 
of Enderby, England. Policemen contacted 
Jeffreys’ and used his method to geneti-
cally fingerprint every male younger than 
30 years old in Enderby. They compared 
everyone’s genetic fingerprints to the DNA 
found at the scene of the crime. Using this 
information, they found the murderer, 
Collin Pitchfork, who was the first person 
to be convicted using DNA evidence. 
Since 1985, the use of DNA evidence 
in criminal investigations has become a 
common practice. In 1994, the USA set 
up CODIS, which is a massive database of 
genetic fingerprints. Currently, over two 
million people have genetic fingerprints in 
this database. Investigators rapidly com-
pare DNA found at a crime scene to the ge-
netic fingerprints in the database. If DNA 
at a crime scene matches the fingerprint of 
a person in CODIS, they’re highlighted as 
a likely suspect. 
California has the largest database 
with the genetic fingerprints of 1.8 million 
people. Investigators from the state claim 
that the database has helped with over 
50,000 investigations. 49 states require 
convicted felons to give DNA to the data-
base. Controversially, 28 states have laws 
that require DNA to be collected from peo-
ple who are arrested 
for certain felonies 
even if they are later 
found to be falsely 
accused. 
There are con-
siderably ethical di-
lemmas associated 
with CODIS. Does 
the threat to civil 
liberties and privacy 
outweigh the useful-
ness of CODIS to law 
enforcement? Once 
someone’s genetic in-
formation is upload-
ed it is nearly impos-
sible to remove from 
the database. There are even calls for every 
individual to be genetically fingerprinted 
at birth. CODIS contradicts our country’s 
commitment do genetic privacy and the 
right of individuals to determine what they 
do with their genetic information and who 
they share it with. It’s surprising given 
the recent furor surrounding government 
surveillance that little attention is paid to 
increasing genetic surveillance. 
CODIS also represents our criminal 
justice system’s focus on punishment over 
rehabilitation. Why don’t we invest our 
resources into rehabilitation and helping 
criminals reintegrate into society rather 
than spend more money on catching re-
peat criminals? It’s also worrying that CO-
DIS gives law enforcement unprecedented 
power even while severe injustices persist 
in our criminal justice system. (See the op-
ed last year titled “White Privilege in the 
Face of the Law.”) 
Milliard touched on the ethical haz-
ards of CODIS, but also pointed out its 
ability to help exonerate wrongly accused 
criminals. For instance, the DNA inno-
cence project is a legal organization that 
has helped free 343 wrongly convicted 
people using evidence based on DNA. 
The group’s goal is to “free the staggering 
number of innocent people who remain 
incarcerated, and to bring reform to the 
system responsible for their unjust impris-
onment.”
“In my opinion, it’s just as impor-
tant to exonerate someone who is inno-
cent than it is to implicate someone who 
is guilty,” Milliard said. “There are a lot of 
innocent people in prison for crimes they 
didn’t commit, and DNA evidence can 
help them get out.”
Ethical qualms aside, forensics under-
scores the power of DNA and the progress 
made in molecular biology over the past 
four decades. The importance of these ma-
jor advances weren’t lost on one criminal 
who sent a letter to the forensics lab where 
Millard worked. He had been recently con-
victed with DNA evidence. 
By Toby Aicher
Arts & Sciences Editor
“It’s just as important to 
exonerate someone who 
is innocent than it is to 
implicate someone who is 
guilty. There are a lot of 
innocent people in prison 
for crimes they didn’t com-
mitt and DNA evidence can 
help them get out.”
-Dr. Julie Millard
Colby College Professor of Chemistry 
Dr. Julie Millard spoke about the increasing use of DNA in criminal investigations.
Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry
Keith Haring’s simple and fresh illus-
trations brought to light some of the most 
important social issues of his day, from 
the drug epidemic to Apartheid to ram-
pant homophobia during the HIV/AIDS 
crisis.
He brought “low art” elements of 
popular culture into “high art” spaces of 
museums and galleries to impact change 
and, fifteen years after his death from the 
virus he fought to bring into the light, was 
named one of the 31 icons of LGBT History 
Month by the Equality Forum. His work 
remains relevant in today’s ongoing quest 
for equality.
From now through December, the 
Middlebury College Museum of Art will ex-
hibit limited editions of Haring’s pieces in 
an exhibition titled “Post Pop: the Prints of 
Keith Haring.”
After leaving art school in 1978, Har-
ing started in 1981 by chalking his iconic 
simple line designs in the subway on the 
matte black of unused advertising panels. 
Over the next five years, he would sketch 
hundreds of illustrations, sometimes as 
many as 40 in a day. He gained recogni-
tion almost immediately and was asked to 
install murals in dozens of cities around the 
world for charities, hospitals, day care cen-
ters, orphanages and other groups. Nearly 
all his pieces offer important social com-
mentary, from his “Crack is Whack” mural 
commenting on the cocaine epidemic, to 
“Free South Africa,” which was a response 
to Apartheid.
Later in the 1980s, Haring’s work often 
focused around HIV/AIDS as he watched 
the disease claim the lives of his friends. 
Knowing that he would almost certainly 
contract the disease himself and seeing his 
peers suffer in silence, Haring was com-
pelled to work even harder, saying, “I know 
my days are numbered. This is why my ac-
tivities and projects are so important now. 
To do as much as possible as quickly as pos-
sible.”
In a time when homosexuality was 
still politically and socially rejected, AIDS 
was misunderstood, widely seen as a sort 
of moral repercussion for taboo behavior. 
Harding’s work sought to change that.
The work pictured on the top right, 
Sex=Death, depicts a number of figures 
covering the eyes, mouths and ears as if to 
portray the willful ignorance and refusal of 
the public to accept homosexuality. It illus-
trates the oppression and invisibility that 
the gay community and AIDS victims in 
particular felt during Haring’s lifetime and 
beyond.
The pink triangle behind the figures 
originates from the Holocaust, when an 
upside down pink triangle was used to de-
note and shame concentration camp pris-
oners identified as being homosexual. The 
symbol was later repurposed by gay rights 
organizations, but even through the 80s, 
pink triangle wreaths were not allowed on 
the tombs of those killed for their sexuality 
during WWII because of widespread ho-
mophobia.
As Haring gained recognition for his 
street art and exhibitions, he was able to 
increase that visibility and lend a voice to 
those suffering in silence. As he approached 
death, Haring worked feverishly to raise 
awareness and visibility for not only those 
suffering from HIV/AIDS but the gay com-
munity as a whole, until his passing in 
1991. Today, the Keith Haring Foundation 
continues to provide funding and imag-
ery to AIDS organizations and children’s 
programs around the world. It works to 
expand the audience for his work through 
exhibitions, publications and the licensing 
of his images, and to expand activism and 
awareness. 
Even without political tones, Harding’s 
work is recognized globally for its vibrant 
and active figures carrying strong messages 
of unity and life.
This exhibition of selected limited edi-
tions on loan from the Keith Haring Foun-
dation will be on view at the Middlebury 
Museum through Dec. 11. Admission is free. 
Performing Arts Sp    TLight: Post Pop Prints
 
By Connor Forrest
Senior Columnist
Keith Harding
Keith Harding
Keith Harding’s pop prints are known for their simple, vibrant and active figures.
Harding’s work Sex=Death represents 
the oppression of the gay community.
17AdvertisementsSeptember 22, 2016 | 
JOIN OUR PACK
WRITE FOR THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE INTERESTED, EMAIL CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
The second-ranked field hockey team 
edged past Amherst in an exciting double 
overtime victory this past Saturday, Sept. 
17. 
The defending national champions 
came out firing last weekend with a quick 
goal at the 3:12 mark. Annie Leonard ’18 
fired a strong shot that found the stick of 
Lauren Schweppe ’18 and was redirected 
into the netting for her first goal of the sea-
son.  
The 1-0 lead was not sustained long 
though, as Amherst responded quickly to 
even the score at one apiece. The score re-
mained at a stalemate for the next 16 min-
utes of back and forth play concentrated 
in the middle of the field. Finally, Leonard 
was able to capitalize on a penalty inside 
the arc giving Middlebury a 2-1 lead with 
nine minutes of play remaining in the 
opening half.  
After the halftime break, it took 
Amherst a long time to respond as the 
Panthers impenetrable defense held them 
off for the majority of the half. Amherst 
knotted the score at 2-2 with a shot on 
goal at the 37:21 mark of the second half. 
Neither team could break the tie and the 
teams took the field in their first overtime 
period.   
Amherst controlled the momentum 
in the first overtime, edging Middlebury 
in shots and penalty corners 4-1 and 5-0 
while earning opportunities to seal the 
game. Despite the efforts of the Lord Jeffs, 
the Panthers hung on as goalie Emily Mill-
er ’17 made some incredible saves to keep 
the score tied at two apiece at the 82:45 
mark.  
Going into the second overtime, the 
Panthers turned it on and sealed the victo-
ry on a second penalty stroke at the 96:54 
mark. Leonard collected a pass from the 
midfield and drew a foul inside the arc. She 
then sent her shot into the top left corner 
of the goal for her team-leading sixth goal 
of the season to lift the Panthers to a 3-2 
win.  
Despite the Panther victory, Amherst 
held a slim advantage in both shots (18-15) 
and penalty corners (13-11).  On the defen-
sive end, Miller finished the game with a 
season-best eight saves in the winning ef-
fort. 
Megan Collins ‘18 commented that al-
though the whole team works extremely 
well as a unit, and there is no true stand 
out player, Miller has made some key saves 
and has contributed a lot to the three past 
victories. As a whole though, Collins said 
“the strong defense in the game allowed 
the team to stop most of the scoring op-
portunities Amherst had.” 
Although the team was strong defen-
sively, they also performed well offensive-
ly. “Annie Leonard came through with her 
both her strikes this weekend giving us the 
edge on Amherst,” Collins added.  
The Middlebury Field Hockey team 
also warmed up in “Send it for Murph” t-
shirts honoring Murphy Roberts ‘17.  Pam 
Schulman ‘17 spoke to honor Murphy and 
brought awareness and collected dona-
tions for Kiss the Sky to Conquer Type I 
Diabetes.  
Looking ahead to this coming week-
end, the team has a tough double header 
as they play top-ranked Bowdoin at home 
on Kohn Field at noon followed by an away 
game at Hamilton on Sunday. The team 
will be preparing all week for these two 
tough matchups.  
“[We] have a really strong passing team 
and will be focusing on working on moving 
the ball and making the ball do the work,” 
Collins said. “This will be a very important 
focal point for the team in preparation for 
this weekend.”  
Last year the Panthers lost both the reg-
ular season game and the NESCAC Cham-
pionship game to Bowdoin; however, they 
were able to edge them off in the NCAA 
finals by a score of 1-0. This Saturday’s 
contest will certainly be a tough matchup 
but the Panthers are ready to step up to the 
The men’s soccer team (2-0-1) 
returned to the field Saturday, Sept. 
17 to face Amherst, the reigning NCAA 
champions, and both teams emerged 
with a tie to maintain their undefeated 
starts to the season. The game ended 1-1 
after two scoreless overtimes.
The first opportunity to score came 
during the 24th minute, when the 
Panthers were awarded a penalty kick. 
Adam Glaser ’17 targeted the lower-
right corner, but was denied by Amherst 
goalkeeper, Lee Owen. It was one of five 
saves for Owen during the game.
Amherst struck the first blow against 
Middlebury with 12:46 remaining in the 
half. Andrew Orozco headed a pass at the 
right post off a pass from Kieren Bellow.
Middlebury quickly responded to 
Amherst’s call to action with a goal 
fewer than four minutes later. A 
turnover caused by Greg Conrad ‘17 
put the ball at the feet of Tom Dils ‘17. 
Dils started dribbling just past midfield 
before threading a pass through several 
Amherst defenders to find the foot of 
Conrad at full speed. A soft touch from 
Conrad got the ball around the charging 
Amherst goalie and left an open net for 
Conrad to finish the play.
Amherst had a key opportunity to 
regain its lead in the 56th minute. 
Christopher Martin had a partial 
breakaway, and Panther goalkeeper 
Greg Sydor ’17 came out of his net to cut 
off the angle. Martin drilled a shot, but 
a clutch save by Sydor kept Middlebury 
in the hunt; the game remained knotted 
at one.
In the 67th minute, Dils sparked hope 
for Middlebury on a pair of headers, but 
was ultimately left empty handed. A long 
pass found Dils just in front of the net, 
where his first header crossed the goal 
and missed by inches, bouncing off the 
far post. On the rebound, Dils’ diving 
header missed wide right.
The strong Panther defense held the 
score during a direct kick by Amherst’s 
Bryce Ciambella from 18 yards in the 
73rd minute.
 Despite edging Middlebury in both 
shots (16-11) and corner kicks (9-4), 
Amherst was unable to convert a win 
against its rival squad and Middlebury 
provided even more evidence of its ability 
to play with some of the best teams in the 
country, as neither team could find the 
back of the net in overtime.
“I thought we did a good job creating 
opportunities,” said Dils. “ But I give 
huge credit to our backline and Greg 
(Sydor) in goal, keeping us in it … We 
look forward to hopefully getting a 
second crack at them in NESCACs.”
The Panthers head into an exciting 
and busy stretch, with eight games in 
four weeks. They are slated to face Keene 
State and Bowdoin, both games at home, 
on Wednesday, Sept. 21 and Saturday, 
Sept. 24, respectively.
| September 22, 2016 18 sports
Men’s Soccer Holds Its Own Against Amherst
TEXANS
Garoppolo’s injury will tip the 
balance to Houston. Also hate to 
pick against J.J. Watt.
MIDDLEBURY
Bowdoin is coming off a tough 
year and the Panthers have looked 
strong leading up to the home 
opener.
MICHIGAN ST.
Wisconsin almost lost to Georgia 
State last weekend. And that was at 
Camp Randell.
MIDDLEBURY
The Panthers are the defending 
champs and have won 18-straight 
at Kohn Field.
editors’ picks
Remo Plunkett (73-57, .562)
NFL Pick ‘Em: Texans (2-0) @ Patriots 
(2-0) tonight at 8:30 p.m. on CBS. 
Field Hockey: Who wins this 
rematch of perennial powers 
when the Panthers host 
Bowdoin on Kohn Field on 
Saturday, Sept. 24, at noon?
Football: Home opener vs. 
Bowdoin at Youngman Field this 
Saturday, Sept. 24, at 1 p.m.?
CFB Pick ‘Em: No. 11 Wisconsin 
(3-0) @ No. 8 Michigan St. (3-0) 
on Saturday, Sept. 24. 
TEXANS
Even the great Bill Belly won’t be 
able to pull this one off.
MIDDLEBURY
Jared Lebowitz ’18 will take the 
reins for the Middlebury offense, 
hoping to be the next great QB for 
Panther football.
MICHIGAN ST.
Mark Dantonio is a good coach, and 
his team will show that on Saturday
BOWDOIN
PATRIOTS 
They looked strong without a lot of 
their key players last weekend. 
MIDDLEBURY 
I’ve heard good things about the 
depth and talent of this year’s squad. 
Bowdoin doesn’t stand a chance. 
MICHIGAN
Copping out and going with the 
higher seeded team on this one. 
MIDDLEBURY
It’ll be a close matchup but I see 
the Kohn field advantage going a 
long way for the Panthers. 
will case (29-23, .558)
Andrew Rigas (60-37, .619)
By Riley Plant
Contributing Writer
By Christine Urquhart
Staff Writer  
65
Yards of golf per player in a 
round at the Ralph Myhre Golf 
Course challenge.
Minute of the game when Emma 
Shumway ’18 found the back of the net 
for Women’s Soccer
by the Numb3rs
6
Consecutive home wins for the field 
hockey team at Kohn Field
Team-high number of goals for field 
hockey’s Annie Leonard ’18 this season, 
including a 2OT game-winner against 
Amherst on Saturday
Field Hockey Stays Perfect After Double Overtime Thriller 
6,317
18
Senior Captain Kirk Horton ’17 contends for an air ball as teammate Daniel 
O’Grady ’19 looks on. Men’s soccer tied top-ranked Amherst last Saturday.
michael borenstein
Under beautiful blue skies and rolling 
white clouds, the women’s soccer team took 
on 10th-ranked Amherst last Saturday, 
Sept. 17, at Dragone Field.
Before kickoff, Maddie Morgan ’18 and 
Adrianna Gildner ’17 spoke words of reflec-
tion, encouragement and love for the late 
Murphy Roberts ’17.
Donning “#senditformurph” T-shirts 
and bowing their heads in a moment of si-
lence before the national anthem, the Pan-
thers readied themselves for an emotion-
ally charged match.
“We were extremely focused on this 
game,” Morgan said. “This was a celebra-
tion for Murphy and his love for life, fun 
and sports. This was not a sad day for us.”
Coach Peter Kim echoed Morgan’s senti-
ments.
“Murphy was an inspiration in life, es-
pecially to those who knew him best,” Kim 
said. “It was clear that everyone who knew 
him took his message to heart: to love each 
day to the fullest.”
Once the action on the pitch got started, 
the Panthers played the strong Lord Jeffs 
squad to a scoreless first half. While limit-
ing Amherst’s opportunities, the Panthers 
created opportunities and had their best 
shot to get on the board when Gildner rico-
cheted a 25-yard shot off the left corner of 
the crossbar.
The deadlock continued throughout the 
early second half, until Emma Shumway ’18 
got a ball past the Amherst goalie off a Gild-
ner deflection from an Amanda Hotvedt ’17 
corner kick for a 65th minute goal. 
Shumway commented on her team’s at-
titude coming into the game and how the 
energy translated into her own drive to 
come out on top.
“The fact that we were playing for Mur-
phy created some of the highest energy 
we’ve felt so far this season,” said Shum-
way. “Also, knowing I could contribute to a 
victory for a team I love and dedicate a goal 
and win for Murphy is a memory I’ll forever 
cherish.”
Amherst failed to score in the remaining 
time left as Middlebury held on to their 1-0 
lead until the final whistle. 
The Panthers were in action yesterday 
afternoon, Sept. 21, when they hosted Cas-
tleton for a 4:30 p.m. kick and will return to 
Dragone Field on Saturday, Sept. 24, when 
they take the field with Bowdoin at 11 a.m.
“We are continuing to build on the mo-
mentum we’ve created,” Kim said. “We are 
excited to continue to grow into the team 
we believe we can be. The team knows it has 
worlds of potential and this weeks results 
only reinforced our potential to achieve 
even greater things.”
September 22, 2016| 19SPORTS 
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKING TEAM
Case’s Court
2
FIELD HOCKEY
Last we checked have won 18 in 
a row at home.
3
men’s soccer
They tied Amherst last weekend 
thanks to a 36th minute Greg 
Conrad ’17 goal.
4
Women’s Soccer
Emma Shumway ’17 scored the 
lone goal in the 1-0 upset over 
no. 10 Amherst.
5
7
Volleyball
They beat Trinity on the road 
and almost pulled off a win 
against Wesleyan last week.
6
GOLF
Both teams continue to build 
up to big NESCAC events in 
October.
Tim Tebow
He showed up to camp. Good 
start. That’s enough for us. We’re 
on the bandwagon.
Golf Teams Continue to Prepare for Big October 
The men’s and women’s golf teams were 
back in action last weekend, Sept. 17-18, 
as they continue building to matches next 
month where NESCAC supremacy will be 
on the line.
The men’s team had two teams compete 
in their own 33rd annual Duke Nelson In-
vitational at the Ralph Myhre Golf Course. 
The A team finished second and the B team 
finished fifth in the 22-team field. 
Meanwhile, the women’s squad took 
a three-and-a-half hour trip down I-89 
South to Wellesley, Mass., for the Ann S. 
Batchelder Invitational at Nehoiden Golf 
Course and placed fourth in the seven-
team field.
On the men’s side Skidmore shot a 588 
for the weekend, edging out the Panthers 
by three strokes to grab the top spot. The 
Panthers’ A group hung with Skidmore all 
weekend, managing to follow a strong first 
round team score by shaving three strokes 
off their score on Sunday for a round of 
294.
Phil Morin ’19 led the way for the Pan-
thers on the first day with a 71, which would 
usually be enough for the individual top-
spot, but Skidmore’s Mackenzie Nelson 
registered a round of 70 for the day-one 
lead. Following Morin in the first round 
was fellow sophomore Reid Buzby ’19 with 
a 74, Joe Ko ’18 with a 75, Rodrigo Andrade 
’18 with a 77 and Ben Bichet ’19 with an 80.
On Sunday Buzby came back and shot a 
70 to tie Skidmore’s Nelson for the tourna-
ment-low round. Morin also came in with 
a 72, good for the day’s third-lowest round.
Although they did not finish in the top 
spot, the Panthers finished ahead of NE-
SCAC rivals Trinity, Amherst, Williams, 
Hamilton and Tufts, which is exactly where 
the Panthers need to be right now.
“Our team goal for the Fall season is to 
prepare ourselves for the NESCAC qualifi-
er at the Ralph and win it to be able to host 
the championship in the spring again,” 
Morin said. “We have gotten off to a very 
good start and we like where our team is at 
right now.”
With still two more tournaments to pre-
pare for the NESCAC championship tour-
nament they will host at the Ralph in two 
weeks, the women’s squad took the Ann S. 
Batchelder Invitational as an opportunity 
for a tune-up.
Katharine Fortin ’18, who won the indi-
vidual side of the Utica Invitational for the 
Panthers two weekends ago, Sept. 10-11, 
again led all Panthers with a weekend total 
of 160. She shot a 77 on Saturday, good for 
fourth-place on the individual leaderboard 
on Saturday evening. Fortin shot an 83 
Sunday, but still had a strong tournament 
and productive weekend.
“Our games are strong,” Fortin said. 
“We all have one or two things holding us 
back majorly from scoring in the 70s. Our 
scores from this weekend at Wellesley do 
not show the strengths, so we aim to put it 
all together next weekend at The Orchards 
after this week of practice,” she added. 
Hope Matthews ’18 was the second-
lowest scorer for the Panthers, as she regis-
tered a two-day total of 161. Next in line for 
the Panthers was first-year Blake Yaccino 
’20, who shot a 164 in her Panthers debut.
“Blake is a good player and for her 
first collegiate tournament she performed 
well,” Fortin said, adding how the team 
will value both Yaccino and Chloe Levins 
’20 in the coming weeks as the Oct. 1-2 NE-
SCAC Championship approaches. “As with 
everyone, [Yaccino] has individual things 
to work on, but she will have a vital compo-
nent of helping our team.”
The fine-tuning will continue next 
weekend for both teams, as the men head 
to Williamstown, Mass., to play at the fa-
miliar Taconic Golf Club in the Williams 
Fall Invitational and the women’s squad 
heads to South Hadley, Mass., to compete 
in the Mount Holyoke Invitational.
By Will Case
Sports Editor  
Women’s Soccer Edges Past Amherst
Men’s Tennis Dominates at Home Invitational Match 
The men’s tennis team swept the 
Middlebury Invitational Tournament it 
hosted this weekend, with Panthers win-
ning five of the six flights in the finals on 
Sunday, Sept. 18.
Noah Farrell ’18 won his second con-
secutive title by winning the A singles 
flight, a rematch of last year’s title match 
against Skidmore’s Kei Yuen Leung, to 
whom Farrell lost. Farrell won in two sets 
(7-5, 6-1). This was the third year Farrell 
has been a finalist.
The semifinal round on Sunday morn-
ing saw Middlebury players in three of the 
four slots. Hamid Derbani ’17 advanced 
twice, as did Lubomir Cuba ’19, a trans-
fer student from the University of Michi-
gan, made his start this season and gave 
up only one game in each of his first four 
sets. Derbani fell to Farrell early on Sun-
day in two sets, while Cuba lost narrowly 
to Skidmore’s Leung, 7-5, 7-6. Leung was 
able to edge Cuba in set two on a three-
point tiebreak. 
Timo van der Geest ’18 won the B sin-
gles flight, 6-3 6-3, defeating players from 
Brandeis, RPI and Tufts. Weston Brach 
’20 advanced to the finals of the C singles 
flight by defeating Zach Shaff of Tufts in 
three sets, 6-3, 3-6, 10-6.
In doubles, the new pairing of Derbani 
and Kyle Schlanger ’18 took the gold in 
the A flight, defeating a pair from Bates 
8-5. van der Geest competed again with 
Allan Jackson ’17 in the B doubles flight, 
advancing to the podium with a win over 
a Brandeis pair.
The Panthers return to the court on 
Friday, Sept. 30, for a weekend of ITA re-
gional championships in Williamstown, 
Mass.
By Ethan Brady
News Editor
Men’s tennis
They won five of six flights, 
while Noah Farrell ’18 beat 
Skidmore’s Kai Yuen Leung in 
the final.
Women’s Tennis
They had a strong showing in 
their first action of the season 
last weekend.
Will de Quant ’18 sets up for a forehand at last weekend’s Middlebury Invitational.
michael borenstein
Senior captain and women’s soccer defender Amanda Haik ’17 makes a play 
in team’s 1-0 win over Amherst last Saturday on Dragone Field. In the win, 
Haik made a close save on an apparent open goal to keep the Panthers alive. 
michael borenstein
By Sebastian Sanchez
Senior Writer
The Middlebury women’s tennis 
team opened its 2016-2017 season 
this past weekend by participating 
in the annual Lindsey Morehouse 
Invitational hosted by Williams 
on Saturday, Sept. 17 and Sunday, 
Sept. 18. 
Although no overall tournament 
winner was crowned at the end of 
the weekend, the Panthers had the 
opportunity to compete against 
athletes from rival schools such 
as RPI, Skidmore and Williams as 
they kicked off their fall season. The 
squad returns to action this coming 
weekend as they travel to MIT for 
the ITA Regional Championships. 
On Saturday, Lily Bondy ’17 was 
dominant with a pair of victories 
in singles play. Alexandra Fields 
’17, Katherine Hughes ’20, Heath-
er Boehm ’20, Molly Paradies ’19, 
Kaysee Orozco ’17, Catherine Bla-
zye ’20 and Skylar Schossberger ’20 
all picked up wins in singles compe-
tition. 
The team is particularly young 
this season with five first-years and 
a pair of sophomores counting for 
seven of the ten players on the ros-
ter. It will be interesting to see the 
impact of the newer talent as the 
team looks to replace three seniors 
from last season, including star 
player Ria Gerger ’16. 
Turning to doubles action, the 
team of Paradies and Boehm had 
a 2-0 performance on Saturday. 
The tandems of Schossberger and 
Christina Puccinelli ’19 as well as 
Orozco and Blazye were 1-1 on the 
day. 
Day two consisted of more suc-
cess for the Panthers as many 
members of the team recorded sin-
gles victories. Puccinelli, Paradies, 
Hughes, Blazye and Schossberger 
all claimed singles wins. 
In Sunday’s doubles matches, 
the pair of Fields and Schossberger 
picked up a pair of victories. Para-
dies and Boehm mirrored their 
stellar tandem performance from 
the day before, grabbing another 
doubles win. Puccinelli and Oro-
zco also tallied a victory in doubles 
competition. 
sports
WOMEN’S SOCCER 
PICKS UP VICTORY 
OVER RIVAL 
AMHERST
PAGE 19
GOLF TEAMS 
CONTINUE TO PREP 
FOR SEASON AHEAD 
PAGE 19
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Women’s tennis kicks off
By Remo Plunkett
Sports Editor 
Greg Conrad ’17 holds off a 
defender in men’s soccer’s 1-1 draw 
with defending national champion 
Amherst. 
michael borenstein
This weekend the women’s vol-
leyball team traveled to Connecti-
cut, where it beat Trinity 3-0 on Fri-
day, Sept. 16 then lost to Wesleyan 
3-2 on Saturday, Sept. 17.
The Panthers started off quickly 
with a 10-6 lead over the Bantams, 
then saw that lead quickly slip away 
as Trinity clawed its way back to 
bring the opening set to 17-15, and 
then to 19-17. The Panthers fin-
ished what they started, though, 
and finished strong to take the first 
set 25-20 to set the tone for the en-
tire match. 
In the second set, Middlebury 
faced an early deficit at 9-6 but 
worked the score back to an even tie 
at 17 thanks to capitalizing points 
by Eliana Schaefer ’18 and an ace 
off the serve by Emily Kolodka ’18. 
The two teams stayed in a back and 
forth affair for the rest of the set, 
going past the normal 25 points be-
fore Middlebury took the set 27-25.
The third set seemed to belong 
to the Panthers from the beginning 
as they rolled to a commanding 
19-9 lead. After one last effort from 
the Bantams, Alice Roberts ’18 had 
the deciding block, handing the 
sweep to Middlebury.
Kolodka had a dominant game 
from the service line as she served 
up seven aces to go along with 15 
digs. Schaefer and Roberts helped 
carry the Panthers as well with 
11 and eight kills, respectively. 
Chellsa Ferdinand ’20 had 13 as-
sists to lead the team in her first 
collegiate contest. Melanie English 
’17 also had three block solos and 
three block assists at the net to help 
Middlebury get off to a quick 1-0 
start in NESCAC play.
The next day, the Panthers 
faced the Wesleyan Cardinals in 
what proved to be a nail-biter. Both 
teams were 1-0 in league play en-
tering the contest, as Middlebury 
started off strong, taking a 1-0 lead 
against the home team. The Cardi-
nals rallied back in the next set to 
take the last four points to even the 
game at 1-1 with at 25-17 win. The 
Panthers dominated the third set, 
leading the whole way and taking it 
25-14 to regain the lead. Wesleyan 
edged out a close 25-22 fourth set 
victory, and followed that up with a 
15-7 win in the final frame to com-
plete their comeback and take the 
match 3-2. 
Captain Becca Raffel ’18 led the 
Panthers with 17 kills and eight 
digs, continuing her early season 
success, while Isabel Sessions ’19 
had 14 kills of her own. Ferdinand 
followed up her first collegiate 
game with even more success, 
dishing out a monster 25 assists, 
as teammate Rose Gold ’19 also 
had a great match with 20 assists. 
Charlotte Devine ’17 had 20 digs for 
the visitors, her highest total of the 
young season. 
The Panthers will look to get 
back in the win column next 
week as they face St. Michael’s on 
Wednesday, in preparation for 
another important conference 
matchup against Hamilton on Fri-
day, Sept. 23 in Pepin Gymnasium. 
They also play St. Lawrence on 
Saturday, Sept. 24 at home and at 
Colby-Sawyer on Tuesday, Sept. 27.
Volleyball Splits NESCAC opening weekend
By Colby Morris
Staff Writer 
homecoming schedule
Saturday, Sept. 24
 Women’s Soccer  men’s soccer   field hockey   football   volleyball
 vs. Bowdoin @ 11:00 AM  vs. bowdoin @ 11:00 am  vs. Bowdoin @ 12:00 AM  vs. Bowdoin @ 1:00 PM  vs. St. Lawrence @ 5:00 Pm
