Beginning as a forum in 2011 
dedicated to fostering conversa-
tions surrounding identity and 
diversity issues, “JusTalks” is 
now being expanded into First 
Year Seminars.  
The genesis of JusTalks be-
gan with a group of students 
who sought to combat the issue 
that, according to their website, 
postulates, “There is simply no 
time or space at Middlebury 
within the confines of a twelve 
week semester to have dia-
logues about matters of identity 
or diversity, race, gender, sex-
ual orientation, class, ability, 
personal history, privilege, and 
religion, among others. [These 
are all] important personal and 
societal issues for us to take 
time to deconstruct, to explore, 
and to reflect on.” 
In Winter Term of 2012, the 
JusTalks leaders invited stu-
dents to participate in this day-
long event, which consisted of 
small group exercises and dis-
cussions led by a student facili-
tator, run in a similar fashion to 
Midd Uncensored. The follow-
ing year, the event was limited 
to first-year students as a way 
for JusTalks to progress toward 
its initial goal of creating a pro-
gram for first-years only.
While these two winter 
events were attended on a vol-
untary basis, JusTalks is work-
ing on expanding to become a 
mandatory component of the 
first-year experience. This fall, 
JusTalks began its pilot Just-
Talks First Year Seminar dis-
cussion sections in five semi-
nars. 
“It became clear that a one 
day event in January wasn’t 
enough to fully explore these 
subjects,” Kate McCreary ’15, 
one of the JusTalks coordi-
nators, said. “We also heard 
feedback from the administra-
tion that suggested in order to 
make it mandatory, JusTalks 
would have to fit in with exist-
ing structures at Middlebury. 
The idea to align with First Year 
Seminars then came about.” 
Each JusTalks seminar 
meets once a week and is led by 
two former facilitators. It lasts 
for one hour with no outside 
homework. Each week there is 
a designated session that each 
class discusses and engages in 
relevant activities, such as film 
screenings, reflection writing, 
and article reading.
“It’s a combination of show-
ing students something and ask-
ing for their reactions, and then 
connecting their experiences to 
Middlebury,” McCreary said.
The process began last spring 
when members of the group 
reached out to professors who 
they thought might be interest-
ed in partnering with JusTalks. 
“Most seminars have some 
September 25, 2014 | Vol. 113 no. 3 | middleburycampus.com
MIDD ACTION FAIR 
DRAWS CROWD 
PAGE 5
STRESS AT COLLEGE
PAGE 15
INSIDE LOOK AT DJ 
SPOOKY
PAGE 17
in
sid
e
By Claire Abbadi and Caroline 
Walters
Tailgating Policy Sparks Student Backlash
Petition to Reverse Decision Gains Support
On Tuesday Sept. 16, just 
days before the first football 
game of the season, an all-
school e-mail was sent detailing 
a new tailgate policy, in which 
alcohol is prohibited at all ven-
ues, including in the tailgate 
area, as is amplified music. The 
email, signed by Dean of Stu-
dents Katy Smith Abbott, Direc-
tor of Public Safety Elizabeth 
Burchard and Athletic Director 
Erin Quinn and which cites en-
suring a safe, healthy environ-
ment and consistency with the 
NESCAC sportsmanship clause 
as the main reasons, came as a 
shock to multiple constituencies 
within the College community.
Though Quinn and President 
of the College Ronald D. Li-
ebowitz assert that the conver-
sation of changing this policy 
formally began last year, and 
years before informally, the 
all-school email was the first 
time that students were looped 
into the conversation, includ-
ing elected student officials like 
SGA President Taylor Custer 
’15.
“I was shocked that the stu-
dent body wasn’t consulted in 
any way. If I hadn’t heard any-
thing about it, then it’s unlikely 
that any student had,” Custer 
said.
“Students--particularly those 
legally old enough to drink— do 
not understand why that liber-
ty is being taken away without 
reason,” added Francesca Haass 
’16.5 in a letter to Liebowitz.
“They are frankly insulted 
that the school chose to justify 
this policy change with an email 
that was, for lack of a better 
word, bulls--t. If you are go-
ing to take away freedoms from 
students, have the courtesy and 
courage to do so in an honest 
manner rather than couching it 
in a vague NESCAC statement. 
Maybe you do have very legiti-
mate reasons, and I think the 
students would be very interest-
ed in hearing your arguments so 
that a real debate about student 
life on Middlebury’s campus can 
take place,” Haass’ letter read.
  A petition entitled “Reverse 
Changes in the New Tailgating 
Policy” was drafted through 
WeTheMiddKids and received 
2,507 votes, by far the largest 
number of votes an SGA peti-
tion has received since its for-
mation.
However, college officials 
stand by the argument that 
there is clear reasoning for their 
decision, including one incident 
which Quinn refers to as the 
“tipping point”: the homecom-
ing game versus Trinity College. 
“An unmanageable num-
ber of students and alumni, I 
couldn’t tell you the exact num-
ber, but well over 100, were very 
intoxicated,” Quinn explained. 
“I was getting phone calls 
from Public Safety saying, ‘Erin, 
we are trying to clear the parking 
lot and get people back into the sta-
dium so that they will stop drink-
ing. They are really drunk; they are 
belligerent; they are swearing at us, 
but they don’t want to go into the 
game.’” 
 Quinn explained that prior to
College Socioeconomic
Diversity Disappoints
By Philip Bohlman
JusTalks Enters First Year SEminars
By Caroline Agsten
On Sept. 8, The Upshot, 
a New York Times blog, pub-
lished a ranking entitled “The 
Most Economically Diverse Top 
Colleges,” where Middlebury 
College placed 51st. Five NE-
SCAC schools, Amherst, Wes-
leyan, Bowdoin, Williams and 
Hamilton were in the top 50, 
while Middlebury was between 
peers Carleton and Bates.
The ranking compared 100 
colleges with four-year gradu-
ation rates above 75 percent. 
These colleges tend to be sound 
investments for the majority of 
low-income students attending, 
according to the article.
The schools’ levels of eco-
nomic diversity were deter-
mined using a College Access 
Index, calculated using two 
statistics. The first was the per-
centage of the freshman class 
who come from low-income 
families, measured by the num-
ber receiving a Pell grant. The 
second was the average net 
price for students whose fami-
lies earn between $30,000 and 
$48,000 a year. Of the schools 
assessed, the College was 
ranked 75th for percentage of 
freshman with Pell grants and 
33rd for net price. Generally, 
households in the bottom 40 
percent of income distribution 
qualify for Pell Grants. Accord-
ing to The Upshot, the College’s 
average percentage of grant-
receiving freshman from 2012-
2014 was 13 percent.
Dean of Admissions Greg 
Buckles said in an email, “Mid-
dlebury welcomes any national 
conversation that puts creating 
access to college at the fore-
front.” However, he also sees a 
flaw in rankings’ methodology.
“Personally, I have mixed 
feelings about the emphasis on 
Pell grants as a way to mea-
sure access. It’s a very blunt 
instrument that The New York 
Times in particular has seized 
upon as a standard,” he said.
He cited international stu-
dents that the college funds who 
would otherwise be eligible for 
Pell grants and undocumented 
students who are also not ac-
counted for in this way as exam-
ples of the faults in the system.
Buckles prompted questions 
regarding the credibility of the 
process. “Are students whose 
families may make just a few 
hundred dollars above the level 
of Pell Grant eligibility some-
how not worthy of ‘counting’ 
as being socio-economically 
diverse? Should we be select-
ing one candidate over another, 
who may come from similarly 
SEE COLLEGE, PAGE 2Joanie Thompson ’14 facilitates at JusTalks last J-term.
Photo credit
SEE JUSTALKS, PAGE 3
SEE TAILGATE, PAGE 2
Joe Flaherty
| SEPTEMBER 25, 20142 NEWS
Trivia
Crossroads Cafe
THURSDAY AT 9 P.M.
Friday Free Film
Come to Dana Auditorium to watch 22 
Jump Street!
6 P.M. AND 9.PM 
First Chance Dance
Wilson Hall (fomerly the Social Space) will 
host the First Chance Dance!  Free grille 
food and photobooth are inlcuded. 
FRIDAY FROM 9 P.M.-1 A.M.
Brainerd Fall Festival Cider 
Tasting 
Experience a true Vermont fall on Fri-
day in Crossroads cafe. Co-sponsored by 
MCAB this event will have free food and ci-
der. All ages are welcome. Bring two forms 
of id for 21+
SATURDAY AT 9:30 P.M.
Zumba 
Take a study break to dancercize in Wilson 
Hall (formerly the Social Space)
SUNDAY  4 -5 P.M.
Yoga/Spin 
Sign up to experience YouPower’s newest 
class, an hour of spin and half hour of 
yoga! Sign up ever Friday at 9am at go/
spinyoga
SUNDAY 10-12:15 A.M.
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
Tailgating Policy Bans Alcohol
New First Year Senators Elected
By Emma Dunlap
Buckles
Rejects 
Study’s 
Legitimacy
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
disadvantaged circumstances, because 
one would technically be Pell-eligible 
and one wouldn’t?” he said.
Middlebury is also one of the few 
schools that is need-blind in its admis-
sions policies for domestic applicants 
that also meets 100 percent of dem-
onstrated need. Middlebury also does 
not practice need-affirmative policies, 
whereby a college identifies applicants 
who have a high level of need, in this 
case, Pell-level need, during the applica-
tion process before making admissions 
decisions, Buckles said.
The College is still recovering from 
the effects of the recession. There are 
some realities that must be observed, ac-
cording to Buckles. “Middlebury needs 
to be cognizant of its financial respon-
sibilities and operate in such a way that 
it balances both its commitment to the 
public good and its commitment to long-
term fiscal security,” he said.
On the whole, diversity is on the rise 
at top colleges, according to The Upshot. 
One metric that the ranking provides 
for context is the change in percentage 
of students receiving Pell grants. In the 
last four years the College has increased 
the share of incoming freshman with Pell 
grants from 10 percent to 13 percent. 
This year’s first-year class has the high-
est ever percentages of first-generation 
college students, students of color, stu-
dents receiving financial aid and stu-
dents receiving Pell grants in the Col-
lege’s history.  
this point, the College had made some 
incremental changes to the tailgating 
policy in response to what he calls “an in-
creasing number of belligerent students 
and alumni at games.”
One incremental change was the deci-
sion to open the tailgate area only an hour 
and a half before kickoff to limit on-site 
drinking. Likewise, College policy man-
dated that the tailgate area be cleared after 
kickoff and then again once after halftime, 
in attempts to limit alcohol consumption.
At the Trinity game, however, Quinn 
instructed Public Safety to keep the stu-
dents and alumni within the tailgate area, 
despite the policy.
 “If they can’t handle them out there, 
contained and isolated, then it will be far 
worse inside the stadium. So I thought 
how can we minimize liability, because 
we don’t have the people in the stadium 
to control them. That in and of itself is a 
scene that is not acceptable,” Quinn said.
According to Quinn, some tailgaters 
went on to steal food and beverages from 
Trinity families and run across the road to 
use the bathroom publically.
  However, what many constituencies 
have taken objection to the most is not the 
transparency around the decision making 
process itself.
At an SGA meeting with Quinn and 
Smith Abbott, SGA Senator Michael 
Brady ’16 asked about demonstrated this 
concern.
“I think what a lot of students are 
struggling with is that we weren’t given 
any real, hard facts about the bad behav-
ior. The Trinity game was mentioned, but 
do you have any hard facts? Was there a 
big increase in property damage, hospi-
tal visits, or complaints from community 
members?” Brady said.
Quinn stressed Public Safety’s inability 
to contain students, and its efforts to keep 
the local police from intervening.
“I know this might not be satisfactory, 
but we don’t have any hard data,” Quinn 
answered.
One alum and current parent also 
voiced his concerns about what the policy 
would lead to.
“Banning alcohol and witch-hunting 
underage drinking on campus doesn’t 
work well anyway, it just creates smaller 
groups, drives students off-campus, and 
encourages pre gaming type behavior,” he 
explained.
“I understand that the administration 
wants to get the drinking under control at 
events,” alumna and current parent Heidi 
Lehner ’72 said.  “But drinking amongst 
even underclassmen is inevitable and I am 
concerned with the binge drinking culture 
increasing on campus.”
Liebowitz sent an all school e-mail on 
Tuesday, Sept. 23 offering context for the 
tailgating policy, in which he apologized 
for not being more transparent, “It is clear 
that preparatory communications would 
have served everyone, including us, well 
and so we apologize for what as a sur-
prised to many,” he stated.
That said, Old Chapel was not immedi-
ately apologetic. In one meeting with the 
Campus, it was explained that the College 
does not usually consult students on pol-
icy changes that affect all of the College’s 
constituencies.
While Burchard felt that the adminis-
tration’s communication to students on 
this issue has been overlooked.
“We have communicated to students 
about the tailgate policy,” Burchard ex-
plained. “Last year we sent a campus 
wide notice explaining all of the tailgate 
rules. We posted signs at the tailgate area, 
warned people when the rules were being 
violated or if conduct was unacceptable. “
Likewise, Liebowitz referenced a Com-
munity Council meeting in March, where 
a conversation about the policy change 
took place. Although it was mentioned, 
there is no reference to the policy in the 
minutes of that meeting. 
Despite different perceptions of what 
was communicated, there have been over-
whelming amounts of both positive and 
negative feedback, however, the threat 
from alumni to withdraw donations is 
concerning.
 “Many of the younger class agents are 
resigning which is worrisome,” said Presi-
dent of the Alumni Association Bob Sideli. 
Although he does not think the affect 
on contributions to the college will be 
“dramatic,” he expresses “anything that 
causes the [alumni] to disconnect is un-
fortunate.”
But the feedback has by no means been 
consistently bad.
“We received emails from NESCAC 
schools, I won’t say which ones, but who 
more or less hinted that this has broken 
the ice and that there will be other schools 
following this lead, because no one wanted 
to step out front and address an issue that 
was really coming into focus with other 
schools as well,” Liebowitz concluded.
The online voting period for the Stu-
dent Government Association (SGA) 
First-Year Senator elections opened last 
Friday, Sept. 19. First-years placed their 
votes in ranked order for three candi-
dates: Christina Brook ’18, April Poole 
’18, and Jin Sohn ’18. When the polls 
closed twenty-four hours later, it was an-
nounced that Brook and Sohn would be 
placed into the two open positions.
145 votes — representing 25% of the 
Class of 2018 — were cast. This year’s 
elections utilized the same “rank ballot” 
system that started last year, allowing 
students to rank their desired candidate 
in order of preference. The SGA also add-
ed a “None of the above” option this year, 
which, according to SGA Elections Coun-
cil Chair Nick Warren ’15, is supposed to 
allow “students to still feel involved with-
out having to choose [a candidate].”
Each candidate was given a fifty dollar 
campaign budget to spend.  Poole decid-
ed against using this money and instead 
focused on “meeting as many people as 
possible” because of the small number of 
candidates there were running.
“Last year, when I ran, there were 
eight candidates,” former First-Year Sen-
ator Karina Toy ’17 said.  “I went up to ev-
eryone and introduced myself and hung 
posters everywhere.”
Toy led the First-Year Committee with 
former fellow senator Wenhao Yu ’17 with 
the goal of creating a more cohesive class 
for first-years.  The Committee is respon-
sible for organizing events for first-years 
such as Atwater dinners.
The newly elected Brook explained 
that she has never been involved with a 
student government organization of any 
kind. “None of the schools that I attended 
ever had something remotely similar,” 
Brook said.
Brook wanted to pursue a position 
where she could have an impact and stat-
ed that her interest stemmed from the 
“way students could voice their opinions 
regarding the inner-workings of relevant 
issues on campus and within this com-
munity.”  Brook plans to reach out to her 
fellow peers and address the issues they 
believe to be pressing matters.  She also 
would like to address “the way in which 
freshmen interact with upperclassmen, 
predominantly regarding discussing ma-
jor/minor possibilities, academics, and 
student organizations.”
According to Warren and Toy, the pri-
mary job of the Senators is to represent 
the opinions of their class and to voice 
these opinions when proposing legisla-
tion and working with administrators. 
With her term completed, Toy offers part-
ing words of advice for Brook and Sohn: 
“Talk to people. Never be afraid to ask 
questions and always pursue your own 
legislative interests.”
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
More strict
Less strict
NESCAC TAILGATING POLICIES
Williams College: No alcohol allowed 
into the Weston Field Athletic Complex. 
Bates College: Alcohol allowed in fenced 
in area. No kegs or hard alcohol. Tail-
gating restricted by two hours before 
game time.
Tufts university: Tailgating with al-
cohol restricted to designated area. 
no excessive quantities of alcoholic 
beverages per vehicle, no kegs al-
lowed. 
COLBY COLLEGE: ALCOHOL ALLOWED IN TAIL-
GATE AREA ONLY. KEGS NOT ALLOWED, BEER 
MUST BE IN CANS. 
trinity college: kegs prohibited. alcohol 
allowed in specified tailgating areas.
AMHERST COLLEGE: ALCOHOL ALLOWED AT 
TAILGATE PARTIES “HELD IN DESIGNATED AR-
EAS,” NOT IN THE STANDS. 
WESLEYAN University: Alcohol allowed at 
tailgates.
September 25, 2014 |  3        News
Students Participate in Global Climate March
JusTalks Now in FYS
“Most seminars have some sort of so-
cial justice orientation. These seminars are 
good starting points because they do have 
connections. First-years will hopefully be 
able to make the connections between the 
JusTalks discussion sections and the semi-
nars they’re in,” Molly McShane ’16.5, an-
other JusTalks coordinator, said. 
First Year Seminars with the JusTalks 
component include Associate Professor of 
American Studies Susan Burch’s Disabili-
ty, Different, and Society course, Assistant 
Professor of History Maggie Clinton’s Fas-
cism and Masculinity, 1919-1945 course, 
Visiting Assistant Professor of Geography 
Kacy McKinney’s Global Youth course, As-
sistant Professor of Political Science Kemi 
Fuentes-George’s Globalization course, 
and Visiting Assistant Professor of Litera-
ture Victor Valcik’s Narratives of Identity 
course. 
Over the summer, the JusTalks mem-
bers worked to create a new curriculum 
that would complement the First-Year 
Seminar syllabus. The curriculum, unlike 
for the previous J-Term events, was devel-
oped with no outside consultants. 
“We’ve reached out to professors to 
help give us information about their class-
es, and then we adjusted those to help us 
years and what sorts of activities we could 
do with them,” McShane said. “Professors 
have been extremely helpful in helping 
form our curriculum,” she continued. 
First Year Seminars have these JusTalks 
discussion groups, the numbers did not 
come as a surprise. Originally the JusTalks 
members reached out to around seven or 
would work well with their methodology. 
However, the issue of making the JusTalks 
“I think a lot of professors felt protec-
tive of their students’ time and recognized 
that freshmen are busy and oftentimes 
overwhelmed,” McCreary said. “I don’t re-
call any professors having an ideological 
resistance.” 
According to both McShane and Mc-
Creary, the process to make a student-run 
entity like JusTalks a mandatory program 
would be a long one. 
“I think this is another step in a long 
push to make this something that every 
freshman participates in. We’re hoping 
that this structure of attaching it to a First 
Year Seminar will work in a really positive 
way,” McCreary said. 
“It’s really incredible to think that for 
working with this fall, this will be the only 
time that they engage deeply with people 
who aren’t on their team or on their hall. I 
think it’s so important to make [a program 
like JusTalks] mandatory,” McShane said. 
By Zane Anthony
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
-
dents, alumni and faculty descended 
upon the streets of New York on Sunday, 
Climate March, a historic climate rally 
that wound a three-mile, six-hour course 
through Manhattan.
Hundreds of thousands of people 
polychrome floats, banners, pickets, 
placards, and blow horns, marshaling at-
tention to the looming threat of climate 
-
tions, including schools, labor organi-
zations, businesses, and faith groups, 
helped plan the protest, which espoused 
the tagline, “To change everything, we 
need everyone.”
The single largest demonstration 
of the climate movement to date, the 
-
mate Summit on Sept. 23, which was 
called to order by Secretary General Ban 
Ki-Moon. Dubbed a “political action fo-
-
quarters in New York will generate a pre-
cise framework for forthcoming climate 
talks in Lima in December and Paris in 
on CO
2
 emissions reductions will be dis-
cussed.
the climate fight,” Greta Neubauer ’14.5 
said at the march. “Today, people filled 
the streets and demonstrated that we 
needs to take serious steps to address the 
causes of the climate crisis, and it needs 
to take the lead from the people most im-
pacted. They will lead the path to a just 
transition.”
The Climate Summit also followed 
last month’s release of a major report on 
climate published by the Intergovern-
mental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). 
The report states that human-produced 
emissions will significantly increase the 
risk of “severe, pervasive and irrevers-
ible impacts” to the environment in the 
decades ahead. These environmental im-
pacts (e.g., flooding, heat waves, reduced 
grain production, and thawing snowpack 
in the poles) are likely to escalate unless 
greenhouse gases are regulated with uni-
form benchmarks set by national gov-
ernments, according to the report.
“At this point, the urgency of climate 
change is well documented, so now, it’s 
time to act,” said Laura Xiao ’17, who 
helped lead the organizing team at the 
College for the march. “The march on 
Sunday was for the record books, and 
we’re eager to see how this momentum 
and excitement will boost the Middle-
bury Climate Campaign this year.”
Led by Xiao and others in Sunday 
Night Group (SNG), Middlebury’s en-
during environmental activism umbrella 
campaign, began planning for the march 
over the summer. 
“We were on conference calls in mid-
July, already thinking about buses, vans, 
lodging, recruitment, fundraising, and 
grant writing for the march,” Xiao said. 
“First, we focused our efforts on the Col-
lege’s newest students, the members of 
Michael Shrader ’18 from Bristol, Va. 
was one of the first to reach out about 
interest in the march and recruitment at 
the College. “Since my interests lie pri-
marily in environmentalism and politics, 
I was ready to get started as soon as I 
made it to campus,” Shrader said. “The 
final result in New York was greater than 
anyone could have anticipated, and the 
voice of the climate movement was sure-
ly heard.”
Boston-area resident Ethan Reilly 
’17, who joined Shrader and the rest of 
the Middlebury contingent at the march 
Sunday, was inspired by the throngs of 
marchers snaking through the city.
“The feeling of solidarity was just un-
believable,” Reilly said. “Seeing a crowd 
so large and diverse affirmed for me that 
anthropogenic climate change is an issue 
that people everywhere take very seri-
ously. I am confident the march sent a 
into the summit Tuesday.”
Moving into the third week of class-
es, students of SNG are hopeful that 
those who brought the noise in Man-
hattan will channel their enthusiasm 
through initiatives back on campus. 
“This is one of the most exciting mo-
ments in the climate movement in my 
four years here,” Hannah Bristol ’14.5 
said. “The march was beautiful and 
showed how diverse and intersectional 
this movement is. I can’t wait to see how 
that energy transfers back to campus.” 
Anahi Naranjo
At the conclusion of Summer Lan-
guage Schools, Middlebury College 
added a new sculpture to its Northern 
edge. The sculpture, J Pindyck Miller’s 
“Youbie Obie”, resides in between Le 
Chateau, the Atwater Suites and Coffrin 
Hall. The College’s Committee on Art in 
Public Places, also known as CAPP, care-
fully picked the location of this statue.
“Students will be coming at it from all 
different directions,” explained Emmie 
Donadio, Chief Curator of the Middle-
bury College Museum of Art. 
“The work also, because of its form, 
looks something like a gate. So it can also 
serve metaphorically as a gateway to this 
segment of campus,” Donadio added. 
While some may view the work as a 
gate, it is undoubtedly open to a multi-
tude of other interpretations, thoughts 
and emotions. 
“You will discover how the pieces, 
rather the parts, of the sculpture inter-
act with each other,” Miller said about 
“Youbie Obie”. “Every curve, every line, 
every angle, every juncture is there for a 
reason.” 
Miller’s “looking machine”, a term he 
uses to describe all of his artwork, was 
generously donated to Middlebury Col-
lege by a couple from Greenwich, Con-
necticut. The couple had owned Youbie 
deserved to be on display elsewhere, in 
order to elicit wonder and amazement 
from more people. They could not think 
of a more appropriate place that the art-
ist’s own alma mater. 
As students welcome this new sculp-
ture to campus, they should be reminded 
of what a great metaphor not only You-
bie Obie is, but also art in its entirety. 
“Art is all search and invention and as 
with life itself, the things that are ques-
tions are always more compelling than 
the things that are known,” Miller said.
The College has a public art collec-
tion, which, as of now, is comprised of 19 
pieces of art, mostly sculptures, that can 
be viewed around campus. 
All pieces that are a part of the col-
lection are mantained by the Committee 
on Art in Public Places. In 1994, per the 
Committee’s recomendation, the Board 
of Trustees appoved a “One Percent for 
Art” policy. The approval of this decision 
meant that funds would be secured for 
the purchase, installation and maintance 
of any scultptures or pieces of art that 
fall into the Public Art category. 
By Nicole Caci
The newest addition to the College’s Public Art Collection, “Youbie Obie” a cor-ten 
College Communicatons
Sculpture Adds to Campus
4 NEWS | September 25, 2014
Katz Researches Tolstoy’s Family
By Ethan Brady
College Holds Ferguson Talks
By Lily Sawyer
Middlebury 
Alum Held 
in Syria, 
Now Free
By Jason Zhang
Most fans of literature associate Leo 
Tolstoy with his almost universally iden-
tifiable War and Peace and regard him 
as one of the greatest authors of the 
modern era. One of Tolstoy’s later works, 
however, The Kreutzer Sonata, had been 
cast far out of the spotlight for what was, 
at the time, perceived to be a radical, al-
most crazed presentation of sexual ab-
stinence and jealous fury-a presentation 
that illuminated the rather silent marital 
distress between Tolstoy and his wife.
Recently, Michael Katz, the C.V. Starr 
Professor Emeritus of Russian and East-
ern European Studies added his own 
name to the list of those interested in 
this curious, mysterious aspect of Tol-
stoy’s life. In an unprecedented explora-
tion of the other half of the story behind 
Tolstoy’s 1889 Kreutzer Sonata, Katz 
has translated into English the previ-
ously neglected counter-stories written 
in direct response to Tolstoy’s novella.
 Presented from the point of view 
of a middle-aged man who, in a rage 
of jealousy and disgust of his teenage 
wife, murders her, The Kreutzer Sonata 
is taken to present Tolstoy’s own views 
about sexual abstinence and marriage.
Katz’s journey began at a conference 
he went to at Tolstoy’s estate just out-
side of Moscow. There he heard about 
two unpublished stories written by Tol-
stoy’s wife, Sophie, and was instantly 
intrigued. 
“She thought that her own marriage 
was being described by The Kreutzer So-
nata, or rather that everyone who read it 
would think so,” Katz said.
Her fears were not unfounded: she 
was half of Tolstoy’s age when she mar-
ried him, and other parallels between 
Tolstoy’s characters and his own friends 
and family existed. So she wrote her own 
variation of her husband’s novella, fol-
lowing its structure with a wife who, half 
the age of her husband, is murdered by 
him. 
In the manuscript of Sophia’s first sto-
ry, Whose Fault?, located in the archives 
in Moscow, Sophia wrote in the margins 
quotations from her husband’s story 
that she was simultaneously disagreeing 
with in the text itself. In response to his 
mother, Tolstoy’s son then wrote his own 
version of the original story, in effect po-
lemicizing both his mother and father.
Katz first translated Sophia’s two sto-
ries and then Tolstoy’s son’s story. 
“I didn’t know I was going to trans-
late the original Kreutzer Sonata when 
I started, but it was terrific to struggle 
with a text by Leo Tolstoy, a text that was 
famous, controversial, and provocative. 
That was the last one that I did-I saved 
up,” Katz said.
 He also stressed the interconnected-
ness of the Tolstoy family’s stories. 
“My argument is that all of these sto-
ries are in dialogue; the wife and the son 
are replying to the things that the father 
says,” he said. 
The preliminary title for Katz’s trans-
lation, therefore, is “The Tolstoy Family 
Story Contest”. 
“The publisher didn’t think that was 
very funny,” Katz said.
Other Russian scholars have trans-
lated Tolstoy’s original story before, but 
Katz was the first to undertake the wife’s 
and son’s stories.
“It was very exciting. It was the first 
project I did after retirement, and this 
was a wonderful way to start that,” Katz 
said. “It gave me the opportunity to go 
to Russia twice. And the support-for a 
research assistant, for going to confer-
ences, for buying books that I needed in 
order to conduct the research-the Col-
lege gave me a great deal of support.” 
Katz was also nominated by the Col-
lege to the Andrew W. Mellon Founda-
tion and received a Mellon Emeritus 
Fellowship to support his work, allowing 
him to travel to Russia and research in 
archives and museums. Part of the fel-
lowship is also financing Katz’s atten-
dance at a conference in Russia in which 
he will present his findings throughout 
the process to his colleagues there. The 
response from Katz’s colleagues so far, 
he says, has been excellent.
When asked what he thought was the 
most significant aspect of The Kreutzer 
Sonata is, he stressed the dissent of Tol-
stoy’s wife. 
“I think it establishes Sophia Tolstoy 
as a figure in her own right. She writes 
well-she’s not a great writer like Tolstoy 
himself or like Dostoevsky-but she’s 
clear, she has her own ideas, she defends 
the right of a woman to seek happiness 
within a marriage and not just be an in-
strument of man’s sexual desire. She’s 
taking on a big fish; you don’t disagree 
with Tolstoy-easily, at least. He was by 
then probably the world’s best-known 
writer. He was an incredible figure. And 
she takes him on.”
Peter Theo Curtis, a Middlebury alum 
who graduated in 1991 with a degree in lit-
erary studies, came to the spotlight in late 
August after he was released by a militant 
kept in captivity for more than 22 months 
in Syria by the militant group Jabhat al-
Nusra or by splinter groups allied with 
Jabhat al-Nusra, according to his family. 
An initial investigation by Curtis’ fami-
ly and colleagues show that Curtis crossed 
the border into Syria with a guide that 
betrayed him and handed him to an ex-
tremist group Ahrar al-Sham, who later 
handed him to al-Nusra Front. (Jabhat 
al-Nusra).
At several points during his captivity, 
the militant group made several videos 
with Curtis, who asked for the immediate 
actions from the United States govern-
ment to save his life. In the video, Cur-
tis appeared to read from a script on the 
ground. In another video, Curtis stated 
that he is in good health while being kept 
there.
The release was made possible by the 
-
tives of Mr. Curtis said they felt as if an av-
enue of communication had been opened 
-
mation to Curtis’ family quickly after step-
ping in. 
government by the U.S. Ambassador to 
the United Nations Samantha Power, the 
family was able to ask a proof-of-life ques-
tion to Mr. Curtis, which was answered 
correctly. The question, “what is the sub-
ject of your Ph.D dissertation?” is one that 
only Curtis himself could have answered. 
(Answer: a museum started by the mother 
of the novelist Anthony Trollope.)
release of multiple European citizens kid-
before the U.S Ambassador, Samantha 
to Curtis’ family.
government told them no ransom was 
paid for the release of Curtis. The no-ran-
House’s answer to questions regarding 
Curtis’ release.
Curtis’ release drew attention after the 
decapitation of the American journalist, 
James Foley. Foley’s murder prompted 
the U.S. to take further actions against 
ISIS. Several European nations have paid 
sums averaging multi-millions of dollars 
-
tar played a role in successfully negotiat-
ing the release of numerous westerners 
for ransom.
Terrorist groups have collected tens 
of millions of dollars through the ransom 
payment. Holding hostages of westerners 
for ransom has become a popular conduct 
-
men in the Arabic peninsula to Mali in Af-
rica. According to The New York Times, 
European nations have paid more than 
125 million dollars in ransom to the direct 
and he also speaks German and Russian. 
He grew to love Syria a decade ago when 
he studied Arabic and Russian in Damas-
cus. 
Mr. Curtis has written two books. The 
 My Life [Had] Stood a 
Loaded Gun, is about disaffected youth in 
the US while working as a teacher in the 
Vermont prison system. The second, Un-
dercover Muslim, published in the U.K., 
discusses disaffected young men from the 
West coming to study Islam. 
On Wednesday, Sept. 17, the College’s 
Center for the Comparative Study of Race 
and Ethnicity (CCSRE) held a Teach-In 
to discuss the shooting of Michael Brown 
in Ferguson, Mo. The room was packed to 
standing room, as stu-
dents and faculty lis-
tened to the panel and 
engaged in discussion. 
Roberto Lint 
Sagarena, Director of 
the CCSRE, began the 
teach-in with a brief 
chronology of the 
events that transpired 
in Ferguson on the day 
of the shooting and 
days thereafter.
 In addition to 
his basic timeline of 
events, Sagarena ad-
dressed the differences between the police 
and witness reports surrounding the cir-
cumstances regarding Brown’s death, as 
well as the pure chaos that erupted in the 
community following the shooting, includ-
ing the issues surrounding the media. 
Sagarena closed with the results of a Pew 
Research Poll of 1,000 adults that was con-
ducted in the middle of the protests. There 
were stark racial and political divisions in 
the reactions to the shooting, as 80 percent 
of African Americans surveyed said that the 
shooting “raised important issues about 
race” while 47 percent of whites said that 
the issue of race “was getting more attention 
than it deserves.” Similarly, 68 percent of 
Democrats thought that the incident raised 
important issues of race compared to 40 
percent of Independents and 22 percent of 
Republicans. 
Associate Professor of History William 
Hart addressed the issue of historical prec-
-
lence between police and black civilians. He 
drew upon a study conducted by Stanford 
professor and MacArthur Genius Grant re-
cipient Jennifer Eberhardt, in which she 
determined that “the blacker a defendant 
looks, the more likely it was that the defen-
dant would receive the death penalty if the 
victim was white,” and concluded that “it’s 
almost as if people are thinking of blackness 
as a crime.” 
Hart explained that throughout Ameri-
can history, there is evidence to support the 
preconditioning towards blackness versus 
whiteness. If whiteness is viewed as law and 
privilege,
“The converse would be blackness as 
crime,” he explained. 
He looked back as far as the colonial era, 
in which laws 
were meant for 
white colonists, 
not for those of 
color. Progress-
ing through-
out history, he 
explained that 
either facilitated, 
or did not hin-
der, the lynch-
ing of African 
American men 
and women. 
Hart then asserted that many urban upris-
ings in the 20th century were due to police 
violence, concluding that historically, rela-
tions between the black community and the 
law have been uneasy at best. 
Dean of Faculty Development and Re-
search and Rehnquist Professor of American 
History James Ralph picked up where Hart 
left off, discussing various attempts by the 
African American community throughout 
history to organize in order to address eco-
nomic, civil, and social injustices. He used 
the creation of the National Negro Congress 
in the 1930s as well as the Black Panther 
Party in the 1960s as examples of efforts 
to combat oppression and protect African 
American interests. 
Ralph then examined the role of law en-
forcement during these times, explaining 
that in the South especially, the police had 
directly supported segregation. Ralph en-
couraged us to think of the implications Fer-
guson may have on the future, suggesting we 
ask what will come of the Ferguson protests 
and unrest. 
“Is this the beginning of a mass mobiliza-
tion?” he asked, adding that it has attracted 
not only national but also international at-
tention. 
Assistant Professor of Sociology Rebecca 
the issue of focusing on the militarization of 
the police force.
-
cant, but not necessarily for the reasons we 
have been hearing about,” Tiger said.
Tiger asserted that a large part of the 
militarization of the police is asset forfei-
ture. As a part of a 1984 crime control bill, 
Tiger explained if someone is stopped be-
cause they are suspected to have committed 
a crime, their on-person assets can be seized 
and not returned to them even if they are 
not charged or found guilty of a crime. Any 
not going to be returned to them even if no 
crime was committed unless they start judi-
cial proceedings, which are very expensive.
The seized assets, which are supposed to 
go to schools, end up going to police depart-
ments and help fund this militarization of 
the police. Ultimately, Tiger explained, the 
Ferguson residents are paying for the police 
to use militarized equipment on them. 
Tiger urged the audience to think of the 
militarization of the police force as a part of 
“mundane routines of degradation that hap-
pen in the criminal justice system,” warning 
us that focusing on the militarization of po-
lice may result in missing the broader issue. 
“We have to start having some serious 
questions about the police,” Tiger declared. 
“What role do the police have? Fundamental 
questions about what their function is. Not 
questions about how they can be better or 
more responsive to the community.” 
“[We need to] start thinking a little more 
carefully and critically about what it is that 
we are actually protesting,” Tiger said. “Be-
cause when we take these things all together, 
you can see that this is the end result of poli-
cies and criminal justice practices that have 
led to this…dispossession of certain seg-
ments of the population.” 
discussion. Students and faculty engaged 
the speakers and each other in dialogue, ad-
dressing issues ranging from Al Sharpton 
and Jesse Jackson to the GoFundMe page 
$430,000. 
“Do we have the same sort of deep, dense 
networks of organizations working togeth-
er…to help put pressure on the political ac-
tors in the country so that there can be ongo-
ing sustained work that brings about social 
change?” Ralph asked. 
Hart explained that Ferguson is a rela-
tively new predominantly black community 
and hasn’t yet had time to establish these 
networks. 
“Do we have the same sort 
of deep, dense networks 
of organizations working 
together…to help put 
pressure on the political 
actors in the country so 
that there can be ongoing 
sustained work that brings 
about social change?”
James Ralph
Dean Faculty Dev. & Research; rehnquist professor of ameri-
can history
MiddAction Fair Draws Crowd
By Sophie Kapica 
and Sarah Koenigsberg
By Madsy Schneider
Middlebury College hosted the MiddAc-
tion Fair in the Wilson Social Space on Sept. 
16. Community volunteer organizations 
from Middlebury and surrounding towns 
came to connect with students interested in 
offering their time to valuable causes. The 
organizations that came to the fair had a 
wide variety of goals that ranged from car-
ing for the elderly to providing education for 
members of the local community.
Everybody Wins, a Vermont state chil-
dren’s mentoring organization, has a branch 
in Middlebury’s Mary Hogan Elementary. 
Student and adult mentors are matched 
one-on-one for an hour of reading, mentor-
ship and bonding each week. 
“The children love feeling like an adult 
is really paying attention to them, and they 
really love having college students” said one 
adult mentor. “I almost feel bad because I 
see how excited they get with the college stu-
dents, and my kid is stuck with me!”
 The children sign up for the program, 
so they are always enthusiastic to meet with 
their mentors. There is a waiting list for 
mentors, so volunteers are always welcome.
Foxcroft Farm, based in Leicester, Ver-
mont, is a harvest program that offers edu-
cational services for youth. The participants 
range from preschool students to seniors 
in high school. Different programs are tar-
the organization is to “develop, support and 
sustain effective and affordable educational 
opportunities for youth that will help them 
to be independent, productive, responsible, 
caring and contributing members of their 
community.” Middlebury students can pri-
marily help by being good role models while 
participating in programs with children. 
However, the organization could also use 
help with fundraising, grant writing and 
events.
HOPE (Helping Overcome Poverty’s 
Effects) is dedicated to providing services 
to those who live in poverty. In addition to 
operating a food bank in Addison County, 
the organization runs a thrift store, owns 
counseling and deals with homeless case 
management. HOPE is a privately funded 
organization and therefore has the freedom 
to choose the kind of help they want to pro-
vide. Oftentimes, the organization works 
with people to accommodate needs that are 
not covered by government programming. 
Based in Middlebury, HOPE looks for dedi-
cated Middlebury students to help out with 
all of its projects.
The Addison County Parent/Child Cen-
ter aims to get “young families off to the right 
start.” As the name implies, the Center of-
fers programs for both parents and children. 
Through its childcare program, the Center 
hopes to build each child’s self esteem, re-
siliency skills, self-control and initiative. 
With only two teachers available to run its 
nine programs, volunteers create more op-
portunities for children to have one-on-one 
attention. The Center also provides classes 
for parents, and could use Middlebury Col-
lege students to help teach an English or 
Math class. 
 “Most of our families come from pov-
erty,” said one representative, “so they don’t 
know what it’s like to walk into a place where 
thirty people are kind to them. We’re built 
like a house, and that’s for a reason; we look 
like a home.”
Middlebury’s Bridge School, an inde-
located on Exchange Street, is looking for 
Middlebury students who love kids and wish 
to work with them on a variety of activities. 
“We do a wide range of things and we 
one of the school’s full-time staff members. 
Volunteers can help with academics or just 
be there to play. 
“We look for someone who likes to have 
fun and be with kids. What they want to do, 
they can talk to me about and we can make 
it happen,” said Joe Schine, also a teacher at 
the school.
The Willowell Foundation, based on 
230 acres of land in Monkton, is a non-prof-
it that focuses on connecting people to the 
environment and the arts. It provides nu-
merous land-based education programs, in-
cluding Farm to School, a national effort to 
expose students to the sources of their food. 
Students help out in community gardens 
that grow food served in their cafeterias. 
The Foundation also operates the sail freight 
project, a freight barge that takes Vermont 
products to New York City via the Hudson 
River in order to promote carbon neutral 
transportation. A number of Middlebury 
students have helped out with the sail 
freight project in the past, and students are 
welcome to aid with the Foundation’s nu-
merous educational programs as well.
Located in Vergennes, the John W. Gra-
ham Emergency Shelter provides housing, 
food, and support to families with children, 
the sick, the elderly, the mentally ill and 
those struggling with or recovering from 
drug addictions. The Shelter helps families 
and individuals eventually get back on their 
own feet. Clinicians also regularly come to 
the Shelter and provide services. Volunteers 
help the shelter by providing house mainte-
nance, cooking services and childcare. 
The Rotary International Club fund-
raises and donates money and time to vari-
ous local, state and international projects. 
One of their global objectives is the promo-
tion of clean water resources. The organi-
zation is involved in clean water initiatives 
all over the world. Through their “Hands to 
Honduras” program, the Club created water 
school and a microloan program for people 
with disabilities in 2012. In 2013, the Ro-
tary Club returned to Honduras and cleared 
land to make a playground for the school 
they created. The Rotary Club has worked 
with Middlebury students before in activi-
ties such as Green-Up day and community 
suppers. The organization meets at Rosie’s 
on Route 7 at 7 a.m. every Wednesday morn-
ing and would love Middlebury College vol-
unteers.
The Charter House meets the needs of 
members of the community at an economic 
disadvantage. The House organizes commu-
nity suppers every Friday night and lunches 
Monday through Thursday, which feed 200 
people. The House farm garden is located in 
-
pus. The garden produced 5,000 pounds of 
food this summer. The Charter House uses 
the food they grow for their community 
meals and also donates it to the food pan-
try. The House has transitional housing with 
apartments and a winter shelter. Students 
comprise one-third of the volunteer base for 
the housing program and can help by pre-
paring and serving meals as well as playing 
with kids at the shelter. The shelter is staffed 
24/7. The Charter House offers internships 
for J-Term and the summer.
Experience Middlebury, a community 
organization, is responsible for the Chili 
Fest, the “Very Merry Middlebury” celebra-
tions around Christmas, trick-or-treating on 
Main Street and Mid-Summer Fest. They of-
fer Middlebury students one-day volunteer 
opportunities and committee involvement 
to help plan local events. Middlebury stu-
dents can gain hands-on knowledge about 
economic and community development in 
Middlebury. Experience Middlebury advo-
cates for local businesses and gives them a 
voice. The organization recently created a 
website, experiencemiddlebury.com.
Living Well Bristol is a residential care 
facility in Bristol offering holistic eldercare. 
They strive to care for the bodies, minds, 
and souls of senior citizens, whom they of-
fer all organic food and various fun activities 
including tai chi and musical events. Living 
Well Bristol aims to bring the local commu-
nity back to taking care of and cherishing el-
ders. There are no fees for senior citizens to 
come to the center, and many of those who 
come have disabilities or are low-income. 
The organization believes that every Ver-
mont elder deserves excellent healthcare 
and housing. Middlebury students can get 
involved with Living Well Bristol by volun-
teering their time to do activities with se-
nior citizens, as well as simply keeping them 
company.
On a recent Sunday, two girlfriends 
and I went to the Starry Night Café for din-
ner. Having heard from many sources (in-
cluding Jim in the Proctor bakeshop) that it 
was one of the best restaurants in the area, 
we were anxious to try it. He was not wrong. 
After learning that it had reopened follow-
chance to try it.
 We arrived at the café around 6:15 p.m. 
and were immediately struck by its charm. 
Located on Route 7 in Ferrisburgh, right next 
to Vermont Flannel, the outside is warm and 
inviting with a large oak door and sign carved 
with stars. Inside, the atmosphere is cozy yet 
elegant.  The walls are tastefully decorated 
with photographs of Vermont scenes, and 
the tables are set with small vases of freshly 
circular “back room,” the quieter and more 
dimly lit of three small dining spaces.  This 
back room’s interior felt more like a living 
for a Sunday evening, the café lent itself to 
quiet conversation, with only soft piano mu-
sic playing unobtrusively in the background.
The lovely ambience, however, is only a 
small part of the charm of the Starry Night 
-
taurant, is the food, which can only really be 
described as absolutely incredible. Simple, 
yet expertly prepared, the offerings here fea-
ture only the freshest local ingredients. When 
we went, corn was a pervasive theme, wholly 
on the drive over; it was added to garnishes 
and slipped into salsas. The menu as a whole, 
although not large, features innovative and 
exciting dishes like a harissa spiced bouilla-
baisse, as well as more familiar entrees like a 
cider braised pork loin accompanied by blue 
cheese mashed potatoes and apple bacon.  
Indeed, the only challenge in navigating 
the menu at the Starry Night Café was decid-
ing what to choose. After enjoying a basket 
of complimentary freshly baked bread (it 
came to the table still steaming), we sampled 
a golden beet salad and a blue cheese salad 
with a light, tangy citrus dressing. Following 
that, we tried a lobster and avocado tostada 
that was not nearly as tasty, yet may have 
been doomed to fail seeing as those eating it 
were from Maine and California respectively. 
This blunder, however, was easily rem-
edied and quickly forgotten when our entrees 
-
ished our appetizers.  Our choices were deli-
cious and substantial: a grilled Misty Knoll 
chicken breast served with a local corn salsa 
and cheddar cheese grits (authentic enough 
to make my southern father proud) and a 
vegetarian corn and Brie risotto whose rice 
was perfectly al-dente. The generous portions 
were a rarity for restaurants of this caliber. 
Unsurprisingly, the large, high-quality 
entrees did not prevent us from sampling 
three different dessert offerings.  We in-
dulged in a blueberry cobbler served with a 
homemade peach ice cream, an ethereal Go-
diva chocolate mousse (with a subtle hint of 
mint) and a classic vanilla cheesecake, ending 
the evening on a sweet note.
The Starry Night café is a gem, but it is 
hardly a place to go on a whim, as it is a com-
mitment of time and money and requires a 
certain level of decorum. With the typical 
patrons solidly rooted in the one percent and 
place where one can laugh loudly, wear den-
im or burp. It is, however, the perfect restau-
rant for parent’s weekend, especially due to 
the price. Far from snooty, it simply asks of 
its clientele that they exhibit the same quali-
ties as the product they will be served: grace, 
class and, above all, good taste.
 Sophie Kapica
Boards displayed the many volunteering opportunities for Middlebury students.
Sophie Kapica
The John Graham Emergency Shelter was one of the many organizations at the fair.
local
Funding for maintenance and re-
pairs on I-89 was slashed this year, Ac-
cording to state officials. The decrease 
in funds can be attributed to the down-
grade in Vermont’s fiscal budget this 
July, by $31 million, as well as decreased 
revenue from the “gas tax,” as consum-
ers switch to more fuel-efficient vehicles 
and drive less often.
Convincing commuters to use more 
environmentally friendly methods of 
transportation, such as buses and hybrid 
cars, is a key facet of Governor Shum-
lin’s push for 90 percent renewable en-
ergy by 2050. 
However, the green revolution 
sweeping the state and the early steps 
the administration has taken are start-
ing to threaten the infrastructure of 
old. The gasoline tax is the main source 
of funding for bridge and road mainte-
nance for both Vermont and the federal 
government. 
As gas sales have steadily declined, 
funding for both federal and state trans-
portation agencies has experienced a 
round of budget cuts, and officials say 
that such fiscal problems could signal 
more trouble for the future. 
“Unfortunately with our current rev-
enue stream, [saving gas] has a negative 
impact on our ability to invest in im-
proving the roads and bridges on which 
[Vermonters] drive,” Deputy Secretary 
Sue Minter said. 
Economists for the state say that 
the revenue from the gas tax will come 
in $2.5 million less than expected. The 
downgrade is below one percent of an 
approximately $700 million transporta-
tion budget. 
“It’s not a huge deal, but it’s one we 
must respond to, and immediately go to 
thinking about the long term, and what 
sort of model replaces the gas tax over 
time,” Secretary of Transportation Brian 
Searles said.
The Federal Highway Trust Fund – 
the money that supports more than half 
of highway funding here in Vermont – 
nearly dried up last August, but Congress 
approved stopgap funding meant to keep 
highway project schedules on track until 
May of 2015. Thus, 
Vermonters and 
Middlebury stu-
dents may experi-
ence firsthand the 
infastructure bud-
get cuts next sum-
mer. 
C u r r e n t l y , 
there is no plan to 
supply funding to 
the projects and 
maintenance that 
have already been 
planned. Searles 
said that the future 
of transportation 
funding is anything 
but secure. The Fed-
eral Highway Trust 
Fund is expected to 
run out by the beginning of Vermont’s 
busy summer construction season, and 
Searles says that federal lawmakers 
aren’t even close to settling upon a plan 
that would restore long-term stability to 
transportation revenues.
The revenue prob-
lems aren’t unique 
to Vermont. Searles 
says that Congress 
will need to adopt an 
alternative revenue 
structure if it hopes to 
raise enough money 
to maintain its cur-
rent road and bridge 
infrastructure. One 
such idea would be to 
employ tollbooths or 
track the number of 
miles a vehicle travels.
Still, “It’s going 
to be a long national 
conversation before 
we ever get to the 
point where people 
are willing to submit 
their driving habits to scrutiny by the 
government in order to pay for the trans-
portation system,” Searles said.
Vermont Governor Peter Shum-
lin is facing a serious ramification for 
a GMO labeling bill he recently passed, 
in the form of a major lawsuit. The bill 
on genetically modified food products 
(GMOs), approved this past spring, will 
require GMOs sold in Vermont to be la-
beled by July 1, 2016. Vermont will be 
the first state to implement GMO label-
ing. Four national 
organizations filed 
a lawsuit on June 
12th over this 
GMO labeling law 
(also known as Act 
120), because they 
claim that GMOs 
do not need to be 
declared to con-
sumers, as they do 
not affect custom-
er safety or health.
“ V e r m o n t ’ s 
mandatory GMO 
labeling law — Act 
120 — is a costly 
and misguided 
measure that will set the nation on a 
path toward a 50-state patchwork of 
GMO labeling policies that do nothing 
to advance the health and safety of con-
sumers,” the Grocery Manufacturers As-
sociation said in a statement about the 
lawsuit. 
Governor Shumlin signed Act 120 
into law in May, after the Vermont House 
approved it by a margin of 114-30 in 
April. The bill specifies that any product 
“partially produced with genetic engi-
neering,” that “may be produced with ge-
netic engineering” or is “produced with 
genetic engineering,” will be considered 
a GMO, and encompasses all food prod-
ucts in Vermont. Sixty countries cur-
rently require GMOs to be labeled.
“I am proud of Vermont for being 
the first state in the nation to ensure 
that Vermonters will know what is in 
their food,” Shumlin said in a statement 
at the time.
Roughly 60 to 70 
percent of processed 
foods in the United 
States contain geneti-
cally modified materi-
als. Yet, only half of cit-
izens understood that 
GMOs are sold in gro-
cery stores, and under 
a quarter believed they 
had ever eaten GMOs.
The World Health 
Organization (WHO) 
states that GMOs 
should be assessed on 
a “case by case basis,” 
because “it is not pos-
sible to make general 
statements on the safety of all GMO 
foods.”
Act 120 was passed with the hope of 
making food information more transpar-
ent to customers. However, many argue 
that such transparency is unnecessary 
when GMOs have not been definitely 
proved as harmful. 
“Act 120 imposes burdensome new 
speech requirements — and restrictions 
— that will affect, by Vermont’s count, 
eight out of every ten foods at the gro-
cery store,” the Grocery Manufacturers 
Association (GMA) said in a statement. 
“Vermont has effectively conceded this 
law has no basis in health, safety or sci-
ence. That is why a number of product 
categories, including milk, meat, restau-
rant items and alcohol, are exempt from 
the law. This means that many foods 
containing GMO ingredients will not ac-
tually disclose that fact.” 
The four plaintiff organizations that 
are arguing that the new law is uncon-
stitutional are the GMA, the Snack Food 
Association, the International Dairy 
Foods Association and the National As-
sociation of Manufacturers. 
Their lawsuit argues that the 2016 
deadline for Act 120 is a difficult one 
for the plaintiffs to meet, and one that 
might require them to revise labels for 
every single product – even those not 
sold in Vermont. In addition, the lawsuit 
points out that since 1994 the FDA has 
confirmed the safety of more than 100 
genetically engineered crops for human 
consumption. 
The plaintiffs are also arguing that 
GMO regulation resides within the do-
main of federal, not state, laws.
“The Act exceeds Vermont’s author-
ity under the United States Constitution. 
The Act should be invalidated and en-
joined in its entirety,” the lawsuit argues.
Even last spring when the GMO bill 
was passed, lawmakers were aware that 
it would probably be contested in court. 
Attorney General William Sorrel said 
last Thursday that he had told lawmak-
ers that the lawsuit would be “a heck of a 
fight, but we would zealously defend the 
law.” 
25I-89 Faces Future Budget Constraints
G.M.O. Labeling Law Challenged
By Haley Tetreault
By Isabelle Dietz
The Doughboys Concert in Brandon
Want to (re)live the summer of love? 
Middlebury College’s faculty rockband, 
“The Doughboys,” will be covering classic 
tunes from Paul Simon and The Grateful 
Dead, as well as jamming on their own 
original songs at Brandon Town Hall 
this Friday. The recent addition of a horn 
section allows them to cover R&B as well! 
Tickets are 8 dollars in advance, sold at 
Carr’s Florist & Gifts, or 10 dollars at the 
door.
SEPT. 27, 7:30 - 9:30 P.M.
Local 
lowdown
 | september 25, 2014Local 6
Apple Pie Contest in Bristol
 
Leaves are turning, the weather is getting 
If you bake them, consider entering the 
“Best Ever Apple Pie Contest” in Bristol, at 
the Bristol Harvest Festival. Drop off your 
entry on Saturday morning (by 10am). 
The pies will be judged on appearance, 
crust, and ‘innards.’ For more informa-
tion call 802-453-5885.
SEPT. 27, 10 A.M.-4 P.M.
Henna Presentation in Bristol
Like tattoos, but afraid of commitment? 
Henna artist Bridget Bartlett will lead 
a presentation this Thursday entitled 
“Henna: History, Culture and Rituals” in 
Bristol. Ms. Bartlett will demonstrate how 
the art is created, and will speak about 
the history of the ancient art. For more 
information, call 802-453-2366, or go to 
www.onelibraryproject.org.
SEPT. 25, 7 - 8:30 P.M.
On July 28th, 2012, Vermonter Conrad F. 
Bell was murdered. This Saturday, four 
bands performing at the “Loud and Proud 
money for the  Conrad F. Bell Memorial 
Trust Fund, which supports Conrad’s 
two daughters. The Metal Band Amadis, 
Cousin Itt, Quest for Unison and Twist of 
Fate will all perform. Tickets cost 10 dol-
lars per person. For more information on 
the event, please call 802-425-2722.
SEPT.  27, 4:30 P.M.
50th Anniversary of the 
Wilderness Act
“Where the earth and its community of 
life are untrammeled by man, where man 
himself is a visitor and does not remain.” 
This is one sentence from the historic 
Wilderness Act of 1964, in which the 
United States Congress formally granted 
the highest level of protection for National 
Parks across America. Head on over to 
the Middlebury College Bread Loaf cam-
pus to celebrate the 50th anniversary of 
the historic law, with live music and pizza 
served by Open Hearth Pizza. For more 
information call 802-747-6775 or email 
jenniferwright@fs.fed.us
SEPT.  28, 11 A.M.- 3 P.M.
Courtesy David Pakman
Most Middlebury students from the greater Boston area take I-89 to the College.
“Unfortunately with 
our current revenue 
stream, [saving gas] has 
a negative impact on our 
ability to invest in im-
proving the roads and 
bridges on which they 
drive.”
Sue Minter
Deputy Secretary of  Department of Transportation
“Act 120 imposes bur-
densome new speech 
requirements — and re-
strictions — that will 
affect, by Vermont’s 
count, eight out of every 
ten foods at the grocery 
store.”
Grocery Manufacturers Association
Official Statement on Act 120
Carol’s Hungry Mind Cafe has just been selected to be a distributor of marijuana.
The Lipper Awards are based on a review 
of 36 companies’ 2012 and 48 companies’ 
2013 risk-adjusted performance.
BEST OVERALL LARGE FUND COMPANY1
1The Lipper Award is given to the group with the lowest average decile ranking of three years’ Consistent Return for eligible funds over the three-
year period ended 11/30/12 and 11/30/13, respectively. TIAA-CREF was ranked against 36 fund companies in 2012 and 48 fund companies 
in 2013 with at least fi ve equity, fi ve bond, or three mixed-asset portfolios. TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services, LLC, and Teachers 
Personal Investors Services Inc. C18456A ©2014 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America – College Retirement Equities Fund 
(TIAA-CREF), 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY, 10017.
Consider investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses carefully before investing. Go 
to tiaa-cref.org for product and fund prospectuses that contain this and other information. 
Read carefully before investing. 2TIAA-CREF funds are subject to market and other risk 
factors. Past performance does not guarantee future results.
LIKE A BROKEN RECORD.
OUR FUNDS 
HAVE A RECORD 
TIAA-CREF was named Best Overall Large Fund Company 
two years in a row by the independent research fi rm Lipper.1 
See what our award-winning performance2 can do for your 
fi nancial health. The sooner you act, the better.
Learn more in one click at TIAA.org 
or call 855 200-7243.
5021A0002 C18456A BROKEN RECORD 10x10 NWS Various_BW_1.indd
Black
73092
Advertisements  7 | September 25, 2014
introducing...
[802] 388-3164
The   new official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
mouthwatering>
GREEN PEPPERS
LOCAL | HANDCRAFTED | FRESHLY PREPARED | AT YOUR CONVENIENCE
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor.  The 
Campus will not accept or print anonymous let-
ters. The opinions expressed by contributors to the 
Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, edi-
torial comics and other commentary, are views of 
the individual contributors and do not necessarily 
reflect the opinions of the newspaper. The Campus 
welcomes letters to the editor at 250 words or less, 
or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Sub-
mit works directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 
30, campus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web 
site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To be consid-
ered for publications, submissions must be received 
by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
Mistakes Were Made
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Joe Flaherty
MANAGING EDITOR
Conor Grant
BUSINESS MANAGER
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Ellie Reinhardt, Claire Abbadi, 
Christian Jambora
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Lawrence Dolan, 
Edward O’Brien, Isaac Baker
SPORTS EDITORS 
Fritz Parker, Remo Plunkett, Emily Bustard
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Isabelle Dietz,
Alessandria Schumacher
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Ben Anderson, 
Annie Grayer
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio, Leah Lavigne 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Michael O’Hara, Anahi Naranjo
DESIGN EDITORS
Evan Gallagher, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITOR
Maggie Cochrane
COPY EDITORS
Sarah Sicular, Hannah Blackburn
STANDARDS EDITOR
Kate Hamilton
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Jessica Cheung, Michelle Irei
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
From SGA to Community Council, we 
have a system of student liaisons to the ad-
ministration whose key purpose is to keep the 
two groups on the same page. Yet last week 
we were all surprised to 
receive an email announc-
ing that alcohol would 
no longer be allowed at 
tailgating events. Though 
students are all over the 
map on the policy itself, 
we on the Editorial Board 
all agree that this process 
the athletics department, bypassing and un-
dermining student organizations, which are 
meant to represent the student body’s inter-
ests in exactly this type of decision. If the ad-
ministration wonders why it is receiving such 
negative feedback, it is because it has failed 
to properly communicate with the student 
body. They are treating the student body 
more like a group of sixteen-year-olds than 
adults. The email from President Liebowitz, 
Dean Collado and Director of Athletics Erin 
Quinn on Sept. 23 acknowledges this failure 
to communicate, but actions speak louder 
than words, and what matters is how they 
will act differently going forward.
There are many other, more transparent 
paths this could have taken. First, directly fol-
lowing the unacceptable behavior prompting 
this policy, Erin Quinn, Director of Athletics, 
should have sent out a message calling out 
what had happened. He should not have de-
liberated over this decision for almost a year, 
as indicated in his email, without ever seri-
ously petitioning for student input. Though 
the Sept. 23 email mentions consulting Com-
munity Council, evidently it was not a thor-
ough enough discussion for the SGA and the 
rest of the student body to not be blindsided 
six months later. Quinn should have sug-
gested the policy change and gone to student 
(and faculty) forums to modify his ideas and 
brainstorm other ways of dealing with the 
problem. 
The lack of communication shows that 
in the student body. This could have been an 
opportunity for students to step up and be 
more conscious of their actions, which they 
might have done to preserve tailgating. This 
disconnect is clear in that by and large, the 
student body was not aware that the behav-
ior at these events was troublesome, but the 
Sept. 23 email illustrates the administration’s 
longstanding concern with tailgating behav-
ior and an inability to self-police. If told that 
our behavior was out of line, things could 
have been different. Perhaps students would 
have found innovative ways to maintain high 
standards of behavior while still tailgating. 
The issue at hand here is the lack of discus-
sion and transparency. With one department 
making a decision for everyone, we are not 
upholding the ideals of our community.
The loss of tailgating brings questions of 
Middlebury’s identity to the surface — ques-
tions that must be answered as a community. 
We as a school must consider what football 
games should look like, whether we want to 
engage in events that encourage day drink-
ing on our campus and whether this decision 
was, in fact, the best thing for Middlebury 
students. Although our Editorial Board does 
not agree on the answers to all these ques-
tions, we agree that they were not one per-
son’s decision to make; they are questions 
that belong to the school as a whole. 
That being said, we need to take respon-
sibility for engaging in these discussions. The 
forum on Sept. 21 is an example of a failure 
on our part. Though the WeTheMiddKids 
petition has 2,500 votes, only 20 students 
attended the forum, letting an opportunity 
-
gers. Being drunk in the dining halls is not an 
effective way to make your outrage known.
Moreover, the behavior at last year’s tail-
gates was out of line. There is absolutely no 
excuse for this behavior. Although there are 
only four tailgates per year, and most alumni 
and parents attend only one, students must 
deal with the consequences to a far greater 
degree. Everyone involved in this has caused 
the many to be punished by the actions of 
the few. The egregious actions of all offend-
ing parties are far more insulting and disre-
spectful to the Middlebury community than 
any miscommunication on the part of the 
administration.
Everyone has done something wrong, 
from the administration’s failure to commu-
nicate to the disrespectful behavior of the stu-
dents and the alumni at the tailgates. This is 
an opportunity for us to learn from our mis-
takes and ensure that going forward, every-
one’s voices are heard. Student input should 
not just be lip service. With the Presidential 
Search Committee and other decision-mak-
ing bodies with student representation, we 
need to know we are valued. Tailgating is the 
hot button issue of the moment, but effec-
tive communication will guide Middlebury 
into era of the College, and we hope to still be 
proud to call it our alma mater.
In response to the changes in the tailgate 
policy effective this Tuesday, there have al-
ready emerged a number of great arguments 
against this new policy, and some weaker 
ones for it. I 
am impressed 
by the initiative 
and zeal dis-
played by my 
schoolmates, 
and am equally 
disappointed 
by the actions 
and reactions of the administration. I hope 
this article in opposition to the policy com-
plements those that have come before mine 
and helps to further explain why we are out-
raged.
The combination of the policy changes 
and, in particular, the defense given by Erin 
Quinn, Director of Athletics, is dishearten-
ing. Whether or not you have ever attended 
a tailgate or an athletic event of any kind, you 
should be concerned. Here’s why:
Firstly, the opaqueness of Mr. Quinn’s 
explanatory letter borders on insulting. En-
titlement is a touchy subject on this campus, 
however it is not unreasonable for students, 
when addressing the sudden, forced removal 
of a long-standing and beloved tradition, to 
demand a serious explanation. Certainly, the 
College is within its right to abide by the NE-
SCAC alcohol policy (even if we are the only 
school to do so, as MiddBeat points out), but 
such a drastic and abrupt change naturally 
begs the question: why now?
The gist of Mr. Quinn’s answer — “People 
were behaving badly and it made us look 
bad; no details, just trust me” — is unac-
ceptable. Such a response would indicate a 
lack of respect for the affected party even if 
it were given as initial reasoning, but after 
being politely pressed for further explana-
tion, the answer becomes a diplomatic way 
of telling the indignant and bewildered to 
screw off.
Mr. Quinn cites the Trin-
ity game tailgate on Homecoming week-
end as an exceptionally egregious incident. 
However, the general opinion of students 
on the Homecoming tailgate and game, 
was overwhelmingly positive. One member 
of the football team told me it was the best 
crowd he had ever played in front of. This is 
not to say that nothing bad happened; I do 
not know the whole story. However, it does 
bespeak some serious cognitive dissonance 
between administrators and students. It also 
illustrates why seemingly the entire student 
body did not see this coming.
Furthermore, it is a pernicious precedent 
to set if the administration simply takes 
-
-
dent should we feel in an administration that 
would rather pass the buck than address an 
important issue head-on with its students? 
How comfortable should we feel when that 
same administration can take away basic 
elements of student life on what appears to 
be a whim and do so without much explana-
tion?
But, perhaps what is most worrisome of 
all is the administration’s deep-seated mis-
trust of the student body evinced by this 
one-two punch of encroaching legislation 
and dismissive explanation. While walking 
us through the thought process leading up to 
his decision, Mr. Quinn writes that following 
the end of last football season, he “felt com-
pelled to ask [himself] what we should do to 
address this situation.” However, it appears 
that this compulsion was not all that strong 
as, to the best of my recollection, there was 
no effort to ask us how to proceed in the nine 
months since. Instead of petitioning us for 
support as the thoughtful adults we seem 
to be treated as during the school week, the 
s i t u a - tion was 
addressed 
through 
bl ind-
siding discipline as though we were children 
or criminals, incapable of being reasoned 
with and untrustworthy to form a construc-
tive solution.
It is offensive and hypocritical to the ut-
most degree that administrators would not 
even consider reaching out to the greater 
student body for support to address this is-
sue. We have been denied an opportunity to 
practice the very same values Middlebury 
proudly trumpets to the world for having 
so well instilled in us, as well as the ability 
to govern ourselves as adult members of free 
society for which the liberal arts education 
is designed to prepare us. The latter is what 
brought us to the liberal arts instead of large 
research universities and the former, this 
unique set of values, is what brought us spe-
much or little time studying or partying we 
intended to spend during our stint at the Col-
lege, the denial of these values is why many 
of us feel as though we are now at a school 
for which we did not sign up when admitted.
With all the rebranding efforts taking 
place over the past few months, it is no secret 
that Middlebury has become incredibly con-
scious of its image, possibly more than ever 
students of the (read: any) social life they 
expected at the beginning of their four years 
is a great way to ruin that image. Squeezing 
us to the point where we feel that we have to 
choose between getting a Middlebury educa-
tion and having a social life somewhere else, 
works too. What is a secret, however, is why 
so many of us upperclassmen feel as though, 
the College, it sounds like we are describing a 
completely different school than the one we 
attend now.
Middlebury students: do not wait until 
the administrators have gathered their wits 
enough to invite us to participate in another 
time-wasting public forum and kill the issue 
on the stage of Wilson Hall through apathy 
and political correctness. Seniors, this 
is our last chance. Voice your opinion 
now. Share your articles now. Sign 
your petitions now. Let Middlebury 
and its former, current and prospec-
tive students know we will not 
this school, 
which we 
all at one 
time loved, 
to be steril-
ized in the name of 
a national brand 
on President Li-
ebowitz’s resume. 
Fight for your right 
to party.
Go Panthers.
Notes from 
the Desk
Jack Dolan ’15 is an 
Opinions Editor from 
Chagrin Falls, Ohio.
We Did Not Sign Up for This
Nolan Ellsworth
| september 25, 2014 9opinions
Letter to the 
editor
Derek Schlickeisen ’09 
lives in Washington, D.C.
Alienating Alumni
To the Editor,
Along with many of my fellow alum-
ni, I read with dismay that alcohol and 
music have 
been banned 
from tailgating 
at Middlebury 
athletic events, 
i n c l u d i n g 
Homecoming. 
It’s part of a 
broader pattern that we have observed 
with disappointment from afar since 
graduation, as officials at the College 
sanitize and red-tape the campus so-
cial scene into virtual non-existence. It 
now seems that this needless urge to 
regulate every aspect of life at the Col-
lege will also extend to alumni during 
our return visits.
This is exactly the sort of action that 
will negatively impact alumni views of 
the way our alma mater is being run 
and will make us feel disconnected 
from the institution we knew. I sin-
cerely hope the College’s administra-
tion reconsiders this move.
Sincerely,
Derek Schlickeisen ’09
Sit Down Now, Stand Up Soon
 Ever since the new tailgating pol-
icy was announced, we’ve been outraged. 
Outraged at the outrage. In MiddBeat’s 
coverage and 
s u b s e q u e n t 
online com-
ments and Jack 
Dolan’s op-ed 
on the Cam-
pus’ website, 
there are sev-
eral troubling 
trends that demand discussion. 
The more dangerous of these tendencies 
is the way in which the ban’s opponents 
have appropriated the language of social 
movements, social justice and human 
rights. Middbeat’s unabashedly slanted 
reporting (paragraph three kicks off with 
“‘What. The. F***?’”) barely avoids using 
the words “right” and “liberty” to describe 
what’s at stake. A commenter, “Jenny”, 
wrote: “I’m starting to feel like I’m living in 
a police state in Middlebury.” 
The subsequent calls-to-action—which 
were soon echoed by countless current and 
former students in the comments section 
underneath—included suggestions of with-
holding donations and signing petitions. 
Of protesting, in other words, an injustice. 
To use this language when what’s at stake 
is being able to binge drink at a particular 
time on a patch of privately-owned grass 
is to dilute the potency of words and ideas 
some of which is alive and well at Middle-
bury. 
If Middlebury were a place free from sig-
to reverse the new tailgating restrictions 
could be seen as clumsy beginners’ attempt 
to make change. In the presence of true in-
equity, however, the vocabulary of social 
change and resisting institutional power 
deserves to be used with discretion and 
only after deep consideration. What are 
these real issues? Middbeat jogs our weak 
institutional memory in a poll it recently 
posted on its site: “What’s the most press-
ing issue on Middlebury’s campus right 
now?” “The new tailgating policy” tops 
the recorded responses, with 
more than double the votes 
of any other option. Ranked 
lower in the poll are many of the 
issues that the College has 
faced since we matriculated 
in 2010: the distress-
ingly ethnocentric AAL 
requirement, admin-
istrative resistance to 
divestment and the 
hate crime con-
stituted by 
the spe-
of sexual 
v i o l e n c e 
against a 
queer stu-
dent. Those 
are the is-
sues that 
d e m a n d 
action, that 
merit doz-
ens upon 
dozens of 
online com-
ments, that might justify civil disobedi-
ence. Those are “What Middlebury Should 
Never Forget,” as Celeste Allen reminded 
us in her op-ed last week.
Should the administration have en-
gaged students and/or the SGA before in-
stituting the ban? Yes. Are there questions 
about social life and alcohol that need dis-
cussion? Certainly. But it is distressing to 
watch (granted, from afar, as recent alum-
ni) students rally behind their “right” to 
tailgate while so many more critical move-
ments — ones regarding students’ physical 
safety, even — have struggled to get trac-
tion. So should it make us think about our 
-
tion — “Fight for your right to party”? Par-
tying is not a right. It should be one of the 
When acts reeking of entitlement (thou-
sands of miss-
ing dishes, 
public 
in-
t o x i -
c a t i o n , 
u n d e r a g e 
drinking, property 
destruction) are met 
with administrative re-
sponse, students have reacted 
as if a slap on the wrist was a slap in 
the face, as if students are entitled to do 
whatever they want, wherever they want. 
Students with various minority identi-
ties have long described their inability to 
feel comfortable or “at home” at Middle-
bury. Now, we’re seeing one of the rare 
times where the “traditional” — as in, “of 
the majority,” not as in “rightfully revered” 
— MiddKid feels threatened; this issue has 
hit at the heart of the most comfortable and 
comforted segment of the student body: 
an athletic, mostly-white, predominantly 
upper-class group.
When “David” comments on Middbeat, 
“Tailgates are one of the only places where 
everyone at the school is invited to come 
together and have a good time,” he’s both 
wrong and missing the point.  Certainly, 
there’s no de jure segregation, no entry 
fees, no secret invitations. But to say that a 
relatively small, “kind of fratty” (as I heard 
someone describe it), drunken crowd is 
representative of the Middlebury commu-
nity has dangerous implications. 
To think that the tailgate really is a safe 
and comfortable space for anyone is myo-
pic. There are certainly students at Middle-
bury who like to party and want to attend 
a tailgate, but do not feel like it is a space 
for “people like them” because they do not 
meet the identity-based requirements to 
be “traditional” MiddKid. There’s a differ-
ence between being “invited” and feeling 
welcome.  
 Perhaps what concerns us most is the 
dangerously skewed perspective made 
evident in that comment from “David.” If 
tailgating students look around at their fel-
low revelers and think they’re seeing the 
full spectrum of Middlebury’s diversity, 
then they are blind to the presence and, 
consequently, the struggles of many other 
non-“traditional” groups of students at 
Middlebury.
How convenient, then, that narrow-
minded perspective is. For if we’re all just 
part of the tailgate crowd, then our “right 
to party” is indeed the only “right” that de-
mands our indignation. So how might cur-
rent students move forward? Learn about 
the social justice movements happening on 
campus and don’t just speak up when you 
feel attacked, be an ally to those who are 
less comfortable than you at Midd. Fellow 
alumni: our voices are powerful. Don’t go 
hoarse over beers in a parking lot.
Reader OPED
Ian Stewart ’14 is lives in 
Washington, D.C.
Cailey Cron ’13.5 is lives 
in Brooklyn, N.Y.
Letter to the 
editor
Zach Drennen ’13.5 
lives in Washington, D.C.
I’ll Just Drink at Home
In response to your invitation, I would 
love to visit Middlebury for Homecom-
ing but given 
the College’s 
strict new “no 
fun at Home-
coming” policy, 
it doesn’t quite 
seem worth the 
drive. Home-
coming at Middlebury should mean shot-
gunning sipping a can of Heady Topper 
while blasting country music on a crappy 
bluetooth speaker, surrounded by glori-
ous fall foliage and presumably wearing 
something with the Patagonia logo on 
it (somewhere in there is some kind of 
sporting event but I’m not really clear on 
how that works). If I’m limited to the fo-
liage and freezing temperatures, I might 
as well stay below the Mason-Dixon Line 
this fall.
For those alums who do decide to 
make the trip despite their alma mater’s 
apparent instinct to slowly return to the 
colony, enforcement of Middlebury’s 
-
cult. Alumni are almost universally over 
21 and likely to be future donors to the 
college — I assume that’s why you send us 
emails reminding us to come to Home-
coming — and pissing them 
off won’t have a 
positive effect 
on your giv-
ing rates. 
F u r t h e r -
more, “Public 
Safety” has 
l i m i t e d 
means of 
enforce-
m e n t 
b e y o n d 
a s k i n g 
p o l i t e l y 
and then 
o f f e r i n g 
citations, a penalty 
that was laughable as an undergraduate 
and is now entirely without meaning. Al-
ums whose most recent memory of their 
college is either being banned from such 
sensitive areas as the outdoor parking lot 
-
lice called on them are — I would imag-
ine — much less likely to think fondly 
on Middlebury when the time comes to 
write a check.  
So good luck with that,
Zach Drennen ’13.5  
Notes from 
the Desk
Fritz Parker ’15 is a Sports 
Editor from Arlington, Va.
Who Do We Think We Are?
I’m writing this op-ed to express my 
support for the recently announced tail-
gating policy, but I’m going to start with a 
slightly different chord: I love tailgating. 
Don’t believe me? I once drove from 
D.C. to New Orleans to attend a tailgate (it 
was awesome). I have tailgated at schools 
up and down the east coast, and attended 
several tailgates in my three-plus years at 
Middlebury (not quite as awesome).
The point I’m trying to make is that 
my position is not one of naiveté, disgust 
or moral superiority. My position is not 
that tailgates — or the behaviors that tend 
to occur at tailgates — are in any way bad. 
They’re not. What they are, however, is out 
of sync with the most positive aspects of 
the culture here at Middlebury, and that 
is why I think the policy change is a good 
move by the administration.
Let’s face it: Middlebury just is not a 
tailgating school. Where else on our cam-
pus do you see institutionally sanctioned 
events at which students drink during the 
day on school property in full view of Pub-
lic Safety? You don’t. But it’s not really the 
drinking bit that is so incongruous with 
our culture here; I think it goes much 
deeper than that.
Here is my theory 
for why Middle-
bury students 
are so incensed 
by the policy 
change: we are 
so used to liv-
ing vicariously 
through our 
friends at larger, 
more tailgate-
friendly schools that 
we have forgotten where we 
really are.
The tailgate was a unique opportunity 
to pretend like you didn’t attend a small, 
academic liberal-arts college in rural Ver-
mont, to pretend that you had accepted 
that admissions offer from UVA or Michi-
gan instead of the one from Middlebury. 
We as a campus community are tremen-
dously self-conscious of the fact that we 
don’t have as much fun as our colleagues at 
many other schools do. That’s why we cling 
so desperately to the tailgates: they were 
our lifeline to a cultural idea of ‘college’ that 
many of us — myself included — are deeply 
fearful we are 
missing out 
on.
I can only 
do so much to 
assuage this 
fear. It is pret-
ty undeniable 
that we all gave up the opportunity to do a 
certain subset of things — join sanctioned 
Greek life, hang out at a real college bar or, 
yes, be a tailgate king/queen — when we 
decided to come to school here. No matter 
to pack into his Atwater suite, Middlebury 
will never appear on a list of top party 
schools.
What I can do is reassure you that the 
tradeoff is worth it. There are so many 
opportunities that we have here that our 
friends at other schools don’t have. Just 
in the realm of athletics (I am the sports 
editor, after all), so many of us who com-
of Middlebury probably wouldn’t have the 
opportunity to do so at other schools. We 
would be tailgaters. 
I insist that this message is not limited 
to athletics: think about the opportunities 
in research, scholarship, activism or any of 
the other areas in which Middlebury stu-
dents succeed. These opportunities don’t 
exist by accident; they begin with the fact 
that we have faculty and administrators 
here who care enough about us students 
to hold us accountable for the culture that 
we choose to create. That is where the new 
policy comes from.
I think the SGA and Campus editorial 
board are dead-on in asking for more ad-
ministrative transparency in matters like 
this. The policy was not brought about in 
the best way, but that doesn’t mean it’s not 
going to have a positive impact on the stu-
dent body.
So what are you going to do on the after-
noon of Oct. 18? Go volunteer in the com-
munity, or hike Camel’s Hump or do any of 
the other things that you would have been 
missing out on at the tailgate. Or you can 
come down to Alumni Stadium to watch 
Middlebury take on Bates. I’ll be there. 
Eunice Kim
Nolan Ellsworth
  
10 September 25, 2014 | opinions
Religion in the Modern World
Reader Oped
Dylan Sinnickson ’15 is 
from Sands Point, N.Y.
Religion has been crucial to human cul-
tures for millennia, but it appears to have 
been dwindling 
in importance 
for the about 
the last century. 
Although God 
does not change, 
our culture has been rapidly transforming 
since the Industrial Revolution.  It seems 
that our desire for happiness and accu-
mulating wealth has replaced our passion 
-
ture becomes more and more secular, we 
should ask the question if religion and our 
contemporary consumer culture can coex-
ist.  Have our current passions replaced our 
passion for the truth?  Can we be indepen-
dent of God if all our basic needs have been 
met?  Do the creature comforts that we so 
For many religions, a critical element of 
meaning of suffering.  If there is a just God 
then why must we suffer?  In Christianity, 
the answer can be found in the Passion and 
means by which eternal life was attained. 
Most other major religions such as Bud-
form of suffering as a means to achieve self-
transcendence or a greater good.  From a 
more secular point of view, the psychiatrist, 
Viktor Frankl, in his magnum opus, Man’s 
Search for Meaning, states that love is the 
answer to suffering.  He realized this con-
cept as a Holocaust prisoner while he con-
templated the daily tortures he faced at the 
Auschwitz concentration camp.  He was 
convinced that his seemingly unimaginable 
suffering was worthwhile for the chance of 
even a minute of seeing his wife if he were 
to be released.  
The meaning of suffering is an essential 
own life, but what if there is little to no suf-
fering?  Humans have often used religion 
as an answer to suffering.  If there is no 
suffering, do we need religion?  For a ma-
jority of people from developed countries, 
true suffering is not an issue.  Most of us are 
well-fed, clean water is basically free, heat-
ing and air conditioning protect us from 
never alone as social media and cell phones 
create a constant connection between us. 
 Humans across cultures and through-
out history have used God as an answer to 
their problems, but now our culture has 
shifted from relying on God to relying on 
money and technology as panaceas for our 
troubles.  Unfortunately, in a way it does al-
low us to be independent of God, although 
bring us happiness, but they are too super-
enveloped in our industrial civilization 
does not seem like a legitimate reason to 
life.  Although I do not think that this is 
the conscious reason for many people, it 
is likely an underlying root cause of this 
phenomenon.  Having wealth and security 
does not change the existence of God or the 
importance of religion; it just changes our 
perspective on life.  I think that if we cre-
ated a less materialistic culture, we would 
be more inclined to contemplate the deep, 
philosophical issues that hu-
manity has historically been 
trying to answer.  This dilemma 
brings to mind an old Scottish 
tune: 
Will the space that you’re so 
rich in
Or the little god of space 
turn the spit, spit, spit?
We can only perpetuate this 
state of satiety for so long until 
our morals and ethics begin to 
be compromised.
Regardless of whether aban-
doning our materialistic culture 
will lead to a religious life or 
belief in God, it will undoubt-
edly lead to a more meaning-
ful way of living where we can 
appreciate many of the things 
that we often take for granted. 
Maybe we will begin to think 
more about the consequences 
that our economic habits have 
on the globe.  Questioning the purchase of 
goods that are produced by laborers work-
ing in unjust working conditions and con-
templating the effect that our investments 
strides in the right direction.  Whatever di-
rection you choose, the end goal should not 
be to accumulate the most wealth or pro-
duce the most goods but instead, 
to do the most good.
swing Vote
Erin Van Gessel ’17.5 
is from San Rafael, Calif.
Plotting [Climate] Change
The 2014 midterm election approaches 
and there is one issue around which I hope 
every one can rally: the environment. It 
feels like we have been talking about the 
problem for a 
while. You know 
it as “global 
warming,” or 
maybe “climate 
change” if you 
are trying to appease the old geezer who 
“feels like the planet is getting colder, not 
tomayto, tomahto, and 
addressed.  
Some people are 
doing just that. Sup-
porters of environ-
mental policy change 
converged in New York 
City this past week-
end. They marched on 
Sunday, Sept. 21 to en-
courage leaders of the 
United Nations to curb 
greenhouse gas pollu-
tion. 
My question is — will it have an effect? 
any changes made to environmental policy 
think yes, but the realist in me says no, be-
cause the unfortunate truth about climate 
change is that, for some, solving it is not a 
top priority. 
Many Americans (I should specify here 
— many Republicans) believe that, while 
global warming itself is harmful, there are 
costs associated with solving it that out-
An example — President Obama pro-
posed an Environmental Protection Agen-
had been cooperating with the require-
ment because former Democratic Gover-
nor Richard Codey instituted a cap on car-
bon emissions in 2005. And then ... Chris 
Christie came to town. 
Christie, the current Republican gov-
economic and legal interests were at risk 
from the agreement. 
But wait, Gov. Christie! According to 
a 2011 study done by Analysis Group, an 
economies of states participating in cap-
and-trade programs improved, not to 
mention that their greenhouse gas pollu-
plan, electricity bills increased less than 
one percent while the state collected $118 
million from pollution permits.
The International Monetary Fund reaf-
has projected that measures to limit emis-
sions would either have a negligible effect 
on economic growth, or maybe even foster 
it. They point to the effects climate change 
has on public health and thereby the econ-
omy. Their basic example: burning coal 
causes respiratory problems, which means 
medical costs and a less productive society. 
mistakes, right? Sure, but this time his 
choice seems intentional. Gov. Christie 
appears to have 
withdrawn from 
the cap-and-trade 
plan to appease 
other Republi-
those who might 
donate to his 
2016 campaign 
(cue Koch broth-
ers). And this is 
the problem. 
While some Republicans might be on 
State Senator Kip Bateman is one exam-
ple) many Republicans share the convic-
tion that solutions to climate change and 
a growing U.S. economy cannot coexist. 
As a result, many Republicans steer away 
from environmentally (and apparently 
as cap-and-trade. 
Alas, change seems unlikely. With this 
pre-dominant Republican mindset, and a 
Congress that seems like it could soon go 
red, I am not sure that our country is ready 
to make great strides. And because the 
United States has such an enormous envi-
ronmental footprint, there is an American 
imposed limit to any U.N. effort. 
Nonetheless, power to the people. I be-
lieve that the climate march creates aware-
ness for environmental initiatives while 
shaming those who do not step up to solve 
the problem, a powerful tactic. But to fully 
climate change an advantage, we need to 
push harder. 
This means grassroots protests like the 
climate march, writing letters to those in 
charge (local government representatives, 
business leaders, etc.) to encourage envi-
ronmental initiatives, and as for the big 
dogs — the Obama administration — it 
means showing lawmakers compelling 
data such as Analysis Group and the IMF 
studies to force practical change. 
In short, it is no longer enough to ad-
here to the environmentalist stereotype. 
We cannot be laid-back hippies because 
this is not a laissez-faire issue. Those who 
will make a difference need to pair prag-
matism with passion and propose cohe-
sive solutions to the inescapable truth of 
climate change. 
I Stand With Midd
The Unpopular 
Opnion
Andrew DeFalco ’15.5 is 
from Boston, Mass.
What seems like a long time ago, I 
made a choice I proceeded to doubt. It 
was not until a few years had gone by 
that I understood why coming to Middle-
bury was one of the most important and 
best decisions I have made. However, I 
am sure by this point that sounds cliché. 
Lately it seems our institution has come 
& World Report College Rankings to sev-
enth place, a new brand of activism seems 
intent on tearing down much of what 
Middlebury has built for itself, and more 
and more it seems our attitude is gener-
ally ambivalent towards the College. So 
who dare stands to champion our fair in-
stitution?
School spirit is not something that 
simply pops into existence. In fact, more 
often than not it is built over centuries. 
spirit? Sadly, it is non-existent in a lot of 
ways. Our traditions seem stale and two-
dimensional. Whose fault is this, truly? 
-
tion. If we took a broad sample of all the 
schools in the United 
States and compared 
administrations, I 
would say ours would 
percent. Yeah, they 
annoy us sometimes 
and we may not agree 
with everything they 
do, but they are pretty 
good. They show genu-
ine interest in what we do, they take us 
seriously, they keep the lights on. To be 
honest, we should be thankful they even 
care at all. I am sure I do not need to point 
-
tions that simply do not care.
Our faculty is pretty great, too. We 
have the privilege of being students to re-
ally smart people. And when I say really 
smart, it is not a passing phrase. I mean, 
they are way smarter than you. Yes, fresh-
man correcting the professor, we are talk-
ing about you. I do not know where we 
get these professors, but I would sure like 
to know. What kind of a professor asks 
invites me into their home for dinner? 
What kind of people even do that?! 
faculty is pretty great. Where does that 
leave us? Well, if you want to know where 
true responsibility lies we need only to 
talking about you. Yeah, you, with the 
cynicism and the hands in your pock-
ets, sipping a beer you got out of a social 
house basement fridge, wondering if the 
party next door is any better and if not 
-
ing about anyone who would rather rave 
about in college existentialism than make 
great memo-
-
ing about 
every person 
who com-
plains about 
a lack of so-
cial scene 
and refuses to make any. 
I was not surprised when Middlebury 
dropped down to seventh place. I am im-
pressed we stayed at fourth for as long as 
become more concerned with what we can 
tear down instead of what we can build. 
The general consensus is to disavow our-
selves of a struggling project rather than 
worth working on. Ask yourself, why do 
you love your school? If the answer is 
your friends, well, you would have those 
anywhere. Hopefully. What about this 
place, what is unique to Middlebury that 
gets you excited? 
Got nothing? Go 
We have often 
been referred to as 
the worst genera-
tion ever. I hate this 
term. Yet, looking 
around the student 
body, what do we 
stand for? Do we 
stand for ranting on the Internet instead 
of making substantial change? Do we 
stand for cynicism and vanity? For fear 
of getting our hands dirty or embarrass-
at the start of the The Departed is, “No-
body gives it to you, you have to take it.” 
He was, of course, referring to organized 
crime. The message is an important one, 
nonetheless! If we want to make a place 
that we reminisce about for the rest of our 
lives it is going to be some work. The ma-
jority of that work is going to come from 
the student body, because like it or not, we 
can be the true source of change around 
To leave you with one last anecdote, 
my father told me when I entered into my 
hard work. Like everything else he said, 
you are always working on your relation-
ship, always trying to make it better. This 
goes well beyond the realm of romance. 
Our experience is not going to be handed 
to us. College is not a rollercoaster we en-
joy for four years and then politely exit. 
Our experience is ours, to make incred-
ible, or merely mediocre.
Vaasu Taneja
“We have often been 
referred to as the worst 
generation ever. I hate 
this term. Yet, looking 
around the student body, 
what do we stand for?”
Gloria Breck
Reorient Yourself
| september 25, 2014 11opinions
The A List
Luke Smith-Stevens ’14.5 
is from New York, N.Y.
Don’t Be Rude With Your Nudes 
Everyone knows that as soon as you 
create an account anywhere online, 
there’s a danger of having everything 
in your life taken from you by a teen-
ager in an 
internet café 
somewhere. 
S o m e h o w , 
that fear isn’t 
enough for 
me to take an active, defensive stand 
when it comes to my cyber-privacy. 
Perhaps part of the reason for that is 
that I’m okay just hoping I don’t get 
unlucky; or perhaps I have no idea 
how to set up those kinds of defenses.
There is, however, one piece of per-
sonal technological property which 
many people possess and likely feel 
very strongly about protecting. Them 
naked selfies, yo.
A Wired survey from 2009 found 
that one-third of students sent a nude 
photo of themselves at some point 
during college, a number that has 
likely gone up with the proliferation of 
smart phones and Snapchat. Taking a 
nude selfie is a unique kind of privacy 
risk.  If your credit card is hacked, you 
can likely recover the money. Pass-
words can be reset, Facebook accounts 
reclaimed. Once a nude photo is post-
ed publicly, however, one cannot make 
anybody unsee it. The recent hacking 
and dissemination of several female 
celebrities’ personal, “intimate” pho-
tos made this all a national story, but 
there is a question underlying the issue 
which isn’t really being talked about: 
is it bad to send somebody naked pic-
tures of yourself? (It must be stated 
that this whole discussion is referring 
only to exchanges involving persons 18 
years or older.)
That is different than asking, “Is 
it smart to send naked pictures of 
yourself?” — a question which, given 
what we discussed in paragraph one, 
can pretty much be answered “no.” 
But let’s set aside the vulnerability of 
any and all digital information in the 
cloud era (whilst pretending we know 
exactly what that means). There seems 
to be an implicit judgment surround-
ing the recent coverage of this issue. 
Ask yourself, would you tell a group of 
friends that you sent nude pictures of 
yourself to a girlfriend or boyfriend? 
How about a group of classmates? 
What about a picture of you in your 
underwear?
Perhaps asking whether or not 
you’d broadcast that information to a 
bunch of people isn’t the best way to 
illustrate this point. Still, what is there 
about sending a revealing selfie that 
warrants shame? The decision to let 
anybody see you naked is a distinctly 
personal one and should 
be free of external judg-
ment. Whether you 
bare it all in person 
or via telecommuni-
cation is just as much 
your business as who 
you let see your 
business.
I admit that in 
all issues pertaining 
to sexuality, the male 
perspective is imbued 
with a power and ex-
emption that undoubt-
edly affects my opinion 
on this. Nobody should 
ever be pressured to 
send or post revealing 
pictures of themselves, 
by strangers on Insta-
gram or by a signifi-
cant other. But there 
also shouldn’t be any 
shame in how one 
decides to share their 
body.  If you hop out the 
shower feeling sexy, and 
you trust the recipient, there is noth-
ing implicitly wrong with snapping 
that pic.
It shouldn’t be news that our so-
ciety has deeply perverse problems 
when it comes to sexuality, especially 
regarding the female body. Within a 
few hours of the personal photos of 
Kate Upton, Jennifer Lawrence and 
others hitting the internet, the FBI 
was working to identify the hacker. 
The next week, ESPN and many other 
media outlets were playing the video 
of Ray Rice knocking his then fiancée 
(now wife) unconscious pretty much 
on repeat. I do not in any way mean 
to belittle the violation perpetrated 
against those celebrities, or anybody 
who has had intimate photos stolen, 
but what about Janay Palmer’s priva-
cy? Plenty of public figures denounced 
the posting and viewing of those 
photos, but nobody stood up for Ms. 
Palmer’s right to not have open public 
access to footage of her being beaten 
by her fiance. When one considers this 
as an example of the degree to which 
we are desensitized to violence against 
women, the unauthorized dissemina-
tion of personal photos by hackers and 
entrusted recipients alike should not 
come as a surprise.
Nonetheless, people send nude 
photos and there’s little evidence to 
suggest they will stop.  In a Sept. 5 New 
York Times article, Farhad Manjoo ar-
gued that cell phone companies should 
start embedding technology to detect 
and encrypt nude photos. A 
phone could make an image 
password protected, such that 
recipients could only view 
them with (revokable) per-
mission, or it could prevent 
sensitive images from being 
backed up via cloud. Initially 
my reaction was laughter: it’s 
on phone companies to make 
it easier to send nudes? May-
be not. But it is their respon-
sibility to protect their cli-
ents’ privacy. People have 
demonstrated that 
they want to use their 
phones in this way, 
and there’s nothing 
criminal, or even im-
moral about sending a 
revealing picture. The 
immorality lies in the 
stealing and spreading 
of those photos, and 
it is unfortunate that 
our lack of respect for 
each other’s bodies 
forces us to rely on cell 
phone makers.
Over the last few weeks, an inter-
net blog has been making the rounds 
throughout Middlebury students. 
At this point, 
you’ve prob-
ably heard of it. 
Called the Mid-
dlebury College 
Disorientation 
Guide, the blog contains several posts 
outlining some of the problems with 
Middlebury’s approach to environ-
mentalism and social justice. It’s an 
intriguing collection of articles that 
makes you think about what it means 
to be a Midd student, how we interact 
with our school, and how our school 
interacts with the world. 
Certainly, the Disorientation Guide 
hits upon some hot-button issues that 
are popular in today’s culture. It rais-
es some difficult 
questions about 
the aims of Middle-
bury’s investment. 
It calls out the 
college for being 
hypocritical with 
regards to carbon 
neutrality. It even 
attacks some of the most espoused be-
liefs on campus—that Middlebury is 
somehow unique, that going here is an 
unreproducible experience, and that 
students here have exceptional intel-
lects and talent.
Although I agree with what much 
of the Disorientation Guide states, it 
makes some impassioned arguments 
that stray from the supported to the 
impulsive. It uses the power of fad so-
cial movements to make its points, re-
lying on scathing attacks on elements 
of Middlebury culture that probably 
don’t deserve all the hate that the 
guide is leveraging on them. 
For example, the guide wants us to 
ask ourselves, is Middlebury actually 
progressive? Do we uphold standards 
of social justice? The authors take the 
declarative stance that no, in fact, so-
cial injustices are reflected within the 
student body. But the question that 
this raises is if societal problems be-
come a college’s problems. Is a college 
culpable if you can see stereotypes in 
its student body?
The disorientation guide is right 
in stating that the number of rich and 
white people at this school is dispro-
portionate and, sometimes, shocking. 
But the guide also reasons that this 
makes Middlebury not actually pro-
gressive or diverse at all, insinuating 
that the relative lack of ethnic and so-
cioeconomic diversity on campus is a 
choice the college is consciously mak-
ing.
However, blaming Middlebury 
for this lack of diversity is misunder-
standing the issues behind social in-
equality. What the authors of the dis-
orientation guide 
seem to forget is 
that the dispropor-
tionate representa-
tion of the wealthy 
at Middlebury is 
a symptom of this 
social inequality, 
and most likely not 
a result of some insidious scheme to 
make money. It’s not necessarily Mid-
dlebury’s fault that the student body is 
as disproportionately represented as 
it is. We should not make the college 
responsible for systemic social prob-
lems.
Of course, this doesn’t mean we 
shouldn’t attempt to address them. 
I certainly think that the College 
can help out in local communities, 
strengthening schools and addressing 
the problems at their sources. After 
all, the best way to fix any injustice is 
not to slap a quick fix on it after the 
damage has already been done; rather, 
helping out at its root cause can prog-
ress toward eliminating the problem 
altogether. 
But even though Middlebury has 
issues with diversity, all students 
share the common belief that Mid-
dlebury is special. Or at least, that’s 
what I thought people believed. The 
guide’s authors argue that, actually, 
the uniqueness of Middlebury is fake, 
and that our school is really founded 
on an elitist, archaic understand-
ing of knowledge and wisdom. While 
I agree that much of the American 
education system needs to be fixed, 
and that there’s too great a focus on 
test-taking, the guide goes so far as to 
seemingly assert that intelligence is a 
social construct. “Meritocracy is not 
real,” it says definitively. Sure, there 
are different forms of intelligence, 
and there are many hundreds of mil-
lions of brilliant people who didn’t go 
to schools like Middlebury, but that 
doesn’t mean that the form of intel-
ligence Middlebury emphasizes isn’t 
any less real. 
We were accepted to Middlebury 
because we were talented in academ-
ics. Many of us were good at memo-
rizing tables, formulas, and dates, but 
that’s not the only element of educa-
tion. Middlebury focuses on critical 
thinking, encouraging us to challenge 
our professors, our books, and the 
thoughts of others. Even if it’s not 
unique, this alone makes Middlebury 
special. We are all talented in this 
form of intelligence, and our college 
serves to emphasize it and make us 
better learners, thinkers, and citizens.
The fact that we are all intelligent 
in this way and share in the same in-
tellectual community doesn’t make us 
better than anyone else. The guide’s 
authors were right in that intelligence 
comes in countless shapes, and that we 
can learn from every person on Earth. 
However, that fact doesn’t preclude us 
from being exceptional. We are intelli-
gent, talented, and dedicated. But the 
authors equate being exceptional with 
exceptionalism, intelligence with elit-
ism. And yet, Middlebury students are 
often brilliant at what they choose to 
do, while at the same time recognizing 
the inherent equality in all humans. 
Being good at something doesn’t ne-
cessitate lording it over people.
The authors also suggest that, along 
with no one being exceptional, Mid-
dlebury itself isn’t unique. In other 
words, although we think non-Midd 
students won’t “get it,” in fact our 
community doesn’t provide us with 
anything special. I respond to this by 
asking them, what makes Middlebury 
not unique? It’s a special experience 
that only exists in one place, with one 
set of students and professors, with 
one set of values. Saying it’s not unique 
is far more disingenuous than saying 
it is. No one outside of Midd will un-
derstand that special and life-chang-
ing philosophy class you might have 
taken. That was a singular, incredible 
experience that only a very few people 
got to participate in. This isn’t a bad 
thing. Each college has its own unique 
brand of education and unique set of 
experiences it offers. If you click with 
your school, if you passionately love 
being a student there, you’ll have four 
years that no one else will ever expe-
rience. It’s yours and only yours. And 
that’s the beauty of it.
In my last column, I discussed how 
we have to be careful of slipping too 
far into the “Middlebury Bubble.” I 
believe that the Disorientation Guide 
is a prime example of the effect of the 
bubble on the way people perceive so-
cial problems. Popularity can cause 
rational activism to become irrational 
and impulsive. Disenchantment can 
become more of a person’s identity 
than a logical feeling about a system. 
Middlebury has its fair share of prob-
lems, but conspiracy theories will do 
nothing to solve them. Demeaning 
the incredible wealth of opportunities 
and the social activism that the college 
pursues will improve nothing. Instead, 
addressing problems in the most posi-
tive ways possible will help people and 
communities without harming the 
ability of the college to operate. 
Echoes
Alex Newhouse ’17 is 
from Stoneington, Colo.
“Middlebury has its 
fair share of problems, 
but conspiracy theories 
will do nothing to solve  
them.”
Rico
"It was great to see so many people coming together en masse to 
say 'climate change is too big of an issue to let it continue going 
on.' The march was a big moment for so many different move-
ments to come together for a single cause and it showed how 
many  groups across boundaries of race and class and sex are all 
affected by what's happening to the environment."
Teddy Smyth ‘15
The Middlebury Campus| September 25, 201412 13features
What Does The NYC People’s Climate March Symbolize?
“The march demonstrates that we’ve entered  a new phase of the climate movement. We’re recognizing the leadership of the people already 
impacted by climate change and collectively, we are building the power to demand bold and visionary action from our leaders and start imple-
menting solutions in our own communities. The march, in combination with the major announcement of foundation and individual divestment com-
mitments totaling over $50 billion, as well as the actions at Flood Wall Street on Monday, could be a turning point. We could be winning.”
Greta Neubauer ’14.5
“To me the march symbolizes a reinvigorated and more unified 
climate movement that will hopefully be able to stand together 
going forward and bring strength to the movement through its 
numbers.” 
Zachary Berzolla ‘18
 "The march was billed as 'Dear UN, do something about climate 
change.' However, I'm skeptical that this will really be a catalyst 
for any sort of change in policy. For me, the march is about the 
marchers. We want the individuals involved in the march to be en-
ergized about the issue and show that climate change is a problem 
that draws parallels in so many different geographic areas."
Laura Xiao ‘17
“To me, the climate march symbolized the unity of all types of humans. A lot of times, people get categorized into ‘groups’ and that creates different 
types of segregation, but the climate march brought many people together, and it was beautiful to see people of all backgrounds come together because 
of one thing we all share: the negative effects of climate change in our lives and in the lives of those we love.”
    
Jennifer Ortega ‘18
Text by Jessica Cheung, Ben Anderson, and Annie Grayer. Photos by Anahi Naranjo. Design by Julia Hatheway and Evan Gallagher. 
MIDDLEBURY
at the climate march
    students 
    cars
    vans
   bus
       miles 
     hours 
130
   9
   5
   1 
   3 
   6 
 The world was invited to share their ideas and love for the planet this weekend in New York City. Over 120 Middlebury students piled into one bus, 
five vans, six personal cars and made a beeline toward the Manhattan island, where it would be the stomping ground for a 310,000-person global event: 
the People’s Climate March.
 There were no headlining speakers at the march. There was no celebrity spokesperson. The march belonged to the people as an intentionally all-
inclusive event. “At this year’s big climate rally, most of the people won’t be pale, male and stale,” Scholar-in-Residence in Environmental Studies and 
principal organizer of the march Bill McKibben said in a Seven Days article. Indeed, the marchers for greater action against climate change were comprised 
of migrant workers, union members, social justice organizations and, of course, students. “I don’t want the climate movement to continue asking power 
holders to give us things: We need to demand things. And we also need to come up with and implement our own solutions,” a leading member of the 
climate activism group, Sunday Night Group (SNG), Greta Neubauer ’14.5 said in an interview on The Campus Voice.
 The world stands at a pivotal point in the fight against climate change and, here at Middlebury, we are experiencing a turning point of our own. 
“This is a level of energy that, in my four years here, I haven’t seen this energy go into this faction of the climate movement,” said Hannah Bristol ’14.5, a 
leading member of SNG.
“To me, the march was an amplification in the de-
mands and urgency of addressing climate change. 
Marching alongside my family, it really struck 
me just how many voices were clearly demand-
ing action for our future, with estimates of over 
400,000 marchers in New York City in addition to 
the marches that occurred globally. In the midst 
of the crowd, all of these voices were nearly 
deafening, and I’d like to think that they reached 
far beyond, and that they can’t be ignored.”
    
Lowry Bass ’17
Courtesy peoplesclimate.org
14 features  | September 25, 2014
On a day-to-day basis – especially as 
the fall semester gains momentum – stu-
dents encounter a multitude of social in-
teractions. From meetings with advisers to 
late night chats with friends, our lives are 
forge with others. But what – if anything 
– is the force that shapes the way in which 
these connections form? While no single 
answer prevails, Middlebury’s often-over-
looked commons system plays an impor-
tant role in setting the tone for interactions 
that take place both inside and outside of 
the classroom. 
All undergraduates of the College are 
assigned to one of the four commons, from 
which the College hopes to “[encourage] 
the free exchange of ideas and [build] a 
Commons in-
clude Atwater, 
Brainerd, Cook, 
Ross and Won-
nacott. While 
underclassmen 
are required to 
reside in the 
with their Com-
mons during 
years at the Col-
lege, upperclass-
men have the 
option of living anywhere on campus. 
Dean of Brainerd  Commons and As-
sistant Professor of Comparative Literature 
Natasha V. Chang captures the essence of 
the Commons system with the metaphor of 
the neighborhood.
“I like that the Commons system 
breaks up the College as a whole into small-
er neighborhoods so that there is more of a 
chance for people to get to know each oth-
er,” she said. “In a neighborhood [environ-
ment], you care about those around you, 
respect them, help them and are willing to 
do things together.” 
Chang remarks that the Commons ful-
-
munity” in a variety of ways, from “grass-
roots programming depending on where 
students’ interests lie to programming that 
First Year Seminar [model].” 
Like Chang, Commons Residential Ad-
visor of Atwater Commons David Dolifka 
’13 agrees that the Commons system helps 
to enhance the quality of life at the College. 
“By choosing to attend a residential 
college, I think that Middlebury students 
understand the value of learning from 
peers outside of the classroom,” Dolifka 
said. “While the 
Commons sys-
tem certainly 
extends a con-
venient oppor-
years to extend 
classroom dis-
cussions into the 
living space, I 
think the greater 
from the organic 
conversat ions 
that occur with-
in a community in which people feel inte-
grated and comfortable.” 
The Commons system has often re-
ceived praise for its ability to help incom-
’17 – who also serves as a tour guide – says 
that the Commons system helps to develop 
personal connections with other students.
“[It’s] easier to see the same people 
friends and cultivate connections more 
easily,” Brynes said. “It’s a really good 
support system for incoming freshman, 
and I make sure to emphasize and explain 
Middlebury’s Commons to prospective stu-
dents and their parents whenever I give a 
tour.”  
CRA of Cook Commons Jordan Kel-
ley ’14 also credits the College’s residential 
-
“I made some of my closest friends 
with a great variety of people I might not 
otherwise have had an excuse to interact 
with,” he said. “The Commons is an organi-
zational structure that helps students make 
at Middlebury, allowing them to connect 
more easily with the academic, cultural, 
extracurricular and social interests around 
campus.” 
In line with Brynes’ and Kelley’s ex-
periences, Dolifka also said that “for new 
students, the commons system seeks to 
make the Middlebury community feel a 
little more personal and a little less over-
whelming.” 
Although the Commons system plays 
an important part in shaping the experi-
-
classmen feel more disconnected from the 
Commons as they gradually move away 
While Kelley agrees with this assess-
ment, he notes that becoming a part of the 
College’s residential-life community is a 
great way stay engaged and “give back” to 
the Commons. 
“I think the majority of students expe-
rience some kind of [disconnect] as they 
settle into academic and social spheres of 
choice during their time here and move 
he said. “The Commons serves greater ac-
countability and organizational roles in 
at Middlebury I think, though many stu-
dents do continue interacting with the 
Commons, often by serving as [members 
of] Residential Life. By doing so, they are 
helping to give back to the system that al-
here at the College.” 
Another point of contention for the 
commons system involves Middlebury’s 
“Feb” class, a group of approximately 100 
time at the beginning of spring semester. 
enter the College in September, Febs are 
placed into a Commons but often do not 
Chang remarked that the Commons 
“work very hard with Feb leaders during 
orientation to make sure kids that are do-
ing programming and connecting with oth-
individually with students for the Febs.” 
As the College continues to develop, 
it is likely that the Commons system will 
remain one of the forefront aspects of 
residential life. While no system is perfect, 
Chang says what she enjoys most about the 
Commons is the simple pleasure of form-
ing “holistic connection[s]” with students.
“I think what is really important is 
getting to know students in their fullness 
and not just seeing the academic side of 
[them], or looking at students from the 
sole perspective of a coach or mentor, even 
if it involves being honest and saying tough 
Commons System Creates Connections
By Renee Chang
“In a neighborhood, you care 
about those around you, re-
spect them, help them and are 
willing to do things together.”
 Natasha V. Chang
Dean of Brainerd and assistant professor of comparative 
literature
A Story and Personality Beneath the Panda Hat
“Panda hat kid just dropped the top scoop 
on #likeaboss.”
“Panda hat kid talked to the tour group!” 
“Beginning to question whether Midd’s 
mascot is the panther or panda hat kid.” 
 “I nominate Panda hat kid as Liebowitz’s 
replacement #VotePHK”
I was initially unimpressed by the size and 
style of junior Ruben Guzman’s panda hat. It 
panda face. It seemed out of proportion to the 
attention he’s drawn on campus in the last 
panda ski mask with large mitten paws as tas-
sels, a full-on face mask disguise for the robber 
who eats shoots and leaves. 
Sitting in Crossroads on a Friday after-
noon with a whole sweet potato pie to share 
between us, Guzman ’16, however, did not fail 
-
cance behind his hat that went viral with social 
media app Yik Yak.  
Though the panda hat was probably made 
in China, Guzman is a native of Sanger, Cali-
from Middlebury, which made adjusting to his 
“You know how people fall back on cer-
tain things that are comfortable to them? For 
me, I fell back on hats and childhood,” he said. 
“Pokemon, Digimon, cute little animals. That 
was a way for me to cope with being uncom-
fortable. The hat became a natural way for me 
to do that.”
Though Guzman’s panda hat is hands-
down his most famous hat, he has a collection 
of 10 other animal hats, including a chicken, 
an owl and a fox. He wears his panda hat the 
most often for pragmatic reasons.
 “My panda hat is the best-made one. It’s 
the one in the best shape and protected me 
from the cold the best,” he said. 
Guzman purchased the hat in San Fran-
cisco at a meet-up for prospective Georgetown 
University students. 
“This is supposed to be Giants [baseball] 
fan-wear. After I bought the hat, the morning 
after, I got the acceptance letter from Middle-
bury. I was like, ‘Oh wow, it’s a sign!’
I’m from. In my city, there are drive-by [shoot-
ings] that happen every week or so. Someone 
That was so normal to me. The openness. The 
whole showing vulnerability. The fact that a lot 
of people from where I’m from look very much 
like me: Hispanic.
“I came from that to Middlebury, where 
everything is calm,” he said. “There’s not a lot 
of craziness happening here. The craziness 
here is just academic, or somebody overdrank, 
and that wasn’t relatable to me. I don’t know 
what to tell you, I don’t know how to approach 
people, I don’t know how to understand why it 
is such a big deal. Why is it that getting a B on 
a test is a big deal? It’s just a B.
you’re like, ‘People are so … I don’t understand 
that.’ That’s where the panda hat came in,” 
Guzman said.  
“The hat is very representative of how I 
am. Very silly, very goofy, like life is so short. 
Middlebury is such a privileged place in good 
and bad ways. I feel like we all get caught up 
problem? Let’s just have some fun.”
 Guzman, currently a First-Year Coun-
selor in Battell, attributes his rise to Yik Yak 
-
saw on campus and could attach some sort of 
“My nickname [as Panda Hat Kid] is chill. 
hat kid makes me want to interbreed.’ I was 
cracking up. This is just hilarious!”
Guzman believes the campus’s infatua-
minutes of fame” will eventually die down.   
“And I’m totally okay with that. As long 
as I’m perceived as someone that people feel 
comfortable around, that’s what really matters 
to me,” he said. “[As an FYC], whenever I see 
-
ing, and how they’re adapting to life at Midd. 
I feel like I’ve made a lot of connections with 
that.”
He tugged on the baseball tassels. “It’s 
By Hye-Jin Kim
hye-jin kim
Ruben Guzman ’16 with his panda hat that has origins in San Francisco Giants fan-wear.
15featuresSeptember 25, 2014   
Stress is an inescapable part of college 
life: probably of life in general, too. Stress 
can be good: it can be a motivator, it can 
bring out the best in us, but too often it 
becomes a burden. Being stressed stresses 
us out! Sometimes, stress is a product of 
management or an unlucky schedule. 
Other times, stress can be caused by rela-
tionship troubles, family issues or health 
concerns. 
very important and can often be a trial-
cause, is to talk to someone. Many times, 
it all out. But other times you might need 
some extra help: after all, our friends are 
-
ily, people at the College are here to help. 
One of the functions of the Counsel-
-
may assume the counseling center is only 
for students having “serious problems,” 
or something requiring a diagnosis, but 
the counseling center is there for you for 
much more than that: homesickness, rela-
tionship problems, sleep problems, stress, 
adjustment to college – these are all things 
Middlebury College are eligible to seek 
-
seling are going through a developmen-
tally appropriate crisis such as family or 
-
lege, questions surrounding individual’s 
identity, grief, stress management, etc,” 
Mejia said. 
Mejia estimates that students usually 
sessions; for more long-term concerns, 
seeking psychiatric services. 
come to counseling seek psychiatric ser-
vices and Counseling provides referrals 
to Counseling Services of Addison County 
-
psychiatric diagnosis but among the top 
are generalized anxiety disorder, depres-
sion, trauma, and substance abuse, ” Me-
jia said.  She points out that the College’s 
rural location and the condition of Ver-
mont’s mental health services in general 
mental health resources in the area.” 
Within Addison County, Counseling 
Services of Addison County is the only 
psychiatric service. More resources can be 
-
tenden County. 
“There are very good psychothera-
throughout the year depending on the 
abuse epidemic, most mental health re-
sources are saturated,” Mejia said. “We 
encourage students to maintain psychi-
atric support at home due to the State’s 
limitations.” 
-
-
holds a variety of support groups every 
-
Mindfulness and Self-Compassion group 
and a Sexual Violence support group. 
similar circumstances,” Mejia said. She 
also noted the availability of sobriety sup-
support groups can be found online at the 
Students can also talk to their Com-
by stress – Commons Deans are able to 
issues. Students can also go to the Chap-
problem is academics-related, students 
-
ing, and Research in addition to their 
-
ing and time management resources that 
can help reduce stress. In addition, stu-
dents can participate in stress-reducing 
-
-
Cullough’s Craft Corner. 
Being stressed out may not be avoid-
able, but it can be manageable. If you’re 
heading to the Counseling Center. The 
College has resources available to help you 
– don’t be afraid to use them.
By Emma McDonald
Peer Writing Tutors: Not a One-Way Street
Stress at College Reaches a Fever Pitch
dedicated to helping students through every 
this center. 
Director of the Writing Center Mary Bertolini 
is in charge of training, assigning, evaluat-
-
tor and is responsible for approving tutoring 
sessions, running evening make-up sessions 
-
guides the Writing and Academic Mentors at-
tached to First-Year Seminars. 
She also runs evening make-up sessions 
-
and therefore manages, supervises and as-
-
Director. 
-
demic Mentors are trained mentors designed 
presentation skills.  Described by Bertolini 
patient, diplomatic and generous,” tutors are 
-
ally for up to sixty hours over the course of the 
semester, and are also made available to each 
Commons on frequent occasions.  
Writing Tutor, students must either have been 
requested by a faculty member to join their 
Before becoming a peer tutor, students 
Bertolini describes the training as including 
micro problems, thesis and organization re-
a variety of specialized student challenges and 
problems, support for international students, 
-
tion about other support services on campus.” 
In addition, Writing and Academic Men-
Resources Yonna McShane to receive training 
in time management and study skill strate-
-
three. All tutors receive paid compensation 
to this issue of preserving academic integrity. 
-
to lead them in the right direction.” Bertolini 
also recognizes the delicacy of the issue. 
Code,” she said. “Most of our training consists 
In order to emphasize that tutors are 
-
prefer to ask a friend for help than a stranger.” 
one voice, his opinion speaks to the larger 
-
tions of peer tutors and their actual role. 
The issue facing the peer tutors is an ex-
pectation gap. Students too often enter a ses-
meeting, and peer tutors approach the session 
-
cess often involves many revisions and drafts 
and cannot be manifested on the spot. Once 
not a cheat sheet, progress and perspectives 
can change. When asked about changes she 
had some promising ideas. 
-
and mentors,” she said. “Carrie Macfarlane, 
Director of Research and Instruction, has of-
-
more training in presentation technologies 
-
launched a Writing Center Word press site 
the Writing Center (@MiddWritingCent or 
It is important to recognize the faces be-
-
and expectations are immense and should not 
-
tors, students can be better equipped, and in 
the right frame of mind, for their next paper. 
By Annie Grayer
michael O’Hara
Advertisements16  | September 25, 2014
Job # NORT-14-1000-691 NORT-14-1000-691.indd 8-25-2014 11:47 AM
Client
Bleed
Trim
Live
Printed At
Colors Spec’d
By
Northeastern
None
5” x 7.75”
None
100%
4/4
Thom Donahue
Job info
None
Special Instructions
Middlebury College — The Campus
Job Description
Brand Director
Creative Director
Studio Artist
Production Contact
None
None
thom
pc
Creative Team
Fonts
Helvetica Neue (75 Bold, 77 Bold Condensed, 57 Con-
densed, Condensed Bold)
Images
MSinAccountingMBA_NEU_logo.ai (97.71%)
 Cyan
 Magenta
 Yellow
 Black
Fonts and Images Colors in Use
0 ACCOUNTINGEXPERIENCE NECESSARY
 — ALL WITH —
2
3 MONTH PAID  RESIDENCY AT A LEADING ACCOUNTING FIRM
100 PERCENT  JOB PLACEMENT HISTORY
DEGREES IN  
15 MONTHS — 
MS IN ACCOUNTING 
+ MBA
LEARN MORE  northeastern.edu/accountingcareer
Management and business skills are critical tools to help  
you accelerate your career growth.     
The Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University now offers an MS in  
Management Studies to help graduating college seniors jumpstart their careers – in less  
than a year:
•  Kellogg’s top-tier education, with classes taught exclusively by Kellogg faculty –  
in downtown Chicago
• Membership in the global Kellogg alumni network
• Highly personalized career coaching and preparation
GRADUATE FROM  
THE status quo. 
LEARN MORE
VISIT OUR WEBSITE: kell.gg/msms-ignite
The 
Middlebury 
Campus
invites you to 
advertise your 
local business 
here
visit 
www.middleburycampus.com
AND
e-mail campus@middlebury.
edu
for more information
In honor of the endless technological 
innovations that shape the way the College 
community communicates, learns and en-
gages, the 2014 Clifford Symposium centered 
on the theme of “Transforming the Academy 
in the Digital Age.” On Sept. 18 and 19, dis-
tinguished visiting scholars and faculty mem-
bers of the College held discussions and gave 
lectures on the cultural, economic and social 
shifts caused by rapidly advancing technolo-
gies, focusing on the effects those shifts have 
on the academic community.
The Clifford Symposium’s culminat-
ing event on Friday, Sept. 19, “Of Water and 
Ice,” was a dynamic presentation and perfor-
mance by New York City producer and intel-
lectual Paul D. Miller, also known by his stage 
name, DJ Spooky, That Subliminal Kid. 
Born in Washington, D.C., Paul D. Miller 
studied philosophy and French literature at 
Bowdoin College in Maine. Soon after, he 
began recording singles and LP’s under the 
stage name ‘DJ Spooky, That Subliminal 
Kid,” derived from the ‘spooky’ sounds of the 
hip-hop, techno and ambient music styles he 
samples, as well as the character The Sublim-
inal Kid in William S. Burroughs’ 1964 novel 
“Nova Express”. 
The performance explored DJ Spooky’s 
multidisciplinary study of Antarctica through 
stills from his 2011 text “The Book of Ice,” 
audio and visual samples of the uninhab-
ited continent’s climate and algorithmically 
generated musical patterns based on climate 
data collected and processed in a temporary 
studio on his trip. 
DJ Spooky is at once performer and in-
tellectual, meticulous and improvisational. 
His focused attention is not just on creation, 
but the process of how artistic form is con-
-
ples of previous works. Professor of Film and 
Media Culture Jason Mittell explained that 
this rare and unique combination of talents 
year’s theme of “Transforming the Academy 
in the Digital Era.”
“It was really challenging to come up 
with an artist who would both speak to how 
digital technologies are transforming their 
artwork and have an intellectual foundation 
of that,” he said. “There aren’t many of those, 
so when my colleague [Assistant Professor of 
Film and Media Culture] Louisa Stein said 
that she’d just seen this artist who showed 
video and audio work and talked about the 
concepts of remix and digital manipulation 
and all the various social and cultural issues 
and creative possibilities of that, I said, ‘Wait 
a minute, he would be the perfect person!’” 
DJ Spooky and his management team 
pitched a variety of performance options for 
the Symposium, including a DJ dance party 
rave or a lecture featuring the academic side 
of his persona, but the winning pitch, incor-
porating a variety of mediums from his study 
of Antarctica, provided a combination of both 
of these with an added environmental twist.
“For me, what was so appealing about 
-
demic area of research that is obviously very 
important socially, but also very prominent 
here at Middlebury, talking about climate 
change and environmental studies, but also 
that he’s doing it not from a scholarly per-
spective, but from an artistic perspective,” 
Mittell said. 
DJ Spooky began running through pho-
tos of his trip to Antarctica on his iPad. DJ 
Spooky’s ‘lectures’ in between songs would 
be better described as dynamic conversations 
in which the artist shared the sources of his 
inspiration and information while providing 
-
tual thought processes of his work. 
Using his iPad as the facilitator of the 
multimedia presentations within the perfor-
digital technologies have truly transformed 
access to content and tools never available 
before, making it possible for anyone with 
technological access to add to this new era of 
open creative expression. 
The performance stimulated the senses 
through sets of juxtapositions. DJ Spooky en-
gaged in discussion about his music, connect-
ing each work to its intellectual basis before 
spinning each dynamic, throbbing track of 
music that will never be created in quite the 
same way again. This completely digital, rev-
olutionary use of iPad technology and apps 
stood in stark contrast to the violin player 
standing on the other end of the stage using a 
9th century instrument to both augment and 
combat the musical motifs of each piece. 
DJ Spooky’s motivations for delving into 
a project steeped in discussion about climate 
change are connected to his goals as an artist.
“I grew up in a family that was very in-
tensive about information, and my idea was 
that art and ideas are never separate from 
social justice or change, so climate issues for 
me are a part of that,” he said. “One of the 
things that really blew my mind was just how 
people are on autopilot about climate change 
and consumerism, so I feel that arts can help 
people reimagine and reframe what’s go-
ing on. I’m an avant-garde oriented artist, 
I’m not mainstream and I have no desire to 
be mainstream, but I do think that you can 
make room for new styles and new voices 
and new approaches, which are needed more 
than ever.”
By setting up a studio in Antarctica, DJ 
Spooky wanted to explore a way for electronic 
music to respond to climate issues and exam-
ine humankind’s ever-changing relationship 
with the vanishing arctic poles. By using the 
urban landscape as a sound tool, DJ Spooky 
remixed sounds generated from the most re-
mote place on the planet to resemble styles 
that typically come out of the city like hip-hop 
‘Antarctic Rhythms,’ began with Jason Berg-
man, a Barnett, VT violinist who performs 
with the Vermont Philharmonic Orchestra. 
All of the musical selections sampled 
at the performance came from the free DJ 
Spooky app, which the artist constantly re-
ferred to and worked with as his only perfor-
mance tool. Designed in collaboration with 
Musicsoft Arts, the app allows users to sam-
ple tracks from their devices’ music collection 
or SoundCloud and use sound mixing fea-
tures on the app to sample from other works 
and create original pieces. Downloaded over 
25 million times, the app’s popularity is a tes-
tament to the prevalence of remix culture and 
the desire for more innovative technological 
creative outlets and tools.  
Every musical sound and remix of the 
night came directly from DJ Spooky’s deft 
use of the app, which was entirely visible to 
the audience through a large screen projec-
tor. During each song, audience members ab-
sorbed audial information and the live visual 
of the violinist playing each of DJ Spooky’s 
coordinating compositions, the projection of 
the app in use in the middle of the stage and 
DJ Spooky at his iPad playing as an improvi-
sational, reactionary force to the preordained 
violin compositions. 
Though violin and iPad are not tradition-
ally paired together, as soon as each perfor-
mance began, it was remarkable how well the 
two instruments worked together. The audi-
ence, too, made up in equal numbers of both 
academics and students, buzzed with an elec-
Georges Méliès, DJ Spooky pointed to sam-
One Man Band, in which Méliès transposes 
an image of himself seven times in the same 
shot, each version of himself with a different 
instrument. This time consuming process 
had to be spliced and crafted by hand, and 
is one of the earliest examples of a sampling 
and remix, a concept that pervades current 
discourse on artistic innovation.
DJ Spooky explained that every song is 
fundamentally comprised of loops and layers 
drawn from sound selections, motifs and ele-
ments. 
The artist emphasized that music is not 
something that should be played the same 
way time and time again, but instead should 
be revisited and reinvented. 
DJ Spooky worked with quantum physi-
cist Brian Greene on “The Book of Ice” to map 
the sounds of ice as data points that could be 
mathematically entered into software to gen-
erate algorithms of how ice actually forms. 
Calling this middle ground between poet-
ics and science a form of ‘geek hip-hop,’ DJ 
Spooky compared patterns present in snow-
genres of music. Within “The Book of Ice,” 
QR codes unlock hidden data about climate 
change and the mathematical ice data that 
went into each piece of music.
In the four other songs he performed 
throughout the night, the distinct musical 
sounds and motifs made more and more 
sense as DJ Spooky explained a new kind 
of literacy based in the ability to record and 
recognize patterns in any form of life. While 
rang true throughout Wilson Hall, and only 
seconds later, the violin joined in the pattern 
in a slightly transposed way.
“[DJ Spooky] embodies this hybrid be-
tween the analog strings and the digital iPad, 
and the fact that digital is not just a gimmick 
but rather the form of the music where the 
sound generation is tied to the content of the 
piece,” Mittell said. “This is a perfect sum-
mation of what digital technologies can do to 
transform artwork and cross the boundaries 
that I think very often feel rigid between cre-
ative practice and scholarly research.
Nobody owns the ice, and one of DJ 
Spooky’s messages during the performance 
was that open systems allow anyone to remix. 
He enthusiastically encouraged those in the 
audience to download his app, listen to and 
remix any of his music and embrace the digi-
Both students and academics attending 
the performance seemed impressed by the 
innovations of DJ Spooky’s imagination. His 
abilities as a DJ alone recommend him to the 
collegiate setting, but his added intellectual-
all aspects of campus endeavors. 
“I think this is a wonderful approach to 
the topic, and I’m really optimistic that after 
all the various ways of thinking and dissemi-
nating ideas and exploring new possibilities 
that the lectures and workshops generated 
over the two days, the artwork of DJ Spooky 
will make you say ‘Wow, this is what you can 
do with all this,’” Mittell said.
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Performing Arts Series
Recognized as one of the world’s great chamber mu-
sic ensembles and a Middlebury favorite, the Grammy 
Award-winning Takács Quartet plays with an irresist-
ible blend of virtuosic technique and engaging person-
ality.
9/26, 8 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
In the House
A 16-year-old boy becomes involved with the family of a 
fellow student and writes about it in essays for his French 
teacher. Faced with this gifted but unusual pupil, the 
boy’s intrusion leads the teacher into a treacherous no-
man’s land between the literary and the literal.
9/27, 3 AND 8 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
Passing Through
In this collaborative talk, student playwrights 
present monologues written in response to Kate 
Gridley’s portraits of emerging adults, and Grid-
ley discusses the interplay of sound and vision. 
Free.
9/26, 5 P.M., TOWN HALL THEATER, JACKSON GALLERY
DJ Spooky Shatters Musical Boundaries
Paul D. Miller, better known by his stage name ‘DJ Spooky, That Subliminal Kid.’
Courtesy David Holloway
By Leah Lavigne
DJ Spooky performs a unique combination of intellectualism and performance art.
 Courtesy STEVE clarke
On Sept. 18 at the Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 
Center for the Arts Dance Theatre, artists 
brought together by connections to North 
Carolina and Vermont presented NC Dances 
VT, an evening of dance works by The Van 
Dyke Dance Group, the University of Ver-
mont’s Coordinator of Dance Paul Besaw and 
Assistant Professor of Dance Christal Brown. 
The concert was composed of six works quite 
distinct in character, yet all the pieces incor-
porated some common heritage of the chore-
ographers’ experiences in North Carolina and 
Vermont.
We tend to consider the sweat arising 
from physical exertion as undesirable or 
gross, but the human body is capable of so 
much dynamism and expression in move-
ment achieved by intense physical effort. The 
evening of dance performances reminded us 
of those possibilities of beauty in physical-
ity, beginning with the piece “Tract,” choreo-
graphed by Besaw and performed by Brown 
and Vermont area dancers Misha Bailey, 
Hanna Satterlee and Marly Spieser-Schnei-
der. 
The stage was centered by musician D. 
Thomas Toner, who stood playing the ma-
rimba in a spotlight as the female dancers, 
dressed in matching blue, swirled around 
him in circular motion for much of the piece. 
The live performance of the music within the 
dance raised the question of the interaction 
of music and dance in performance. We of-
ten focus on the visual of the dancers moving 
through space while taking for granted the 
strong emotional effect the music can have 
on us as viewers. At several points during the 
piece, the dancers slowed their movements 
to cause a visual shift towards Toner, who 
continued to move at his own pace with the 
music in center stage. At the close of the piece 
the four dancers strode off the stage at a run 
while intensely gazing at the audience, as if to 
question what we notice and where our focus 
lies. 
“A Sense of Order,” choreographed by 
Jan Van Dyke, featured The Van Dyke Dance 
Group’s Laura McDuffee, Christine Bowen 
Stevens and Kelly Swindell depicting scenes 
of repetitive and ritualistic daily life, presum-
ably of working women in costumes that 
evoked hotel maids. The motion of the three 
dancers was mechanical and strictly rhythmi-
cal, as if constrained and dictated by the clock 
— as is often the case in a busy working life. 
The three women formed various trio for-
mations, each depending on and supporting 
the others, though at a few points rectangu-
and cause the trio to break up momentarily. 
A striking moment near the end of the piece 
was when two of the dancers backed out of 
such a corridor of light and were dramati-
cally obscured by darkness at the back of the 
theatre before reemerging to continue going 
through their motions as before, as if hint-
ing at a possibility for escape from the stark 
black and white colors and rhythms of their 
routine. 
The third piece, “Pastor of Souls,” was 
certainly the most visually unusual work of 
the evening. Besaw appeared onstage wear-
ing sneakers, sweatpants, a scrub shirt, latex 
gloves and a blue surgical mask while holding 
a box of tissues under his arm. Moving delib-
erately and slowly in a disturbing green light, 
he conjured an air of eeriness as he began 
doling out tissues one by one from the box. 
-
-
ing it about before letting it fall to the ground, 
but by the end of the piece, after offering 
the box to a front-row audience member, he 
frantically pulled tissue after tissue out of the 
box and threw them into the air. It seemed 
to connote a disposable and consumerist at-
titude about medical care that promises rem-
edy after remedy to be used and disposed of 
at a whim.
The next piece, choreographed by Brown 
and performed by New York City dancer Bea-
trice Capote, was titled “Miss Universe,” and 
began with an accordingly stunning visual. In 
the pitch black theatre, Capote stood slowly 
revolving over a small globular projector that 
lit up the inside of her thin white hoop skirt 
with light and the music changed, Capote 
stepped out of the skirt and shifted swiftly 
from the delicate revolving motion to an en-
ergetic and lithe freedom of movement that 
was richly satisfying to watch. She vacillated 
and contrasting measured and careful qual-
ity as she focused on the skirt or the black 
star globe. At one point, while dancing with 
the skirt on, the audience was left waiting for 
her to abandon the hindered motion the skirt 
allowed and to leap out into freedom again. 
This contrast suggested a struggle between 
the inner forces and passions we all possess, 
and the controlled, proper image that we de-
sire to show the world, and this work certain-
ly hinted at the depths of possibility within. 
“The Life and Times” by Van Dyke was 
a stirring duet between Besaw and Swindell, 
who portrayed the progression of a relation-
ship between a man and a woman. The piece 
was elegantly framed by parallel movements 
stood in separate, distanced spotlights, slid-
ing back and forth in sync to the music, but 
the piece closed with them sharing one spot-
light, Besaw behind Swindell as she held up 
her left hand at a right angle to frame his face. 
Within the narrative of their interaction, their 
respective movement qualities revealed the 
personalities of their characters while also 
complementing each other in moments of 
embrace or contact. It seemed to be a story 
of mutual support and understanding that 
The ending piece of the evening was 
“Interiors,” a work-in-progress by Brown. 
Opening with shy body language and the 
quiet sound of her singing, Brown evoked a 
young and unsure individual who gradually 
gained comfort with the stage and found her 
-
dence in her movement and a shift to orange 
lighting. Yet in the midst of this self-discovery 
she found loneliness and fear as sounds of 
Brown whispered, “Is anybody here?” over 
and over again. The audience discovered a 
cause of her distress as the audio clip played, 
“An unarmed teenager was shot and killed 
shape of a gun towards the door. Her motion 
-
ance and strength as the words, “I’m gonna 
dance my God-damned dance” reverberated 
through the theatre, and the audience felt 
truth amidst all of the voices and confusion of 
a seemingly unjust reality through her body 
and expressions.
NC Dances VT presented a wide variety 
of choreography and artistic expression, and 
it is clear that all had a strong message to con-
vey to the audience, though what that mes-
sage was may have been different to each per-
son. Such is the nature of experiencing dance. 
By Toby Aicher
In early November, the Rosetta space 
mission will land on a comet. Arguably as 
momentous as putting a rover on Mars or a 
man on the Moon, this space expedition also 
gets my vote as the coolest to date.
I say this because the comet in ques-
tion, 67P/Cheryumov-Gerasimenko, is mov-
ing 85,000 miles per hour and is almost a 
quarter of the size of Manhattan. Rosetta was 
launched in 2004 and took ten years to reach 
the comet. It followed an intricate trajectory 
that included four gravitational slingshots by 
Earth and Mars. The complexity and preci-
sion of the mission’s ballistics is mind-bog-
gling, and makes me feel all the more inse-
cure about my inability to accurately throw 
crumpled paper into a waste bin.
But the destination is more astounding 
than the journey. Astronomers describe com-
ets as dirty snowballs composed of ice, dust, 
and rock hurling through space. They have a 
thin atmosphere and a characteristic, colorful 
tail because solar winds vaporize comet ice. 
Debris constantly breaks off from the comet 
and when the earth passes through a comet’s 
tail, the debris disburses in the atmosphere, 
causing a meteor shower. Comets are thought 
comets and asteroids just outside the orbit of 
Pluto, and from the Oort cloud, a surround-
ing jumble of icy objects that extends halfway 
to the nearest star.
Most exciting is that during the subse-
quent months after touchdown, the mission 
will relay data that will contribute to our un-
derstanding of the formation of the solar sys-
tem and the origin of life.
Comets are thought to be among the 
most primitive objects in the solar system 
and leftover fragments from its formation. 
Rosetta project scientist Claudia Alexander 
explains, “Comets come from a distant place 
in space, and because of this we think they 
represent pristine, unchanged remnants of 
the distant past … comets present a unique 
‘archeological dig’ opportunity.”
Rosetta rendezvoused with the comet 
in August and is currently orbiting and ap-
proaching it. In November it will be close 
enough to drop its lander, Philae, onto the 
comet. Philae is equipped with 11 instru-
ments, and if all goes well it will start experi-
menting and sending back information.
Philae will analyze the structure, compo-
sition, thermal properties and outgassing of 
the comet. But the most interesting questions 
the mission explores are related to Earth.
One theory is that comets brought water to 
Earth. Analysis of the moon’s craters sug-
gests that early in Earth’s history there was a 
chaotic period of frequent comet and asteroid 
impact. Most comets have a large amount of 
water, and it’s possible they supplied Earth 
with some or most of its water. One way for 
scientists to investigate this question is to 
measure comet water’s ratio of deuterium 
isotopes to common hydrogen. This ratio var-
ies from location to location in the solar sys-
tem, and will reveal whether or not the water 
on earth is similar to the water on comets.
Scientists also think comets and aster-
oids carry important chemicals for life such 
as nucleic and amino acids. Some scientists 
speculate that comets or asteroids could have 
seeded earth with these chemicals and con-
tributed to the origin of life. Life on earth uses 
left-handed amino acid isomers, and by in-
vestigating the isomers of the comet’s amino 
acids we will discover whether left-handed or 
right-handed isomers are present on comets.
Rosetta is just one of several space mis-
sions planned for the near future. Equally ex-
citing are the prospects of the replacement of 
the Hubble with the James Webb telescope, 
a robotic rover’s journey to the dwarf planet 
Ceres, and a manned expedition to Mars.
The moments of discovery when there’s 
a change in our perception of ourselves and 
our relationship to the universe are the most 
galvanizing aspects of science, and Rosetta is 
a perfect example. Rosetta hasn’t discovered 
of future answers that inspires and motivates 
scientists to tirelessly confront the unknown. 
In general, this column will brood on issues 
in science that are more controversial, elicit 
greater trepidation and necessitate deeper 
nuance, but I wanted to start with an example 
of what, I think, most captivates people about 
science.
SC ENCE
soc etyand
18 arts SCIENCES  | september 25, 2014
Concert Brings Dynamic Dance
Courtesy STEVE clarke
The Van Dyke Dance Group of North Carolina practices dynamic movements before collaborating with Vermont performers. 
By Mandy Kimm
go/obo
Body Fit with nina vila
Tuesdays/thursdays 
12:30 p.m.
mca 109, $10
Belcea string quartet
10/15
mca concert hall
$6 for students
cocoon
10/24
mca concert hall
$5 for students
As this semester’s new videogame 
columnist, I will cover games ranging 
from small indie releases to big name 
games like Halo and Call of Duty. I want 
to start the column off with a review of 
a game I picked up this summer called 
Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons. 
Brothers was released on August 7, 
2013 by Starbreeze Studios and was made 
in collaboration with award-winning 
Swedish filmmaker Josef Fares. Star-
breeze Studios is a small company based 
out of Stockholm, Sweden with fewer 
than 100 employees. The game is cen-
tered on the adventures of two brothers 
who set out in search of a magical herb 
needed to heal their dying father and 
the only family they have left. The game 
takes you through a breathtaking world 
that looks like something straight out 
of a children’s fantasy novel. Along the 
way, you encounter all sorts of creatures 
like griffins, giants and even the occa-
sional mad inventor. The story, however, 
contrasts this environment beautifully. 
There are surprisingly dark moments 
throughout the story that you would nev-
er expect from such a seemingly innocent 
world. There is little to no dialogue in 
the game so it is these moments that the 
writers use to develop the characters. You 
watch as the younger brother confronts 
the issue of death again and again in the 
story and how he changes as a result of 
it. Meanwhile, the older brother does his 
best to protect his younger sibling from 
the harsh realities of the world. 
You play 
the game from a 
third person per-
spective looking 
down onto the 
two brothers. 
You can play the 
game alone or 
experience the 
incredibly deep story with a friend. The 
play style of the game is very simple. The 
only controls are walking/running and an 
action button that you use to interact with 
each other or the environment. When I 
began playing the game, I was worried 
that the minimalist controls would be-
come boring and dry as the game went 
on. However, the creators of the game 
mixed in several enjoyable mechanisms 
across different levels to prevent this 
from happening, such as goat-riding and 
glider operating. In combination with 
the game being a relatively quick play-
through, I never found myself tired of the 
controls. While I enjoyed the fresh and 
original style of controlling both brothers 
at once, I found myself frustrated trying 
to keep from getting the controls con-
fused. Often, both characters would be 
running straight 
into a wall or a 
corner instead 
of going where I 
was trying to di-
rect them. As you 
can imagine, my 
summer room-
mate got more 
than a couple laughs in at my expense be-
cause of this. 
By far the game’s best feature is its 
environmental art — and the game cre-
ators knew it. Most likely, this came as a 
result of collaboration with the filmmaker 
Fares. To better enjoy all of the hard work 
they put into making such a picturesque 
world, the developers placed benches 
along the brothers’ paths. The player can 
walk up to these benches which overlook 
the breathtaking world they are travel-
ing through. There are no rewards or 
achievements for doing this other than a 
great view. However, the benches are not 
the only way to take a quick break from 
your journey in the game. If you look hard 
enough and travel off the beaten path a 
little, there are several side activities to 
do like helping a sea turtle find her young 
or sounding a giant horn. I was a little 
disappointed because during my time 
playing the game I only found about a 
quarter of these things — they are a little 
more hidden than I would have liked for 
the laid-back style of play that the game 
showcases. 
With a captivating story and a pleas-
ant playing experience, I found Brothers: 
A Tale of Two Sons to be well worth the 
three hours it took to beat the game. I 
would definitely suggest that you pick it 
up off Steam, the Xbox Store or Playsta-
tion Network. Grab a copy and play it with 
a friend so that you don’t end up running 
the brothers into walls for minutes at a 
time and making a fool of yourself like 
I did. Overall, I give Brothers: A Tale of 
Two Sons a 9.0 out of 10 for its story and 
its gorgeously rendered world. 
By Brandon Cushman
september 25, 2014 | 19arts SCIENCES
one life left
brothers
A Tale of Two Sons
LIKE US ON 
PAPER?
Like us on 
Facebook
Follow us on 
twitter
@middcampus
JOIN 
US —
WRITE FOR 
THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, 
NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS 
AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE  
INTERESTED, EMAIL 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
Is also on the radio
Each week, students, staff, faculty and members of 
the administration do things to shake things up. During 
this weekly program, your hosts Jessica and MIchelle 
will chat with them to bring you the story. The Campus 
Voice, now in its third year, is a partnership between 
two of the College’s independent news organizations, 
The Middlebury Campus and WRMC. We hold the mic up to 
administrators, professors and students–the band of 
voices that bring multiple sides to one story.
Sundays, 12 p.m. to 1 p.m.
WRMC, 91.1 FM
on
middlebury college radio
20 advertisements | september 25, 2014
touchdown to put 
Wesleyan up 19-7. 
Following another 
missed extra point, the Cardinals would 
stay put at 19 points. 
The two picks in the third quarter 
from Milano and running back Jacobs’ 
being shaken up caused the Middlebury 
offense to sputter briefly to open the 
fourth quarter, and the first few drives 
proving unproductive. The Middlebury 
defense, however, galvanized the offense 
with a goal-line stand following a huge 
punt return from Wesleyan captain 
Donnie Cimino. Despite starting on the 
Middlebury 10, Wesleyan was unable to 
reach the end zone and settled for a field 
goal to make their lead 22-7.
On the ensuing drive, Milano 
rebounded, finding Luna again 
underneath for 25 yards before finding 
the agile Ryan Rizzo ’17 for a nine-yard 
touchdown strike to cap off a 10-play, 
64-yard drive and make the score 22-14, 
late in the fourth quarter. 
With the game now only one 
possession and the Middlebury offense 
executing at a high level, a comeback 
now seemed inevitable. 
True to its form all day, the Middlebury 
defense did more than its part following 
the kickoff, forcing a three and out, 
punctuated by a third-down sack from 
defensive end Jake Clapp ’16. 
With Wesleyan pinned deep in their 
own territory for the punt, a good return 
would have given the Middlebury offense 
more than a fighting chance of equalizing 
the score and forcing overtime. 
However, a heartbreaking run into the 
punter penalty flag gave the Cardinals a 
first down with only minutes left on the 
clock. Middlebury, with no timeouts, 
could do nothing as Wesleyan took a 
knee to drain the clock to zero.
While the loss was painful, 
Middlebury should go into next week’s 
game against Colby feeling confident 
about the future of their young team, 
particularly with respect to their 
defensive play. Wesleyan, perhaps the 
premier offensive team in the NESCAC, 
looked uncomfortable all day against the 
stout Panther defense. 
Gil Araujo ’16 played a great ballgame 
at the three-technique defensive 
tackle spot, maintaining gap control 
when needed to free up the talented 
linebackers behind him, but more 
impressively showing great quickness in 
being an agitator up front. Araujo and 
linemate Clapp were in the Wesleyan 
backfield seemingly all afternoon, 
limiting the potent Wesleyan running 
game to less than yards per carry. 
Similarly, the Middlebury defensive 
backs played a fine ballgame, especially 
when coming up in run support. The 
group was anchored by the play of free 
safety Matt Benedict ’15, who led all 
players in tackles. Corner Nate Leedy 
’17 proved himself to be worthy of his 
reputation as one of the NESCAC’s 
best at the position, playing a physical 
bump and run style defense against 
the Wesleyan receivers and absolutely 
punishing a Wesleyan receiver who had 
the misfortune of going over the middle 
on him near the end of the first half.  
On offense, Milano made a fine first 
start at the quarterback position, being 
thrown into the fire against a strong 
defense and showing a great rapport 
with receiver Luna. 
On the offensive line, right tackle 
Danny Finta ’15 proved himself worthy 
of a starting spot, largely neutralizing 
Nik Powers, Wesleyan’s 6’7” 260-pound 
All-NESCAC defensive end. Finta battled 
Powers all day, taking any opportunity 
to both agitate and drive his opponent 
into the ground- resulting in a visibly 
frustrated the Weselyan defensive end.
Perhaps the top highlight for 
Middlebury, however, was the play of 
first-year running back Jacobs, whose 
feel for the position was apparent 
throughout the game as he brought a 
level of athleticism that has not been 
seen in the Panther backfield in years. 
Jacobs kept the Wesleyan linebacking 
corps on their heels with his downfield 
vision and knack for making significant 
yardage out of nothing. 
Particularly given the shortened 
length of the NESCAC season, a loss is 
far from ideal for the Panthers football 
squad, but the team played the game 
with an impressive physical presence 
that should worry future opponents.
Middlebury travels to Colby this 
Saturday, Sept. 27 to face off with the 
Mules. Colby, 32-7 losers to NESCAC 
contender Trinity this past weekend, will 
provide a litmus test for the Panthers as 
they aim to show that they can contend 
for the conference title again this year.
With one loss already to their record, 
the Panthers cannot afford another on 
their quest for the NESCAC crown.
September 25, 2014| SPORTS 21
Cross Country Tops the Competition at Home
On Saturday, Sept. 20, the Middlebury 
cross country teams hosted the Aldrich 
Invitational for their second meet of the 
year. Traditionally a low-key meet, this year’s 
edition had stiffer competition: NESCAC 
rivals Colby and Hamilton made the trip to 
see the course in anticipation of the NESCAC 
Championship meet hosted by Middlebury 
on Nov. 1. Still, both Middlebury teams 
recording a perfect score of 15 points and the 
men scoring 30.
The women kicked off the day with an 
impressive performance, sweeping the top 
six places and taking 10 of the top 15. 
Katie Carlson ’15 continued her strong 
a time of 18:49. Eleven seconds behind her 
came the pack of Panthers: Alison Maxwell 
’15, Summer Spillane ’15, Addis Fouche-
Channer ’17, Adrian Walsh ’16 and Sarah 
another to take spots two through six and seal 
the deal on a Panther victory. 
Assistant Coach Jack Davies commented 
on the pack mentality of his runners in the 
race.
“With the team so collectively strong, they 
wound up running most of the race in large 
packs anyways,” Davies said.
The women demonstrated that their depth 
that can be lethal in large championship 
races. Finishing well behind the Panthers 
were Division-II Saint Michael’s College with 
76 points, Colby with 79 points and Hamilton 
with 85 points.
After the women’s strong showing, it was 
time for the men to try to hold pace. 
Kevin Wood ’15 took home the win, 
time of 26:08. Behind Wood was Wilder 
Schaaf ’14.5, who secured second place for 
the Panthers with a time of 26:42. The next 
Middlebury man across the line was Jake Fox 
’15, taking sixth in a time of 27:06.
Brian Rich ’17 and Sebastian Matt ’16 each 
out the scoring with eighth and 13th-place 
“We felt we were ready to really open 
said. “We had some strong intra-conference 
competition in Colby and Hamilton, and we 
never want to get shown up on our home 
course.” 
The men were not shown up by their fellow 
47 points and Hamilton third with 72 points.
Despite the increased competition at this 
year’s Aldrich Invite, several athletes on each 
team did not race. 
Davies explained this decision.
“The Aldrich Invitational is still an early 
season race, and we did hold a number of 
runners out this weekend,” he said. “As 
we near our peak training weeks, it’s not 
uncommon for our athletes to feel a little 
banged up, and the cold weather last week 
the weather. Racing places a ridiculous 
amount of stress on the body, and we 
weekend and have them ready to go during 
the championship season, rather than the 
other way around.”
The teams travel Williamstown, MA next 
weekend to race in the Purple Valley Classic 
hosted by Williams – a preview of this year’s 
NCAA Regional course. As Davies says, the 
teams are excited for the challenge and are 
looking forward to a fast race.
“Almost every regional contender will be 
real large-scale test of the season, and we’ll 
be looking for a strong showing.”
By Bryan Holtzman
Michael o’hara
Early-Season Success for Panther Golf Teams
Both the men’s and women’s golf teams 
competed this past weekend, the women at 
the Mount Holyoke Invitational Tournament 
and the men at the Williams Invitational. 
coming in third overall and the men placing 
fourth.
At the Williams Invitational, the men’s golf 
trailing only RPI, Skidmore and Williams. 
RPI won the event with a 598, Skidmore and 
Williams both scored a 600, and the Panthers 
as ideal as the team would have liked, they 
turned it around on the second and improved 
by three places in the overall ranking. 
Senior Eric Laorr ’15 tied for fourth in 
the overall event after a two-day total of 147. 
149. Andrade’s score was good enough for 
seventh on the individual standings, an 
impressive debut performance given his 
limited experience in college sports. 
the Panthers, John Louie ’15 was two strokes 
behind in 33rd, while Chris Atwood ’14.5 
rounded out the Middlebury competitors 
Overall, the men were fourth in the 19-
Trinity, Hamilton and Amherst.
At the Orchards Golf Club, the Middlebury 
event behind champion Williams and 
runner-up Ithaca. Williams shot a two-day 
the Middlebury Panthers ended the weekend 
with a 640 mark. 
Michelle Peng ’15 led the Panthers with a 
two-day score of 154, placing her six strokes 
behind the overall leader in a tie for fourth. 
Peng has been consistent lately and hopefully 
she will be able to continue her strong 
performance during other tournaments in 
the fall.
Jordan Glatt ’15 and Hope Matthews ’18 
tied for 11th place for Middlebury with totals 
of 161. Theodora Yoch ’17 came in 20th with 
54th with a 187 to round out the scorers for 
since beginning her career three years ago.
“We had a solid performance this 
weekend, with two players shooting their 
lowest collegiate rounds” Glatt said. “Michelle 
led the team again with another impressive 
tournament. We hope to use this result to 
gain momentum for our upcoming home 
tournament this weekend.”
The men’s team will travel to Hamilton this 
coming weekend to take part in the NESCAC 
The women will stay home and compete in 
their own Middlebury Invitational. 
Next weekend proves to be a good test 
for the women, but everyone’s eyes will be 
teams that are given a spot in the NESCAC 
tournament in the spring. 
CONTINUED FROM 22
Football Unable to Finish Off Comeback the middlebury
great  eight
8 Team TailGate Ejected. 
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Plunkett’s Predictions 
2
MEN’S soccer
Good vibes all around from 
this young 5-0-1 squad. 
Field Hockey
Got to imagine they’re 
hungry after a close loss. 
3
FootBall 
The defense looked on point 
vs. Wesleyan, offense should 
be clicking in no time. 
4 VolleyballThis team’s season is about 
to turn around and take 
right off. 
5
Women’s soccer
This team can shoot, it’s 
only a matter of time before 
7 CRoss Country 
6 Golf 
see it continue. 
| September 25, 201422 sports
Football Falls to Wesleyan on Late Penalty
Saturday, Sept. 20, was in many ways 
a new era for the Middlebury football 
program. Following the departure of 
two-time NESCAC Offensive Player 
of the Year McCallum Foote ’14 and 
multiple other players at skill positions 
– including offensive stalwarts in the 
pairing of All-NESCAC Tight End 
Billy Sadik-Khan ’14 and running back 
Matt Rea ’14 – to graduation, the team 
inevitably had to move on. In their first 
opportunity to do so this weekend, the 
Panthers were unable to capitalize on a 
fourth-quarter comeback as they fell at 
home to Wesleyan by a score of 22-14. 
Leading the Panther offense at 
quarterback, having seized the open 
quarterback position during training 
camp, Matt Milano ’16 made his first 
start at quarterback for the Panthers 
against the highly touted Wesleyan 
Cardinals.
Following a scoreless first quarter 
in which the teams traded possession, 
the game opened up less than a minute 
into the second quarter when Wesleyan 
receiver Jay Fabien capped off a 66 yard 
pitch and catch with a devastating spin 
move, scoring a touchdown down the 
left sideline off of a deep throw from 
quarterback Jesse Warren. 
Middlebury would take the following 
kickoff for a touchback, setting up 
Middlebury on their own 20. Following 
a hard Drew Jacobs ’18 run on first 
down, Milano and the Middlebury 
offense found a nice groove. Milano 
found receiver Grant Luna ’17 repeatedly 
underneath, allowing the athletic Luna 
to gash the Wesleyan defense on yards 
after the catch. 
Only a minute and fifty-seven seconds 
after taking possession of the ball, the 
Panthers drove the length of the field 
with Milano finding his favorite target 
Luna on a crossing route on the right 
side of the end-zone. The sophomore 
showed nice body-control in getting 
both feet down for good measure on his 
touchdown reception, giving him three 
receptions for 40 yards and the score on 
that drive alone.
The Cardinals, starting near mid-
field after a solid kick return, would 
drive the remaining 51 yards of the field 
to score before the half, putting the 
Cardinals up 13-7. Middlebury’s All-
NESCAC linebacker Tim Patricia ’16 was 
able to block the extra point – shooting 
through a mess of bodies, Patricia 
somehow deflected the kick, leading to 
the impaired kick bouncing harmlessly 
off the goal post.  
Middlebury, receiving at the ball at 
the beginning of the second half, carried 
over some momentum in driving the ball 
up the field against the stout Wesleyan 
defense. Former Milton Academy 
standout Jacobs again displayed great 
patience on the drive in following his 
blockers in Middlebury’s zone-blocking 
scheme. Letting Middlebury’s physical 
interior lineman, including guard Blake 
Shapskinsky ’15, reach the second level 
before making his cut, Jacobs ran the 
play better than any first-year could 
reasonably be expected to. 
The drive would reach an early end 
with Wesleyan defensive back Jake 
Bussani robbing Milano of his second 
touchdown of the day with a spectacular 
over-the-shoulder interception. 
However, Wesleyan would be 
stonewalled on offense with a three-and-
out on the ensuing drive, with middle 
linebackers Patricia and Addison Pierce 
’17 denying the Cardinals offense any 
room to breathe, making consecutive 
plays at the line of scrimmage to force 
the punt. 
Trading possession for the rest of 
the third quarter, disaster struck for 
Middlebury. Seeing a similar route that 
previously caught him off guard, Wesleyan 
defensive back Justin Sanchez jumped 
Milano’s throw, taking the ensuing 
pick 41 yards to the end zone for the 
By Stephen Etna
The women’s volleyball team opened their NESCAC season on a high note this Saturday, 
Sept. 20, defeating Bates in straight sets. Now 2-4 overall on the season, the Panthers have an 
opportunity to stay perfect in conference play when they host Hamilton this Friday, Sept. 26.
michael o’hara
VOLLEYBALL OPENS CONFERENCE SCHEDULE WITH WIN
Michael o’hara
204 yards with two touchdowns and two interceptions against co-defending NESCAC 
champion Wesleyan. Milano, running back Drew Jacobs ’18 and wide receiver Grant 
Luna ’17 highlighted a  potent young offensive unit for the Panthers.
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 21
be a playmaker for 
us has been pivotal 
in the majority of 
goals we’ve been scoring.”  
Glaser’s goal, assisted by Conrad, was 
the fourth such occurence of the season. 
Glaser now leads the NESCAC in goals 
outright with five, and Conrad similarly 
paces the league in assists. 
“We’ve just started playing together 
and things are going very well,” 
Glaser said. “The fact we’re both just 
sophomores should be very scary for 
the rest of the NESCAC — this is just the 
beginning of what we’re capable of.”
In fact, Middlebury fielded very few 
seniors during their game on Saturday. 
Goss-Woliner was the lone senior to 
start for the Panthers, and Brandon 
Robinson ’15 came on briefly in the 
second half. 
In the second half, Bowdoin tried 
to get on the board, but the Panther 
defense held strong, allowing only one 
shot on goal for the whole game, despite 
the Polar Bears’ nine total shots. 
The Panthers held possession for 
extended periods throughout the 
second half, and controlled the midfield 
more effectively.  The match became 
increasingly heated as Bowdoin failed 
to find the goal through the suffocating 
Panther defense.  Sydor recorded the 
win and his fourth-straight clean sheet 
with one save in goal. 
With this win, Middlebury holds 
third place in the NESCAC, three points 
behind leader Amherst.
On Tuesday, Sept. 23 the Panthers 
returned to action for a midweek 
matchup with regional foe Colby-
Sawyer. Middlebury scored early and 
often in the match, with Kirk Horton 
’17 sandwiching a pair of goals around 
a tally from Goss Woliner to give the 
Panthers the victory by a final score of 
3-0.
Sydor saved the sole Colby-Sawyer 
shot on goal for his fifth consecutive 
shutout.
The Panthers resume NESCAC play 
on Saturday in Waterville against Colby. 
The Mules sit at the bottom of the table 
with a 0-3-0 league record. 
“I think we will start to solidify our 
style of play and really figure out how 
to dominate games for the whole 90 
minutes,” Bean said. “We just look at 
each game as a time to improve and play 
the best soccer our group of guys can 
play.”
The Middlebury women’s field hockey 
team experienced its first loss of the 
season this past Saturday in an extremely 
close game against the top-ranked 
Bowdoin Polar Bears that resulted in a 2-1 
loss for the fourth-ranked Panthers.
A rematch of last year’s NESCAC 
championship game, the match featured a 
pair of national top-five teams scrambling 
for early-season control of the conference. 
The play on the field lived up to the 
match’s billing.
The Panthers were quick to score and 
take control of the game first half with 
a goal by senior captain Cat Fowler ’15 
just four minutes into the start of the 
clock.  Fowler was assisted by sophomore 
Bridget Instrum ’16 who dribbled into the 
midfield inside the 25 yard-line before 
looking to Fowler for a powerful drive to 
goal.
Goalie Emily Knapp ’15 made a crucial 
save 15 minutes into the game in which 
she left her goal to greet a Bowdoin 
attacker who had snuck past the defensive 
line.  Knapp denied the shot aiding the 
Panthers in maintaining their 1-0 lead for 
the entire first half.
The Panthers were able to dictate the 
momentum in the first half due in large 
part to the stellar midfield play of senior 
duo Fowler and Alyssa DiMaio ’15, who 
combined for five shots in the first half 
alone to keep the pressure on Bowdoin. 
Middlebury held a 5-3 advantage in shots 
and a 4-2 advantage in penalty corners in 
the opening period of play.
Moving into the second half, Knapp 
again made an important save for the 
Panthers,vdenying a Polar Bear attacker 
to keep Middlebury in the lead.
While Middlebury dominated and 
maintained possession for a majority of 
the time, Bowdoin gained momentum 
during the last few critical moments of 
the game.  The Polar Bears had a stroke 
called for them and were able to capitalize 
on it, sneaking a shot past Knapp into the 
bottom left corner of the goal to knot the 
score at one apiece with only two minutes 
left to play in the game.
Unfortunately for Middlebury, 
Bowdoin was not done scoring at that 
point.
With the intensity amplified by the 
sudden tie in the game’s closing minutes, 
the Polar Bears capitalized on their 
momentum by scoring a second goal less 
than a minute after their first to take the 
lead.
Just as time was running out, 
Middlebury had one final opportunity 
to force overtime, but the Panthers were 
unable to convert a penalty corner and fell 
by a final score of 2-1.
Sophomore midfielder Olivia 
Jurkowitz ’17 summarized her thoughts 
on the weekend’s matchup. 
“Overall Midd had more scoring 
opportunities but we weren’t able 
to capitalize on them when needed, 
meanwhile Bowdoin had less chances 
but put them to use especially when it 
mattered most,” she said.
Bowdoin was able to pull the reversal 
on Middlebury due in large part to their 
statistical dominance in the second half. 
While the Panthers were dominant in the 
opening half, the Polar Bears put five shots 
on goal after the break to Middlebury’s 
one.
Now holders of a 4-1 record, Middlebury 
looks to regain its winning streak this 
coming Saturday, Sept. 27 as they travel 
to Waterville, ME for a NESCAC matchup 
with Colby. The Mules, who are currently 
3-3, will try to pull an upset against the 
heavily favored Panthers.
Despite the loss, expectations remain 
high for the Panthers, who will look to 
postseason play as a possible opportunity 
to get their revenge on Bowdoin.
September 25, 2014| 23SPORTS
Field Hockey Loses Heartbreaker at Home
By Hailey Cosseboom
3-0 W
22-14L
2-1L 
2-0W  
panther sc0reboard
Field Hockey vs. Bowdoin 2-1 L 
Close loss to a formidable 
conference opponent.
The Panthers failed to uphold 
their NESCAC title. 
A great weekend for a team 
that suffered early season 
The women’s soccer team 
outshot Bowdoin but trailed on 
the scoreboard. 
An array of offensive threats 
helped power Middlebury past 
NESCAC foe Bowdoin. 
volleyball  vs. Bates   
Football vs. Wesleyan 
women’s soccer vs. Bowdoin
men’s soccer vs. Bowdoin
MIDDLEBURY
They can use this game to break 
their overall 3-3 record. It’ll be 
great.
YES
This team has done it before this 
season and I think they can do it 
again.
Pick ’em: Middlebury vs. Colby in a 
women’s soccer’s NESCAC match 
this weekend? 
answer last week’s close loss 
with a shutout against Colby? 
Over/Under: 250 passing yards 
for Matt Milano ’16 in football’s 
matchup with Colby. 
Closest To: Lost donations as 
a result of the College’s new 
tailgating policy. 
MIDDLEBURY 
season and can crank out shots like 
there’s no tomorrow.
And Colby is soft. 
NO 
A shutout is a tall order, I’d be 
perfectly happy simply seeing a W 
out of this team. 
UNDER 
It’s going to be close though.
$10,000,000,000,000,000
No comment.
OVER
With 204 passing yards last 
weekend, they can surpass that 
against Colby.
$0
I’m an optimist.
editors’ picks
6:02 
hockey to score two consecutive goals to 
surpass the Panthers 2-1 on Saturday.
back Drew Jacobs ’18 in Middlebury’s 
22-14 loss to Wesleyan. 
Mile split for Katie Carlson ’15 
Combined kills for the Kolodka 
sisters, Emily ’18 and Olivia ’15 
in volleyball’s 3-0 win against 
Bates. 20
by the Numb3rs
Consecutive trips to the NCAA tournament 
for men’s tennis. 13
89
REMO PLUNKETT (3-1, .750)
Emily Bustard (2-2, .500)
Fritz Parker (48-44, .522)
Sydor, Panthers Earn Fifth-Straight Shutout Win
CONTINUED FROM 24
Michael O’Hara
The Middlebury men’s soccer team continued its undefeated streak this Saturday, 
Sept. 20, beating Bowdoin 2-0 for their fourth consecutive shutout victory.
MIDDLEBURY
The Panthers are going to take it 
out on the Mules. This one isn’t 
going to be close.
YES 
Emily Knapp ’15 already has a pair 
of shutouts to her record this year. 
OVER 
Not every defense in the NESCAC is 
as stingy as Wesleyan.
$15.99
The current market value for a 
thirty rack of Natty Light.
81
Coming off a startling loss 
to Connecticut College, the 
Middlebury women’s soccer team 
continued their disappointing start 
to the 2014 NESCAC season this 
Saturday, Sept. 20 as they fell at 
home to Bowdoin by a score of 2-1.
Going into the game, the 
Panthers were looking for an 
opportunity to turn around their 
season after a pair of hard-fought 
losses to conference foes Amherst 
and Conn. College. A midweek 
win over regional rival Plattsburgh 
provided a spurt of momentum 
that Middlebury brought into the 
matchup with Bowdoin. 
Stout defense enabled the 
Panthers to play to a scoreless 
Polar Bears.
Goalkeeper Kate Reinmuth ’17 
saved a trio of shots for Middlebury 
as both teams struggled to gain an 
edge in the opening period of play. 
Both the Panthers and Polar Bears 
were able to gain a few scoring 
opportunities in the half, but neither 
team was able to convert as the 
game went into halftime scoreless.
In the second half of play, 
Bowdoin broke through in the 59th 
minute with a goal from Amanda 
Kinneston. After Reinmuth made a 
diving save on a crossing shot from 
30 yards out, Kinneston was able to 
tip the rebound back into the net to 
give her team the advantage.
Not to be outdone, the Panthers 
responded with a goal of their own 
11 minutes later. After coming in 
as a substitute, combo forward-
answered off of a cross from senior 
Carter Talgo ’15 to tie the game at 
one apiece and give her team new 
life with just over 20 minutes left to 
play.
With the game tied, Bowdoin 
was able to regain the advantage in 
the 75th minute on a 20-yard shot 
from Kiersten Turner. Turner led 
Bowdoin with a goal and an assist 
on the day. 
Goalie play was again strong 
on both sides in the game with 
Bowdoin’s Bridget McCarthy saving 
saves on seven shots faced.
Middlebury outshot Bowdoin on 
the day 15-13, while the Polar Bears’ 
single corner kick opportunity in 
the second half gave them a 3-1 
advantage over the Panthers in that 
facet of play.
Middlebury’s outshooting 
their opponents regardless of the 
outcome of the game appears to be 
a common theme so far this season. 
With a shooting percentage of .064 
as compared to their opponents 
shooting percentage of .135, 
created may be a point of emphasis 
for the team going forward. Only 
so many of their scoring troubles 
can be attributed to performance, 
however, as the Panthers haven’t 
caught nearly as many breaks as 
their opponents at this point in the 
season. 
Middlebury resumes its slate 
of conference competition this 
Saturday, Sept. 27 when they travel 
to Colby for a matchup with the host 
Mules, who enter the game with a 
1-3-1 record overall.
The men’s soccer team (4-
0-1, 2-0-1) continued their 
string of shutout victories with 
a comfortable midweek away 
victory over Southern Vermont 
and a home win over Bowdoin 
on Saturday, Sept. 20. 
On Wednesday, Sept. 
17, the Panthers traveled to 
Bennington, where they were 
the heavy favorites against 
the Southern Vermont College 
Mountaineers of the New 
England Collegiate Conference, 
and won 4-0. Middlebury pulled 
the trigger early and often 
against Southern Vermont, 
racking up 20 first-half shots. 
The Mountaineer defense 
turned away several early 
opportunities, but the Panthers 
could not be held goalless into 
halftime. In the 39th minute, 
Greg Conrad ’17 opened the 
scoring after he settled a pass 
up the middle from Andres 
Rodlauer ’16.  Conrad slotted 
the ball into the left side of 
the net for his first goal of the 
season. 
Middlebury would not 
score again in the first half, 
but instead doubled their lead 
on the other side of halftime. 
Conrad was the middleman 
on a give-and-go with Adam 
Glaser ’17 in the 52nd minute. 
He collected the pass and fed it 
back to a streaking Glaser who 
finished across the face of goal 
to put the Panthers up 2-0.  
Nine minutes later, Conrad 
would score his second goal 
of the day off an assist from 
Kirk Horton ’17.  The Panthers’ 
defense, solid in the opening 
games of the season, went 
unchallenged for the vast 
majority of the game.  The 
Mountaineers took three shots, 
with only one on frame, which 
was turned away by goaltender 
Greg Sydor ’17.  The Panthers 
held an insurmountable shot 
advantage, taking 38, with 17 
on target. Sydor was replaced 
for the first time this season 
in the 76th minute in favor of 
Jeremy Yeager ’18. Yeager went 
unchallenged in goal. 
In the waning minutes of the 
game, Dan Skayne ’15 had his 
first goal of the season off of a 
through ball from Enzo Weiner 
’18 to wrap up the scoring. 
Middlebury left Southern 
Vermont with a 3-0-1 record 
after the 4-0 win. 
Middlebury faced much 
stiffer competition in Saturday’s 
2-0 win over Bowdoin.  The Polar 
Bears maintained possession 
well early on, and had a great 
opportunity only 20 seconds in 
that sailed high.  The Panther 
defense had their work cut out 
for them early as the ball was in 
the defensive half for a majority 
of the opening 20 minutes. 
The play through the Panther 
midfield was tenuous to begin 
the game, with Middlebury 
often  surrendering possession 
to the Polar Bears, and relying 
on over-the-top balls to Glaser 
and Conrad to generate offense. 
Nevertheless, the Panthers 
did pressure the Polar Bears 
back line and won a pair of 
consecutive corners in the 23rd 
minute. After the first was 
knocked out by Bowdoin, Noah 
Goss-Woliner ’15 sent a curling 
ball in from the right side 
towards the head of Tom Bean 
’17. The tall center defender 
beat his mark and redirected 
the ball across the face of the 
goal to secure his first goal of 
the season. 
On the last Middlebury set 
piece goal, Deklan Robinson ’16, 
another tall threat headed the 
ball home.  Bean commented on 
the team’s strategy, “We have a 
very dangerous team in the air 
with all of our size, so we try 
to send our big guys into the 
set plays, but that passes a lot 
of defensive responsibilities 
to other players. Fortunately 
everyone has been playing their 
parts effectively which allows 
Deklan and I to take those risks 
comfortably.”
Eight minutes later, Conrad 
sent a ball through the Bowdoin 
defense. Polar Bears’ goalkeeper 
Noah Safian misjudged the 
timing, and Glaser was able to 
beat him to the ball and chip it 
over him from the edge of the 
penalty area.  The ball had just 
enough pace to beat a Bowdoin 
defender’s clearance effort. 
Glaser was quick to praise 
his fellow striker, saying, “Our 
success as a front line is because 
of the chemistry Greg and I 
are building. Greg’s having a 
wonderful season so far and his 
ability to hold the ball up and 
sports 24
By Colin McIntyre
CROSS COUNTRY 
TEAMS DOMINATE 
ON HOME COURSE
PAGE 21
FIELD HOCKEY 
NEARLY UPSETS 
TOP-RANKED 
BOWDOIN
PAGE 23
Tough Loss for 
Women’s Soccer
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Men’s Soccer Beats Bowdoin, 
Remains Unbeaten in NESCAC
By Gabe Weissmann
Michael o’hara
In a matchup of squads that tied for the NESCAC crown a year ago, the Middlebury 
football team fell short in their season opener against Wesleyan, losing at home 22-14. 
SEE PAGE 22 FOR FULL COVERAGE.
False start
SEE SYDOR, PAGE 23
