september 26, 2013 | Vol. 112 no. 3 | middleburycampus.com
BIKE CRASH 
RATTLES TOUR DE 
FARMS
PAGE 6
BEHIND THE MIC 
WITH VERBAL 
ONSLAUGHT
PAGES 15
ANGELIQUE KIDJO 
TO PERFORM IN 
NELSON ARENA
PAGE 17
in
sid
e
Admissions Reports Record 
First-Generation Enrollment
By Claire Abbadi
Thirteen percent of students 
in the class of 2017 are the first 
in their family to go to college, 
according to data released by the 
College admissions office. This 
number is the highest percent-
age of first-generation students 
in a class on record and likely in 
the school’s history, said Dean of 
Admissions Greg Buckles. 
“There are 92 first-generation 
students,” said Buckles. “We 
only began tracking [first gen-
eration] three years ago, and it 
is an attribute we assign to stu-
dents, they do not self-identify. 
We feel confident, though, that 
in combination with other re-
cord numbers in this class that 
not only is [this] the highest 
number since we began count-
ing, but almost certainly likely 
the most ever in a class.”
The class of 2017 has made 
College admissions-statistics 
history in other areas as well; 
they hold the record for the 
highest percentage of students 
on financial aid and have the 
highest number of international 
students and students of color 
ever.
In response to the rise in the 
number of first-generation stu-
dents over the past three years, 
the Institutional Diversity Com-
mittee (IDC) has initiated a 
mentorship program for these 
students. The IDC is a Student 
The Middlebury College Pep band plays Saturday at the men’s 
rugby match against American International College. MCRC 
sent the Yellow Jacket’s packing with a 37-12 victory.
See page 21 for full story. 
by anthea viragh
9/11 Flag Incident
Prompts Forums
A group of nine faculty mem-
bers hosted a series of seven forum 
discussions last week to encourage 
a community conversation about 
protest and civility on campus in 
memorial on Sept. 11. The forum 
events, which took place from Mon-
day, Sept. 16 to Thursday, Sept. 
19, attracted minimal attendance 
among students despite the initial 
outrage in response to the vandal-
ism. 
“The occasion for these meetings 
is the destruction of the 9/11 memo-
rial earlier this week, but our larger 
purpose will be to consider together 
the responsibilities we have as an 
academic community to treat one 
another with respect and toler-
ance, even as we pursue political 
and social agendas that sometimes 
divide us,” wrote Vice President of 
Academic Affairs Tim Spears in an 
all-school email.
Professor Rebecca Kneale 
Gould, senior lecturer in the De-
partment of Environmental Studies 
held a session on Wednesday, Sept. 
17.
“I think that the whole event and 
response to the event stirred up a lot 
of emotion,” said Gould. “So those 
of us who offered to hold some con-
versational sessions did so precisely 
so that people could talk [in small 
wanted to make sure that conversa-
tions didn’t happen in disrespectful 
ways, as can be the case when they 
occur online and anonymously.”
Gould saw her job mainly as to 
hold a space for discussion and to 
make sure the discussion didn’t fall 
into ad-homonym attacks. She em-
phasized her role as a moderator to 
make sure everyone felt safe and 
mutually respected.
 “The mere fact that people know 
that this is going on is useful for the 
college community,” said Gould. “In 
response to this event, we are not 
professors standing up on the stage 
saying, ‘you should think this and I 
think that;’ rather, we are just facili-
tating a meaningful conversation.”
Professor of Religion James Cal-
vin Davis said that his own study of 
political discourse prompted him 
to lead a discussion. He authored 
a book in 2010 called In Defense of 
Civility: How Religion Can United 
America on Seven Moral Issues 
that Divide Us, in which he argues 
that our political discourse lacks 
any semblance of civility. He argues 
that contrary to public opinion, re-
ligion may not actually be a genesis 
for incivility but rather a resource 
for approaching civil discourse 
through mutual respect.
“When my own college com-
munity got around to talking about 
it, I jumped at the chance to par-
ticipate,” said Davis. “I think there 
were some people in the adminis-
tration who had the concern that 
these discussions had the potential 
to be less than civil, but I had the 
sense that students were going to 
take it seriously and were going to 
want to talk about it.” 
Peter Murray ’13.5, who attend-
ed three of the discussions, said that 
the conversations took a little while 
to get going but Gould and Davis’s 
discussions turned into a larger 
question not just about the protest 
but about what 9/11 means to us. 
“I was sort of surprised at some 
people’s reactions,” said Murray. 
“It seemed like generally, people 
thought that the act of taking the 
-
take and recognized that even the 
student who did it thought it was a 
mistake. At the same time, we are 
willing to entertain the discussion 
By Eliza Teach
Symposium Features Translation Theme
The College and the Monterey 
Institute of International Stud-
ies (MIIS) are teaming up for the 
first time to co-host the annual 
Clifford Symposium.
 This year’s symposium, titled 
“Translation in a Global Commu-
nity: Theory and Practice,” will 
run from Sept. 24 to Sept. 28, 
and will feature faculty from both 
the College and MIIS as well as 
academics from a variety of other 
organizations and institutions.
The Clifford Symposium is 
named after College Professor 
of History Emeritus Nicholas R. 
Clifford who in his many years 
as a member of the faculty and 
administration refined analyti-
cal inquiry.  The topic varies each 
year.
“This year’s topic came about 
because Middlebury’s language 
curriculum does not generally 
emphasize translation, though 
it’s tied to Monterey, which is one 
of the foremost institutions in the 
country for teaching translation 
and interpreting,” said Kawashi-
ma Professor of Japanese Studies 
Stephen Snyder.
 Snyder also emphasized that 
input from both institutions will 
contribute to the diversity of dis-
cussion at the symposium. Col-
lege faculty will focus on transla-
tion of literature or on translation 
theory, whereas MIIS faculty will 
focus on the professional applica-
tion of technical translation skills.
On Sept. 26, the Clifford Sym-
posium will kick off with a Keynote 
Address by David Bellos, Director 
of Translation and Intercultural 
Communication at Princeton 
University. Bellos wrote Is That 
a Fish in Your Ear? Translation 
and the Meaning of Everything, 
the cover of which is featured on 
posters around campus.
Normally the Clifford Sym-
posium is a two-day event, but 
pre-activities were held earlier 
this week before the heart of the 
program begins the afternoon of 
Sept. 26, with the keynote ad-
dress by Bellos.
 Translingual Magazine or-
ganized a translation trivia game 
in Crossroads on Tuesday night, 
and playwright David Edgar gave 
a lecture on Wednesday on the 
use of language in his play. Pan-
els and presentations will run 
from tonight through Saturday 
afternoon.
“President Liebowitz and 
Monterey Institute of Interna-
tional Studies President Sunder 
Ramaswamy have signed onto 
this notion of a joint conference 
with the faculties working to-
gether to plan this, having their 
support,” said Snyder.
Snyder noted that the sym-
posium could increase student 
awareness of opportunities in the 
translation field.
 “We are under the impression 
that Middlebury College students 
in language programs probably 
don’t know as much about ev-
By Viviana Altamirano
SEE IDC, PAGE 3
SEE TRANSLATION, PAGE 3
CLASS of 2017
by the numbers
81
(1
3%
)
20
17
20
16
20
15
Cl
as
s 
of
Cl
as
s 
of
Cl
as
s 
of
Number of First-generation students/class
international students 
make up 11% of the 
class of 2017
$38,314
US Students of color make up 26% 
of the Class of 2017
non-New england students 
make up 69% of the 
class of 2017
78
92
Graphic by Olivia Allen
THE SOUND AND THE FURY
SEE ‘PROTEST AND CIVILITY’, PAGE 3
On Saturday, Sept. 21, the Islamist 
terrorist organization Al-Shabaab at-
tacked an upscale shopping mall in the 
northwestern part of Nairobi, the capital 
of Kenya, killing at least 60 people and 
wounding more than 175. As the siege 
continued into its third day on Monday, 
Kenyan security forces were continuing 
to search for as many as a dozen attack-
ers hidden inside the mall and to rescue 
a handful of shoppers taken as hostages. 
The attack began around noon on Sat-
urday as two groups of masked gunmen 
stormed two different entrances to West-
gate Mall. Eyewitnesses say the attack 
began with the gunmen tossing grenades. 
After the initial blasts of the grenades 
caused panic in the mall, the terrorists 
proceeded to shoot shoppers with AK-47s 
Kenyan soldiers sealed off the mall 
right away and began evacuation op-
erations while the gunmen continued to 
roam around the mall. Soldiers rescued 
as many as 1000 shoppers in the hours 
immediately after the attack. Through-
out Saturday evening, security forces 
rescued small groups of people hidden in 
various places in the mall. As dawn broke 
on Sunday, several shoppers escaped to 
safety on their own.
clear the mall late Sunday evening, with 
an aim to bring an end to the crisis over-
night. However, as the hours ticked away 
explosions continued. On Monday after-
noon, thick smoke rose out of the mall, 
gunmen. The clearing operation left sev-
eral Kenyan soldiers injured. Some intel-
ligence sources reported that three of the 
two of the gunmen inside the mall are 
also reported to be dead.
Kenyan authorities have increased se-
curity measures across the country, espe-
cially at ports of entry and exit as some 
eyewitnesses said that a few of the ter-
rorists may have escaped the mall in the 
pandemonium ensuing the attacks. The 
police have arrested at least ten persons 
of interest for initial questioning.
President Uhuru Kenyatta addressed 
the nation on Sunday, putting the trag-
edy in remarkably personal terms. He 
told the country that his nephew and his 
the attacks. Kenyatta also called patience 
and understanding as the siege contin-
ued.
In a show of incredible political unity 
in a country that has been characterized 
by intense and at times, violent political 
divides, opposition leader Raila Odinga 
stood by Kenyatta’s side on Sunday, urg-
ing the Kenyan people to “come together 
… to help each other.”
At press time, the deaths of several 
foreign nationals had already been con-
Among these are up to six British na-
tionals, two French women, two Canadi-
ans, two Indians, and one each from the 
Netherlands, South Korea, and South Af-
rica. No Americans were reported to be 
among the dead, though several had been 
injured. Also among the dead were popu-
lar radio host Ruhila Adatia-Sood and 
renowned Ghanaian poet and professor 
Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for 
the attacks. The Somalia-based terrorist 
group is loyal to al-Qaeda and has said 
that they were avenging for Kenyan-led 
and African Union-backed peacekeeping 
operations in Somalia. Al-Shabaab has 
vowed to bring violence to Kenya as long 
as the Kenyan military remains in Soma-
lia. 
BY DANNY ZHANG
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| september 26, 20132 NEWS
Sexual Assault Committee Receives 
$270k from Department of Justice 
By Halle Gustafson
The Middlebury Sexual Assault Over-
sight Committee (SAOC) received a 
$272,528 grant from the US Department 
Against Women.
In the grant application submitted to the 
DOJ, the SAOC wrote that the funds will 
-
dent, faculty and staff understanding of the 
causes and consequences of sexual assault, 
domestic violence, dating violence, and 
stalking; the resources that exist to support 
survivors; and our ability to prevent and re-
spond to these phenomena effectively.”
The USDOJ’s Campus Grant Program 
is dedicated to reducing sexual assault 
and harassment on college campuses. The 
grant, which is awarded annually, is dis-
tributed in a reimbursement structure over 
a three-year time period.  
One of the cornerstones of the grant 
program is the collaboration between the 
college, community partners and local or-
ganizations such as WomenSafe, RU12?, 
and the Addison County Council against 
work together in the months to come.
 SAOC members will work with Associate 
Dean for Judicial Affairs and Student Life 
Karen Guttentag and the newly-appointed 
Health and Wellness Director Barbara Mc-
Call to make use of the funds on campus.
Most notably, the SAOC plans to con-
tinue revising and improving the college’s 
sexual  misconduct policy. The current pol-
icy, which was developed in 2011 and has 
since been the primary focus of the SAOC, 
strives to create a judicial framework that 
-
venting sexual misconduct, eliminating any 
hostile environment, preventing its recur-
rence, and correcting its discriminatory ef-
fects” on the community. 
Another main objective of the SAOC is 
to strengthen existing sexual assault pro-
grams on campus, including the mandatory 
training. To do this, the SAOC plans to go 
through training with bystander interven-
tion programs across the country, as well as 
to develop a survey through which it will be 
easier to determine levels of sexual assault 
and harassment in the community.
 There are also plans to revamp the 
training programs required of the College’s 
sexual misconduct investigators and board 
members in order to guarantee that stu-
dents and community members involved in 
sexual assault cases receive fair and impar-
tial treatment according the sexual miscon-
duct policy. 
According to student members of the 
SAOC, the availability of money from the 
grant allows programs started last year to 
continue.
 “The students of the SAOC are very 
excited to have the grant to fund projects 
[that] we were able to fund last year such as 
printing and mounting permanent versions 
of the Stand Up visual campaign around 
campus, as well as bringing in speakers to 
open up conversation around sex positivity 
and other related topics,” wrote SAOC stu-
dent co-chair Olivia Case ’15 in email. 
In addition to growing and improving 
existing programs, the SAOC plans to in-
stitute new programming in areas where 
they feel there has been a shortage of atten-
tion and resources. One example is seeking 
out educational resources to begin work 
on creating a stronger men’s movement in 
the area of sexual assault and harassment, 
as well as addressing the glaring shortage 
of local Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner’s 
(SANEs), an issue that should be greatly 
the grant. There are also plans to develop 
workshops that will focus on topics ranging 
from healthy relationships and consent to 
college’s sexual assault programming that 
require more attention than others, Gut-
tentag said, “Ultimately, what we are after 
is deep-rooted cultural change.” 
Faculty Divided on In-Class Laptop Use
By Jordan Seman
E-books, online textbooks and comput-
er-based note-taking programs are growing 
in number and popularity, but faculty at the 
College remain divided over the use of com-
puters in classrooms, opting for course-by-
course policies instead of department-wide 
regulations.
While a lack of cohesion among profes-
sors’ attitudes regarding computers makes 
the development of a department or Col-
lege-wide rule on computer use unlikely, 
students and faculty alike have found them-
selves debating the pros and cons of both 
banning and allowing computers in class. 
A study by Stanford University sociol-
ogy professor and psychologist Dr. Clifford 
Nass revealed that not only does digital 
multi-tasking waste more time, but it also 
results in a concentration and creativity 
to be at multitasking.
Professor of American Studies and Eng-
lish and American Literatures Michael 
Newbury does not employ a singular laptop 
policy in his classes, but rather employs 
-
signed to maximize constructive engage-
ment with and for students,” considering 
project-oriented learning with laptops as 
an example of successful and useful in-class 
computer use, while remaining wary of lap-
tops in larger lectures and conversations.
“There is an increasing amount of re-
search suggesting that in large classes, 
students with computers simply cannot 
stop themselves from dividing their atten-
tion,” Newbury wrote in an email. “In ad-
dition, the research suggests that laptops in 
the class distract not just the people using 
them, but others in the class. It’s a bit like 
hear it, whether or not they want to.”
Such distractions led Assistant Profes-
sor of Political Science Amy Yuen to ban 
computers in her lecture classes, especially 
after receiving feedback from students re-
vealing problematic in-class computer hab-
its.
“I used to allow them in lecture because 
my thinking was, ‘You’re adults, you can 
decide whether you’re going to show up to 
class or whether you’re going to goof off in 
lecture or not’,” she said. “But it was when 
I started getting remarks on course evalu-
ations about how distracting computers 
were to other students that I decided to do 
something about it.”
Assistant Professor of American Studies 
Holly Allen has allowed laptops in larger 
courses so long as students remain undis-
tracted, but is considering discouraging 
laptop use due to frequent rule violations 
and increasingly distracted lecture halls.
“I may also ask students who choose to 
use laptops to sign a contract declaring that 
they will not engage in non-class computer 
activity,” Allen wrote in an email. “Howev-
er, I do not intend to eliminate all student 
laptop use.”
Students, too, have found themselves 
“I cannot keep up with a long lecture if I 
don’t have my computer in class,” said Julia 
Rossen ’16. “I understand why some profes-
being able to type quickly makes it easier 
to get the most out of each class. Also, hav-
ing my computer available gives me quick 
access to supplementary information if I 
need it.”
Others, however, prefer to take notes by 
hand, opting to forgo in-class computer use 
entirely.
“I feel like writing things down by hand 
keeps me grounded and attentive to what’s 
happening in the class,” said Cole Bortz ’17, 
adding that he retains information more 
easily when writing by hand.
Most peer institutions allow or restrict 
laptop use on a course-by-course basis, de-
termined only by the professor. Amherst 
College, however, used to employ a very 
strict in-class computer policy, allowing 
only those with permission from the Di-
rector of Student Disability Services to use 
laptops in class. As computers have become 
more integral and mainstream teaching 
tools, the policy has grown more relaxed. 
Bentley University in Waltham, Mass. in-
stalled an on/off switch for Internet con-
nections in classrooms, thereby allowing 
professors to permit laptop use during 
classes while limiting distractions.
Both Allen and Newbury stated that any 
sort of department or campus-wide policy 
on in-class computer use would be unlikely 
due to the wide range of views and current 
policies regarding laptop use.
“There is no uniform answer here,” 
Newbury wrote. “It will depend on what’s 
meant to happen in the classroom and the 
particular needs of individuals. So, the idea 
that all students would have laptops in all 
classrooms seems misguided … but the ut-
ter elimination of them from every context 
is probably misguided, too.”
H A V E  A N  A W E S O M E  R E S E A R C H  P R O J E C T ? 
K N O W  A  P R O F E S S O R  D O I N G  S O M E T H I N G  C O O L ?
WANT TO SHARE YOUR OPINION ON SCIENCE AT MIDD? 
LET US KNOW! CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
SEPTEMBER 26, 2013 |  3        News
IDC: Simply Recruiting Diverse 
Students Only half the Battle
Government Association (SGA) sub-
committee comprised of 16 students that 
seeks to promote diversity on campus.
“The goal, most succinctly, is to bet-
ter support first-generation college stu-
dents so that they can fully be present at 
Middlebury and succeed academically, 
socially, and emotionally,” said IDC co-
chair Michael Bernstein ’15. 
 “The purpose of this program is to en-
sure that first-generation students don’t 
feel alone on this campus,” added IDC 
member and first-generation student 
mentor, Daniel Pena ’16.
The idea for the mentorship program 
stemmed from Discover Middlebury, a re-
cruiting program that brings high school 
seniors from traditionally under-repre-
sented socioeconomic or ethnic groups at 
the College to an on-campus open house 
each fall.
The IDC hosted a reunion dinner for 
Discover Middlebury students this past 
fall, inviting admissions officers and stu-
dents from IDC to talk about their first 
year experience thus far. 
“People kept saying as a first-genera-
tion student it has been particularly chal-
lenging because the path hasn’t already 
been forged for them, like it has for many 
of their counterparts at Middlebury,” said 
Bernstein, recounting conversations at 
the reunion dinner. “In the spring when 
[the IDC] got a lot of new members, there 
was a lot of passion surrounding first-
generation programing.”
In response to these conversations, the 
IDC created a working group to focus on 
how to better support first-year students, 
which culminated in the establishment of 
the peer mentorship program. 
There are currently 37 mentees en-
rolled in the program and 73 mentors, 
after an all-student email requested stu-
dents apply to become student mentors. 
“I initially expected there to be more 
mentees, which is why we accepted 73 
mentors,” said Bernstein.  “We thought 
we would get around two-thirds of the 
first-generation group, but I am satisfied 
with the number. It’s the first year and a 
lot of times in the beginning students may 
not know that they want or might benefit 
from extra support. I know coming into 
Middlebury, I might not have wanted to 
seek out help and identify myself any way 
in the beginning.” 
The increase in different types of di-
versity is clearly reflected by the statis-
tics of the class of 2017, with 26 percent 
identifying as U.S. students of color and 
11 percent international students. 
Buckles said that the reasons behind 
the increase of students within these de-
mographics were two-fold. 
 “We are devoting considerable time 
and attention now to outreach, including 
work with urban outreach programs, ac-
cess organizations, charter schools and 
other influential people and groups,” 
said Buckles. “The second reason has to 
do with the fact that you often see results 
come about almost organically once you 
begin to focus on an issue. We decided 
this issue was important, and that we 
were going to do something about it.”
The class of 2016 currently has 78 
first-generation students and the class of 
2015 has 81 first-generation students. 
“Middlebury compares itself to the 
very best colleges and universities in the 
world, so the bar is set high for expecta-
tions,” said Buckles. “We can do better 
in comparison to those peer institutions 
regarding access and diversity. We’ve 
made great progress, though, especially 
recently.”
However, many students stress that 
diversity recruitment is not enough to 
solve this problem, and say that the ad-
ministration has an obligation to help 
these students once they are here. 
“If admissions is willing to recruit 
these from students of diverse back-
grounds, who they know are not well-
represented on campus, they should have 
a role in ensuring that students feel com-
fortable in this community,” said Pena.
 “I’m proud that we were able to recruit 
a diverse class,” added Bernstein ’15. “But 
I think numbers are only one part of the 
picture. If Middlebury doesn’t feel like 
home when any student graduates then 
I don’t think Middlebury is doing its job, 
and I think that’s something that IDC has 
tried to tackle on a number of levels.”
According to Buckles, the class of 2017 
is a result of broader, more effective out-
reach from admissions and more access 
for under-represented students. 
“I believe that our success in shaping 
a community that includes so many more 
students that may not have previously 
been represented at Middlebury means 
we are beginning to look more and more 
like the best of the rest of the world,” said 
Buckles.
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
erything done at Monterey, because of the 
way we teach languages, it’s possible that 
students don’t know the range of possi-
bilities for actually using their languages 
when they graduate from Middlebury. 
Taking them out in the real world and 
translating and interpreting are one of the 
most immediate ways that can be done.”
On Friday morning, there will be a 
simultaneous-interpreting booth on cam-
pus, featuring Monterey interpretation 
experts.
 “Translation studies is a very impor-
tant field now because globalization stud-
ies dominate so much of the social sciences 
in political science, economics, anthropol-
ogy, everyone is thinking about global re-
lations,” said Snyder. “Translation is one 
of the fundamental underpinnings of that, 
to think about how languages are learned, 
to think about who provides communica-
tion between cultural spheres.”
These events will underscore the theme 
of the symposium, which is to “make vis-
ible this invisible practice of translation.” 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Translation Symposium 
Connects with Monterrey
‘Protest and Civility’ Fails to Attract Students
mean about imperialism, and the sort of 
Beyond discussion surrounding the 
types of commemorations, the discussions 
encompass broader issues.
Perhaps the most emphasized point was 
the student body’s response to the incident 
both online and around campus. Davis fo-
cused on this in his discussion.
“We were all brought together because 
of a particular act of protest that was 
judged by many to be out of bounds, to be 
disrespectful, but of course the response 
online to that has been disturbing,” said 
Davis. “I think it was good for us also to 
talk about that, that the expectations of ac-
countability are not only on these kinds of 
occasions of protest but for those of us who 
are reacting to them.” 
Davis was referring to the many com-
ments on social media websites that were 
laden with personal threats and accusa-
tions towards those who destroyed the me-
morial site. 
Dean of the College Shirley Collado 
echoed this sentiment.
 “It was disappointing to see the lack of 
that there is a shortage of that here and 
too much reliance on communicating in 
the abyss of the Internet and blogosphere. 
We need more face-to-face dialogue that 
allows students to own what they believe 
and learn across differences,” she wrote in 
an email.
One of the most important takeaways 
Murray saw in Davis’s conversation was 
the importance of being civil even in pro-
test. 
 “One of the points I took away from Da-
vis’s discussion was civility isn’t sort of this 
old stodgy sentiment about keeping things 
in line,” said Murray. “We must recognize 
how to be civil even when we are trying to 
disrupt in a more tangible or unexpected 
way.”
Reem Rosenhaj ’16.5, who attended the 
Sept. 19 discussion, said, “I noticed in the 
people there who were from a certain so-
cial circle which maybe didn’t include 
those people who had more aggressive re-
actions.” 
Rosenhaj expressed a desire to continue 
similar open and respectful community 
discussion series.
 “I think it would be great if we could 
have an all student facilitated discussion 
although I’m not sure if it would be real-
istically as productive now as having a fac-
ulty member there, which would keep it 
inclusive to all students,” she added. 
Looking towards the future, Davis said, 
“I think it is a stretch to say that an hour 
is going to accomplish much of anything. 
What we have accomplished is the start 
of a habit of talking about these things. I 
think this will catch if [we] each say that we 
need to take ownership of the tenor of our 
conversations on campus.”
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
Free Friday Film 
Monsters U will show in 
Dana Auditorium.
FRIDAY AT 7 & 10 P.M.
Zumba 
Take a study break and 
dancercise!
SUNDAY AT 4 P.M.
MCAB’s fall concert will feature  
Chance The Rapper on Nov. 2!
Cynthia Braren Trio
Friday, September 27 | 8–10 
p.m.
The Cynthia Braren Trio 
showcases a blend of origi-
nals and current covers in a 
soulful indie jazz style.
Shine a Light for 
Domestic Violence
Saturday, September 28 | 
7-10 p.m.
The Addison County Coun-
cil Against Domestic and 
Sexual Violence annual si-
lent auction benefit featur-
ing hand-painted lamps and 
live music by Jim and Anna 
Lienau of BandAnna.
MCAB Trivia
Friday, September 27 | 
9:30–12:30 a.m.
The Grift performs pop-rock 
with literate lyrics and vo-
cal harmonies that really 
groove. Beer and wine avail-
able with two forms of ID. All 
ages welcome!
Reggae Night with Selecta 
D-RO
Saturday, September 28 | 
10p.m.-1 a.m.
Sunday Night Football
Sunday, September 22 
Game Time
Sunday Night Football on 
the big screen. 
Monday Night Football
Monday, September 23 
Game Time
Monday Night Football on 
the big screen.
WRITE US A LETTER! 
THE CAMPUS ACCEPTS OP-EDS WEEKLY. 
SEND SOMETHING TO  
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
HAVE A THOUGHT? 
WANT TO COMMENT? 
SUBSCRIBE
TODAY!
VISIT HTTP://BOXOFFICE.MIDDLEBURY.EDU
Get the College 
weekly delivered 
straight to 
your home. By 
subscribing, you 
are supporting 
a 108-year-old 
tradition that has 
trained countless 
journalists, writers 
and designers, 
including Pulitzer 
Prize winners.
to the
4 Advertisement | September 26, 2013
BE A PART OF a TRADITION
the 
campus 
has 
printed 
for 107
Years.
join us  
for 108.
Whether you care 
about politics, 
sports, investigative 
journalism, the arts, 
food, scandal or film, 
there’s space for your 
words. 
campus@middlebury.edu1905
1955
2013
 5AdvertisementSeptember 26, 2013 | 
local 
Cyclists Hit by Car During Tour de Farms
By Molly Talbert
Vermont Partners with Emerge America 
to Promote Women in Elected Positions
At a news conference at City Hall 
on Monday, Sept. 23, former Governor 
Madeline Kunin announced that Ver-
mont will be joining a new initiative to 
support women wishing to seek elected 
positions in Vermont.
As the only female governor in the 
history of Vermont, Kunin announced 
that Vermont is partnering with Emerge 
America, a non-profit organization with 
a stated goal of increasing the number of 
Democratic women in public office. 
Kunin, along with a group of other 
Democratic women, raised $50,000 
since January in order to implement En-
gage America in Vermont. 
According to VTDigger.org, in her 
announcement, Kunin elaborated on 
why this issue is so important.
“Women’s issues are somewhat dif-
ferent, not on every issue, but on some 
issues, and those voices need to be 
heard,” Kunin said.  
Kunin also pointed to more specific 
issues that require women leaders. 
“Sexual assault is nothing new, but 
for the first time it’s becoming public, 
and it’s because women are leading the 
charge,” Kunin said. 
Kunin also described the current 
state of women representation in Ver-
mont politics. 41 percent of the Vermont 
Legislature is made up of women, and 
women hold half of the 96 Democratic 
seats in the House. In the senate, which 
consists of 30 members, there are only 
nine women. 
Emerge America was founded in 
2002 and currently works in 14 states, 
specifically Arizona, California, Colo-
rado, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Mas-
sachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, New 
Mexico, Oregon, Vermont, Virginia and 
Wisconsin.
While the work Emerge America 
does in each state depends on the state’s 
political landscape and specific needs, 
the general procedure is standard and 
includes identifying potential leaders, 
and eventually encouraging them to run 
for all types of office, including those at 
the local level. Those interested in train-
ing apply to the program and the accept-
ed program members attend a seven-
month, 70-hour program.
A news release on Emerge America’s 
website reveals that Kunin expressed op-
timism that Emerge Americawill encour-
age women leaders to run for office. 
“The difference between women and 
men is women often have to be asked to 
run,” Kunin said. “Emerge will ask!”
Emerge has had successful results in 
the states that it has been working with 
in the past 11 years. According to their 
website, of those who have run for office 
after attending Emerge training, 60% of 
the women have won their election. 
 Kunin led a kick off celebration on 
Tuesday, Sept. 24 at Hotel Vermont-Ju-
niper in Burlington to officiate the new 
partnership.
  
The sixth annual Tour de Farms, 
which took place on Sept. 15, began on 
what seemed like an idyllic fall Sunday 
and ended in tragedy. During the cy-
cling event, which the Addison County 
Relocalization Network (ACORN) and 
the Vermont Bicycle and Pedestrian 
Coalition (VBPC) organized, an alleged 
drunk driver struck 
three cyclists, seri-
ously injuring two 
of them.
Brian Mill-
er, 54, of Shore-
ham, was driving 
on Route 74 West 
when he struck 
the cyclists around 
11:30 a.m. Martin 
Veit, 35, of More-
town, was thrown 
onto the hood of 
Miller’s car and 
became embedded 
in the windshield, 
only to become dis-
lodged after Miller’s 
car struck an apple 
tree. Sophie Gerry, 
15, of Williamstown, Mass., was thrown 
an estimated eight to 12 feet when the 
car struck her and what was initially 
thought to be a broken pelvis but was 
later diagnosed as a broken leg.
Miller’s blood alcohol content was 
0.095 percent according to court re-
cords – in Vermont the legal limit is 
0.08 percent. According to the Addison 
Independent, Miller has also been un-
der an active arrest warrant for the past 
nine months for driving under the in-
fluence. On Monday, Sept. 16, in Addi-
son County Superior Court he pleaded 
not guilty to the offences.
Both Veit and Gerry were taken to 
Fletcher Allen Hospital in Burlington 
i m m e d i a t e l y 
after the acci-
dent and were 
both released 
on Tuesday, 
Sept. 17, ex-
pected to re-
cover well.
A l t h o u g h 
the incident 
turned out 
much better 
than it could 
have, for both 
the driver and 
the cyclists, 
it sent shock 
t h r o u g h o u t 
the cycling 
c o m m u n i t y 
and the reac-
tion has been 
strong.
Nancy Shulz, the Executive Direc-
tor of VBPC, sent an email to members 
of the coalition shortly after the Tour de 
Farms, in which she took a hard stand 
and spoke up for cyclist safety.
“The chronic problem of impaired 
drivers (many of them repeat offend-
ers) demands statewide conversations 
and commitment that will result in a 
significant change in driver behavior,” 
she said in the email to VBPC members. 
“The VBPC board of directors and I will 
be discussing what we … can do to end 
this carnage on our roadways.”
The response to her email has been 
very supportive of the cycling commu-
nity and of tackling the issue of im-
pared driving in the state of Vermont.
“My inbox exploded after the crash,” 
she said. “People said, ‘let us know how 
we can help. We support you.’”
VBPC is a small non-profit that in 
the past has initiated small programs 
to educate people about bicycle and pe-
destrian safety. They work with some 
driver education programs in central 
Vermont to educate new drivers about 
bicycle and pedestrian safety and also 
work with law enforcement to educate 
them about the needs of bicyclists and 
pedestrians alike.
In addition to VBPC’s educational 
programs, they lobby Montpelier for 
new laws that “will offer protections 
and improve life” for their coalition 
members and the general community 
of cyclists and pedestrians.
Although VBPC is concerned with 
all pedestrian and cyclist safety in Ver-
mont, the accident during the Tour de 
Farms was particularly close to home 
for the organization because the event 
is their largest fundraiser of the year. 
The organization is very small and the 
Tour de Farms is central to both their 
fundraising and their sense community.
“For years, safety has been part of 
our mission and educating cyclists on 
what to do to stay safe,” said Shulz of 
the coalition’s mission. “Someone can 
be doing all of those things properly but 
you can’t insulate a cyclist from poor 
behavior. There is nothing we can do to 
put airbags around our cyclists.”
Even though the task is daunting as 
dealing with DUI and cyclist safety is 
complicated, VBPC is planning on ad-
dressing those issues.
“We haven’t focused on impaired 
driving as an issue before,” said Schulz, 
regarding what the organizations re-
sponse to the accident will be. “As a re-
sult of [the accident], we will focus on 
impaired driving. It is in the newspaper 
every day – DUI violations and repeat 
DUI violations.”
ACORN had a similar response on 
their website that said “the safety and 
well-being of all riders and participants 
is always our top priority and the pre-
cautions taken at the Tour de Farms 
this year were entirely consistent with 
those past Tours.”
The randomness of the accident 
during the event also shocked VBPC 
and highlights that their response will 
take into consideration the larger pic-
ture of DUI in Vermont as a whole.
“It was a rogue act,” said Schulz. 
“[Miller] was a loose cannon and it 
could have happened any time to any 
one. I don’t see what happened as a 
flaw in the event or the behavior of the 
bicyclists.”
“It was a rogue act. 
[Miller] was a loose 
cannon and it could 
have happened any 
time to any one. I don’t 
see what happened as a 
behavior of the bicy-
clists.”
Nancy Shulz, Executive director of the Vermont 
Bicycle and Pedestrian Coalition
Anne Ferguson
Martin Veit was only dislodged from Miller’s car after the car hit an apple tree.
Anne Ferguson
One of the bicycles after being struck by drunk driver Brian Miller last Sunday. 
Courtesy
Former Governor Madeline Kunin.
By Ilana Gratch
Walk through the farmer’s market 
in Marbleworks on Saturday morning 
or drive down Weybridge Street past the 
edge of campus, and it is easy to see that 
Middlebury College is nestled in a commu-
nity where food and the land are integral 
parts of daily life. From dorm room win-
dows, students see pastoral landscapes of 
farms and mountains in every direction. 
One could buy into the notion that Ver-
monters never go hungry because everyone 
must subsist on kale and carrots grown 
from their own gardens. However, this ro-
mantic concept is not the reality of food se-
curity in Vermont. 
As the state with the highest number of 
farmer’s markets per capita, Vermont has 
a well-developed local food system com-
pared to other parts of the United States. 
However, “Local Food for Healthy Com-
munities,” a new report from the Vermont 
Community Foundation, found that 13 per-
cent of Vermont families struggle to put 
suffer from hunger in their lifetime and two 
thirds of adults are obese. 
The Vermont Community Foundation 
sees these statistics as an opportunity for 
growth and their Food and Farm Initia-
tive is working to end food insecurity and 
increase overall public health throughout 
the state.
“The Vermont Community Founda-
tion’s Food and Farm Initiative works at 
the nexus of hunger, health, and the state’s 
agricultural tradition to connect all Ver-
mont families with healthy, local food-re-
gardless of where they live, what they earn, 
or how much time they spend cooking,” 
said Emily Jacke, the Vermont Community 
Foundation’s Philanthropy Associate.
The common misconception is that the 
burgeoning local food movement is reach-
ing all Vermonters. 
“More and more local food is becom-
ing a part of [our] cultural fabric, but there 
are a lot of people getting left behind,”  Jen 
Peterson, Vice President for Program and 
Grants at VCF, said. “We see our Food and 
Farm Initiative as a place to champion the 
efforts to address food security while we 
are having this thriving local food move-
ment in Vermont.”
Over 40 percent of children in Vermont 
qualify for free and reduced cost meals. The 
VCF’s Food and Farm Initiative will begin 
in Vermont public schools by giving inten-
sive support to Farm-to-School efforts.
“We want to create a system where ev-
ery kid who wants a healthy meal can get 
one,” Peterson said. 
By focusing on educating children 
about local food, VCF believes that the 
movement will have a systemic impact. Not 
only will feeding young children healthier 
food help them create lifelong healthy eat-
ing habits, but kids will take what they learn 
about local food home to their families. 
Richard Berkfeld of Food Connects, an 
organization that brings healthy, local food 
to classrooms and communities, states that 
farm to school models are key to creating 
food system change.
“Building a good Local food system 
touches on a lot of issues really big now,” 
he said. “The environment and climate 
change, eating fresh, local food has a big 
impact on our health and the local econo-
my… these are all tied together by Farm-to-
School.” 
The Vermont Community Founda-
tion has found that most Vermonters want 
to make healthier choices for their fami-
lies. Berkfeld knows that this will help the 
“We are lucky so many people care 
about local food,” he said.
However, there are common barriers 
that get in the way of families choosing to 
buy local food. Low-income families view 
the cost of healthy food as a big issue and 
for many in rural areas there is not a gro-
cery store close by. The Food and Farm 
Initiative will focus on creating policy that 
promotes accessibility and builds farmer’s 
markets that are more professional and 
reachable. Additionally, the Foundation 
believes that expanding Farm-to-School 
programs will help them reach the majority 
of Vermonters currently without access to 
healthy food. 
Another key part of the initial plans for 
Food and Farm is a meat processing facility 
in Middlebury, which will help to distrib-
ute local meat to schools. Many members 
of the Middlebury College community are 
excited to see the town get involved in this 
progressive initiative.
Robin Weisselberg ’16.5, a Campus 
Sustainability Coordinator and an active 
member of EatReal, a club at the College, 
said, “Eating local foods is a great way to 
begin developing an awareness of where 
your food comes from, how it is produced, 
how it is processed, and who did all of that 
work so that you could nourish yourself to-
day.” 
Maeve Grady ’16.5, an active member 
of the Divest Midd movement and the So-
cially Responsible Investment club on cam-
pus is also in support of the movement.
“One great thing about the local food 
movement is that it combines environ-
mental activism, awareness of nutritional 
health and food security,” he said. “I am 
excited to see this effort begin in our com-
munity.”
The Vermont Community Founda-
tion’s goal is to create a “fair and just local 
food system,” Peterson said.
As connected as most Vermonters 
are to one another and to the land around 
them, it is no surprise that the solution to 
a community issue as deep rooted as food 
insecurity lies at the intersection of philan-
thropy, healthy eating and taking care of 
the planet. 
26Vermont Launches Local Food Initiative
By Sarah James
Bristol Harvest Festival
If the weather is still nice on Saturday, ev-
eryone should go to the Bristol town green 
for the Harvest Festival for some free, fall 
fun. There will be 70-plus crafters and 
vendors complete with a children’s venue 
with pony rides, a petting zoo (!), a pie 
contest, bandstand music and much more. 
For more information call (802) 388-7951 
ext 1 or visit www.bristolharvestfest.com.
SEPT. 28, 10 A.M. - 4 P.M.
Local 
lowdown
Artists’s Talk and Reception in Bristol
 
The WalkOver Gallery is celebrating 
Chepe Cuadra’s exhibit opening. The 
large scale paitings exhibit, titled “Back 
Portraits: A Search for Identity,” will be 
up through Oct. 25. The opening recep-
tion will feature traditional Nicaraguan 
food and will incorporate the sounds of 
Nicaraguan streets. It will most certainly 
be a “multi-sensory” evening. Fore more 
information call (802) 453-3188 ext. 2.
SEPT. 27, 6 - 8 P.M.
Connie Dover and Skip Gorman 
Concert in Bristol
If you’re hankering for some good music 
and some good times or are tired of the 
Thursday night bar scene, this concert 
may be the place for you. Singer Connie 
and guitarist will explore the Celtic roots 
of cowboy music. The event will be held at 
the First Baptist Church on Park Street. 
For more information call (802) 453-
5982.
SEPT. 26, 7 - 9 P.M.
Vermont Sun Run in Salisbury
Snow is just around the corner and 
our nice fall days are numbered, so get 
outside this weekend and participate in 
the Vermont Sun Run in Salsibury at the 
Branbury State Park. There are runs for 
everyone, from a 5k, 10k or half-mara-
thon. For more information call (802) 
388-6888
SEPT. 29, 10 A.M - 10 P.M.
Contra Dance in Middlebury
Get your dancing shoes ready for some 
Saturday night contra dancing. Dudley 
Laufman, an acclaimed musician and 
bar dance caller, will be calling the event. 
Don’t know how to contra dance? Don’t 
worry! All the dances are taught and you 
don’t need experience or a partner. Wear 
soft-soled non-street shoes. Admissions 
are $7. For more information call (802) 
388-7828
SEPT. 28, 7:30 - 9:30 P.M.
Living History Presentation in Orwell
Interested in history, acting and maybe 
both at the same time?! The English 
actor-playwright Howard Burnham will 
present “Losing America: Lt. Gen. John 
Burgoyne” at the Mount Independence 
State Historic Site in Orwell. Burnham 
will portray, in character, the account 
of Burgoyne’s 1777 Northern Campaign 
experiences. $5 for adults, kids under 15 
are free. For more information call (802) 
948-2000
SEPT.  28, 2 - 3 P.M.
Courtesy
The Vermont Community Foundation will promote markets like Middlebury’s.
Shelburne Harvest Fest Attracts Hundreds
Saskia Pownall-Gray
Alex Edel
The 35th Annual Harvest Festival took 
place at Shelburne Farms on Satur-
day, Sept. 21. Left: The crowds swelled 
throughout the day. Above: Farm ani-
mals were on display.
 September 26, 2013 | 7local
opinions
We’ve all been there. You’re sitting in class, and someone 
in front of you is watching the soccer game on his computer 
or browsing New York Times headlines. Despite your best 
your eyes drift as you wonder about the 
New Jersey Senate race or why Paul Krug-
man used the word “hipster” in a headline.
Some professors know this phenom-
enon, too, with more and more deciding to 
ban computers in the classroom. The ra-
tionale is that students hurt not only them-
selves, but also those around them who are 
distracted by their computer screens while 
in class. Choosing to browse BuzzFeed in-
stead of paying attention in class may be 
a personal decision, but this apathy is contagious, spreading 
from one student to others. By disengaging in class or in the 
c o m m u n i t y , 
you not only 
deny yourself 
the opportu-
voice, but you 
are denying 
others the op-
portunity to be exposed to new ideas.   
Of course, this is not a one-sided contract. Professors 
should create dynamic engaging discussions in class, taking 
advantage of that small average class size about which tour 
guides love to brag. They should draw current events, both on 
campus and in the world, into the classroom to push us to ap-
ply our education to our surroundings. In any given class, the 
student make-up provides a perfect forum to discuss timely 
issues.
We use our small size as an excuse to maintain “civility.” 
But sometimes this “civility” is no more than passivity, a fear 
of engaging wholly and passionately with the issues that mat-
ter to us most because we might have to share a Panini press 
the next day with those with whom we disagree. At Middle-
bury, we pride ourselves on our diversity of opinions, and yet, 
when we are given a platform to hold an open discourse and 
present these opinions, we choose instead to hide behind our 
computer screens or congregate in small factions to feed like 
mindsets instead of engaging others because it is safe and 
easy. But that is nothing more than cowardice masquerading 
as politeness. We must not back down. 
This is not to say that we should engage in ad hominem-
great debater is like being a great athlete. An athlete must be 
able to withstand the throes of battle within his or her arena 
blows, you drop all the hard feelings pent up during the heat 
of battle, shake your opponents’ hand and move on. Any 
unsportsmanlike conduct is childish and detrimental to the 
participants as well as to the integrity of the game itself. Mid-
dlebury is our arena. Debate of important issues is our sport, 
not a bloodsport, but a gentleman’s game. It is a disservice to 
all, participants and spectators alike, not only if we break the 
code of sportsmanship, but also if we do not perform to the 
fullest of our capabilities. We can maintain the “air of civility 
and respect” that President Leibowitz called for in his letter 
when discussing the Sept. 11 incident while still bringing our 
passions and intensity into play. So tear down that wall that 
exists between you and your peers and push to expand be-
yond ideologically similar friends. This challenge can become 
   This requires being proactive. Sit next to someone new 
in class and engage with them. Close your computer and be 
present. Stop writing on Middlebury Confessional and go talk 
to your Proctor crush. In a world of online engagement, it is 
easy to be passive in person and emboldened online. Nev-
ertheless, embracing the discomfort of an in-person debate 
ultimately makes us stronger as individuals and as a commu-
nity.
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifi-
able events; the use of vulgar language or per-
sonal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article 
that contains any of the aforementioned will be 
removed before publication. Contributors will 
be allowed to reference prior articles published 
in the Opinions section or announcements for 
the public record. If a reference is made to prior 
articles, the submission will be considered a let-
ter to the editor.  The Campus will not accept or 
print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed 
by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as 
reviews, columns, editorial comics and other com-
mentary, are views of the individual contributors 
and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submis-
sions at 800 words or less. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at 
www.middleburycampus.com. To be considered 
for publications, submissions must be received by 
5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic 
year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and busi-
ness offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, 
Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is 
produced on Apple Macintosh computers using 
Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press 
Republican in New York. The advertising deadline 
for all display and classified advertising is 5 p.m. 
Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Mid-
dlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business 
phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribu-
tion concerns to the Business Director. First class 
postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
Close the Computer, Open the Dialogue
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kyle Finck
MANAGING EDITOR
Alex Edel 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Emily Singer, Kelsey Collins, Nate Sans, 
Claire Abbadi
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Zach Drennen, Jack 
Dolan
SPORTS EDITORS 
Damon Hatheway,
Owen Teach, Alex Morris, Joe MacDonald
LOCAL EDITORS 
Molly Talbert, Illana Gratch
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Isabelle Stillman, Joe 
Flaherty
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Ben Anderson,
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anthea Viragh, Paul Gerard, Jessica
 Munyon
DESIGN EDITORS
Olivia Allen, Ian Stewart
ONLINE EDITORS
Greg Woolston, Stephanie Roush
COPY EDITOR
Dan Bateyko
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
decided by the 
editorial board.
By now, I would hope that the majority of students at Middle-
bury College have heard of the whistleblower Edward Snowden and 
know why he is currently stuck in legal limbo in Russia. Most people 
have probably also heard of “Planning Tool for Resource Integration, 
Synchronization, and Management” (PRISM), though the role and 
people’s minds by the government’s re-
action to Snowden’s actions. 
Since May 2013, Snowden has taken 
and then in Russia after leaking to the 
Guardian papers exposing the massive 
and secretive data mining program, 
PRISM, operated by the National Secu-
rity Agency (NSA) since 2007. The reac-
tion to the leaked information by the public was largely one of out-
rage: calling for more transparency in our government and fear of a 
Big Brother scenario in which the government spies on its citizens 
constantly. However, President Obama’s reaction – aside from a few 
comments assuring the average American citizen that they are safe 
from government spies – has been to label Snowden as a criminal 
and a traitor to his country. 
This past summer, the trial of another major whistleblower 
Chelsea Manning (née Bradley Manning) came to a close. Though 
Manning was acquitted of the charge of aiding the enemy, she was 
parallels between the Snowden and Manning cases, but I think the 
differences raise some interesting questions about Obama’s handling 
of Snowden.  
I do, in large part, support the actions of Manning. I believe that 
her decision to put herself at risk by leaking the Iraq War Logs to the 
organization WikiLeaks was incredibly brave and that she brought to 
light many injustices conducted by the U.S. government through the 
course of the war in Iraq. It is our right as U.S. citizens to be made 
aware of what our government does in the course of war – both good 
and bad. However, I do understand the government’s case in arguing 
that Manning’s actions put the lives of many U.S. soldiers in danger 
and that was important in considering her sentence. 
To me, though, Snowden is different. This is information that 
that the lives of U.S. citizens are put in danger by this knowledge 
reaching any of America’s “enemies.” The U.S. government is in a 
scramble to cover the publicity nightmare following these leaks and 
suddenly the babblings of tin-foil wearing conspiracy theorists seem 
a bit more grounded in truth. Numerous documented cases of pub-
programs; private data is being collected from sites such as Google 
and Facebook, both through explicit cooperation with these compa-
nies and through the application of illicit backdoor access to data; 
access to this mined data is being provided to Israel, regulated only 
on an “honor system.” All of this and more has been revealed by these 
leaks and there is some indication that there may be even more infor-
mation that Snowden has withheld as of yet.
The Guardian recently published an opinion piece by Bruce 
Schneier, in which Schneier issued a call to members of the tech and 
internet industries, as well as the public at large, to reject this real-
ity of government spying and “take back the internet.” I am not say-
ing that everyone at the College should seek out government secrets 
in order to expose them. However, I am saying that we as a society 
should promote a culture in which whistle-blowers and the journal-
ists who support them by publishing their leaks should be applauded 
as champions of justice – not labeled as traitors to their government. 
In some of the information revealed by Snowden’s leaks, it has 
been shown that Congress has the power to challenge requests by the 
NSA for certain information. If Congress is supposed to represent the 
people, then it is our job to contact our representatives in Congress 
and tell them that we will not stand for these attempts at tyranny. We 
-
ever, it takes a whole new level of apparent maliciousness to actively 
spy on your own citizens – and then to blatantly deny it in court.
notes from 
the desk 
Ben Anderson ’14.5 is 
an Arts and Sciences
editor from Towson, M.D.
We cannot sacrifice liberty for security
In November 2011, a student at Williams College painted the 
wall of a dormitory with a racist, profanity-laced death threat aimed 
at African-Americans. In response, the administration canceled all 
classes, athletics and extracurricular activities to hold a school-wide 
discussion and lunch as a college on the following day of classes. 
There is no way to compare the ac-
tual events at Williams to the Sept. 11 
the Campus and middbeat exposed sig-
come from outside of our community, 
there is no denying a lot of it came from 
within the bubble. There is no question 
that the action was hurtful and wrong — it is an open and shut case 
— but the reactions of what last week’s editorial penned “arm chair 
vigilantes” exposed a dark undercurrent of discontent aimed at stu-
dent activism that, until a few weeks ago, did not have a politically 
Our generation has a problem with talking to each other about 
contentious issues face to face. For whatever reason, we prefer the 
online arena. The Vice President for Academic Affairs organized 
seven talks led by faculty members over the course of the week af-
terward. When the Campus has more reporters at an event than 
there are students, something is wrong. 
But the paltry student attendance could have been foreseen. 
How to attract students to voluntary events has always been the 
million-dollar question, and one lone e-mail was a ten-dollar an-
swer. In my four years reporting here, the most widely attended 
event was an alcohol forum in May 2011. The e-mail inviting stu-
dents to the event asked: “is a dry campus the only option?” At the 
standing-room-only discussion, students from all backgrounds 
vented frustrations at each other, at Old Chapel, and at the drinking 
culture in general. But most importantly, we looked each other in 
the face, and worked it out in same room. That kind of discussion 
was sorely needed in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 incident.
President Liebowitz’s e-mail to the College the morning after 
-
bate and dialog can only occur within a context of respect and civil-
ity. The online dialog that occurred in the days after the incident 
was neither respectful nor civil. Inside the Campus editorial discus-
uncomfortable at times, the debate ultimately led to the common 
ground of condemning the act, but pleading for due process and 
dignity for our community. Could that same understanding and 
on Friday, Sept. 13 be devoted to an open discussion of the incident 
and the reactions? 
We missed an opportunity. 
We Missed an Opportunity
notes from 
the desk 
Kyle Finck ’14 is the 
Editor-in-Chief from New 
York, N.Y.
Table Meals” published on Sept. 19 in the Features section contained incorrect information. Middlebury 
Foods is not a 501c-3, but is incorporated in Vermont. Mark Curran is a representative of Black River Pro-
duce, and Michael Nishan is the chef involved in creating sustainable recipes.
The Campus regrets these errors.
Correcton
|September 26, 2013 9opinions
Justifying a Carbon Footprint
Bill McKibben, one of the nation’s leading environ-
mentalists, actually pollutes far more than the average 
Last week I presented why a concept known as “earn-
ing to give” may be, counter-intuitively, a better strategy 
Earning to give is a strategy of working in a high-earning 
sector and donating a large amount of your money away 
One of the strongest criticisms of this strategy is that 
one’s employment may do more harm than the person’s 
giving does good (or at least that the person’s “net good” 
is lower than working on a another job). Not all “high-
critique that is important for each of us to consider before 
taking a job; however, there are two key considerations 
that make this point less compelling to me. 
-
ment” (marginal utility for Econ buffs). For example, say 
Jennifer works at J.P Morgan and Tom works at the char-
replacement employee, and that both Tom and Jennifer 
are similarly talented as other job seekers, but are more 
socially conscious. If you believe that J.P. Morgan has a 
negative effect on the world – which is plausible – that 
does not actually mean that Jennifer does. 
We should think of her contribution relative to a hy-
pothetical replacement, or her “value above replacement.” 
If she is equally skilled but more socially responsible 
within her role at the bank than her replacement would 
have been, she could be having a very positive net contri-
bution for the world. Tom should also be judged relative 
to his hypothetical replacement employee at charity x, 
where his replacement is likely to share similar values. In 
this sense, the return on an individuals’ social conscious-
ness may be higher in banking than in charity.
Talent may work in the opposite direction: if Tom is 
particularly talented, his return of “good” on that talent 
might be higher in managing an effective charity than if 
he were the very best trader at J.P. Morgan. Innovation 
-
able, while low-skilled desk work is less so. Therefore, 
evaluating people by the industry or company they work 
The other key insight is acknowledging that each of 
our impacts on the world is marginal. Jennifer may be 
participating in an unjust social order, but as a marginal 
actor, simply refusing to participate in the twisted game 
that is our contemporary global economy is actually re-
neging her responsibility to face the moral ambiguities 
in fact, there are probably thousands vying to at any mo-
ment – so it’s better her than a likely replacement. Change 
is just as likely to come from within powerful institutions, 
driven by morally conscious individuals like Jennifer, as 
This marginal consideration matters for each of us, 
and leads to some morally uncomfortable but compel-
ling conclusions about how we conceive of doing the most 
good. This is where McKibben comes in.  
If everybody cut his or her carbon emissions by 20 
percent, our environment would be in much better shape. 
every week to protest environmentally destructive policy; 
he should, even if it means his carbon emissions are 75 
times that of the average American, so long as his impact 
is greater than his harm. In fact, if he had a moral stance 
far less (and Keystone XL could be halfway done). 
The same is arguably true about those passionate 
about the greater good but who are unwilling to grapple 
with a high-earning job for ethical reasons.
This marginal consid-
eration also matters with 
regard to where you give. I 
am profoundly disgusted by 
U.S. domestic incarceration, 
and think it is the principle 
human rights issue that we 
face as a nation. However, be-
cause I am operating at the margin, I will likely never give 
any money to incredible organizations like the Innocence 
project. The opportunity cost of giving to such causes in-
stead of de-worming children in Africa or distributing ma-
laria nets is far too high. I loathe domestic incarceration, 
but my money will always be guided by where the highest 
marginal return of each dollar is, which is likely to always 
be abroad and meeting fundamental human needs.
So long as you believe that all human lives are mor-
ally equivalent – at least outside of your immediate family 
should not matter for marginal actors (i.e. everybody) 
who most deserves to be helped, but rather how one can 
do the most good for the most people. As we saw with 
Margaret and Ben last week, the lives saved by one cause 
can be orders of magnitude higher than those saved by 
another.  
We should prioritize the maximum good of the world 
above a personal concept of justice, even if the means are 
unsavory and it requires complex ethical dilemmas. Want 
to save the environment? It may mean you may have to 
take a plane.
Ted Cruz really does not want you to 
get health insurance.
Through a combination of snark and 
a false bravado that might trick his con-
stituents into thinking that the Canadian-
born Senator from Texas was actually at 
the Alamo, Cruz, Utah Senator Mike Lee, 
and the Tea Party were able to convince the 
House of Rep-
resentatives to 
pass a resolu-
tion to con-
tinue funding 
for the govern-
ment but deny 
the necessary 
funding for 
the implementation of the Affordable Care 
Act (Obamacare). This represents the last 
chance for the wave of teabaggers who 
came into Washington promising to op-
pose the legislation at all costs to accom-
plish their goal and kill the bill. 
Eric Cantor, previously my least favor-
ite member of Congress, had initially sug-
gested that the House pass and send to the 
Senate a stand-alone bill defunding Obam-
acare. This would have 
been a tough vote for 
red-state Democrats 
up for reelection and 
an easy vote for most 
Republicans. But that 
wasn’t high-stakes 
enough for Cruz; 
it would have eas-
ily been vetoed by the 
President and wouldn’t have gotten him a 
full calendar of talk show appearances. He 
instead suggested that the measure be tied 
to the resolution funding the government. 
Failure to pass a funding resolution means 
The House of Representatives passed that 
resolution last Friday. 
Cruz has made a career of denying 
health care to those whose parents couldn’t 
pull quite as hard on their bootstraps as his 
did. His father began his political life as a 
college in the United States and making his 
fortune starting an oil company in Alberta, 
he swung hard to the right to become a Tea 
Party hero and the father of the worst Sen-
ator since McCarthy. If that comparison 
sounds dramatic, you should know that it 
came from Senator John McCain, who, ac-
cording to an aide, “hates Cruz.” By all ac-
counts, he is not alone in his dislike for the 
Texan, who wandered the hallways of his 
Princeton dorm room in a bathrobe and at 
Harvard Law refused to study with anyone 
who hadn’t attended Harvard, Princeton, 
or Yale (sorry, Middlebury Republicans 
hoping to someday work with him. You 
should have gone to a better school).
Cruz – who may be the least polite 
Canadian to ever cross the border – has 
Supreme Court as Texas’ solicitor general. 
He describes the giant painting of himself 
as reminding him to be humble because 
have had less to do with his arguments and 
more to do with the fact that he was argu-
ing that Texas be able to void a legal settle-
ment where it promised to improve the 
health care services it offered to impover-
ished children. Apparently it was one of his 
proudest moments. 
Now that Cruz’s measure has made its 
way to the Senate, he has said that he will 
ask Majority Leader Harry Reid to require 
that an amendment restoring funding for 
Obamacare to the funding resolution need 
threshold for amendments. If not, he says 
that he himself suggested, shutting down 
the government. Reid, who grew up in ru-
ral Nevada and used 
to box for fun, seems 
unlikely to comply 
with such a request, 
polite or otherwise.  
When Ted Cruz 
runs for President, 
he can presumably 
say that he voted for 
defunding Obam-
acare before he voted against it.
If Democrats can get six Republican 
votes for the resolution, the shutdown 
will not happen. Since McCain seems to 
be motivated almost entirely by whom he 
dislikes at any given moment, it is likely 
that they have at least one. Polls show that 
the majority of the public do not believe 
that turning off the lights on government 
– sending children home from preschools 
funded by HeadStart, furloughing govern-
ment employees, halting the processing 
of paperwork and closing National Parks 
all at a cost of hundreds of million dollars 
per day – is a smart idea. Cruz is more than 
smart enough to realize the effect that his 
showboating might have. Not to mention 
the fact that even a total government shut-
down would fail to delay the implementa-
tion of Obamacare. But good government 
has never been a consideration for the ju-
nior Senator who has never proposed nor 
passed an actual bill – only the brightness 
of his personal star and the shininess of his 
ostrich-skin cowboy boots. 
We are, I have been told, part of the 
worst generation ever: the entitlement 
generation, the lazy generation, the gener-
ation of Facebook, mass connectivity and 
environmental activism.  Now, there is a 
certain tendency in this country to look 
down on the up-and-coming youth while 
glorifying the deeds of the old and well 
established.  Or as The Who might put it: 
“People try to put us down.  Talkin’ bout 
my generation.”
I am irked when people identify me as 
being a part of the worst generation ever. 
For one, I just don’t believe it.  I would 
doubt that any of us do.  What kind of col-
lege would we have if it actively believed 
it was producing a generation that was 
worse than the one that came before? 
I do, however, have some ideas as to 
where this mentality may have arisen.  
There is no doubting our country has 
changed, even from our childhood.  Look-
ing back at the last ten years alone, one 
years ago.  One of the biggest differences is 
while military might still affects the world, 
society itself has be-
come less militarized. 
veterans returning 
home post World War 
“Golden Generation” 
just does not exist for 
us.  In fact, the luster 
of combat has faded 
considerably.  When 
once conscripted men shared a bond of 
fraternity, our general outlook on the mil-
itary is far more sedated.  The same might 
The far more global and comprehensive 
news coverage allows us an individuality 
of opinion, for better or worse, on events 
around the world.  After all, it did not take 
Iraq was a mistake.
So the rugged militaristic patriotism 
is something that has faded.  But what has 
it been replaced by? Apparently, freeload-
ing, narcissistic twenty-somethings that 
are still regarded as children.
We are regarded as the “Worst Gen-
eration Ever,” not because we cannot 
emulate those who came before, but more 
likely because the rules of the game have 
changed.  Community means something 
entirely different than it once did.  We 
have lightning-quick access to informa-
tion and as it happens, are quite savvy 
with it.  When once you might have to go 
to the local coffee shop to talk about the 
news, now we can do it with a status up-
date and feel validated about it.  Political 
engagement is now more a matter of re-
sponding to people’s forum comments as 
opposed to meeting in person.  Television 
seems to be an essential in every home 
and in many ways our generation grew up 
fearing direct contact with the world and 
staying remarkably introverted.
It remains to be seen whether these 
changes are good 
or bad, but they 
have happened, 
a fact that those 
of older genera-
tions might for-
get in their haste 
to call us entitled 
and spoiled. 
While they may 
have had to heave themselves up by their 
bootstraps, our generation as a whole 
has not had the best luck.  We were very 
much the victims of the 2008 crash, and 
they wonder why we aren’t going to work 
quick enough? Most of us were brought up 
in a tense culture of fear and uneasiness, 
action.  There is no 
longer the looming 
threat of Commu-
nism, but instead 
the far more slippery 
threat of terrorism. 
So yeah, we got a lit-
tle messed up some-
where along the way.
Where I think 
there is a point to be 
made is about our passion.  While our 
generation comparatively is far more 
tolerant, and even better educated, we 
There’s no Vietnam to protest, no Berlin 
Wall to tear down.  Rock and Roll doesn’t 
shake our bones and Jay-Z doesn’t have 
the same political-social thrust of Bruce 
Springsteen, Bob Dylan or the Rolling 
Stones.  Some would argue our “cause” is 
environmental activism.  Do we rally in 
the same way though?  Do we take to the 
-
tling.  While petty activism is something 
this campus is all too familiar with, there 
is nothing that binds us together as an age 
group in the same way.  
So what do we bring to the table? 
More people are going to college than ever 
before.  We can coordinate revolutions via 
internet, we have a level of connectivity 
that we identify and take in stride.  Are we 
apathetic though?  Apolitical?  Or maybe 
just introverted.  One way or another it 
seems we’re not trying to cause a big sen-
sation, I’m just talkin’ bout my generation.
apply 
liberally
Zach Drennen ’13.5 is 
from Canandaigua, N.Y.
roll the windows up on cruz My Generation
warm Glow
Hudson Cavanaugh 
’14 is from New York, NY
The 
Unpopular 
Column
Andrew DeFalco ’15.5 
is from Toronto, Canada.
“Cruz has made a career 
of denying health care 
to those whose parents 
couldn’t pull quite as 
hard on their bootstraps 
as his did.”
“Political engagement 
is now more a matter of 
responding to people’s 
forum comments as 
opposed to meeting  
in person.”
opinions10 september 26 2013 | 
A Defense of Books
An increasingly dominant strain of 
thought at American universities and col-
leges embraces a certain materialism. Ma-
terialism here refers not to a consumerist 
urge or to a Marxist ethic, although nei-
ther is wholly 
unrelated, but 
rather to a 
worldview that 
treats reality as 
no more than 
what can be ob-
served through 
social sciences. These students will learn 
statistical models to human behavior and 
how to use genetic modeling to study char-
acter. But they will not do—at least not 
very much—what students at liberal arts 
not learn about the dominant modes of 
Western Civilization.
The so-called decline of the humanities 
-
and thus obscured or outright denied the 
Yet what the humanities face now is 
-
tant things. This latest challenge does not 
both natural and social. Neuroscience and 
economics can teach 
us more about how 
than can “Hamlet”. 
Biology teaches us 
-
ness than do Aristo-
tle’s “Nicomachean 
Ethics” or contem-
-
several notable commentators have stood 
The New 
Republic, literary critic Leon Wieseltier 
-
-
mally a leading materialist, has been lam-
-
cidents together with the mechanism of 
natural selection,” Nagel writes in “Mind 
than what science can observe and study, 
consider Nagel’s claims obvious. Nagel is 
Scientists will claim 
that these things are 
not real, but are in 
fact what has been 
termed a “manifest 
image.” Nagel is un-
answer.
The question 
before us, as an aca-
demic community, 
is whether we too 
-
-
science, it may be too late. Political science 
-
-
-
towards statistics. To be sure, the meth-
to social sciences with great success. But 
-
cal analyses alone tell us how to organize 
not always directly relate to this defense of 
the contention that literature can teach us 
-
methods have no value. They surely do. 
-
claim that gender distinctions bear no re-
false. But science has limits, and we ignore 
-
feels when he sees his newborn daughter.
are elusive, to the extent students even 
-
a generation without faith in everything 
Literature reminds us of our traditions and 
natures so as to restrain and thus enable 
are that allows for irony and humility. To 
subordinate it to science or ideology is to 
subordinate ourselves.
Citizen
kanye
Harry Zieve-Cohen ’15 
is from Brooklyn, N.Y.
A Call for Civility
As faculty members at Middlebury College, we were 
-
resent those who died or about 
need not to desecrate them, we 
-
damentally disagree with one another, we should not be 
-
triotic” nor “nationalistic settler” or “liberal fascists.” More 
words that,  “We live in an academic community that fos-
-
who are engaged citizens. Sometimes we disagree on both 
-
acting with conviction are values we hold dear.
The act may be universally condemned by the Middle-
bury community; the student should not be. She is busy 
-
moment.
-
-
ties, and a community in which we all assume that we are 
acting with good intentions.
members of the Middlebury community who have re-
we should in fact do as President Liebowitz suggested and 
encourage civility and debate. 
Signed:
Tara Affolter
Febe Armanios
Erik Bleich
Penny Campbell
Maggie Clinton
Darien Davis
James C. Davis.
Dave Dorman
Laurie Essig
Cheryl Faraone
Juana Gamero de Coca
William Hart
Sujata Moorti
Kevin Moss
Mike Olinick
Ellen Oxfeld
Robert Prasch
Max Ward
Dana Yeaton
Reader OpEd
On behalf of the 
undersigned faculty 
members
“Yet what the humani-
ties face now is not merely 
confused attempts to limit 
the value of books but an 
outright denial of their 
ability to teach us the most 
important things.”
11 Advertisement| September 26, 2013
FORTH ‘N GOAL SPORTS
           388-3444
Vermont T’s & Sweats featuring Woody Jackson, 
Keep Vermont Weird & Vermont Clothing Co. Designs
HUGE SELECTION!
MIDDLEBURY GEAR
ePanther
  2 ATMs on campus  
(Student Center and the  
Library) plus 4 free ATMs  
near campus (Middlebury 
Market & Cafe, 30 Main St.,  
15 Seymour St. and Rte 7 So.)
  Over 100 additional  
free ATMs (Falcon Network)
  No minimum balance
  No monthly fee
  eStatement
  Free online banking
  Free bill pay
  Free mobile banking
B B
877-508-8455
ePanther
 AN
ACC
NO minimum balance 
or monthly fee 
 G
O
 P
AN
R
!
8810_NBM_MC_ePantherAd_02cm.indd   1 9/4/13   3:35 PM
news.
local news.
opinions.
features.
arts.
sports.
&
alex edel. 
it’s all online.
visit
middleburycampus.com
or go/thecampus
advertise with
The Middlebury 
Campus Publications
e-mail campusbiz@middlebury.edu
for rates and information
13features
RATTLESNAKE CLIFF: Contributed by Jenny Mo!ett ’16 
I really like the Rattlesnake Cli! hike in Branbury. It’s got a stellar 
view of Lake Dunmore and the area and is a pretty decent little 
hike. The mileage isn’t bad and there is a little bit of elevation, 
plus you go through several di!erent looking areas. Also there 
is a lovely bridge and creek along the hike that is nice to stop 
and swim in. The Falls of Lana are nearby, some of the rocks 
in the beginning of the hike are really cool, and there is a lot 
of vegetation (dope-looking moss). But really, the view is the 
best part of the hike.
3.9 miles, 3 hours, 22 minute drive from campus
CLIFF BUENO DE MESQUITO ’14:
The Moosalamoo Wilderness o!ers beautiful hiking trails in 
the front range of the Green Mountains, close to campus. It is 
a National Recreation Area and has over 70 miles of trails for 
hiking, biking, snowshoeing, skiing, The Falls of Lana, Silver 
Lake, and Rattlesnake Cli!s are big attractions in the Moo-
salamoo Wilderness near Lake Dunmore. However, there is 
much more to explore. You can take the Snow Bowl shuttle 
bus up Rt. 125 and ask the driver to drop you at the Oak Ridge 
Trail Head or the Robert Frost Trails. Both trailheads lead to 
other trails in the interior of the wilderness. If you are feeling 
adventurous and have a topographical map, you can bush-
wack up the Pine Hill and Bryant Mt. if you start at Oak Ridge. 
There is also a river and waterfall in this section. Another op-
tion is to hike Mt. Moosalamoo; you can leave from a trailhead 
by the northeast side of Lake Dunmore, or continue north 
from the Rattlesnake Cli!s. The whole area is beautifully for-
ested, at times o!ering views west to the Champlain Valley 
and Adirondacks. It’s great because it is easy to get to but 
there is so much to explore. You will see several forest types 
typical of the Green Mountains, and, if you’re lucky, maybe 
some moose and porcupines.  
LAKE PLEIAD: Contributed by Carey Favaloro ’14
You may only have seen Lake Pleiad from the chairlift at the Snow Bowl, but it’s worth visiting in all seasons! Drive 
up to the top of Middlebury Gap (just past the entrance to the snowbowl) and you’ll see a pull-o! on your right. 
From here, you can hop onto the Long Trail toward the Snow Bowl. Before long, you’ll come to a scenic vista at 
the top of the Sheehan chair lift. Take a seat and take in the view before continuing on your way! After you cross 
a cleared ski trail, start keeping a lookout for the turn-o! to Lake Pleiad on your right -- it’s marked by a sign and 
blue blazes. If you’re feeling ambitious (or just need to work up more of a sweat before plunging into the lake) 
you can continue on the Long Trail to the summit of Worth Mountain. This hike is short and sweet! 
0.8 mile, Elevation gain: 150 feet, 27 minute drive from campus
 
ABBEY POND TRAIL: Contributed by Tess Sneeringer ’15
My favorite local one, about a 20 minute drive, is Abbey Pond 
Trail. It’s about a 2-hour hiking a!air that leads you up through 
deciduous forest right up to the conifer tree line ending with 
a beautiful, swimmable pond at the top with great views of 
a sunset! Up at the pond look for a red salamander called a 
Red Eft and pick some trout spinach on the way up for a snack 
(or collect enough to make a salad back in Proctor!). This trail 
is typically much less crowded than Snake Mountain and in-
volves just enough sweat to want to go swimming at the top!
1.8 miles, 2 hours, 20 minute drive from campus
GORGE TRAIL: Contributed by Jake Fox ’15
Personally, one of my favorite trails to run is the Gorge Trail in Wright 
Park, as well as the lesser-known ITAM. I’ve also had an outrageously fun 
time on these trails on a mountain bike. But as much as I’d like to strap 
on trail runners each day, we still pound quite a lot of pavement ... Some 
of our athletes began their careers in more urban parts of the country 
(like Jersey, as one pertinent example) and seem to have an aversion 
to anything not asphalt or concrete. Plus, some of the guys have pretty 
high mileage demands, which are more easily satis"ed on a #at, open 
road. As a team, we tend to compromise and vote on where to go -- per-
sonally, I always cast mine for dirt.
(Otter Creek Gorge Preserve Trail is part of the Trail Around Middlebury 
(TAM), a 17-mile loop around the Town of Middlebury. Walk along a 
meadow fence line and you will follow the TAM down toward Otter 
Creek. Cross the Dan and Peggy Arnold Bridge to get to a short trail for 
jog strollers, but hikers can continue onto Belden Falls to get stellar views 
of Otter Creek Gorge. In the spring, keep your ears perked for watering 
thunder! (Parking available at Horse Farm Road).
Length: 1.7 miles for jogging, hiking
 
LONG TRAIL —Portions of Vermont’s Long Trail go through and can be 
accessed by side trails in Addison County. (270 total miles from Mass. To 
Canada) – start at 1692 Bingo Brook Road, 1 HOUR FROM CAMPUS
Green Mountain National Forest
SNAKE MOUNTAIN: 
A classic hike where you’re sure 
to see at least one other Middkid, 
even if you head up in the middle 
of the night (bring a #ashlight, the 
lights down below are beautiful.) 
3.6 miles, 2 hours, 
20 minute drive
OTTER CREEK 
There are lots of #atwater paddling sec-
tions or picnic areas next to the river (like 
in Wright Park). For a paddle, follow Court 
Street South, turn right on Halladay Road, 
and launch on Wild#ower Lane.
15 total miles, 11 minute drive
THE TAM 
The Trail Around Middlebury criss-crosses the roads all around campus 
numerous times, making access easy and any length of run, walk, or hike 
possible!
16 mile footpath, within walking distance from campus
BRISTOL FALLS & MIDDLEBURY GORGE  
If you want to take an icy dip...
(From Middlebury, take the combined highway US 7 south and VT 125 
east. Take a left onto VT 125 east heading towards East Middlebury 
when it breaks away from US 7. Continue traveling on VT 125 east for 
1.1 miles past the junction of VT 125 and VT 116, and the pullout will 
be on your right, just after crossing over the brook.)
MOUNT ABE:
O! Route 100 in Warren trail head 
is on Lincoln Gap Rd. Park at the top 
of Lincoln Gap and follow the Long 
Trail north for 2 1/2 miles passing 
the Battell Shelter after 1.8 miles.
5.2 miles, 3-4 hours, 
22 minute drive TRAILHEAD LOCATIONS IN THE MOOSALAMOO WILDERNESS:
-SILVER LAKE (BRANBURY) WEST TRAILHEAD, VT RTE 53 VIA SALISBURY
-SILVER LAKE EAST TRAILHEAD, FOREST ROAD (FR) 27 IN GOSHEN
-OAK RIDGE TRAILHEAD, VT RTE. 125, EAST MIDDLEBURY
-MOOSALAMOO TRAILHEAD, NEAR MOOSALAMOO CAMPGROUND, 
FOREST ROAD (FR) 24 IN GOSHEN
-MINNIE BAKER WEST TRAILHEAD, VT RTE 53 IN LEICESTER
-LEICESTER HOLLOW VIA FAY MEADOW OFF FOREST ROAD (FR) 40
GET OUT WHILE YOU CAN
A GUIDE TO EXPLORING VERMONT IN THE FALL|LIVE IT UP IN THE FALL FOLIAGE
ADDISON COUNTY MIDDLEBURY
Hike or play in the water?
PLAY
Swim or paddle?
Swim Paddle
HIKE
Do you have a car?
YES
NO
Want to go right this second?
YES NO
Go long or short?
LONG SHORT
BY JESSICA CHEUNG AND ISABELLE STILLMAN
DESIGN BY OLIVIA ALLEN
12 features | September 26, 2013 September 26, 2013   
Does the Constitution make America 
a great nation?
On Thursday, James W. Ceaser, pro-
fessor of politics at the University of Vir-
ginia, made the case in a lecture for the 
Constitution as the wellspring of American 
greatness.
Professor of Political Science Murray 
Dry introduced Ceaser, explaining how 
the origins of the Constitution Day lecture 
can be traced to a provision in a 2004 fed-
eral spending bill. The late Senator Robert 
Byrd included a requirement in that bill: 
any college or university receiving federal 
funding implement an educational pro-
gram to observe Constitution Day (Sep-
tember 17, the day the founders signed the 
Constitution). 
“I imagine that Senator Byrd and Con-
gress intended this as an imprecatory law, 
similar to the law that tells us how to dis-
recommended but the government was not 
going to be checking up on us,” Dry said. 
“Nonetheless, in the spirit of the rule 
of law I was delighted to comply.” 
Ceaser began by stating his goal. 
“The crux of the topic must be to show 
how the Constitution causes American 
greatness, if it does,” Ceaser said. “I’ll 
eventually set the bar even higher than 
this, asking how the Constitution almost 
by itself, and not as a consequence of any 
of its secondary effects, directly contrib-
utes to greatness.” 
“Most discussions of greatness I know 
focus on the individual person, not the na-
tion,” Ceaser said, citing George Washing-
ton and Abraham Lincoln as examples. 
But Ceaser said it may surprise some 
that the founders believed national great-
ness could be found by studying individu-
als. 
Ceaser also said a good nation is not 
necessarily a great nation. 
“Great nations by contrast, aim for 
something commendable.” According to 
Ceaser, nations such as Norway or Luxem-
bourg do not aim for greatness and may in 
fact spurn the idea. 
“At the end of the day, however, na-
tional greatness is a concept that must be 
understood at least partially, on its own 
terms, as a distinct phenomenon, and not 
merely as a copy of individual greatness,” 
Ceaser said. 
Ceaser then listed four characteristics 
that capture the idea of national greatness. 
Ceaser said that a great nation will 
have the means to impact other nations in 
the world.
“The power can be employed defensi-
bly, say, to thwart the conqueror bent on 
crushing and enslaving others,” Ceaser 
said.
He argued that time and again the 
United States has intervened in defensive 
actions, including on behalf of Western 
Europe, South Korea and Kuwait.
Second, Ceaser said that a great nation 
will add to civilization through cultural or 
Ceaser, “where America clearly is singular 
and made a massive contribution is in its 
innovation in modes of production and 
use of technology.”
“A great nation might be one chosen 
by God to play a role in his providential 
plan,” Ceaser said. 
As for this third mark of greatness (re-
ligious mission), Ceaser said many New 
England Puritans thought of America as 
building a city on a hill.  
“It’s not beyond the bounds of faith or 
reason to consider that there might be a 
special role for this almost-chosen people 
in providing a safe haven for the biblical 
religion and in offering a modicum of pro-
tection for those threatened and perse-
cuted around the world in its name,” said 
Ceaser.
Finally, he said a great nation pro-
duces a new and worthy mode of political 
organization as a model for others.
“America has staked its claim to great-
ness on a new form of government for the 
modern age,” said Ceaser, arguing that the 
transformation of governments around 
the world is a result of the United States 
Constitution. 
Considering the importance of the 
constitution to American government and 
society, Ceaser said the constitution must 
be a “precondition” to American greatness.
“The constitution, its conception, pro-
duction and adoption, make it a monu-
ment of achievement in the theory and 
practice of government, and for this it 
needs no one else,” said Ceaser. 
the Constitution was the way it was con-
ceived. 
“The adoption of this new govern-
ment was by choice or consent rather than 
force,” said Ceaser. “The requirement that 
large body of the people … is the decisive 
fact in the establishment of modern gov-
ernment in the world.”
Ceaser also said an argument in Fed-
eralist No. 49 makes the Constitution into 
something more than a contract binding 
together the United States.
 “The dimension of reverence was de-
liberately added as a way of stabilizing the 
Constitution into something more than 
paper or parchment,” said Ceaser. 
“The Constitution comes in some 
sense to occupy the same status as the 
crown in England, a symbol of the na-
tion, beyond the will of any institution or 
leader.” 
Zak Fisher ’16 said he had not heard 
of the law requiring a Constitution Day 
event.
“I didn’t know that that was an actual 
law; however, given the character of the 
American spirit, the fact that we’re cele-
brating our principles, our ideals, it doesn’t 
surprise me,” said Fisher. “I have no doubt 
that if there were no law we would still be 
celebrating just as we are today.” 
As for the content of Ceaser’s lecture, 
agreeing with everything Professor Ceaser 
had to say but I think he was eloquent and 
he gave very thoughtful and well-reasoned 
remarks.” 
Paris is a great city to get lost in. I 
know, because I’m an experienced wan-
derer. The part of my brain that should be 
able to match reality with labeled squiggles 
on paper (a.k.a. maps) works only inter-
mittently, and the “instinct” that tells me 
what metro exit to take is pretty much al-
ways wrong. I have a tendency to get lost, 
yes, and consider myself a bit of an expert 
when it comes to having no idea where I 
am. You might think it’s not the best thing 
to excel at, but hey, it allows me to say with 
interesting – or overwhelming, depending 
on whether you are late or not – without a 
compass.  
See, I am from Santiago, which is ba-
sically one big grid. The roads go on and 
on, in perfectly straight lines, which makes 
them pretty user-friendly and a little bor-
ing, I guess. As long as you keep in mind 
what turns you’ve made, and where, you’re 
adventurous, I pulled out my Lonely Plan-
et and decided to do something touristy 
(because that’s what you do when you feel 
adventurous, right?). Under “Paris in a 
week,” I found a walking tour of Montmar-
tre, the neighborhood of Amelie Poulin 
and the Moulin Rouge. The map informed 
me that I was in fact very close; the start-
ing point of the tour was not far from a 
metro station I knew well, Place de Clichy. 
Once I got there, I told myself, I’d easily 
with me would have been to give up any 
hope of being taken for a local, so I “stud-
ied” the map for 30 seconds and set off.  
Finding Place de Clichy was no prob-
lem, but when I tried to continue in the 
same “general direction” and found that 
the street I’d been following broke into 
say, my attempt to go in a straight line, 
Santiago-style, utterly failed. Just when I 
thought it was all for the better because I 
had “discovered” this little gem of a cine-
ma in what seemed to be the middle of no-
where, I found that I had in fact described 
a perfect circle, and the “hidden gem” was 
half a block away from good old Place de 
Clichy. I just had to laugh. 
I say it as though my little adventure 
wasn’t worth it, but the thing is, for the 
while I was “lost” I almost felt as though 
I was discovering this slice of Paris anew. 
I had quietly slipped out of the tourist 
highway and fancied myself suddenly in 
a real Parisian quartier, miles away from 
I’d discover the real baguette, nothing, 
of course, like its overpriced cousin over 
at Monoprix (the French equivalent of 
Walmart). Around here, no one would 
even think of asking me whether I spoke 
French, and my own accent would adjust 
naturally to the authentic French sur-
roundings. A few more hours wandering 
by osmosis!  Okay — maybe not. But it was 
kind of thrilling to make my own route, 
rather than follow the suggested one, even 
if it meant missing out on the (rather un-
the Moulin Rouge. The whole thing was 
possible thanks to my missing sense of di-
rection and the ubiquitous charms of this 
city, on or off the beaten path. 
Three weeks into my semester abroad, 
as I rush to class and fervently wish, just 
sometimes get exasperated at the lack of 
street signs and the surprising clueless-
ness of most people I stop to ask for di-
rections (I guess it’s not worth it to learn 
street names when they change every two 
blocks). Mostly, though, I remind myself 
that this, of all places, is one to get lost 
in — let’s just say I don’t mind being sur-
prised every time I unexpectedly spot the 
Eiffel tower in the distance. Keep it com-
ing, Paris!
14 features | September 26, 2013
By Vicky Marambio
MiddCAM is a new student organization 
that pairs a senior from Middlebury Union 
High School with a student from the College 
who acts as a mentor throughout the college 
admission process. Its goal is to prepare high 
school students for navigating the oft-daunt-
ing process of standardized testing, college 
essays and all else that comes with applying 
to colleges.
The high school works to identify stu-
dents who have particular interest in college 
and the idea of a mentor. The organization’s 
philosophy underscores what a help guid-
-
ence can be during a time that is simply over-
whelming for many students.
A friend of Megan Ernst ’15 approached 
her in the summer of 2012 about starting a 
branch of a program based in Palo Alto called 
Phoenix Scholars. The success of Phoenix 
Scholars is apparent; they annually send doz-
ens of their students to top-tier institutions 
around the country. That fall, Megan pitched 
the idea of opening a branch of Phoenix 
Scholars to the College.
Phoenix Scholars and MiddCAM have 
similar principles that revolve around men-
torship throughout the college application 
process. A key distinction between the two 
organizations is that Phoenix Scholars im-
poses three demographic criteria — that a 
student must be a minority, low-income and 
which its students must satisfy two.
After demographic research of Addison 
County, Ernst found that such requirements 
would seriously limit the eligible number of 
students the College could work with. Ul-
timately, she decided to start a completely 
new program, MiddCAM, that would cater to 
involved one-on-one mentor. Through a mu-
tual friend and shared interest Ernst teamed 
up with Jessica Kong ’15. They determined 
primary concern.
“We have expanded our focus to writ-
ing application essays, helping with college 
research and helping prepare them for every 
aspect of college.”
Mentors and mentees are often paired 
up randomly, Kong conceded. 
“It’s hard to match based on academic 
interest because no one really knows what 
they want to study,” she said.
Though a perfect match is not always 
possible, the goal is for the relationship be-
tween mentor and mentee to be personal-
ized. In all cases, a mentor will be a helpful 
resource with a fresh impression the college 
process.
Midd students understand the value of 
mentorship during application season, es-
pecially from a peer, rather than a trained 
expert. Caroline Guiot ’16 had a college coun-
selor in high school, but does not hesitate in 
saying what a help it would have been to have 
a college student to talk to about the applica-
tion process.
The value of such a mentor often proves 
irreplacable for certain students. “First gen-
eration kids don’t have the answers, partly 
because their parents never went to college 
or don’t speak enough English to get that 
kind of information,” MiddCAM Program 
Administrator Jessica Cheung ’15 said.
The inaugural MiddCAM mentors 
went to a training session hosted by the 
-
ing the session remembering their own col-
-
form their mentoring strategies.
Middlebury Union played a big role in 
identifying students who would be matched 
with mentors. This year, mentors will meet 
mentees in early October, midway through 
the fall of their senior year. However, both 
-
sequent years students will be paired with 
mentors in the second semester of junior 
year, just in time for the SAT. Once mentors 
and mentees are paired, they are granted a 
fair amount of autonomy.
There is no end date to the mentorship, 
Ernst estimates that the face-to-face inter-
action will be about an hour per week along 
with editing and research that might not re-
quire meeting in person. Mentors cover the 
academic side of the process, navigating the 
Common App and its intricacies, but they 
will also be there for questions that students 
might have about what awaits them. 
The mentor is responsible for estab-
lishing an agreeable schedule. Although the 
mentors have been briefed extensively, Gui-
ot admits that this inaugural year could be 
tricky.
“We are starting a little late in the college 
have a couple months to work with our men-
tee,” she said.
experience and Guiot acknowledges that she 
is not a professional but that her main job is 
“to share from my experience and help them 
stay on track.” The mentors will not be com-
pletely on their own in this process. Kong and 
Ernst, along with program administrators 
Cheung and Steven Zatarain ’15 will continu-
ally check in with mentors and offer an outlet 
for questions or concerns they may have.
MiddCAM exists to assure that students 
at an information disadvantage but have a 
demonstrated interest in attending college 
don’t fall through the cracks. MiddCAM is 
community — something Ernst describes as 
Middlebury’s “unique ability to provide men-
tors.”
Ernst and Kong have their eyes on the 
future and admit that in focusing on the se-
nior year, “we don’t change the academic 
course of someone’s high school career.”
Looking forward, expansion seems im-
minent. Primarily, MiddCAM hopes to start 
with students in junior year, which would 
cover the bulk of standardized testing. While 
has hopes to bring the program to other high 
schools in Addison County. For now, though, 
everyone involved is tremendously excited 
that the program is coming to life and that 
days away from being matched up.
MiddCAM Seeks to Close Achievement Gap
By Ivan Zeavin-Moss
By Joe Flaherty
On Getting 
Lost In Paris
Professor Talks Greatness on Constitution Day
15featuresSeptember 26, 2013   
MiddCAM Seeks to Close Achievement Gap
By Aphrodite 
Inhale the cigarette, exhale smoke. 
From the lungs and into the air, the words 
traveled from the minds of poets and into 
the hearts of the audience. In a loud and 
smoky room, warm ripples from the stage 
reached a large audience in an evening 
where vulnerabilities were exposed and a 
volatile mix of anger and humor brewed.
Spoken-word pieces with rhythm 
and rhyme rocked the house on Thursday 
night at 51 Main with Verbal Onslaught, a 
monthly verbal mic open to students and 
community members. With all cheers and 
no jeers, the brave poets — many of them 
-
ences, bringing light to heavy genres, with 
subjects that expanded from losing virgini-
ties to cancer, from falling in love abroad to 
gang violence.
Alex Strott ’15 confessed on stage that 
what she had to say was “not a poem, but 
a rant about a dyke on OKCupid,” how she 
could not help staring, imagining the world 
of possibilities both romantic and sexual. 
responded.
Ravenous for some turbulence in the 
night, Dahlak Brathwaite, a performer with 
Word Becomes Flesh — a spoken-word 
theatre group invited to the College for a 
weekend-long performance — stepped out 
of the audience and into the stage, warning 
the audience with a little sarcasm: “If this 
offends you, don’t worry.”
He proceeded to unleash a spoken 
word poem about the black stereotypes 
that eclipse his individuality. His com-
manding speaking style alarmed the audi-
ence as his voice accelerated in volume and 
anger, relaying his experience of being told 
he was an exception “one of the good ones, 
a good n*****. I wasn’t trying to prove to 
Brathwaite ended by slamming the 
the audience applauded wildly, though 
some felt not entirely sure what they just 
saw. Debanjan Roychoudhury ’16, host of 
the night’s event, set to gain back the audi-
ence by tempering the anger with humor: 
“People here are scared. Who’s scared? 
Raise your hand!” he said with his hand in 
the air. No one raised a hand, turning their 
heads to see if others felt the same way.
But rare and controversial voices need 
not to be feared but rather embraced.
“We want people to feel uncomfortable 
and a little bit out of their comfort zone,” 
Roychoudhury said. “That’s the point of 
Verbal Onslaught — is to be in your face. 
It’s not to offend, it’s not called Verbal 
Assault, but the point is to challenge at a 
place like Middlebury College, a place that 
claims to be multicultural and pluralistic. 
It keeps us on our toes and goes to show 
that as much as we know, there’s more to 
learn.”
With anger and surprise intertwined, 
the night of spoken word poetry — featur-
ing a group of students unlike the slam 
poets, who compete — combined lyric and 
comedy so unstaged that the event relied 
on friends of shy poets to drag them in 
front of the mic — even if it means some 
teasing and snaring.
The members od Word Becomes 
Flesh, for example, stopped by 51 Main to 
sit as audience members, but they quickly 
turned into special guest performers. “They 
got really into the moment, because it was 
not what they expected,” lead organizer of 
Verbal Onslaught Day Williams ’14.5 said. 
“They kept egging each other on, and their 
last member wasn’t actually going to get up 
and then someone got up and challenged 
each other: ‘well, we all got up, so what are 
you scared of? Do you not have something 
good enough to do?”
“That is the real spirit of an open mic 
night just like when you would see people 
come with their crew in New York City and 
I thought, ‘this is a real open mic night!’”
“You come in as an audience member 
of the show,” Roychoudhury said.
But some premeditation is necessary 
to even the capricious operations put on 
by the Verbal Onslaught. “I love that Word 
Becomes Flesh helped keep the crowd 
hyped,” Roychoudhury continued. “Typi-
cally, if they weren’t there, we would have 
plotted friends or one hype-man in the 
crowd to keep it going.”
The result of Word Becomes Flesh’s 
large presence in the room was that there 
were two stages: all eyes were on anyone 
speaking into the mic, but audeince mem-
bers simultaneously turned their atten-
tion to Word Become Flesh, whose energy 
could not be ignored.
This energy built a bridge between 
audience and performer. Looking into the 
faces of these performers, one could feel an 
intense solidarity with the performer root-
ed in same feeling. Whether consciously or 
unconsciously, it was possible to see parts 
that renders the world a little less lonely.
“Spoken word is two layered: you have 
what people are saying but then you also 
have the emotion and the intention behind 
it when they’re delivering it,” Williams 
said. “The performative aspect — that’s 
the connection to the audience. I may not 
necessarily understand that complex meta-
phor, but that emotion behind it is what I 
connected with and that’s what made me 
snap.”
Success in Verbal Onslaught doesn’t 
necessarily translate into badges to be 
-
cial student organization, a fact that may 
come as a surprise. Even without a bud-
to spend a dime. Verbal Onslaught binds 
with another student organization it hears 
is putting on shows or bringing poetry to 
an audience and asks to become part of the 
budding scene.
Williams admits that at Verbal On-
slaught they have no a strong desire to 
want to remain separate from bureaucra-
cies. The microphone will remain open 
to townspeople, students, professors and 
even tourists in an effort to keep being wel-
coming.
Verbal Onslaught’s choice not to be an 
on how little to no creative, non-academic, 
uncensored space Middlebury provides. 
The written word, it seems, is usually sub-
ject to be scrutinized, judged and editorial-
ized.
“We don’t have the opportunity on 
campus to write the way we did when 
we were in high school,” Williams said. 
“Middlebury doesn’t structure the school 
in a way that provides space for non-aca-
demic writing. Even for people who want to 
submit pieces to the Campus or Blackbird, 
there’s no opportunity for people to free-
write with other people, bouncing words 
off of people. This is not an organization; 
the school’s not watching you. [Free-write] 
happens at my house. Let’s just write and 
share.”
Verbal Onslaught hosts workshops 
that attract a full range of people — wel-
coming all who are shy and extroverted 
alike, retooling poetry to be victorious — 
not competitive. With an air of calmness 
and genuine love for fun, these are, by de-
sign, the people to help take arms against 
all frights and insecurities.
If someone comes to them shy and 
scared, Roychoudhury will coach the fear 
out. “So many times, the problem is that 
people have a fear of messing up,” he said. 
“But it comes with practice. If I wake you 
up at 3 a.m. and you recite it [on cue], you 
have overcome that fear.”
He cites Diku Rogers ’16, who delivered 
a poem about one-night stands on campus 
with command and force, as someone who 
has transformed wholly through the work-
shops. “She came in kind of nervious,” he 
vibe, having found her own persona and 
rhyme schemes. People felt that energy.”
Under new leadership this year, Ver-
bal Onslaught is experimenting with inte-
grative approaches through synergy in all 
forms of art. There has been talk of bring-
ing back a live painter they’ve had in years 
past who painted in the background while 
artists performed spoken-word poems. 
The resulting art piece that now hangs in 
the back room of Crossroads Café. In the 
spirit of inviting all people to come up on 
stage, Verbal Onslaught is also integrat-
ing open mic with African dance, song and 
drums.
grabbed the mic that evening, Williams de-
scribes the weird cathartic experience with 
time she performed her poem. “It’s off the 
page and it’s a living thing,” she said, ges-
turing with her hands in front of her and 
moving as though performing a poem is an 
delivery is where I’m looking for a reaction 
from the audience: ‘Did they get it?’ It’s in 
the world now, but I’ll make edits, know 
what it’s missing — I’ll even change words 
in the moment, knowing it will sound bet-
ter. You’re in it, you’re becoming it and you 
feel your art coming to life.”
Like Williams, we all visited our pasts 
that evening. By slamming the sport of 
spoken word the way Dahlak blasted the 
lasting impact of the words used to de-
scribe moments of vulnerability and panic, 
At Verbal Onslaught, Daring Poets 
Find Courage in Vulnerabilities
By Jessica Cheung
Hosts of Verbal Onslaught Day Williams and Debanjan Roychoudhury warms up the crowd for an 
evening of open mic poetry, providing a space for new voices.
JESSICA CHEUNG
Sex has always been a mystery for 
me. Not the act itself – anyone can ex-
plore that – but the immense range of 
ideas, ideals and social constructs we 
associate with sex. For some, it is an 
act forbidden until marriage, for oth-
ers it is a private act, for others still it 
is an act of conquest. This leaves me 
seemingly a minority, alone in feeling 
that sex is an amazing way to spend a 
Saturday night, an unabashed expres-
sion of lust and, above all, a natural act 
performed between two human beings 
who are not immoral, disgusting or 
slutty, but simply responding to their 
instincts. 
From childhood, we are condi-
tioned with the rhetoric and beliefs 
that our private parts (aptly named 
in reflection of our culture) should be 
hidden and protected at all times. Once 
we reach adolescence we are unable to 
shed this idea and oscillate between 
childish shame and the budding sexual-
ity that our instincts beg us to explore. 
This is an uncertain and insecure 
time, one plagued by insecurity wheth-
er or not you choose to pursue your sex-
uality. However, I have since come to 
understand and accept my attitude to-
ward and love of sex, despite a socially 
common sentiment that condemns it as 
“slutty.” But I realize many of us have 
accepted this about ourselves. I will 
therefore strive in this column to share 
my ideas and experiences with the all 
of you and to challenge the conception 
of sex as taboo. With every reader, who 
may realize they feel the same way, it 
may be possible for more people to ac-
cept how they feel about sex. 
Let’s start by acknowledging that 
our culture has made it extremely dif-
ficult to discuss sex in an open-minded 
manner. I hope that everyone who has 
experienced consensual sex can attest 
to it being a fun and positive part of 
life,. However, our socially practiced 
vocabularies tend to force us to discuss 
sexual encounters in a roundabout 
fashion. 
“I slept with that girl last night,” 
“I want to hook up with that guy,” “s/
he’s so hot.” All of these phrases can be 
heard in the dining halls, in the library 
cafe and in the locker rooms, but none 
of these common phrases explicitly de-
scribe the act or feeling of sex – they 
merely make vague references, saying 
very little. 
This is astounding. Sex is the rea-
son you and I are alive. Ultimately, sex 
is responsible for the survival of any 
species, including our own. So why are 
we unable to openly articulate it?
I, for one, have grown tired with 
this prude, false reality. For the rest of 
the year, every two weeks, I will discuss 
with you my innermost thoughts on the 
practice of sex, sex between different 
aged people, sex with multiple people, 
sex with forbidden groups of people, 
and everything in between. I have a lot 
to share, so I can only hope you stay 
tuned …
Let’s 
Talk
Sex
Introducing our new sex columnist, 
who will talk about all things sex on 
campus. Running biweekly and com-
plementing Hooking Up Sober, Let’s 
Talk Sex will be answering the ques-
tions about sex you were too afraid to 
ask. How do we talk about sex? Is it ok 
to be a cougar? Curious about a three-
some? For answers to these questions 
and more, look no further than our col-
umnist named for the Greek goddess of 
love. 
16 features | SEPTEMBER 26, 2013
By Joe Flaherty
The Man on Green Gator that Keeps Midd. Moving 
Maintenance carpenter Ed DeMatties installs a poster frame in the Axinn Center at Starr Library.
BY JOE FLAHERTY
While some students claim to have filled out a work order, the work of the Facil-ities Services staff that keeps Middle-
bury running smoothly often happens under the 
radar. As a result, many students do not know 
the extent of Facilities’ operations.
 “I think the magnitude and the time we 
spend would be the most surprising thing that I 
think people would find,” said Wayne Hall, Fa-
cilities Maintenance Supervisor for carpenters, 
painters, and locksmiths.
The trades that fall under Facilities’ purview 
include carpentry, plumbing, heating, landscap-
ing, electrical, an auto shop, car rentals, night 
watch and waste management — not to mention 
snow removal. That magnitude is apparent from 
even a brief tour of the Facilities building. 
The first point of contact students have with 
Facilities happens at a front office. 
“All phone and computer information comes 
through the control desk and the intention is to 
have it funnel through here so we don’t miss any-
thing,” said Hall. The control desk prints work 
orders based off that information. 
Most of the staff carry 
two-way radios so they 
can be contacted 
immediate-
ly.  A 
corridor with 
offices of manage-
ment personnel and an IT 
staffer is next to the control desk. 
An additional room in that hallway is the 
plan room, with large metal filing cabinets with 
original floor plans of various buildings.
“All of the buildings from when they were 
constructed have all their plans here – electrical, 
everything,” said Hall. “If we have questions this 
is our resource for checking in history.”
One of Hall’s responsibilities is managing 
the locksmiths.  
“We have a full lock shop here,” said Hall 
near the entrance to the office where locksmiths 
solve broken locks.  “All the keys you need, all the 
keys we need, they do it here.”
The locksmith shop is also an example of 
how the work of the Facilities staffers is evolving 
all the time.
“Now we are going install more keypad 
locks,” Hall said. “Each year we are trying to do 
more and more so we rely less on keys and more 
on combo.” 
A large table next to the lock room is where 
staff repairs windows, screens, and window 
shades.
While the Facilities staff does most of the 
work that is needed, contractors are occasionally 
brought in. Chimney repair, masonry and other 
major painting projects are handled by contrac-
tors who are contacted by a Facilities staffer spe-
cializing in outsourcing work.
Downstairs, custodial services staff can pick 
up their radios from a wall of equipment and 
keys. According to Hall, some of them report in 
at 3 a.m. or 4 a.m. to clean buildings when no one 
is using them. 
“Our service time used to be very shrunk but 
now expectations with the way the world is and 
schedules it has really broadened,” said Hall. 
The carpentry shop, near Hall’s office, has a 
box with the name of each staffer with work or-
ders in them. 
The plumbing department is headquartered 
in a cavernous room where above a conference 
table are shelves of stock supplies and uniforms. 
The paint shop, close by, has two hockey goals on 
large tables that are being painted in anticipation 
of the hockey season. 
By the end of a short walk through the build-
ing the broad range of tasks completed by Facili-
ties is clear.
Hall began working for Facilities in 1994. 
“It’s been a good learning experience,” he said. 
“I’ve got a great group of guys with a wide range 
of skills and aptitudes. We’ve got a great group. We 
all complement each other and work as a team.”
Hall also coordinates with getting tenants off-
campus since many faculty live off campus in col-
lege-owned housing that require Facilities staff to 
repair. He also said he has the advantage of being 
able to interact with students.
One of the staff members working under Hall 
is Ed DeMatties, a maintenance carpenter who has 
worked at Middlebury since 1990. DeMatties is also 
rescue, trained to rescue people trapped in elevators, 
manholes or other spaces where Facilities works.
On Friday, he could be found jetting around 
was an unoccupied room in Stewart Hall where De-
Matties had to install a new window shade. 
“This used to be a lounge here,” said DeMatties, 
pointing to a room adjacent to the one where he was 
working.  “I put this wall in and installed that door. 
We did that just a couple weeks ago.” 
DeMatties said Facilities makes a point to be 
when working on student rooms. This time, a piece 
to repair the shade was missing.
“You think you have everything and you get all 
the way up there and you’re missing one thing,” he 
said. But I’ll be back and this room is empty so it’s 
not a real rush.” 
A minute later, DeMatties’ two-way radio crack-
led to life with a call about 51 Main’s basement hot 
water heater leaking. “Plumbers get more stuff like 
that,” he said. “They all carry radios. I’m the only one 
in our shop besides Wayne who carries a radio.” 
After evaluating the Stewart room and deter-
mining he needed more parts, DeMatties selected 
the next work order.  After taking the Gator back 
to the Facilities building to pick up a door stop, 
he went back to Stewart to install it in another 
student room to prevent a cabinet from hitting a 
wall mounted sprinkler when opened. 
DeMatties said they see a lot of student dam-
age work orders come in. 
“Usually after the weekend,” said DeMatties. 
“This year I haven’t seen much at all.”  DeMatties 
added with a laugh that it was hopefully a part of 
the learning process. 
Having worked at the College for over 20 
years, DeMatties has seen his fair share of proj-
ects on campus, including a repair of all the sinks 
in the bathrooms of Hadley and Milliken Halls. 
“I came up with a design to replace them,” said 
DeMatties. 
“Hopefully now they should last a long time,” 
he said. 
Commencement used to take place behind 
Forest Hall, but when it was moved to Voter Hall, 
DeMatties helped arrange the setup for the cer-
emony and put the flags atop Voter.
“I went to school for architecture and so they 
had me come up with the plan for the seating lay-
out and so it was kind of cool I got to do that,” said 
DeMatties. “Now they come to me for questions.”
Aside from his work on campus, he put his 
training in architecture to use when he designed 
and built his own house. After successfully in-
stalling a doorstop on the wall, it was over to the 
Mahaney Center for the Arts to pick up a framed 
poster of the upcoming Fine Arts events to be in-
stalled in Axinn.  DeMatties deftly measured an 
area on the wall by the entrance to the building 
and screwed in the hangers for the poster. 
DeMatties is also in the process of working 
on guardrails for beds in Voter.  “When I put the 
first one in, somebody else said, ‘I’ll take on too,’ 
and so I put two in and now somebody else has 
seen it, and now I’m making one for all of them.” 
Although Facilities sees between 1,200 to 
1,500 work orders sent to them every month, 
that does not mean their work is highly visible. 
“A lot of the stuff we do probably doesn’t get 
noticed, such as in student rooms,” said DeMat-
ties. “If the person is there, we’ll tell them we 
fixed it.  If they’re not there, we’ll leave a note tag 
inside the door telling them we were there and 
what we did.” 
Hall echoed DeMatties’ sentiment.  “[Fa-
cilities] is behind the scenes.  Nobody realizes it 
until we’re called on,” he said. “Everybody plays 
a role whether you’re a custodian or a manger, 
no matter what, because the faculty and the stu-
dents wouldn’t be able to do their jobs if it wasn’t 
clean or if the lights didn’t work. Everybody’s 
job, no matter what it is, is a key part of making 
it all work.”  
Name Ed DeMatties
Position Maintenance Carpenter
Worked at College Since 1990
Name Wayne Hall
position Maintenance Supervisor of  
carpenters, painters, and locksmiths
Worked at College Since 1994
BEHIND
THE     VEST
and women behind the scenes 
who keep Middlebury running.  
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Caesar Must Die
Set inside the high-security wing of Rome’s Rebibbia 
-
Taviani (The Night of the Shooting Stars, Kaos) use 
prisoners as their actors, mixing narrative and docu-
9/28, 3 AND 8 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
Othello Screening
10/3, 7 P.M., TOWN HALL THEATER
Translingual Poetry Slam
Organized by the editors of the student maga-
zine Translingual Magazine
9/28,  11 A.M., MCA DANCE THEATRE
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Kidjo crafts her own genre of music that 
-
-
djo from his wife, 
started the conversa-
-
Kidjo to campus a few 
“We were dis-
appointed that few 
had the opportunity 
-
-
-
-
-
my music is empowerment, joy, strength, 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
ondary and higher education to empower 
-
dation to improve teaching standards, 
increase awareness of the importance of 
-
-
interests and aspirations of many of our 
-
entrepreneurship, and she sings and per-
Students and community members 
-
-
cussion as a part of 
Kidjo’s music and 
-
-
-
-
-
around a hearth more than standing be-
-
-
-
-
-
-
the sounds of her music mean and embody 
More information can be found at 
Angelique Kidjo to Perform in Nelson
By Leah Lavigne
Courtesy OF ted kurkland associates
“She is a great musical 
talent, perhaps the best 
known African singer 
today, who incorporates 
the incredible culture and 
musical diversity of the 
African continent.”
President of the college
Ronald liebowitz
Rita Pfeiffer ’15 did not expect much 
to come out of her band-mate Maeve Bell 
entering their band’s song into a Battle of 
the Bands contest. In mid-August, how-
ever, Pfeiffer got a call from Bell that their 
band had won the contest. The band, 
called “Bea, Rita & Maeve,” submitted a 
song called “The River” to Studio 360’s 
“Battle of the High School Bands.” Studio 
360 is a weekly public radio program cen-
tered on arts and culture and produced by 
Public Radio International and New York 
City’s National Public Radio (NPR) station, 
WNYC. Contestants submitted songs writ-
ten and recorded during high school, even 
if they had graduated long ago. Studio 360 
started the contest in late May, and judges 
Andrew W.K. and Thao Nguyen – of the 
band “Thao & the Get Down Stay Down” – 
blogged about the over 300 entries they re-
ceived all summer before picking a winner 
in mid-August. The contest’s judges also 
picked their favorite band names, which 
included “Intense Jello,” “The Electric Na-
chos,” “Monkey Shrapnel,” and “The Walk-
ing Dead Don’t Eat Brains.” 
In addition to creative and diverse 
band names, entries ranged in genre, style, 
age, and theme. Bea, Rita & Maeve’s entry, 
recorded in 2011, was younger than many 
other submissions, which dated back as far 
as 1967. Pfeiffer had recorded songs during 
her senior year of high school with Bell and 
friend Bea Troxel. After senior year, each 
band member went off to college, so the 
three girls had to put their collaborations 
on hold until the summer. Each summer 
they reconnected in Nashville to play some 
shows and even record a full-length album. 
Pfeiffer recalls that when Bell called 
her to relay the good news, it did not sink 
in.
“You don’t really process what that 
means until you see it all in print. We were 
kind of in shock for awhile,” said Pfeiffer.
Pfeiffer explained that her band’s song 
seemed to be the natural choice to submit 
for a contest of this kind because it tends 
to be everyone’s favorite. Its three-part har-
overall sound of the band, which Pfeiffer 
described as a fusion of “Indie Americana 
Folk.” Bea, Rita & Maeve use a variety of 
instruments, including guitar, violin, banjo 
and electric guitar, which contributes to 
their unique and appealing sound. 
Judges W.K. and Nguyen had great 
things to say about the song. W.K. high-
lighted the timeless quality of the song.
“It ruined my entire perception of my-
self in high school,” he said. 
Nguyen complimented the musician-
ship of the three girls and found the idea 
of “music that’s just made for the joy of it” 
to be a refreshing change from the profes-
sional world of music.
The judges of the contest also covered 
the winning song, interpreting “The Riv-
er” in a new way. The cover incorporated 
heavier drums and layered instruments on 
top of one another, producing a sound dis-
tinct from the original folk version. Pfeiffer 
expressed that having one of their songs 
covered was a novel experience.
“It was interesting to see how profes-
sional musicians interpreted the songs and 
what they saw in the songs,” she said.
 Pfeiffer felt that the publicity garnered 
from winning the contest, along with hav-
ing their song covered by professional mu-
sicians, was a humbling experience, but the 
best part of winning the contest was the 
honor of getting to be part of the project. 
“Being part of NPR was kind of a mind-
blowing experience in itself,” she said.
Born and raised in Nashville, a major 
music hub, Pfeiffer grew up surrounded by 
musical opportunities. She began to play 
the violin at age six, and credits Nashville 
as one of the reasons she became so in-
volved with music.
“So many profound musicians are liv-
ing right next door; everyone is trying to 
‘make it big in the business’,” said Pfeiffer. 
Pfeiffer enjoyed the opportunity to 
play gigs around Nashville in the summer 
with Troxel and Bell, a change from the 
classical recitals she was used to. She de-
scribes her role in the band as “connect-
ing the pieces together.” Since she plays 
many instruments and sings, she can pro-
vide instrumentation and harmony to the 
pre-existing “skeleton” of the song, which, 
in the case of “The River,” Troxel created. 
Pfeiffer credits artists such as Nickel Creek, 
Gregory Alan Isakov, Bon Iver and the Fleet 
produces. 
Pfeiffer says one challenge she’s faced 
in music is songwriting.
“I’ve always been in tune with the 
sound of the music and not as much with 
the words,” she said. “Trying to conform 
your thoughts into more coherent ideas to 
articulate to others, that’s been a little bit 
out of my comfort zone.” 
Though Pfeiffer, a neuroscience major, 
is not planning a career focused in music, 
she knows it will always be a part of her life. 
“Music is kind of my source of sanity,” 
she said. “It’s a way that I can express my-
self and be able to express anything that 
such a part of my life it’s hard to imagine 
life without it.” 
She has continued with music here at 
Middlebury, both academically, as a music 
minor, and outside the classroom, playing 
gigs on and off campus at venues such as 
51 Main. Though she plans to continue on 
in neuroscience, she may be able to con-
nect neuroscience with her love for music 
by studying music and the brain. 
knows she will keep making music.
“Music is an art form,” said Pfeiffer. 
“It is something that people are able to 
relate to; it’s kind of a universal language. 
You don’t have to speak the language of the 
words to have a certain connection to it.”
To listen to “The River” and other 
songs by Bea, Rita & Maeve, you can go to 
www.reverbnation.com/bearitamaeve.
By Emma McDonald
Middlebury Student Wins Studio 360 Contest
The era of indie rock is dwindling. 
Thirty years or so is a good run, all things 
considered; but the young teens of today 
simply aren’t interested in taking the time 
to hone their six-string skills for the heart-
throbs of freshman year creative writ-
ing class when more immediately acces-
sible instruments – a.k.a. torrented, open 
source music software – are readily avail-
able. 
Such widespread access has accord-
ingly fostered an explosion of independent 
electronic projects within a musical realm 
traditionally consisting of either intricate 
and ambient dance, genre-fusing produc-
tion (The Knife, LCD Soundsystem, Youth 
Lagoon), or critically-scoffed emotionally-
vapid synthpop (Owl City, 3OH!3, post-
“Toxic” Britney). Only in the last few years 
has anything vaguely resembling pure 
‘electronic pop’ attracted positive acclaim. 
Crystal Castles, Grimes and Purity Ring 
come to mind, as do Passion Pit and that 
one MGMT song they hardly ever play any-
more. However, no act of late seems to en-
compass the complete picture, the simul-
taneous lightness, catchiness and sincerity 
needed for an idyllic electro-pop album.
Then came along Glasgow-trio CH-
VRCHES who, with a couple of singles 
and a handful of EPs, ignited a fury of blog 
buzz and hopeful whispers that the ideal 
could be achieved, provided their initial 
It wasn’t.
The release of debut LP The Bones of 
What You Believe stomped, pulsed and 
bumped through expectations. 12 tracks, 
48 minutes, one listen—all that’s needed 
to thrust CHVRCHES into the spotlight as 
the indiesphere’s pillar of electro-pop. 
Let it be clear, this album is by no 
means transcendent or ground-breaking. 
It is not the next Kid A, Silent Shout or 
Merriweather Post Pavilion.  But it is a 
tightened package boasting an expansive 
spectrum of var-
ied intensity, teas-
ing listeners with 
darkly anthematic 
choruses opposing 
sparkling inter-
ludes and shim-
mering bridges. It 
is a collection of towering hooks and in-
fectious beats pierced by wavering throbs 
of deep cascading electronic greatness. It 
is an album to groove to and swoon to; an 
album of passion and gloom and relation-
ships facing their doom. In other words, it 
is one hell of a debut.
A brief disclaimer: this review is ex-
tremely subjective. I love this band. I’ve 
been jamming to at least one CHVRCHES 
permanently lodged itself onto my con-
sciousness back in March. Hundreds of 
listens, if not more, have not yet sickened 
me and an incredible concert experience 
cemented my biases. But my fervor is cer-
Take “The Mother We Share,” the 
single that launched CHVRCHES into the 
-
cord. The pounding crystal-clear melody 
envelops an icy chorus – “I’m in misery 
where you can seem as old as your omens/
And the mother we share will never keep 
your proud head from falling” – and comes 
full circle to form 
one of the catchiest 
tracks of the last 
year. The rhythm of 
the following track, 
“We Sink” trickles 
down to a sweetly 
sung promise: “I’ll 
be a thorn in your side ‘til you die/I’ll be a 
thorn in your side for always/We Sink/We 
Lift Our Love.” Her earnestness is so pal-
pable that when “Gun” – probably the best 
track on the album, the perfectly struc-
tured pop song, the best single since last 
year’s “Oblivion” – strikes, it’s almost un-
believable that the same adorable Lauren 
Mayberry is warning a past lover to “Hide, 
Hide/I have burned your bridges/Now I’ll 
be a gun/And it’s you I’ll come for.” 
CHVRCHES thrills itself on these jux-
tapositions. On the album’s latter half, the 
darkest track “Science/Visions” attacks 
-
po before a saccharine voice and soothing 
bass line massages the assault away on 
“Lungs.”
“Night Sky” bursts with a crescendo, 
donning one of the many climaxes on the 
LP. It’s hard not to belt it out when driving 
through the shadowy streets of a Middle-
bury evening. And then, of course, there’s 
anthem playing off one of the simpler mel-
odies that refuses to loosen its grip from 
whatever cruel part of the brain keeps 
songs on repeat.
As partial as I am, I can note some low 
points in this record. “Under the Tide” is 
just okay; and, as one fellow concert-goer 
noted when I had the chance to hear this 
excellent record in action, Martin Doherty 
is “pretty off-key the entire time.” Also, I 
can’t quite get into the groove of “Science/
Visions” after the adrenal high of “Night 
Sky.” 
I think that covers the downside.
But don’t just take my word for it. 
Give this album — this beautiful treatise 
on unadulterated electropop — a shot in 
its original form, before every DJ across 
the country pickpockets some samples and 
puts out remixes to half of the songs. You’ll 
be glad you did.
for the rec  rd
BY CHAD CLEMENS
The Bones of What You Believe
CHVRCHES
Maeve Bell, Rita Pfeiffer ’15 and Bea Troxel of “Bea, Rita & Maeve” have played together since high school in Nashville, Tenn.  
WIlliam Mccullough
september 26, 2013 | 18 arts SCIENCES
Hip-hop “choreopoem” “Word Be-
comes Flesh” played to a packed Wright 
Theater on Friday, Sept. 20 and Saturday, 
Sept. 21, preceded by student spoken word 
poets and followed by a talkback moderated 
by dance department faculty chair Christal 
Series’ 2013-2014 series, the production 
brought in the six-person, California-based 
touring company for a week of residency 
events in collaboration with Theatre De-
partment and Dance Department.
Originally performed in 2003 as a one-
man show by playwright and artistic direc-
tor Marc Bamuthi Jo-
seph, “Word Becomes 
Flesh” is, at its most 
basic level, a series of 
letters to a man’s un-
born son, morphing 
the chronicles of nine 
months of pregnancy 
into a meditative ex-
planation of “why [he] 
might choose not to 
stay.” 
“While women 
their right to make 
choices about their 
bodies, the legacy of 
patriarchy and male 
privilege still allow a man the social right to 
choose domestic absenteeism and refrain 
-
cial support,” actors of The Living Word 
lyrically, and choreographically examines 
this phenomenon. In the process we con-
front the intersection of the physical reality 
and mythology of the black male body from 
spaces in between.”
The 60-minute piece came out of San 
Francisco–based theater group The Living 
poem/dance components that range from 
highly abstract, far-reaching explora-
condition to laugh-out-loud parodies of 
thing classes. In the 
process, the show deconstructs what it 
means, and what it has meant, to be to 
“It put everyone’s mind to work,” 
said Sarah Braithwaite ’14. “The content 
and the actors gave Middlebury a glimpse 
of a culture that is not spoken about a 
lot, and I think Middlebury needs more 
education culture shocks 
their minds and opened 
their eyes to some degree.”
Now in its third year 
of touring as the six-
person show, “Word Be-
comes Flesh” calls itself a 
“choreopoem”—a spoken 
word–dance performance 
hybrid with the narrative 
structure of a traditional 
theater piece and hip-hop 
spun by a live DJ as a back-
drop, all of which is hard 
to picture until you have 
metaphorical physical: In one scene, a 
to push himself to write, and two dancers 
mimicking the stop-and-start nature of the 
phenomenon he is describing. They try out 
a sequence; they stop short, shake it off and 
try again, like a more corporal iteration of 
-
basket.
With the dance and spoken word el-
ements so well blended, the music com-
crescendo easily, building as the music 
does—it is all done so subtly that you 
barely notice the music at all until it is 
no longer there. These moments of calm 
underscore the show’s most dramatic mo-
ments—rare moments without movement 
or music, where Bamuthi’s words can be 
given their full, deserved weight. 
“The talent was extraordinary and 
the message was extremely enlightening,” 
added Braithwaite. “It was all so raw and 
real and engaging.”
 Leading up to the Friday and Sat-
urday night performances, the six-person 
troupe behind “Word Becomes Flesh” 
spent a week in residency at Middlebury 
College, offering hip-hop movement and 
spoken word workshops that were open 
to all students and community members, 
as well as master classes for upper-level 
theater and dance students and a spoken 
word event at 51 Main in cooperation 
with Verbal Onslaught. 
ets, actors, educators and art-
ists in their own right, the men who 
came together for “Word Becomes 
Flesh” brought a unique level of exper-
tise and passion to the Dance and The-
atre Departments last week. 
While brought to life in this current 
iteration by magnanimous performers, 
“Word Becomes Flesh” really belongs 
to Bamuthi, a widely acclaimed arts 
educator who works with Youth Speaks, 
the larger organization that encompass-
es the spin-off theater company, The 
Speaks, Bamuthi also created the Brave 
New Voices slam poetry competition, 
whose final rounds aired in a seven-part 
HBO documentary presented by Russell 
Simmons and directed by Bamuthi him-
self.
By Hannah Ostrow
By Will Henriques
go/obo
angelique kidjo
thursday
10/3
Nelson arena
$5 for students
life under 30
Thursday, friday, Saturday 
10/10-10/12
$4 for students
dinner & conversation prior to 
imogen cooper
thursday
10/10
$25
arts SCIENCES19   | september 26, 2013
“In the process we 
confront the inter-
section of the physi-
cal reality and my-
thology of the black 
male body from the 
spaces in between.”
living word project ensemble
On Sept. 7, Joe Kloc wrote on The Dai-
ly Dot about the New York Times’ coverage 
of recent revelations about the National 
banking records. 
“If in fact the agency did crack the en-
cryption schemes used for bank transac-
Times is somewhat unclear on 
solved a math problem that has long puz-
zled cryptographers and number theorists 
alike,” wrote Kloc.  
in our bank accounts and transaction re-
cords aside, I was initially concerned most 
breakthrough and its reluctance to come 
forth with the discovery. 
I guess on the surface level, I’d consid-
er myself to be a believer of open-source, 
collaborative research. I’m of the mind that 
which anyone in quest of the truth should 
have access. The realist in me argues other-
wise. He argues that some research needs 
The sad fact of the world is that not every-
one pursues certain knowledge solely for 
the sake of truth. 
Which brings me to a fundamental 
dilemma all research scientists face with 
regards to their work: basic or applied re-
search? 
Basic research is more intellectu-
tested, and when the results do not hold up 
with the hypothesis, the scientist is often 
pointed in an entirely new direction. The 
intellectual path is not straight; it mean-
ders across the discipline, perhaps even 
transcending disciplines. Basic science re-
search is, in its purest form, an intellectual 
adventure. 
It is more constricted, focused, and goal-
driven and as a result, better funded. 
Funders want to see money well spent, and 
they want results they can see. 
But it is this results-oriented think-
ing that can become dangerous at times. 
Science Insider, a branch of Science, wrote 
in an article entitled “ U.S. Lawmaker 
Grants” that “the new chair of the House 
of Representatives science committee has 
drafted a bill that, in effect, would replace 
peer review at the National Science Foun-
chosen by Congress.” 
The article continues, discussing re-
-
munity to this bold and misguided move. 
Many of the criticisms revolved around the 
-
view process currently in place at the NSF 
are replaced by criteria chosen by Congress 
discomfort with its purported mathemati-
cal breakthroughs, the thought of the pub-
lic reaction to the New York Times report-
ing makes me shudder. If the public sees 
research being used as a tool for repres-
-
sponse to the thought of publicly funded 
research. Their existence is irrelevant to 
me. The question at hand is whether or not 
-
mation from the public.
researchers I’ve talked with, public fund-
ing is far easier to come by for applied sci-
ence research. Funding for basic science 
research trickles down as a byproduct or 
an afterthought. But what happens when 
the public perception of applied science re-
search becomes negative? The public fund-
ing will thin out and dry up, especially if 
when funding for applied science research 
goes, so does any and all funding for basic 
science research.  
genetics, the theory of evolution, general 
-
ing basic science research funding is bad 
think, for the human endeavor. 
But the College and institutions like 
it can act as buffers against public opin-
ion and funding shortages. When all other 
funding dries up, the College can use its 
considerable resources to continue to fund 
the walls of McCardell Bicentennial Hall. 
It must, for the sake of science and for the 
sake of our society.
SC ENCE
soc etyand
courtesy of newcitystage.com
20Advertisement | September 26, 2013
ONLINE  
MANAGER
LIKE WATCHING THE NEWSROOM? 
The Middlebury Campus is seeking the best photographers the College 
has to offer. Positions are available in the following sections:
To apply for any of these positions, please submit your best photos and let us know what you’re 
interested in shooting at campus@middlebury.edu. We’re open 24-hours a day. 
PHOTOS PHOTOS
PHOTOS
PHOTOS
H A V E 
A N E Y E 
F  O  R  D  E  S  I  G  N ?  P  U  T  Y  O
U  R  T  A  S  T  E  T  O
G  O  O  D  U  S  E :  W  O  R  K
F  O  R  T  H  E  C  A  M  P  U  S .
the middlebury campus 
seeks graphic designers, illustrators and page designers for all 
sections. Experience with programs like
Adobe InDesign and Photoshop 
appreciated but not required.
e-mail campus@middlebury.edu
for details.
is that clear?
With only six conference games on its 
regular season schedule, the Middlebury 
College Rugby Club (MCRC) knew that 
an automatic berth into November’s DI-
AA National Tournament – granted to 
games early in the year. After downing the 
University of Massachusetts in week one, 
in American International College (AIC) 
the game in the second frame to cruise to a 
standings with four games remaining.
AIC turned many heads in the rugby 
the contest.
“We did a lot of extra conditioning and 
a lot of contact because we knew that they 
high intensity match, we tried not to get too 
Forwards Coach Ben Wells also noted that 
AIC was on his radar.
[its] win over Northeastern last week certainly 
have to focus on ourselves during the week, 
One thing MCRC could not control was 
“It was tough kicking into the wind in the 
“We decided that we wanted to kick a lot for 
own half, but the wind made that a challenge 
and we couldn’t clear it, which gave their guys 
Wells also addressed the weather as an 
our way out of our end a few times and the 
“We’re lucky to have some incredibly 
talented forwards right now, and they’ve 
Wells said. “It’s a huge lift for our whole 
side when we dominate scrum after scrum, 
and it can also be really demoralizing for 
the other team. We are lucky to have really 
whole slate of guys behind this starting front 
count on the younger guys, namely Julien 
me, the club is beginning to be built with 
rugby before college.
and he’s doing it faster and better than most 
incredible athlete and is one of the hardest 
but brought his game to a whole new level 
an away contest at Northeastern, the 
challenger to the Panthers. Northeastern is a 
in the conference standings, as the Panthers 
“I think that if we beat Northeastern, 
which we can, that going into the bye week 
with three very big wins is what we need to 
 While the men fared well against a 
conference foe, the Middlebury College 
Women’s Rugby Club (MCWRC) faltered in 
title game. The Panthers, while only down 
the hands of the Polar Bears. 
this weekend included seven rookies, two 
she said. “After Bowdoin scored their second 
try, we calmed down and controlled the 
MCWRC was further hurt in the second 
scoreboard.
The club returns to action next week with 
 September 26, 2013 | 21SPORTS
MCRC Rolls, Women Falter at Bowdoin
By Owen Teach
The Middlebury men’s soccer team failed 
Bowdoin.
“It was good to get so many shots on 
shows the correct attacking mentality, 
Twenty-four minutes in, Bowdoin 
suffered an own goal that was forced by 
over Wise for an own goal.
Middlebury had another strong chance 
 
net. 
controlled mainly by Middlebury, with the 
odd break from Bowdoin, while the second 
overtime was even, with both teams getting 
“Aside from a defensive breakdown on the 
chances inside the box that we were unlucky 
ways we were unfortunate to not come out 
overtime was something that we will look 
to build on this week going into our next 
will likely come back to haunt them later in 
ability to close out games.
I was delighted to see the team be resilient 
think it should show the team that they have 
coach’s sentiments.
one game at a time, wins will come and the 
Men’s Soccer Team Earns 1-1 Draw at Bowdoin in 2OT
By Joe MacDonald
that traveled to Middlebury over the weekend included Yale, Boston College, Dart-
Courtesy of Rick Whelan 
MAKING WAVES: MEN’S WATER POLO OPENS SEASON WITH HOME TOURNAMENT
The Polar Bears relieved Middlebury 
of the pressure of repeating an undefeated 
season by handing the Panthers a 4-2 
loss on Saturday, Sept. 21.  With nine 
minutes to go, Katie Theiss ’14 evened 
the score at 2-2, but Bowdoin snuffed 
out the comeback with two late goals to 
give Middlebury its first loss.
The Panthers clawed uphill for 
the bulk of the game, playing over 60 
minutes of the 70-minute game while 
down one goal – a position of urgency 
and desperation that Middlebury has yet 
to experience this year and encountered 
only once all last year, in the NESCAC 
Championship game at home against 
Bowdoin, which Middlebury won in a 
post-overtime stroke-off. 
The back-and-forth first half shook 
out underneath moving clouds that cast 
the Bowdoin turf in bright sunshine 
one moment and cold shadow the next. 
Similarly, the Panthers shined in certain 
aspects but were frustrated by others.  
Alyssa DiMaio ’15, one of Middlebury’s 
main motors in the midfield, spoke about 
the lapses in her team’s play. 
“One of the things we normally do 
really well is connect between the forward 
and the midfield, but [on Saturday] we 
struggled to make those connections,” 
she said. “Communication is one thing 
we are going to work on going forward.” 
Bowdoin got its offensive engine 
running early, using a redirection near 
the right post to beat Middlebury goalie 
Cassie Coash ’15, who kept Middlebury 
alive with 10 saves that day.  Coash 
swatted and  admirably 
kicked away Bowdoin’s 
attempts in just her 
second game donning 
the goalie gear for 
Middlebury. 
Fifteen minutes later, 
the Panthers scored a 
goal of their own, with 
DiMaio and Ellie O’Brien 
’14 setting up Catherine 
Fowler ’15 to steam home 
a shot from the top of the 
circle, tying the game at 
1-1 before halftime.  The 
trio has played well on 
penalty corners this year. 
When Fowler does not 
find a lane to score, Theiss often pounces 
on a ball from shorter range. 
Middlebury began the second half 
with an element of confident comfort, 
trusting that one of its talented weapons, 
Alex Kuzma ’17 or Jillian Green ’15, 
would eventually fire in a go-ahead goal. 
However, Bowdoin’s slicing offensive 
rush into Middlebury’s arc drew a 
penalty stroke foul. Bowdoin capitalized 
on the free shot, activating the fight-
or-flight desperation in the Middlebury 
side.
Coach Katherine 
DeLorenzo shifted up an 
extra forward to spark some 
offense, and indeed the 
Panthers earned a pair of 
corners they failed to put 
away. But as Middlebury 
became more aggressive, 
the chances began to open 
up for Bowdoin as well. 
Whenever Middlebury 
dealt an offensive blow, 
the speedy Bowdoin 
midfielders would race to 
counterattack. 
With eight minutes and 
22 seconds remaining on 
the clock, Theiss finally 
lifted Middlebury back to even footing 
on another penalty corner goal.  The 
enthusiasm and encouragement from 
the sidelined players, which DeLorenzo 
commended for its impact on the game, 
reached a throaty peak and Middlebury 
seemed to hold the momentum.
In heartbreaking fashion, Bowdoin 
scored just 22 seconds later to clamp 
the vice back on the Panthers and scored 
again three minutes later to ensure the 
win. 
“I think it is a good thing, a sort of 
reality check,” Anne Entwisle ’15 said 
positively. 
After overcoming the initial 
disappointment and frustration of the 
loss, other players have also changed to 
a heartier tune.  
“As much as we all feel upset about 
the loss, I am excited to see how it fires 
us up to go in a positive direction,” 
defender Hana Kahn ’14 said. 
Middlebury’s first opportunity to 
erupt forward comes on Wednesday, 
Sept. 25 against Castleton St. before a 
double-header at home on Saturday, 
Sept. 28 against NESCAC foes Colby and 
Sunday, Sept. 29 against Williams.
Last season the Panthers had no 
trouble dispatching of these opponents, 
with a combined score over three games 
of 18-0. Being on home turf against 
conference opponents can only help the 
Panthers’ chances of rebounding from 
this weekend’s loss.
On Saturday, Sept. 21, the Middlebury 
cross country teams traveled to Bard College 
to participate in the Bard College Invitational. 
The Panthers continued their dominant 
performance from the opening  where both 
teams turned in decisive victories.
The women started the day off by topping 
claimed overall victory for the second week 
in a row, completing the 5-km course in 
18:17 seconds. Finishing within four seconds 
of Maxwell were Sarah Guth ’15, Summer 
Spillane ’15, Erzsy Nagy ’17 and Olivia Artaiz 
’15 to round out the scoring runners.
“This race was really a teamwork exercise 
for us to focus on the ‘blob’ mentality that we 
pride ourselves for,” said co-captain Katie 
Rominger ’14. “We were told to stick to a 
certain pace for the whole race until the last 
45 seconds or so. We were all impressed 
and hope to continue that strategy for this 
weekend.”
Spillane believed that despite weaker 
competition, all members of the team rose to 
the occasion.
“Energy was high the whole race, and 
we were very good about communicating 
with each other,” Spillane said. “Although 
and more competitive, I think that if we use 
a similar strategy we can, hopefully, be very 
successful again.” 
Coach Nicole Wilkerson was impressed 
with several of her athletes’ performances.
“[Spillane] had a great showing and kudos 
’17,” Wilkerson said. “They both had strong 
races.”
After the strong showing by the women, 
the men replicated another dominant 
performance, turning in another 15 point 
Greg Krathwohl ’14 was the overall victor in 
24:35, one of the fastest 8-km races run in 
Middlebury history. Teammates Kevin Wood 
’15, Nate Sans ’14 and Wilder Schaaf ’14.5 
joined Krathwohl in breaking the 25-minute 
barrier.  Sam Cartwright ’16 was the last 
scorer for the Panthers with a strong 25:17 
performance.
Similar to the previous week, Wilkerson 
had prescribed a controlled effort for the start 
of each race followed by an increase in speed 
towards the latter stages of the races. Both 
women and men aimed for a “tempo” portion 
of the race where the speed continued to 
increase before the Panthers worked together 
as a pack to drop the pace and push each 
other. While the women’s race went to plan, 
the nature of the fast start from the gun for 
the men’s race caused the pack to slip up 
earlier.
“The strategy going in for both groups was 
to work off of each other and for them to rely 
on each other to push each other,” Wilkerson 
said. “It is much easier to dig deep when you 
are really running for a team and that is what 
we were working on.  I think they did a great 
job with it.”
The Panthers travel to Williams to 
participate in the Purple Valley Invite on 
real test of the year, with several NESCAC, 
Division I and Division II teams expected to 
be in attendance.
|  September 26, 2013 22 sports
Field Hockey Loses at 8th-Ranked Bowdoin
By John Wyman
Volleyball Sweeps Pair of Home Matches
The Middlebury women’s volleyball 
Saturday, Sept. 21 and came away with a 
of the season. The Panthers followed with an 
out-of-conference victory over Colby-Sawyer 
season in the process. 
On Saturday, Colby pushed the Panthers 
in each of the three sets (17, 22, 18) but failed 
to register a win as Middlebury ran its streak 
of consecutive sets won to 15.
work out as is true with every team especially 
this early in the season,”  Piper Underbrick 
’15 said. “However, if we just focus on our side 
of the net and continue to make strong plays 
and work as a unit we have the opportunity 
and the talent to go very far.”
and-forth, seemingly setting the stage for a 
closely contested game. With the set tied at 
13-13, the Panthers settled into the game and 
went on to win 12 of the next 16 points and 
settled the score at 25-19. 
The second set was even closer than the 
21-20. However, the Panthers stayed strong 
to snatch the second set by a score of 25-22, 
giving them a stronghold on the overall game. 
Colby looked like snatching the third set 
but yet again lost a solid lead, going ahead 
10-5 in the third set. With Megan Jarchow 
’14 starting to serve for the Panthers, they 
claimed four straight to make it a 10-9 match. 
Colby came back with a 17-16 and looked 
like forcing the match into a fourth set, but 
Middlebury showed composure to win nine 
of the next 10 points, clinching the contest by 
a score of 25-18. 
The Panthers were guided to the win 
by strong upperclassmen leadership. With 
explosive jumping and raw power, Amy 
Hart ’14 led with 17 kills and a .485 hitting 
percentage as well as bolstering the team 
defensively with 13 digs. Olivia Kolodka ’15 
successfully tooled the block several times, 
leading to many of Middlebury’s points. 
Kathryn Haderlein ’16 helped set up the kills, 
who tallied 30 assists. 
“[The game] was the perfect opportunity 
co-captain Meg Anderson ’14 said. “Now we 
can focus on increasing our consistency and 
continually improving our game.”
The jitters may have manifested 
themselves in the Panthers’ second home 
game of the season, however, as Middlebury 
narrowly defeated Colby-Swayer, 3-1. The 
before the Chargers stole the third set 25-22. 
Middlebury rebounded with a 25-23 fourth-
set victory to seal the victory.
The Panthers are back in action against 
Southern Vermont on Thursday, Sept. 26, 
before traveling to NESCAC competitor 
Hamilton on Saturday, Sept. 28.
By Courtney Mountifeld
the middlebury
great  eight
8
men’s soccer
If you’re going to go to OT 
every other week, you have 
to win sometimes.
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Mac’s Mindset
2
Men’s rugby
Two early victories and they 
pace the ECRC.
volleyball
They haven’t dropped a set. 
Can you dig it?
3
football
Dominance vs. Bowdoin 
bodes well for another year 
near the top of the ‘CAC.
4 
cross country
Both sides dominate for the 
second straight week.
5 field hockeyGR8 is strong this week if 
fockey sits at number 5.
7
men’s and women’s golf
Men falter some; women play 
well but Williams too good.
6 women’s soccerExciting victory for the 
Panthers who are 3-1-1.
Men’s, Women’s Cross Country 
Teams Outpace Competition
By Bryan Holtzman
“As much as we all 
feel upset about 
the loss, I am ex-
cited to see how it 
-
Hana Kahn ’14
Defender
Anthea  von viragh
The Panthers elevate to another clean 
sweep, maintaining their perfect record.
106
239
2:57
27
Number of receiving yards for 
Middlebury wide receiver Billy Sadik-
Khan ’14 in Saturday’s win at Bowdoin.
Number of penalty minutes in an NHL 
preseason game between the Buffalo 
Sabres and Toronto Maple Leafs, which 
included a full-ice brawl involving goalies.
Time it took for women’s soccer player 
Julia Favorito ’14 to notch the game-
winning goal after Bowdoin had tied 
the game with 83:34 left.
Number of regular season games won by 
Saturday’s 4-2 loss at Bowdoin.
Point differential for MCRC through 
two regular season wins against 
UMass and AIC.
by the Numb3rs
+41 
defense. Two plays after catching a swing 
pass that he turned into a 12-yard gain, 
Zelkowitz slipped through the Bowdoin 
front four, setting up a well-timed screen 
pass from Foote, and waltzed, untouched 
into the end zone for his first career 
touchdown, increasing the Panthers’ 
lead to 14-5.
“We expect a lot from Joey,” Foote 
said. “He’s a little water bug, definitely 
a quick kid. He adds an element to our 
offense that we haven’t seen in years 
past.”
“He’s a really quick-twitch, very great 
straight-ahead speed, but also can make 
guys miss — he’s very hippy,” Ritter said. 
“We haven’t really had a back like that in 
a long time. When he gets in some space 
it’s going to be fun to watch.”
The Middlebury defense held Bowdoin 
to just 27 total yards over the next two 
series, but the offense failed to capitalize 
on two opportunities to put the game out 
of reach. Foote threw interceptions on 
consecutive possessions, the second on 
a screen pass to Zelkowitz, who tipped 
the ball into the air and into the waiting 
arms of Bowdoin linebacker Joe Cleary. 
While the offense struggled, the 
Middlebury defense continued to make 
plays, taking the ball back less than 
two minutes later as outside linebacker 
Jake Clapp ’16 separated Bowdoin 
running back Brown from the ball and 
safety Matthew Benedict ’15, who later 
registered an interception and made 
seven tackles, fell on the fumble. 
“Matt’s just always in the right place 
at the right time, which is why he makes 
so many [plays],” Ritter said. 
The offense, however, failed to 
capitalize, gaining just two first downs 
before punting with just over three 
minutes remaining in the half. 
Once again, the defense picked up 
the slack. On second-and-long after an 
incompletion, Bowdoin quarterback 
Mac Caputi targeted a receiver cutting 
into the middle of the field. Instead, 
Matt Crimmins ’14, who was sitting 
underneath the route, made an acrobatic 
interception, giving Foote and the 
offense the ball with 2:41 left in the first 
half and excellent field position.
Following three straight scoreless 
drives, Foote orchestrated the Panthers’ 
third touchdown of the game, hitting 
Zelkowitz for a 20-yard pick up. Then, 
after consecutive incompletions on first 
and second down, Foote hit Sadik-Khan 
for gains of 10 and 20 yards respectively, 
the latter a strike down the seam, which 
Sadik-Khan hauled in at the goal line for 
a touchdown, his second of the game.
“That’s a play we run, looking off the 
safety one way or the other,” Foote said. 
“Their middle linebacker ran with him 
and when we get that look I’m going to 
give him a shot at it and let him be a 
basketball player and go up and catch it.”
The Panthers went into the locker 
room leading 21-5 and seized control 
of the game for good early in the third 
quarter. Facing a similar situation that 
led to the first-half safety — backed 
up to their own three-yard line after a 
Bowdoin punt — Foote led the offense on 
a mammoth 17-play, 76-yard drive that 
didn’t produce any points, but ate over 
seven minutes of clock and flipped the 
field position battle. Ultimately the drive 
ended when the offense failed to convert 
a fourth-and-three from the Bowdoin 21-
yard line, turning the ball over on downs. 
Though the drive did not result in points, 
its impact on the game was substantial.
“That was probably our best drive of 
the game,” Foote said. “We converted a 
bunch of fourth downs and took five or 
six minutes off the clock, so that was a 
great drive for us.”
While the offense missed a litany of 
opportunities, including three failed 
fourth down conversion attempts, the 
defense was on point to deliver the 
knockout blows, which came via two 
second-half turnovers. First, Faber 
knocked the ball free from Bowdoin 
running back Zach Donnarumma’s hands, 
leading to a Middlebury recovery. Then, 
with just under 10 minutes remaining, 
after a Matt Rea ’14 touchdown run from 
a yard out, Benedict stepped in front of a 
Romero pass, putting an emphatic final 
mark on the game. 
“In the fourth quarter they were down 
big and I knew they would be taking 
shots down the field,” Benedict said. 
“When I went back into my drop I saw 
the quarterback throwing a go-ball and I 
got a made break on it and got my hands 
on it.”
Middlebury outgained Bowdoin 459 
to 290 en route to their 27-5 victory. 
Defensively, reigning NESCAC Rookie of 
the Year Tim Patricia ’16 led the Panthers 
with eight tackles, including one-and-
a-half tackles for a loss. The Panthers 
also received a significant contribution 
defensively from first-year defensive 
back Nate Leedy ’17, who accumulated 
five total tackles and a pass breakup in 
his first career game.
“The defense did a great job,” Ritter 
said. “Obviously whenever you can keep 
a team from scoring a touchdown and 
create four turnovers you’re making a 
big impact on the game.”
The Panthers host Colby in their home 
opener Saturday, Sept. 28. The Mules 
(1-0) are coming off a 31-8 thumping 
of Williams at home. Middlebury has 
won three of its past four meetings with 
Colby.
Sadik-Khan Hauls in 11 Receptions, Two TDs in Victory
 September 26, 2013 | 23SPORTS
Golf Teams Place Pair of Top-Five Finishes
The Middlebury men’s and women’s 
golf teams both notched top-five finishes 
this weekend. The men finished fifth at 
the Williams Invitational at Taconic Golf 
Club in Williamstown, Mass. while the 
women placed third at the 
Mount Holyoke Invitational 
at The Orchards Golf Club 
in South Hadley, Mass.
The women finished with 
a score of 637, trailing only 
Williams (619) and Ithaca 
(631). They sat in second 
after day one, two strokes 
ahead of Ithaca, but fell 
back slightly on Sunday.  
Michelle Peng ’15 led 
the Panthers with a score 
of 153, enough for a share 
of third place overall in the 
tournament. She was tied 
for first after shooting a 
sparkling 75 on Saturday. 
Monica Chow ’16 also earned a top-10 
finish, placing tied for eighth with a score 
of 159. Jordan Glatt ’15 (162), Theodora 
Yoch ’17 (163) and Caroline Kenter ’14 
(170) followed Peng and Chow, finishing 
13th, 19th and 25th overall, respectively. 
“As the fall season progresses the 
team continues to get stronger,” Peng 
said. “We need to stay mentally tough 
and be able to perform well both days.”
Host Williams won the 
men’s tournament with 
a score of 607, followed 
by RPI (611) and Trinity 
(612). 
The Middlebury 
team found itself in a 
tie for 12th place after 
a disappointing 317 on 
Saturday. They rallied 
back on Sunday, however, 
propelling themselves 
into fifth with an 
impressive 301. It was 
the best team score on 
Sunday and was the result 
of a full team effort, with 
every golfer breaking 80. 
Rob Donahoe ’14 
followed up his first-place finish last 
weekend by capturing a share of seventh 
place at Williams with a score of 151. Fitz 
Bowen ’17 (154) finished in the top 20, 
matching Donahoe with a second-day 73. 
John Louie ’15 (155), Chris Atwood ’14 
(158) and Max Alley ’14 (168) rounded 
out the Panthers squad. 
“We have the talent to be the best in 
the NESCAC,” Bowen said. “We just have 
to keep doing what we’re doing and put 
it together both days of the tournament.”
The men travel to Bowdoin this 
weekend to participate in the important 
NESCAC Qualifier at Brunswick Golf 
Club. The top four teams will qualify to 
compete for the NESCAC Championship 
in the spring. The Panthers finished in 
fourth place last year. 
The women host the Middlebury 
Invitational at Ralph Myhre Golf Course 
this weekend. They finished second in 
the same tournament last year. 
By Kevin Yochim
panther sc0reboard
Football vs. Bowdoin 
Women’s Soccer  vs. Bowdoin 
men’s Rugby vs. AIC
 Volleyball vs. Colby
Men’s Soccer vs. Bowdoin
Impressive yardage from Callum 
McFoote ’14 led Middlebury to a 
solid season opener.
The club team put the Polar Bears 
away easily.
Julia Favorito’s late goal puts 
women’s soccer in a strong position 
with NESCAC competition.
The Volleyball team have yet to 
drop a set as the Panthers swept 
Colby. 
The Panthers were unable to break 
the deadlock despite opportunities 
in double overtime.
27-5 W (OT) 
2-1 W
37-12 W
3-0 W
1-1 T
MIDDLEBURY (-10)
Every win last year was by over 10 
points, and the defense seems to 
have improved.
NO
Haha.
Owen Teach (79-80, .497)
Damon Hatheway (115-105, .523)
Joe macdonald (3-4, .429)
Middlebury football (-10) vs. Colby? Will the women’s volleyball team 
drop a set this weekend? goal differential be in their games 
against Colby and Williams this 
weekend?
Who will win the Joe Mac 
game of the week (#6 LSU @ #9 
Georgia)?
MIDDLEBURY (-10)
We seem to score a lot of points.
NO
Hamilton... (They play Union too, 
but Hamilton...)
COLBY (+10)
The Mules are coming off a 31-8 
victory over Williams and have 
explosive athletes on both sides of 
the ball.
YES
Lesson for you youngins: Never let 
homerism stand in the way of your 
eds’ picks record.
+4
I severely overestimated the last 
making the same mistake twice. 
LSU
You guys are killing me with all 
these football questions.
+6
There’s going to be some post-
Bowdoin-loss frustration taken out 
on the poor Ephs.
GEORGIA
LSU isn’t the same team on the 
road and they haven’t been all 
that impressive anyway.
GEORGIA
Sic’ em dawgs.
+7
Touchdown and the extra point, 
based on last year’s differential 
against these teams (+8)
GEORGIA
Geaux Dawgs. If they win my 
weekend will be a lot more fun.
editors’ picks
MIDDLEBURY (-10)
The real question here is who 
spends their time coming up with 
spreads for DIII Football games?
Damon...
NO
Yeah, I can dig it.
+5
I’m looking for two wins in a 
rebound weekend.
Alex Morris (6-1, .857)
CONTINUED FROM 24
“We have the tal-
ent to be the best 
team in the NES-
CAC. We just have 
to ... put it togeth-
er both days of the 
tournament”
Fitz Bowen ’17
Men’s team
The Middlebury women’s 
soccer team scored with 3:29 left 
on the clock to ensure a 2-1 road 
victory over Bowdoin on Saturday, 
Sept. 21. The Panthers built on a 
strong non-conference record with 
a 5-0 win on Tuesday, Sept. 24.
Middlebury started the game 
as the stronger side. Less than 15 
minutes into the half, the Panthers 
were denied an opening goal, as 
Bowdoin keeper Bridget McCarthy 
did well to get down and parry the 
ball away for a corner. Middlebury 
continued to control play in the 
opening half with a 5-1 advantage 
in shots on net.
as Amy Martin ’14 launched a shot 
that ricocheted off the crossbar. 
After a scramble in the box, the 
ball came to senior captain Julia 
Favorito ’14 who was able to tuck 
the ball away in the bottom corner.
The Panthers were unable 
half performance in the opening 
minutes of the second half, as 
Bowdoin came out strong. The 
a shot toward the top left hand 
corner from Maya Norman, forcing 
Elizabeth Foody ’14 into a diving 
save. The Panthers keeper was able 
to tip the ball onto the crossbar and 
out for a corner.
Bowdoin’s breakthrough 
came with under seven minutes 
remaining after a foul by 
Middlebury gave the Polar Bear’s 
a free kick in the center of the 18. 
Jamie Hofstetter capitalised on the 
good position by curling the ball 
into the back of Foody’s net.
However, Middlebury was not 
rattled by the late equaliser. Just 
three minutes after the last goal, 
Scarlett Kirk ’14 passed the ball to 
Favorito at the top of the box. She 
was able to turn and launch a shot 
into the top right corner. 
“It was probably one of the most 
exciting goals I’ve ever scored,” 
Favorito said. “The win felt well 
deserved based on the way we had 
played the entire match, so I was 
glad I could come through for them. 
I was very proud of how our team 
did not fall apart when Bowdoin 
scored an equalizer late in the 
game. Even while under pressure 
everyone remained focused and 
continued to play our style game. “
Kirk and Favorito are proving 
to be a deadly duo in the beginning 
of the season, playing a part in 
12 of Middlebury’s 19 goals, and 
combining together for the two of 
them.
“I’ve had a lot of fun playing 
up top this year,” Favorito said. I 
love our system because of how 
dynamic it is and how many people 
get to join the attack. I love playing 
with Scarlett up top because we 
play off of each other really well.“
The Panthers held a 17-10 
shot advantage over Bowdoin, 
with eight shots coming on net 
Bowdoin. McCarthy had six stops 
to Foody’s four.
Kirk continued to dominate 
offensively, after tying the school 
record with her second hattrick of 
the season on Tuesday.
The senior striker netted four 
just seven minutes into the game. 
She showed her pace and power, 
twice scoring solo goals after out-
muscling defenders to get in one-
on-one situtations with the keeper.
Hannah Robinson ’16 also 
played an active role in the game, 
assisting one of Kirk’s goals and 
also being converted from the 
penalty spot.
Co-captain Lindsay Kingston 
can compete with anyone in the 
NESCAC.
“We expect to be a top 
competitor in the NESCAC,” 
Kingston said. “We prioritize shut 
outs, but are obviously looking to 
years are a huge part of our team 
and we expect them to step up.”
The Panther’s return to action 
Saturday, Sept. 28 against Colby.
McCallum Foote ’14 threw 
for 362 yards and three 
touchdowns and the defense 
forced four turnovers and 
allowed just three  points as 
the Middlebury football team 
kicked off 2013 where it left off 
in 2012 with a 27-5 victory over 
a toothless Polar Bear team. The 
Panthers lacked the polish and 
the dominance they exhibited 
a season ago, hardly surprising 
given the substantial turnover 
the team sustained, having lost 
13 starters — six on offense and 
seven on defense — from the 
2012 team. 
After Middlebury received 
the opening kickoff, Foote 
engineered a ruthlessly efficient 
first drive, completing five of six 
passes for 62 yards, targeting his 
tight end Billy Sadik-Khan ’14 
three times — all completions — 
for 34 yards, including an eight-
yard touchdown toss. 
Sadik-Khan, a wide receiver 
who had struggled with 
preseason injuries throughout 
his career made the transition to 
tight end during the offseason.
“During the offseason we 
thought it might be worth 
looking at him at tight end, 
given what we ask tight ends to 
do, and it’s worked out great,” 
said head coach Bob Ritter. 
“He’s always had good abilities, 
good hands and he’s gotten 
stronger in the offseason so he 
can handle some of the blocking 
assignments that we have.”
While the offense 
sputtered after the first drive, 
Middlebury’s defensive unit 
made a number of crucial stops 
early to maintain the lead. After 
penalties derailed Bowdoin’s 
first offensive possession, the 
Polar Bears picked up a pair 
of first downs on their second 
possession before Middlebury 
linebacker Zach Faber ’14 
crashed down off the edge on 
a third-and-three play to halt 
Polar Bears’ running back Trey 
Brown in his tracks, six yards 
behind the line of scrimmage.
Bowdoin recovered with 
a superb special teams play, 
downing the subsequent punt 
inside Middlebury’s two-yard 
line after a 49-yard boot from 
punter Andrew Murowchick. 
Facing the prospect of moving 
the ball from the shadow of his 
team’s end zone, head coach Bob 
Ritter called a running play that 
was snuffed out by First-Team 
All-NESCAC linebacker Griffin 
Cardew resulting in a safety and 
the game’s first points for the 
Polar Bears. 
Bowdoin then executed its 
most successful drive of the 
game, taking the free kick after 
the safety and marching 55 
yards on 14 plays, including 
a crucial fourth-and-one 
conversion before stalling at the 
Middlebury five-yard line and 
settling for a field goal — the 
team’s only offensive score — to 
cut the Middlebury lead to two. 
The Bowdoin threat seemed 
to reignite Foote and the 
Middlebury offense, which 
unveiled a new wrinkle in 
first-year running back Joey 
Zelkowitz ’17, who caught a pair 
of passes from Foote in a span 
of three plays, employing a 
series of cuts and jukes to weave 
his way through the Bowdoin 
sports 24
By Damon Hatheway 
Panthers Roll Bowdoin 
27-5 in Season Opener
File PHoto
notched the winning tally just 2:57 after the Polar Bears had 
tied the game, netting an impressive top corner shot at 86:31.
FIELD HOCKEY DROPS 
FIRST REGULAR 
SEASON GAME SINCE 
2011
PAGE 22
MEN’S SOCCER 
PLAYS TO 2OT TIE AT 
BOWDOIN
PAGE 21
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Favorito’s Goal in 86th Minute 
Stuns Polar Bears in Brunswick
By Alex Morris
hurricane force win
SEE SADIK-KHAN, PAGE 23
Despite blustery winds, MCRC secured sole possession 
 
See page 21 for full coverage.
