Thursday, September 29, 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Vol. 110, No. 3 Since 1905
th
is
 w
e
e
k Fall festival
Vergennes Assembly of God 
celebrates fall,
page 5.
Comedians take the stage
Read about the dueling events of 
Otters and Middlebrow, 
page 16.
Middlebury by roof
Explore the College from the top 
down,
pages 12-13.
Students walk, 
bike for planet
By Kyle Finck
News Editor
Courtesy of Solar Decathlon
With 185 points, the Middlebury College team moved up to seventh place on Tuesday in the Solar 
Decathlon competition, 15 points behind first. The decathlon continues through Sunday, Oct. 2.
SOLAR DECATHLON BEGINS IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
Employment rebounds for grads
Symposium discusses 
Middle East identities
Andrew Podrygula, Senior Photos Editor
MIT professor Junot Díaz read from his lauded novel !e Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao and took ques-
tions on Sept. 27 at an event attended by College and community members alike. See the review on page 19.
PULITZER PRIZE WINNER READS IN MEAD CHAPEL
Bookstore remains profitable
By Kelsey Collins
Staff Writer
By Jeremy Kallan
Staff Writer
By Hannah Bristol
Online Editor
See Outlook, page 2 See Activists, page 3
See Rising, page 4
See A Look, page 14
With the start of the fall se-
mester, students face rising — in 
many cases, crippling — prices for 
books. However, amid an evolving 
publishing industry, the College 
Bookstore remains in the black.
Book prices are set according 
to an established formula. Books 
under $100 are marked up 25 per-
cent while books over $100 are 
marked up 20 percent, said Book-
store Manager Georgia Best.
Best has worked at the book-
store for 28 years — the last two 
as manager — and places the rise 
in prices on book publishers, who 
have unrelentingly raised prices.
“Every year we see a major 
increase on our end from publish-
ers,” she said. “A book we bought 
in the fall we’ll find is $10 more in 
the spring.”
Best said that the bookstore 
markup is in line with the “na-
tional average,” adding that the 
store did not make a significant 
profit selling books. 
Nevertheless, Best said, the 
bookstore has always been prof-
itable. The bookstore showed a 
$100,000 surplus in the 2011 fiscal 
year, according to Vice President 
for Finance and Treasurer Patrick 
Norton.
After the store balances its 
budget, all profits go into the Col-
lege’s General Fund, which pays 
for all college expenditures. 
Best said that the bookstore 
had never considered using prof-
its to sell books at cost — with no 
mark-up — but that it was plau-
sible. 
“Sure, it’s possible, but even if 
a student were to pay at cost for a 
textbook, many would still be over 
$100 and we would also most like-
According to an annual senior 
survey conducted by the Center for 
Education in Action (EIA), the Class 
of 2011 had the highest rate of post-
graduation employment of any class 
in the last four years. With record 
numbers of recruiters visiting this 
fall, it appears the job market could 
be looking up for recent Middlebury 
graduates.
Since the Class of 2009, which 
graduated during the lowest point 
of the recession, the percentage of 
Middlebury students employed at 
graduation has jumped from 25 
percent to 36 percent. Only 25 per-
cent of students are continuing the 
job search, while in 2009, 43 percent 
of students were job hunting. There 
is also an increased percentage of 
Middlebury students with intern-
ships and fellowships, from eight 
percent in 2009 to 11 percent in 
2011.
The report, conducted late last 
spring, assessed the post-graduate 
plans of students in the class of 
2011. Of the 688 students contacted 
by email to participate, 474 — 69 
percent — completed the survey.  
“We can’t control the econo-
my, yet we are quite optimistic that 
those who work at it will be success-
ful,” said Director of Career Services 
Donald Kjelleren. “I don’t think 
easy opportunities are going to fall 
out of trees anytime soon given the 
current employment numbers, but I 
think for those Middlebury students 
who engage early and really get go-
ing with this process, we are seeing 
quite a bit of opportunity out there.”
The EIA will send out anoth-
er survey to the same students in 
November to see how plans have 
changed in the six months following 
graduation.
For members of the Class of 
2012, the process of planning for 
after graduation has already begun. 
612 seniors attended the senior 
meeting last week, followed by Re-
sumania on Wednesday, Thursday 
and Friday, where seniors could 
bring in resumes for EIA staff to 
look over. On Friday alone, over 70 
seniors attended.
 “I was sitting in the senior 
meeting, and I heard one student 
sitting to the left of me say, ‘This is 
terrifying,’ and then I heard another 
one in front of me saying, ‘I so don’t 
want to be thinking about this,’” 
said Peggy Burns, associate direc-
tor of civic engagement and intern-
ships. “What we want to convey is 
that this isn’t something to dread. 
On Saturday, Sept. 24, more 
than 50 Middlebury students 
traveled to Montpelier to partici-
pate in Moving Planet, a day of 
international action for the envi-
ronmental movement.  The event 
was organized by members of 
350.org, an organization found-
ed by Schumann Distinguished 
Scholar Bill McKibben.
The event had activists all 
around the world walk, cycle and 
use other climate-friendly meth-
ods of transportation to travel 
and converge in about 2,000 inde-
pendent, community-organized 
events.
“This day accomplishes two 
things: it reminds all of us that 
transportation is one of the key 
opportunities to fight climate 
change, and it keeps building the 
big global movement that we need 
to take on the fossil fuel industry,” 
wrote McKibben in an email a few 
days prior to the event. “A bicycle 
may seem small compared to an 
oil tanker, but we will have an aw-
ful lot of bikes out in the streets of 
every continent!”
The event served to both raise 
awareness about the environmen-
tal movement internationally and 
to make specific demands of local 
politicians.  Phil Aroneanu ’06 is 
currently the U.S. campaign di-
rector for 350.org and an orga-
nizer for Moving Planet events in 
New York City.
“The basic idea is that we 
want to show the population here 
in the United States and abroad 
that there is a massive climate 
movement that is ready to take 
action, that is not waiting for pol-
iticians to take action but is push-
ing the envelope,” said Aroneanu. 
Aroneanu helped to plan the 
events in New York City, where 
groups from all five boroughs 
marched and converged at a plaza 
across the street from the U.N. He 
explained that the international 
demand of the movement is to 
move beyond fossil fuels, but that 
more specific demands are being 
made within smaller communi-
ties across the country and the 
The dramatic changes in the po-
litical landscape of the Middle East, 
collectively know as the Arab Awaken-
ing or Arab Spring, are arguably the 
biggest news story of 2011.
This year’s timely Clifford Sym-
posium, entitled “(Re)Presenting Na-
tional and Cultural Identities in the 
Middle East,” explored the cultural 
and political roots of the on-going up-
risings and revolutions as well as the 
complexities of Middle Eastern iden-
tities. It took place this past weekend, 
Sept. 22-24.
 Geography Professor Tamar 
Mayer, one of the co-organizers of 
the symposium, stated that “the tim-
ing could not be any better.  With the 
Palestinian bid for membership in the 
U.N., at exactly the time of the sym-
posium, we probably could not have 
asked for a more perfect timing for 
a conference on (re)presentations of 
national and cultural identities in the 
Middle East.”
Keynote speaker Shibley Telhami, 
the Anwar Sadat Professor of Peace 
and Development at the University 
of Maryland, kicked off the three-day 
symposium with his address, “Identity 
and the Arab Awakening”. He present-
ed an overview of the political and cul-
tural circumstances that he believes are 
defining this Arab Awakening. While 
each country has had its unique revo-
lutionary trajectory, Telhami pointed 
to some commonalities among up-
risings, noting that throughout the 
region the “information revolution” 
campusnews2 29 September 2011
FFF: HORRIBLE BOSSES
Friday//  7 p.m. and 10 p.m. // Dana 
Auditorium
DANCE PARTY
Saturday night // Time TBA // 
Bunker
WHAT’S 
HAPPENING 
AT MIDD?
MCAB PRESENTS
beyond
the bubble
by Melanie Haas,
Staff Writer
Outlook remains positive for seniors
Popular Grille items see price increase
By Paul Warnke
Staff Writer
The Dr. Feelgood, a staple of student’s 
late-night diet, rose in price from $4.75 to 
$5.75 when the Grille tweaked its menu at 
the end of Summer Language Schools.  
After receiving criticism regarding 
the quality of food at the Grille through 
word of mouth and comment cards at the 
end of last year, General Manager of Re-
tail Food Operations David Cannistra re-
vamped the menu with late-night options, 
new sandwiches and attractive deals. 
“The customers wanted to see bet-
ter products,” said Cannistra. “This pur-
suit of excellence in taste understandably 
brings with it an increase in cost.” 
In order to enhance food quality, the 
Grille has switched to buying McKenzie 
Meats, a Vermont purveyor of specialty 
meats. But with higher quality food comes 
higher prices.  
Many items, such as quesadillas, na-
chos and the Love Me Tender, have also 
seen significant price increases.  
The Grille has felt the brunt not only 
of a change in meat supplier, but also 
the mounting cost in food commodities 
across the nation. The drought that crip-
pled Southern agriculture this summer, 
the recent flooding that submerged much 
of the eastern seaboard and the spike in 
transportation costs have all translated 
into higher Grille prices. 
“Prices are going up and we just have 
to be proactive about the pricing,” said 
Cannistra, who emphasized that because 
the Grille has historically operated at a 
loss, special attention must be given to the 
bottom line.
Not every item, however, has seen 
a surge in price. In order to balance the 
menu and assuage customer dissatisfac-
tion, the Grille implemented special deals 
like two slices of pizza and a soda for five 
dollars and lower prices on sides such as 
potato fries. 
Meg Anderson ’14 said that most stu-
dents don’t mind paying a little extra for 
their Grille meal. 
“Most kids won’t even notice the 
price increase on a late Saturday night,” 
she said.  
The Grille’s draw on a Friday or Sat-
urday night may be even stronger with 
the advent of late-night items, such as the 
Dr. Dow, the Triple Bypass Burger and the 
Clogger.  
Students returned to campus this fall to 
find dramatic price increases at the Grille.
Courtesy of Middlebury College
Continued from page 1
Jennifer Anguko’s husband watched 
her die over a 12-hour span as they waited 
to see a doctor in a hospital in Northern 
Uganda.  He related that his wife called the 
nurses who passed her by “sisters” as she 
pled for help and as he changed his wife’s 
sheets himself.  She died from childbirth 
complications, which experts say would 
not have been fatal had a doctor seen her in 
time.
According to Uganda’s 2010 Millen-
nium Development Goals report, 6,000 
women die while giving birth in the country 
each year.  Jennifer Anguko became one of 
those 6,000 last October when she and her 
unborn child passed away after waiting 13 
hours for a caesarean section. 
The Ugandan government will now 
have to evaluate the quality of its obstetric 
care as the country faces a monumental law-
suit this month on behalf of Anguko’s fami-
ly, another family and the Centre for Health, 
Human and Development Rights who ar-
gue that the lack of supplies and staff avail-
able to women in hospital maternity wards 
violates basic human rights. Lead Counsel 
for the Centre for Health, Human and De-
velopment Rights David Kabanda believes 
that the Ugandan government violates the 
constitution by allowing preventable mater-
nal deaths to occur, TrustLaw reports.
While hospital visits in Uganda are 
seemingly free of charge, pregnant women 
seeking medical attention in hospitals must 
often bribe hospital officials for attention. 
Dr. Emmanuel Odar, the only obstetrician 
working in this hospital, reported to The 
New York Times that patients must find and 
buy supplies at local pharmacies while those 
without enough money must beg. 
Jocelyn Edwards of TrustLaw writes 
that the Ugandan government’s defense rests 
in pleading poverty.  The defense insists that 
poor economic conditions and inadequate 
funding limits the extent to which the coun-
try is medically responsible for its people. 
In response to the cases that are at the heart 
of the lawsuit, attorney Patricia Mutesi said, 
“We think the deaths are actually (the result 
of) individual misbehavior which cannot be 
blamed on the government.” 
Despite the country’s economic tur-
moil, Uganda confirmed rumors this spring 
that it spent at least half of a billion dollars 
on military acquisitions, which included 
Russian-made fighter jets.  This sum of 
money was triple the amount that the coun-
try spent on its public health system last 
year, the Times reports. Government offi-
cials emphasize the importance of protect-
ing the nation, which has a past filled with 
conflict.
The Times’ Celia W. Dugger emphasiz-
es that this case brings to light the effect that 
other countries have in providing relief in 
Africa.  A 2010 study published by the Uni-
versity of Washington’s Institute for Health 
Metrics found that developing nations re-
duce their own health spending by 43 cents 
for every $1.14 provided by a foreign nation. 
Anguko was one of four women who 
died in the maternity ward that night.  She 
and her husband had come prepared, even 
bringing a blade to cut the umbilical cord. 
But their preparation, and even Anguko’s 
position as an elected official could not save 
her as she bled to death in a hospital bed.
Anguko’s husband told the Times, “The 
government is advocating that women go to 
deliver in the hospitals and health centers. 
The facilities are there but when we go to 
the facilities there, the services are not pro-
vided.”  
’08 ’09 ’10 ’11
31
36EMPLOYED
VOLUNTEER/
TRAVEL/OTHER
GRADUATE 
SCHOOL
INTERNSHIPS/
FELLOWSHIPS
CONTINUING 
JOB SEARCH
6
14
8 7
11
13
13
14 15 14
43
29
2525
34
36
AFTER MIDD
Every year the EIA conducts a survey of Middlebury 
grads’ employment status. Here are the results.
It’s certainly part of that journey and part of 
life after Middlebury, but it can be a really ex-
citing process, and we’re just 
encouraging students to do 
what they love.”
“You don’t have to do 
[this process] off by yourself,” 
said Kjelleren. “There are a lot 
of people willing to support 
your interests if you are will-
ing to reach out and ask. There is an eager and 
experienced staff here available to help stu-
dents get started.”
The EIA has been working to attract re-
cruiters to campus and to gather job opportu-
nities for seniors from the alumni and parent 
networks. With the fall recruiting season in 
full swing, seniors have begun the application 
process.
Virginia Shannon ’11, who is now work-
ing at Green Corps, a one-year paid program 
for environmental organizers, had a positive 
experience with the EIA’s job recruitment 
process.
“As an environmental studies and biol-
ogy double major, I felt a strong pull toward 
research and masters programs to secure a 
career and job, but in the end I had to think 
about what best fit my personality and my 
skill set,” said Shannon. “Middlebury defi-
nitely prepared me by bringing Green Corps 
to recruit on campus and hosting an info ses-
sion, because otherwise I never would’ve ex-
plored the option.” 
The EIA is also focusing on working 
with underclassmen so they have more 
experience by the time they become se-
niors.
“Really think about what are you 
learning from these experiences about 
yourself,” said EIA Director Lisa Gates. 
“About your likes, your dislikes, things that 
excite you, things that bore you to tears. Pay-
ing attention to that … throughout your un-
dergraduate career, I think, will help you feel 
much more confident about the decisions that 
you will be making throughout the course of 
your senior year.”
We’re just encouraging 
students to do what they love.
— Peggy Burns, EIA
Some students see the higher prices as 
legtimate, but only if quality increases as 
well.
“Price increases can only be justi-
fied by the effort to increase the quality 
of overall Grille enjoyment,” said Phillip 
Hughes ’14.
campusnews 29 September 2011 3
overseas
briefing
by Olivia Blahut ’13
QUITO — Although I am a proponent 
of sensitivity toward cultural differences and 
consideration toward the feelings of others, 
I do find myself frustrated at the sometimes 
excessive amount of political correctness 
that is floating around our country and spe-
cifically around the College. In an atmosphere 
of “first-years” and ¨Little People,”  “Native 
Americans/Indigenous persons/Indians” and 
“womyn,” I sometimes fear that in the effort 
to avoid offending someone, we miss out the 
opportunity to hear a critical argument, genu-
ine question or worst of all, a really funny joke.
So, when I got to Ecuador, I was relieved 
to discover that the rules of language were a 
little more lax here.  One Ecuadorian student 
who had studied abroad in Missouri told me 
that the one thing he simply did not under-
stand about American culture was the concept 
of “political correctness.”  As he said, “Here, 
we sort of just say what we want to, and if it´s 
something bad, people generally just think 
we’re joking.”  I did a little celebratory dance 
inside my head.  Finally! I was in a place where 
people could talk freely!  Gone was the need 
to censure ourselves! Distasteful jokes could 
be made without several Proctor tables full of 
politically aware Middlebury students turning 
to give me their nastiest looks! Or so I thought, 
until I saw what a lack of political correctness 
is like in practice.
This weekend, I found myself in the Ori-
ental region of Ecuador riding a trolley up the 
side of a volcano at night.  Beautiful views, 
cool people, a cup of traditional hot wine and 
life was good.  Then, when things could not 
get any better, we turned around to see the rest 
of our tour group (all Ecuadorians) gather-
ing around a bonfire.  Being gringos — thus 
generally clueless — we naturally all assumed 
that we were going to be treated to some sort 
of show put on by people from the indigenous 
tribes of Ecuador.  We eagerly ran up to the 
fire, ready to have our minds blown by the 
ancient traditions of these people who have 
resisted modernization for so long.  Turns out, 
we were not watching a traditional fire dance. 
No, just a magic show featuring two magicians 
who could not actually perform magic tricks. 
So really, we were watching more of a comedy 
put on by two brothers frolicking around a 
roaring bonfire.  Disappointed, but still ready 
for a few laughs, we settled into the show.
Over the next 30 minutes, these two men 
managed to insult nearly every group of people 
you could ever think of.  Black people, white 
people, indigenous people, gay people, wom-
en, Chinese people, people from the entirety 
of Asia, orphans … the list goes on. These men 
took the most offensive stereotypes about each 
group and mocked them incessantly: pony-
tails, pinched eyes, stilted speech and a sort of 
waddle turned one into a Chinese man, while 
the other killed the crowd by flicking his wrists 
and speaking in high-pitched, lisping Spanish 
in his imitation of a gay man.  With each joke, 
we got more and more irritated and shocked 
that these performers (and the audience) actu-
ally thought these crude generalizations were 
funny.  We ended up leaving the show in favor 
of exploring the mountainside and appreciat-
ing the amazing views.
So, for all of you who read my first para-
graph and were appalled that I, a student of 
Middlebury College, cannot understand the 
need for accurate and sensitive language, con-
sider my lesson learned. Although I still main-
tain that sometimes the PC-ness of our coun-
try and campus goes too far, I have come to 
appreciate that a balance is, indeed necessary. 
If I am trying to be an empathetic and under-
standing person, then the language I choose to 
use needs to reflect this goal.  
Activists join worldwide movement
Continued from page 1
world.
“For example, in Seattle we have a 
couple of really specific things that they 
are asking the state to do,” said Aroneanu. 
“One is to block any new coal ports. They 
are trying to build a bunch of ports to ship 
coal from the middle of the country out to 
China through Washington. Also, they are 
making sure to put pressure on their politi-
cians to develop more public transport and 
bike infrastructure.”
Of the approximately 2,000 events 
that occurred on Saturday, about 700 took 
place in the U.S. Aroneanu said the rest 
took place across 177 different countries, 
including a group of people cycling 350 
miles from Bali to Jakarta 
in Indonesia.  
Among all of these 
events, Aroneanu said that 
the gathering in Montpe-
lier was one of the larg-
est community-planned 
events in the country.
A large group of 
Middlebury students 
took part in the demon-
strations in Montpelier. 
Hannah Bristol ’14.5, 
Gretchen Neubauer ’14 
and Lucas Braun ’13 or-
ganized the trip through 
the Sunday Night Group.  
“We were thinking 
about trying to do some-
thing in Middlebury, but 
we thought it would be 
a really important thing 
for Middlebury students 
to go to and a good way for Middlebury 
students to get involved in local Vermont 
politics,” said Bristol.
Bristol said there was an estimated 
2,000 people at the event, representing a 
wide age range and all areas of the state of 
Vermont. “It was nice to see the extent of 
the Vermont community that is interested 
in the environmental movement,” said 
Bristol.
The gathering featured speeches by 
members of 350.org, as well as Vermont 
Governor Peter Shumlin and junior U.S. 
Senator for Vermont Bernie Sanders. Gov-
ernor Shumlin spoke about how Vermont 
is a leader in the environmental movement 
and discussed the startling number of cli-
mate-related natural disasters he has wit-
nessed during his nine months as governor.
Besides the many speeches, the gather-
ing included a tent with information about 
various local environmental endeavors, 
including a man with a bicycle-operated 
apple cider press. There was a truck from 
Ben and Jerry’s that was giving out free ice 
cream to anyone who wrote a letter to their 
Governor.
“Coming from Virginia, where there is 
a strong backlash against the environmen-
tal movement, it was cool to see that you 
could have a peaceful gathering,” said Bris-
tol. “It wasn’t aggressive in any way, it was 
just people standing up and sharing their 
passion. I feel like if that were to happen 
at home, people would be violently against 
it or you would definitely get some back-
lash. I thought it said 
a lot about Vermont 
that you could have 
an event like this and 
people wouldn’t be 
opposed to it.”
Overall, Bristol 
saw the event as a 
valuable experience 
for Middlebury stu-
dents to get involved 
in local politics and 
see environmental ac-
tivism firsthand. All 
over the world, thou-
sands of people par-
ticipated in this day 
of action for the envi-
ronment. Reports and 
pictures of different 
events can be found 
online at 350.org.
SGAupdate
The Sept. 25 meeting of the Student 
Government Association (SGA) was en-
gaged primarily in acquainting new sena-
tors with the SGA process, including re-
viewing the constitution, the by-laws and 
the procedure and template for writing 
bills.
The first order of business at the 
meeting, however, was to vote on a new 
Speaker of the Senate. The speaker is 
responsible for conducting the flow of 
each meeting. Michael Polebaum ’12 and 
Joanie Thompson ’14 ran for the posi-
tion. 
Polebaum, the senator for Cook 
Commons currently serving his second 
year in the SGA, outlined his leadership in 
the largely popular but eventually unsuc-
cessful movement for enacting a Pass-Fail 
system at the College as his major past 
achievement. He also promised to help 
improve students’ perception of the SGA, 
expressing concern that the large major-
ity of the campus is unaware of what the 
SGA does.
Thompson echoed her opponent’s 
fear that SGA was poorly advertised. She 
also highlighted what she believed was a 
“jargon problem,” that a lot of what was 
done at meetings got too caught up in the 
method of saying it rather than the actual 
content. After a vote, Joanie Thompson 
was chosen as the new speaker for the 
2011-2012 school year.
The Elections Council was discussed 
next. Caroline Regan ’12, director of 
membership, was brought in to the meet-
ing. The Elections Council, led by the 
director of membership, is charged with 
managing the election process through 
things such as collecting candidates’ 
completed lists of signatures. Regan had 
not yet chosen the four members of the 
council who will assist her throughout 
the process. Four sitting members of the 
SGA — Steve Marino ’12, Kathryn Ben-
son ’13, Polebaum and Brittany Gendron 
’12 — volunteered to sit on the Elections 
Council. In the coming days, Regan will 
choose two students outside of the SGA 
to replace two of the above-mentioned 
SGA member on the council. 
The constitution, bylaws and rules of 
procedure were outlined by the Associ-
ate Dean of Students for Residential and 
Student Life Policy Doug Adams, who 
also serves as the advisor to the SGA. 
Before adjourning, the Senate 
turned to the issue of the ratification of 
the Presidential Cabinet. The cabinet is 
composed of officers appointed by the 
President of the SGA. After the recent 
resignation of Riley O’Rourke ’12 as 
president, Acting President Janet Ro-
drigues ’12 gave all members the option 
to retain their positions. 
The cabinet will be restored after 
the Oct. 10 special elections when a new 
president will be elected. Any Cabinet 
members who may be necessary in the 
interim will be appointed by the Senate 
on a case-by-case basis.
SGA elects speaker, chooses Elections Council
by Ben Anderson, Staff Writer
public safety log
DATE TIME INCIDENT CATEGORY LOCATION DISPOSITION
9/21/11 10:17 p.m. Fire Alarm Violation Coffrin Referred to Commons DOC
9/21/11 7:16 p.m. Conduct Disorderly CFA Referred to Commons Dean
9/22/11 11:59 p.m. Drug violation Paraphernalia Hepburn Road Referred to Commons Dean
9/23/11 9:34 p.m. Missing Person Off campus Case Closed
9/23/11 11:37 p.m. Drug Violation Use Wright Theatre Referred to Commons Dean
9/23/11 10:28 p.m. Party Illegal underage Gifford Referred to Commons Dean
9/24/11 1:10 a.m. Fire Alarm Smoking Coffrin Referred to Commons Dean
9/24/11 10:50 p.m. Disturbance Noise 51 Franklin Referred to Commons Dean
9/25/11 12:10 a.m. Vandalism Vegetation Adirondack View Rd. Referred to Commons Dean
9/25/11 9:08 p.m. Property Recovered College St. Referred to DOC
9/25/11 11:54 p.m. Disturbance Noise Palmer Referred to DOC
The Department of Public Safety reported giving 34 alcohol citations between Sept. 20, 20011 and Sept. 26, 2011.
September 20­26, 2011 
Thousands gathered in Montpelier, above, to rally against climate change and fossil fuels.
Courtesy of 350.org
college
shorts
by Danny Zhang, Staff Writer
Large schools mean 
less diverse interaction
Students continue to 
suffer from high stress
Fewer graduate students 
enrolled in U.S. schools
Studies show that students on larger 
and more diverse campuses develop 
friendships with a more homogeneous 
group than those attending smaller and 
less diverse schools.
The research was carried out at five 
schools in the state of Kansas, with the 
University of Kansas as the larger and 
more diverse sample.
Opinions from various profes-
sionals, including a college roommate 
matchmaker and a professor of psychol-
ogy, explain that students at smaller 
schools have a smaller friend pool and 
thus develop relationships with those 
not exactly like them.
The studies also cite the more in-
timate and interactive nature of small 
campuses as one of the reasons why 
closer relationships form despite fewer 
commonalities between students.
— Chronicle for Higher Education
In her weekly column in the Huff-
ington Post, Dr. Carol J. Scott wrote 
about the “back-to-college” stresses 
that college students are have experi-
enced in recent years. She cites areas 
of concern for students returning to 
college, especially first-years, which 
include overwhelming academic pres-
sures, a nationwide college suicide cri-
sis and substance abuse. Her summary 
is dotted with statistics that indicate 
worrying trends among the college 
population, including high propor-
tions of self-reported depression and 
low percentages of students seeking 
counseling support.
Dr. Scott also advises parents on 
how to prevent “inevitable” stresses 
from turning into personal catastro-
phes for college students, focusing on 
the importance of familial communica-
tion, realistic expectations and aware-
ness of college resources.
— The Huffington Post
The number of matriculated gradu-
ate students in the fall of 2010 decreased 
in comparison to fall of 2009, the first 
year-to-year decrease since 2003. How-
ever, the number of applicants actually 
went up. The statistics were compiled by 
the Council of Graduate Schools (CGS) 
and the Graduate Record Examinations 
Board (GRE). This year’s survey sample 
was gathered from 655 institutions of 
higher education, which collectively ac-
cepted about 750,000 students for a 42 
percent admission rate.
The ratio of new female to male 
graduate students has risen to almost 
60-40. In her statement on the new stats, 
CGS president Debra Stewart said that 
America’s competitiveness will depend 
on a growth in the number of students 
with advanced degrees.
— Reuters
4 29 September 2011 campusnews
Rising costs hit student pockets
With its diversified revenue stream of books, apparel and 
school supplies, the bookstore has remained profitable.
Anna Clements, Photos Editor
Continued from page 1
ly be operating in the red,” she said. 
The bookstore has implemented nu-
merous initiatives aimed at lowering the 
cost of books in recent years. Along with the 
Panther Point reward program that gives 
students a five percent discount on their 
purchases in the form of gift cards, Best said 
that the bookstore has tripled its textbook 
rental program in the last year. 
In addition, Best said the bookstore 
buys as many used books as possible, which 
are sold at 25 percent of the retail price.
Students like Evan Pagano ’12 have ex-
pressed frustration with the high prices. She 
said her organic chemistry book alone cost 
$500. 
“I would say one of the worst parts 
about the bookstore is the hefty price of 
books,” she said. “I understand that the 
bookstore needs to make a profit, but I don’t 
think that jacking up book prices is the best 
way to do this.” 
Lindsay Boles ’14, who is on the pre-
med track, paid over $700 for her books this 
fall — much more than last year, she says.
“For those students who are on finan-
cial aid or cannot afford to pay the extreme-
ly high costs for books, the school should 
help them figure out a way to get the ma-
terials that they need for their classes,” she 
wrote in an email. The bookstore should 
help defray the rising costs, she added, and 
not force students to bear the cost entirely.
Boles acknowledged that while selling 
books at cost may be extreme, the bookstore 
should meet students halfway.
“I think it would be fine to sell [books] 
at a price with less of a mark up than they 
are now,” she said. 
Best said that the bookstore has diversi-
fied its revenue sources in recent years, re-
sulting in the high surplus. 
“Our greatest source of revenue is from 
the clothing,” she said. “The biggest profits 
come from parent and alumni mail orders 
online and on-campus events.”
Best said that while the Apple computer 
store does not turn a profit, the bookstore 
will collect 10 percent of all sales in a new 
venture with Bed, Bath & Beyond located 
next to the store. 
“In the big picture, [Bed Bath & Be-
yond] isn’t a huge revenue source, but it 
allows us to offer a greater selection to stu-
dents,” said Best. 
High textbook prices have lead some 
students to find creative solutions. Math-
ematics and Economics double-major Dirk 
van Duym ’12 split the cost of a textbook 
with his suitemate and bought two other 
books he needed for this semester online. 
“If [lowering the cost 
of books] could be done 
without causing the book-
store to fail, that would be 
great,” he said. “They defi-
nitely need to lower prices 
at least a little bit.”    
Norton said that 
while the bookstore may 
have a surplus, the auxil-
iary units, which include 
the Grille, Midd Xpress, 
Snow Bowl, Golf Course 
and bookstore are expect-
ed to lose approximately 
$600,000 collectively for 
the 2011 fiscal year. 
Pagano said that one 
reason for student frustra-
tion over book prices is 
that it comes directly out 
of their pockets. 
“Many students pay 
for their own books while 
their parents cover tuition 
costs, and because most 
students are on a tight 
budget, paying upwards of 
$400 for books in one se-
mester is pretty ridiculous,” she said. “With 
these prices, it’s … clear to me why so many 
students opt to buy books through Ama-
zon.”
Best said the bookstore’s profits have 
taken a hit from online textbook retailers. 
“It’s definitely affected the sale of text-
books and it will continue to do so,” she 
said. “It’s just the way business is.” 
Having experienced high book prices 
putting her own children through college, 
Best said she empathizes with students. 
“The cost is definitely going up and I 
don’t think there is any easy solution for 
students,” she said. “From our prospective, 
we are providing a service and trying to 
price the books competitively.”  
260 Court Street
Middlebury 
802-388-5400
M-F 9-7 | Sat 9-6 | Sun 9-5
GET IN  
GET CONFIDENT
1-800-SUPERCUTS | www.supercuts.com 
WELCOME MIDDLEBURY
COLLEGE STUDENTS
OPEN NIGHTS & WEEKENDS
SEVEN DAYS A WEEK 
ASK ABOUT OUR COLOR SPECIALS! no
w
 a
va
ila
bl
e 
on
 y
ou
r 
m
ob
ile
 d
ev
ic
e
w
w
w
.m
id
dl
eb
ur
yc
am
pu
s.
co
m
local29 September 2011
  The Middlebury Campus
5
A man of many trades
Brian Carpenter, the co-owner of Champlain Valley Equip-
ment, also works closely with the Vermont National Guard,
page 6.
Runners race across TAM
!e eighth annual TAM Team Trek was a success and all 
who attended especially appreciated the scenic route, 
page 7.
Photos courtesy of Art Adams
!e people of Vergennes gathered on the town green to enjoy live music, a free "ea market, 
face painting and a variety of games as part of the annual Vergennes Family Fall Festival. 
Devin MacDonald 
On Saturday, Sept. 24, the Vergennes Town Green 
came alive for the 11th annual Vergennes Family Fes-
tival.
!e event, hosted each year by the Assembly of God 
Christian Center on Route 7, showcased a live band, two 
bouncy castles, face painting and even a “circus hair” 
stand, where volunteers wound colorful yarn into braids 
cra"ing a festive, unique look. Attendees milled about, 
chatting and munching on popcorn and hot dogs, while 
children ran from game to game with faces painted with 
butter#ies and puppy dogs.
!is fall festival is free, so the food, activities and 
prizes were free for local kids. !ere was even a free tag 
sale complete with myriad donated items.
The College’s Administrative Coordinator of Fac­
ulty Affairs Donna McDurfee, who was also a volunteer 
at the festival thinks the event is important for the com-
munity.
“Someone got the idea to do something for the 
community and to expose the church,” said McDurfee. 
“It’s a great way to have fun.” 
!e festival brings facets of Vergennes and Addison County together. In addition to the 
members of the town of Vergennes, as well as other surrounding communities, local busi-
nesses join the festivities too. !ey $nd prize donations, help make food and organize the 
games. One Vergennes resident even carves a bear out of wood each year to ra%e o& at the 
end of the day. !is year, the children’s ra%e gave away a digital camera as its grand prize.
Pastor Art Adams is the muscle behind the yearly event. Although the main goal of the 
festival is simply to have fun, Adams also feels the day sends a positive message to the county. 
In past years, the festival o&ered screenings for blood pressure, and gave away household 
items, including detergent, clothing and non-perishable foods. Adams works with the Ver-
mont food bank, as well as other organizations across Addison County, so the event touches 
the lives of those in need.
“!e festival is always changing and we do what we can,” said Adams. “We have some-
thing here for everyone — kids and adults. We try to be a family-oriented church.”
Last year 400 people attended the festival. Adams said the only gage to measure how 
many people stopped by was to estimate how many hot dogs were eaten throughout the day. 
!e Vergennes Family Festival is gaining leverage because of its ever-growing number of 
activities, as well as the overall feeling of the event — that everyone is a big family.
Claire Jensen ’13.5 attended the event. Although she felt it was the drive to Vergennes 
was far, she did enjoy the sense of the community.
“I loved not feeling like a stranger,” she said. “It was really fun and I’m glad I went.”
!e Assembly of God Christian Center is constantly working for the betterment of the 
community, and its fall festival is one way the church can bring the town together. !ere are 
hopes to expand the festival next year to include more activities.
“It’s our gi" to the community,” said McDurfee. 
 
Local News Editor
Autumn in full frenzy at 
Vergennes Family Festival
29 September 20116
one in 8,700
 where the personalities of middlebury proper are celebrated
Carpenter, a one-star general, and his wife, Nanette, live in Middlebury, with their two children, Olivia and Spencer.   
Courtesy of Brian Carpenter
localnews
Farm Fresh
by Rachel Porter
Welcome to Farm Fresh! !is bi-
weekly column seeks to highlight the 
vast number of local foods used by 
Middlebury College Dining Services. 
Perhaps you have noticed the small cards 
decorating the dining halls that sport the 
banner “Vermont Local Foods” and the 
illustration of an idyllic landscape with 
freshly plowed soil. !e symbol is every-
where, clearly demonstrating Middle-
bury’s commitment to sustainable living.
According to the Northeast Begin-
ning Farmer’s Project webpage, Vermont 
is home to over 7,000 farms. Every year, 
agriculture contributes 2.6 billion dollars 
to the economy in Vermont. Dairy prod-
ucts are by far the biggest contributor, 
however, cattle, maple products, green-
house/nursery plants and apples are 
also top sellers. I am far from a morn-
ing person, but weekend mornings have 
de"nitely been made easier this semester 
by dousing my pancakes in real Vermont 
maple syrup. Vermont has perfected the 
delicious  art of syrup-making as the 
leading producer in the United States. 
In 2005, Vermont produced 410,000 U.S. 
gallons of syrup resulting in 37 percent 
of the total U.S. production for the year! 
On mornings when I’m running a bit 
late, a splash of milk, from Monument 
Farms Dairy in Weybridge, on my cereal 
and a swab of butter, from Middlebury’s 
own Cabot Creamery, on my toast, also 
gets the job done. 
While we all enjoyed our favorite 
dishes jazzed up with some local pro-
duce, few of us take the opportunity to 
visit the places where the journey begins. 
While we appreciate the health bene"ts 
of eating less-processed food and ad-
vocate for its environmental implica-
tions, most of what we know about this 
movement is information we have either 
heard of or read second-hand. I’m here 
to change that.
!is column will take you to point 
A. Before the milk is in your glass or 
the apple in your backpack, I’ll investi-
gate the origins of the local foods served 
here on campus by going to the farms 
themselves. I’ll talk to the farmers and 
learn about their growing techniques; 
I’ll sample their crop and explore their 
farms, I will even learn about the busi-
ness aspects of modern day farming and 
how farms make ends meet. 
While I am sure most of my mud 
raking will be more literal than revolu-
tionary, as I prepare to roll up my sleeves 
and experience farm life "rst hand, I 
think it will be worth it. !is column is 
an adventure and experiment combined. 
I’m not sure what we’ll discover, but I 
hope you will stay with me until next 
time to "nd out.
Rachel Porter ’13 is from Albany, NY
Having played football in college, Brian Carpenter is looking for-
ward to the College’s football home opener on Saturday, Sept. 29. Car-
penter graduated from St. Lawrence University as an economics major. 
He played lacrosse, in addition to football, there and was a member of 
the 1982 football team that made it to the NCAA semi"nals — the best 
football record in St. Lawrence history.  
Although Carpenter moved to Middlebury in fourth grade and 
attended Middlebury Union High School — just as his two children, 
avid athletes too, do — he has traveled the world. He co-owns and 
operates Champlain Valley Equipment with his father, and is also the 
head of the Vermont Army National Guard. 
Looking for a way to pay his college tuition, Carpenter said his 
coach suggested he look into service academies. He agreed, and while 
these academies granted individuals full scholarships to the college 
of his/her choice, each then owed four years of service a#er gradua-
tion. Nonetheless, Carpenter accepted the deal. He moved to Germany 
soon a#er his four years at St. Lawrence, before later returning to the 
United States for an advanced schooling program in Indianapolis. 
“I really enjoyed what I was doing,” said Carpenter, who served 
during the Regan era and said that the perceived threat of the Cold 
War seemed very real. “I felt what I was doing was a worthy cause.” 
His new position in the Vermont National Guard as the Brigadier 
General entails several responsibilities. He is in charge of “manning, 
equipping and training.” He must make sure all troops are prepared for 
missions. !e most recent project for the guard has been helping in the 
wake of Hurricane Irene. 
“I basically help oversee missions and make sure we do all tasks 
properly,” he said.
Vermont’s Major General Michael Dubie is a two-star general and 
is in charge of the entire Vermont National Guard. Carpenter works 
underneath him and manages the army, while Brigadier General 
Gregory Fick works alongside him, though he is responsible for the air 
force, comprised of roughly 800 men and women.  
Carpenter said an individual needs to do all the “right jobs” and 
must get recognized for doing them well in order to become a one-
star general. He took classes at the U.S. Army War College to get his 
Masters, so he was eligible for the position he now holds. Dubie then 
selected from a half dozen quali"ed individuals and chose Carpenter 
to serve as the Brigadier General, a three-year commitment. While 
he began his stint in August of last year, he said the Senate did not 
recognize him federally until May 25 of this year, so his contract will 
o$cially end in May 2014. 
Army headquarters are at Camp Johnson in Colchester, Vt., so 
Carpenter o#en "nds himself on the road to visit the site. He said 
there are a “signi"cant number” of armories around the state and he 
frequents each throughout the year to check on the troops, a total of 
2,800 soldiers. Fi#een hundred of these soldiers recently returned 
from Afghanistan with another 76 arriving back in Vermont a#er 
serving in Iraq. 
“We utilize a lot of technology,” he said. “Video conferencing al-
lows us to command and control throughout the state without having 
to drive to one central place.” 
Carpenter’s job also places him in charge of the state’s family sup-
port groups. He said it is important to make sure families are coping as 
their loved ones serve overseas. However, before accepting this posi-
tion, he worked hard to garner the respect of those above him.   
A#er his time in Germany and Indianapolis, he proceeded to 
serve at Fort Ord in the Monterey Bay area of California, and later 
served in Panama. Upon his return, he became an advisor to the 
Guard and Reserve in Orange County, California. 
“I have commanded quite a bit in the state [of Vermont] too,” said 
Carpenter, who has also held the positions of Battalion Commander 
and Senior State O$cer. He also commanded a Vermont specialty unit 
troop brigade. 
Serving at six di%erent armories across the state, he ended his ser-
vice a#er the fall of the Berlin Wall, which was around the same time 
he met his wife, Nanette. 
“She [Nanette] was the baby sister of my friends in service,” said 
Carpenter. “She came to stay with my friends and a#er a week I knew 
I wanted to marry her.”
However, the two did not tie the knot for another two years. 
Nanette, who worked at the College’s Parton Health Center, is now 
back at school getting her master’s as a nurse practitioner. Carpenter 
is proud of her, and especially supportive, as she helped him when he 
was studying for his master’s years ago. 
!rough the Vermont National Guard, Carpenter also works with 
another state program, Partnerships for Peace. !is organization has 
partnered with the countries of Macedonia and Senegal, and aims to 
aid these less stable, emerging nations. He said the president of Sen-
egal visited Chittenden last year and he got to know the area, as well as 
the people of the state. 
“Part of the program is to e%ect more western movement,” he said. 
“Macedonia is already a stronger country due to the partnership, and 
we have hopes that Senegal will be too. We are helping these countries 
become more democratized.”      
As if this were not enough, Carpenter is also the co-owner of 
Champlain Valley Equipment. He sells farm equipment, outdoor pow-
er equipment, lawn and garden equipment and light industrial equip-
ment, such as small excavators. 
“Our main clientele is anybody with property, and especially those 
people working land or woodlot, as we sell everything from chainsaws 
to mowers and harvesters,” he said. 
In the middle of 1992, Carpenter’s father extended an invitation 
to his son, hoping he would end his active service duty to help him run 
his Vermont business. 
“I felt it was a good career move, particularly because I was re-
cently married,” said Carpenter. 
He was also recently selected to represent over 600 dealers, locat-
ed across the northeast in states, such as New York, New Jersey, Mas-
sachusetts, Vermont and Pennsylvania. Carpenter is the spokesperson 
for this area, as a member of the North American Equipment Dealer 
Association. !is group meets several times a year in person, as well as 
through phone conferences.
“We talk about ways to provide a good business environment 
for manufacturers and dealers,” he said. “We seek to protect dealers 
from larger corporations by lobbying and representing dealer a%airs. 
We also produce a magazine that is dealer-service oriented, and keeps 
everyone informed about "nding tools to help all become better busi-
ness people.”
While Carpenter says the position is a “signi"cant undertaking,” 
thanks to a large budget, he believes the association runs e%ective pro-
grams that help dealers, like himself. 
Now an active member of the community, Carpenter enjoys 
coaching football and lacrosse in the local youth program. He said he 
is grateful to the College for allowing the kids to use its "elds. 
“It is amazing to see what the College does for the youth programs 
with its clinics,” he said, and while an avid fan of college sports, he is 
anticipating basketball season, especially a#er the success of last year’s 
season.
“It was incredibly exciting,” he said. 
By Charlotte Gardiner
Local News Editor
localnews 29 September 2011 7
local
lowdown
“Of Mice and Men”
Sept. 30 and Oct. 1, 2 8:00 p.m. - 11:00 
p.m.
!e Middlebury Actors Workshop will 
perform John Steinbeck’s tragic, tear-
jerking novella centered on the universal 
conditions of loneliness, strength and 
friendship this coming weekend at the 
Town Hall !eatre. Buy tickets for $20 
at the THT box o"ce or online at http://
www.townhalltheater.org. Call 802- 382-
9222 for more details.
 Community campfire
Oct. 1, 6:30 p.m. – 8:30 p.m.
Gather at Grace Church on Route 73 in 
Forest Dale for a #nal “summer” cookout. 
!e St. !omas & Grace Episcopal Church 
invite all to the camp#re. Co$ee, hot 
chocolate and marshmallows for roasting 
will be served. For further information, 
call 802-247-6759. All are encouraged to 
bring chairs, as well as a home-cooked 
dish to add to the potluck..
Erik Bleich book talk
Oct. 4, 5:15 p.m. – 7:15 p.m. 
Head down to 51 Main next Tuesday for 
a book talk by Erik Bleich, author of !e 
Freedom to Be Racist? !is book ponti#-
cates on liberal democracies’ attempts to 
preserve a people’s rights to freedom while 
combating racism. !e Vermont Book 
Shop will co-sponsor the talk. For more 
information, visit http://www.go51main.
com. 
TAM Trek encourages local participation
Many gathered on the Marbleworks Green on Sunday, Sept. 25 
for the eighth annual Team TAM Trek. 
Fi%een-odd teenagers conglomerated into a circle, chanting in 
unison — “one-two-three-SNOW!” !e group made up of members 
of the Frost Mountain Nordic Ski Team prepared to run the TAM 
(Trail Around Middlebury). !e annual race draws people from 
Middlebury and other surrounding towns to enjoy a hike, stroll, bike 
or run. 
Mike Hussey, who works at the Rikert Ski Touring Center, 
watched as the skiers raced along the route. !e older members of the 
club ran the entire course, while the younger ones split the trail into 
sections and instead ran as relay teams. 
Ripton resident Lynn Coby had high hopes of meeting others 
who too enjoyed walking and hiking. She was excited to explore a 
new area of Vermont that she had not previously hiked.
“It’s di"cult to do pieces of the TAM alone,” she said. “You have 
to leave a car somewhere and get a ride back to it.”
Coby has a point. !e TAM is a 16-mile long network of trails 
that wind through the woods, #elds and bridges near and around 
Middlebury. Now and then, the trail dips into the town itself. Key ac-
cess points along the route include Wright Park and the College’s ath-
letic complex, in addition to Battell and Means Woods. 
MALT (Middlebury Area Land Trust) chooses one segment of 
the TAM to highlight for each year’s event. !is year, buses dropped 
participants o$ near the College’s organic garden and picked them 
up at the route’s end line on Morgan Horse Farm Road. !e course, 
which began on an open, gravel path then circumscribed the organic 
garden and dipped into the woods.  
!is year was the #rst in which a course was set. In years past, 
participants ran as much or as little as they wished. !e race organiz-
ers though decided it was safest and most convenient to drop and pick 
up participants at designated areas. 
Amy and Steve Zeoli from Huberton joined in the trek festivities 
for the #rst time. !e two have made frequent trips to Middlebury to 
visit family, and both enjoy the TAM trails. 
“My brother in-law recruited us,” said Steve. 
Race organizers said between 130 and 140 individuals participat-
ed in Sunday’s event, which is roughly the same number of attendees 
as in previous years. 
!e TAM Team Trek is an important fundraiser. Money helps pay 
for the TAM’s maintenance, which is done largely on a volunteer basis. 
Currently MALT is working to extend the gravel surface of the 
College’s organic garden path into the wooded, root-bound areas be-
yond. !e MALT coordinators seek to do so because this is the most 
heavily used segment of the trail. 
Certainly, the TAM Trek draws many students from the College. 
!is year, Wonnacott Commons even sponsored a team of hikers.
As souvenirs for racing, participants were o$ered t-shirts, a smear 
of authentic Middlebury mud and a lingering appreciation for MALT 
and the Middlebury community.
By Amy Scanes-Wolfe
Staff Writer
Silent art auction
Oct. 5, 5 p.m. – 9 p.m. 
Visit American Flatbread for an art auc-
tion to bene#t the Quarry Hill School.  
Live music, as well as a full dinner, are 
included in the $30 evening. Call 802-388-
7297 with questions.
Yoga session
Oct. 2, 4 p.m. – 6 p.m. 
Join others at Otter Creek Yoga in the 
Marble Works for some yoga and medita-
tion complemented by passages from 
the Five Mindfulness Trainings of !ich 
Nhat Hanh. A suggested donation of $20 
would be greatly appreciated. All money 
raised will bene#t the &ood relief e$orts. 
Additional questions can be directed to 
802-388-18961.
Woofstock 2011
Oct. 1, 9:30 am – 1:00 pm
Come support the Addison Humane Soci-
ety! Meet at the Middlebury Recreational 
Park for this annual “animal walk.” Bring 
your pet. Dog demonstrations, pet con-
tests, vendors, food, a dog play area and 
more will be available. For more informa-
tion call 802-388-1100 or visit http://www.
addisonhumane.org.
Brandon fundraiser
Sept. 30 7:30 p.m. – 10:00 p.m.
Come to a night of hilarity at the Brandon 
Town Hall! Featuring local comedian 
Tony Bates, in addition to others, all mon-
ey raised will go to local businesses and 
those individuals who su$ered damage 
from Hurricane Irene. For more informa-
tion please visit http://brandon.org/brand-
aid-fund-donate-now/ or http://www.
addisonindependent.com/calendar.
By Annie Pruitt, Staff  Writer
Localbrief Town prepares for annual 
Crop Walk
On Sunday, Oct. 2, young and old will gather on the 
Middlebury Town Green to #ght hunger at the Addison County 
CROP Walk. In its 34th year, the event is one of more than 1,600 
held annually across the United States and aims to address issues 
of local and global hunger. 
!e CROP (Communities Responding to Overcome Pov-
erty) Hunger Walk has grown exponentially since the event be-
gan in 1969. !ousands of people now walk and raise money, 
and the Addison County event alone typically attracts 110 par-
ticipants, and last year, the walk raised $23,200. Aside from the 
positives of raising money, the CROP walk is also a community 
tradition that brings the greater Middlebury area together. 
 A member of the Addison County Walk committee, Patty 
Hallam, recalls pulling her young children in a cart in one of the 
walks over 30 years ago.
“One wonderful thing about [the Crop Walk] is that it pulls 
the community together,” said Hallam. “It is ecumenical — par-
ticipants aren’t just from churches.” 
When Hallam #rst began walking, the route was 10 miles 
long, equating to the distance many people travel for food and 
water daily. Recently, the Addison Country Walk committee 
elected to shorten the course to 2.2 miles, so more people, in-
cluding the young and elderly, would not shy from participating. 
“Its more in solidarity with people,” said Hallam. 
In the United States, more than 36 million people su$er 
from food instability, so the CROP walks are in&uential, as the 
events yield roughly $4 million annually. !is money supports 
local hunger-#ghting e$orts. Twenty-#ve percent of the money 
raised on Sunday will stay in the local area, split evenly between 
seven charities, including Middlebury Community Lunches and 
Suppers, HOPE (Helping to Overcome Poverty’s E$ects) and the 
Vergennes Community Food Shelf. 
However, as important as it is to combat hunger in the lo-
cal community, Hallam constantly reminds participants of the 
global nature of the issue.
“[!e CROP Walk] takes care of the people in our commu-
nity, but also in the outside world,” said Hallam, “We live in such 
a bubble here, and our services are so strong. It is very important 
to become involved in helping the outside world. 
For anyone interested in participating in the walk, dona-
tion” envelopes can be picked up at the Scott Center for Reli-
gious Life at the College. Registration begins at 11:30 a.m. on 
the Town Green and the walk will follow, beginning promptly 
at 1:00 p.m. 
Photos courtesy of Ellen McKay
!e 2010 Addison County Crop Walk a crowd of just over 100 people. Coordinators are preparing for this year’s event. 
localnews8 29 September 2011
By Kaylen Baker, Local News Editor
Localbrief Green Mountain Shoe & Apparel 
moves across town
Green Mountain Shoe and Apparel changed locations this summer, moving out of 
downtown Middlebury up and over to the shopping center on Court Street. !e turnover 
happened quickly, with the old shop closing its doors August 1, 2010 and the new one 
opening the very next day.
“!ere were a couple of reasons for moving,” said owner Angela Wade. “First of all, my 
lease was up where I was. And I knew that with the railroad, the one that runs next to the 
old building where I was located, the overpass would eventually have to get repaired. If I 
stayed there, it would have shut my business down.”
Her second reason had to do with increasing business pro"ts and clientele, and has 
proven strategically successful in the two months that the new location has been open.
“My other reason was parking,” Wade said. “!ere just isn’t adequate parking down-
town.”
By moving to Court Street, near Hannaford and MacDonald’s, Wade now has custom-
ers coming into Green Mountain Shoe and Apparel who are on their way to buy groceries, 
and other customers who simply didn’t want to risk the hassle of parking downtown.
“I’ve gotten new customers now who I’d never had before,” said Wade. “Business is 
de"nitely up. Parking was such a huge issue downtown, but the parking here is easy. You 
park, and come in!”
How this change will a#ect the college student shoppers remains unclear.
“I just started gaining students as customers in the past couple of years,” said Wade. “A 
lot of times it’s ["rst-years] whose parents bring them in, getting them suited for winter.”
Wade mainly sells winter boots to the college students, but she also supplies rain boots, 
work boots, socks, and plenty of $eece and jackets. !is season there are new styles of la-
dies’ dress boots and ladies’ fashion boots. !is season’s stock of winter boots have yet to 
arrive, but when they do she’ll have plenty for sale.
For any students looking to go winter supplies shopping, Wade recommends taking 
the ACTR’s Middlebury Shuttle Bus, which runs right past the store.
“!e local bus goes by here all the time; every 10 minutes it seems like I see it passing,” 
she said.
You can look up the bus schedule online, as well as Green Mountain Shoe and Appar-
el’s Facebook page. !ey’ve extended their hours until 8 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
“Come check us out,” said Wade, “we’ve got a lot!”
Visit Green Mountain Shoe and Apparel at 260 Court St. Suite 4, Monday through 
Saturday, 9:30 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., or call (802) 388-4399. 
 Wade serves a customer at the new location of Green Mountain Shoes & Apparel 
on Court Street, an ideal spot as many shoppers frequent this area.
Courtesy of Andrew Podrygula
Call or visit us TODAY 
and switch your account 
to NBM hassle-free!
1-877-508-8455
!"#$%
&'#()*+
%!*,!-!'!
We understand that you’ve got a lot going 
on. That’s why we make banking easy.  
We offer a completely paperless account, 
Debit card, and more! You can access 2 
ATMs right on campus, come in to one 
of our 2 offices right in Middlebury, use 
our anytime/anywhere mobile banking, 
or visit us online. We’re where you are, 
when you need us. We’re your neighbors.
We’re National Bank of Middlebury.
…banking shouldn’t be.
life’s    wild
!"!#$%&'$()*+,+$'-$&(./!!.$0#123)4++555# 67887##555##9#65,'
Middlebury College will undergo a comprehensive evaluation visit October 30 
– November 2, 2011, by a team representing the Commission on Institutions of 
Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges. 
 
The Commission on Institutions of Higher Education is one of seven accrediting 
commissions in the United States that provide institutional accreditation on a 
regional basis. Accreditation is voluntary and applies to the institution as a whole. 
The Commission, which is recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, 
accredits approximately 240 institutions in the six-state New England region. 
 
Middlebury College has been accredited by the Commission since 1929 and 
was last reviewed in 1999. Its accreditation by the New England Association 
encompasses the entire institution, including the Monterey Institute of 
International Studies, Language Schools, C.V. Starr-Middlebury Schools Abroad, 
and the Bread Loaf School of English. 
 
For the past year and a half, Middlebury College has been engaged in a process of 
self study, addressing the Commission’s Standards for Accreditation. An evaluation 
team will visit the institution in the fall of 2011 to gather evidence that the self 
study is thorough and accurate. The team will recommend to the Commission a 
continuing status for the institution. Following a review process, the Commission 
itself will take the final action. 
 
The public is invited to submit comments regarding the institution to: 
 
 Public Comment on Middlebury College 
 Commission on Institutions of Higher Education 
 New England Association of Schools and Colleges 
 209 Burlington Road, Suite 201 
 Bedford, MA 01730-1433 
 E-mail: cihe@neasc.org. 
 
Public comments must address substantive matters related to the quality of the 
institution. The Commission cannot settle disputes between individuals and 
institutions, whether those involve faculty, students, administrators, or members of 
other groups. Comments will not be treated as confidential and must include the 
name, address, and telephone number of the person providing the comments.
 
Public comments must be received by November 2, 2011. The Commission 
cannot guarantee that comments received after that date will be considered.
Invitation for Public Comments
www.middleburycampus.com
the best home page ever. do it. 
I think we’ve all noticed the change in weekend life 
since the school year began. If you weren’t mingling 
with first-years in 80s garb that first Friday night, you 
probably had a hard time finding somewhere to go. 
That Saturday night came and went without a single 
major party. Parties are getting harder and harder to 
find.
This leads me to wonder: has the college imple-
mented a policy change with regard to on-campus par-
ties?  I don’t recall hearing any formal announcement to 
that effect, but there’s no denying that things seem to be 
very different than they were last year.
As a sophomore, my historical perspective is some-
what limited, but compared to what I experienced last 
fall, the Middlebury nightlife has taken a turn for the 
worse, or more accurately a turn for the non-existent. I 
do understand that the rules enforced by Public Safety 
are designed to promote exactly that: the safety of the 
public. But the frustrating thing is that so far this year 
it seems we’ve hardly been allowed the opportunity to 
party at all.  
Example: my first night back on campus, I was vis-
iting friends in their suite. There were about 15 people 
at this impromptu get-together, and I will cop to the 
fact that it was a little loud in there, since we hadn’t 
seen each other in four months. It was only roughly 7 
p.m., there was no music and most notably, there was 
no alcohol in the room.  When a Public Safety officer 
knocked on the door, we willingly let him in. After he 
noticed that there was no beer and this was definitely 
not a party he said, “Well … there are too many people 
here. It’s a fire hazard. You all have to leave.”
I don’t know how many people are legally allowed 
in a dorm suite before the Middlebury Fire Department 
needs to be notified, but I am more than willing to con-
cede that if Public Safety says you’re a fire hazard, then 
you probably are. I trust Public Safety. I respect Public 
Safety.  In my experience, they’ve been fair, patient and 
reliable. 
But the fact remains that there’s been a discernible 
change in the approach. Last year the theme was “Dam-
age Control,” (i.e. let the kids party, wait until things 
get close to boiling over, then step in and shut it down 
before anything dire occurs). This year the governing 
principle seems to be more along the lines of “Nip it 
in the Bud.” There can be no party fouls if there are no 
parties to begin with. The social houses are subject to a 
new set of rules, and it seems the administration really 
wants to prevent any party from ever starting. 
But come on! This is college! Parties are as neces-
sary as highlighters! Bonds are formed, friendships are 
forged, memories are made. And, yes, beers are con-
sumed, hickeys are received and a fair amount of fur-
niture gets destroyed. But man is a social animal. Ask 
Darwin. We need to get together and be young and 
loud and silly. And we need to trudge home late at night 
through the snow laughing with that person from our 
psychology class to whom we might never have spoken 
if we hadn’t wound up waiting in line for the bathroom 
together.
One of the best things about Middlebury, I believe, 
is how close our community is and how far it reaches 
out. It seems that everyone is always welcome; never 
have I experienced an exclusive party on campus. But 
with the new regulations put on social houses, there’s 
a limited capacity. And so, suddenly people are getting 
turned away at doors and told they can’t enter. Sudden-
ly, there’s a break in the open community we’ve tried so 
hard to foster, which will surely permeate its way into 
daily life.
The excitement that used to come with Saturday — 
everyone in the dining halls looking forward to dancing 
the night away with friends — has changed to a gloomy 
resignation that we probably won’t all be together danc-
ing.
And even if we can’t all congregate in the ADP or 
Palmer basements, students are still going to try and 
go out come Saturday night. That will leave us milling 
about in Millie suites or any other dorm room, which 
we now know is a fire hazard. And there’s truth to that: 
these dorm rooms aren’t meant to accommodate 30 
people. This is when the worst of the destruction oc-
curs, which is exactly what the college is trying to pre-
vent.
I recognize that there’s a chain of command, which 
is why I am definitely not Pub Safe bashing here. In fact, 
I think Public Safety has been very realistic. But, Pub-
lic Safety serves at the pleasure of Middlebury College, 
which means there is most likely an “I’m just following 
orders” component to this new and perhaps not-so-
improved version of keeping the peace. Okay … so who 
gave the order?  Was there even an order given?  And if 
there was, what exactly was it?  Are we or are we not go-
ing to be allowed to have social gatherings on campus? 
And was anyone ever going to mention it to the student 
body? 
Remember back in 2001 when pop star Pink 
stepped into the music scene? Even she knew the im-
portance of socialization among young adults, sagely 
urging, “Let’s Get This Party Started.” Well, I couldn’t 
agree more. Let’s get it started, and once its started, let’s 
keep it going and get it finished, preferably sometime 
well after midnight. Because I’m getting bored.
campus policies and information
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus provide a forum for constructive and respectful dialogue on substantive issues. With 
this in mind, The Campus reserves the right to deny publication of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This includes, but is not 
limited to: the making of assertions based on hearsay; the relation of private conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable events; 
the use of vulgar language or personal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article that contains any of the aforementioned will be re-
moved before publication. Contributors will be allowed to reference prior articles published in the Opinions section or announcements 
for the public record. If a reference is made to prior articles, the submission will be considered a letter to the editor.  The Campus will 
not accept or print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, 
editorial comics and other commentary, are views of the individual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Submit works 
directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To 
be considered for publications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all submissions.
opinions 9
The Middlebury Campus
The Middlebury Campus
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the student newspaper of 
Middlebury College, is published by The Middlebury Campus Publica-
tions. Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, except dur-
ing official college vacation periods and final examinations. Editorial 
and business offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on Apple Macintosh 
computers using Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press Re-
publican in New York. The advertising deadline for all display and clas-
sified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the following week’s issue. Mail-
ing address: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, 
Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address 
distribution concerns to the Business Director. First class postage paid 
at Middlebury, Vt., 05753. 
29 September 2011
Editorial
The staff editorial represents the official opinion of 
The Middlebury Campus as decided by 
the editorial board.
 Shannon Fielder ’14 is a Features Editor 
from Granby, Conn.
Notes from the desk: Shannon Fiedler
Fight for the right to party
he  iddleb ry  a p s
Managing Editor
Dana Walters
Editor­in­Chief
Kara Shurmantine
Business Manager
Ethan Schmertzler
  News Editors
Jess Berry
Kyle Finck
Adam Schaffer
  Local News Editors
Kaylen Baker
Charlotte Gardiner
Devin McDonald
  Opinions Editors
Kevin Carpenter
Isabel Shaw
Ian Trombulak
  
Features Editors
Cedar Attanasio
Shannon Fiedler
Allison Forrest
  Arts Editors
Santiago Azpurua-Boras
Deirdre Sackett
Emily Scarisbrick
  Sports Editors
Alex Edel
Dillon Hupp
Katie Siegner
Damon Hatheway
Photo Editors   
Anna Clements
Paul Gerard
Andrew Podrygula
Jiayi Shu
  Online Editors
Hannah Bristol
Kaireth Kim
Sarah Pfander
Ian Thomas
Design Editor   
Ian Stewart
Social Media Editor
Emily Pinto
8x 7+
6+
1–  12x
1 2÷
Fill the grid with digits (1-4) so 
that no row or column has any re-
peats and the digits in the highlight-
ed box will yield the target number 
shown given the appropriate opera-
tion (+, -, x, ÷). For answers to the 
puzzle check www.middleburycam-
pus.com.
KevKev
 
By Kevin Carpenter, 
  Opinions Editor
This past weekend, Sept. 22-24, students got the chance to hear 
about perspectives on the Middle East from a variety of speakers at the 
2011 Clifford Symposium: (Re)Presenting National and Cultural Identi-
ties in the Middle East: Analysis, Journalism, and the Arts. From Shibley 
Telhami’s keynote address on Thursday to the Saturday morning session 
about articulating identity in dance, word and film, interested students 
were presented with a veritable buffet of discussion and dialogue about 
the Middle East.
It heartens us to see this type of dialogue take place at Middlebury, 
where we so often fall victim to the stress of the semester and pristine 
beauty of our campus and fail to engage with issues outside our immedi-
ate community. There are some world events that are too important to 
ignore, and it was wonderful to see some of these events take front stage 
at the symposium this weekend. 
At the U.N., President of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas delivered an 
impassioned bid for statehood, putting America in between a rock and 
a hard place. President Obama, it seems, will not escape this situation 
without being accused of stabbing one side or the other in the back. 
In Saudi Arabia, King Abdullah has given women the right to vote. 
On the surface, this seems like a giant step forward for women’s rights 
in the historically oppressive Saudi Arabia. However, it is important to 
consider what “voting” entails in Saudi Arabia — in fact, little more than 
a handful of local officials are subject to popular voting elections, and 
those who are hold very little sway in matters of national concern.
Meanwhile, violence continues in Libya and Syria, famine in Soma-
lia, and civil war looms over Yemen even as President Saleh has returned 
and addressed his people. 
The relevance of all of this, of course, occurs as the United States 
maintains its presence in a region that many of us know embarrassingly 
little about — a presence that began and has persisted since the oldest 
among us were in sixth grade. If a war lasting half our lifetime is not a 
good reason to educate ourselves on a distant part of the world, what is?
The point is, bringing the culture and identity of the Middle East to 
the fore is something that can, and should, occur not just at the behest 
of symposium organizers and speakers gracious enough to come to our 
remote campus to actively engage us. If the events of this past weekend 
stirred something in you, perhaps an interest you didn’t know you had, 
we urge you not to let the enthusiasm of the weekend fade as textbook 
chapters and discussion papers once again seize your attention. Organi-
zations such as Arabesque, Islamic Society, J Street U, Midd East Action 
and the Peace and Justice Coalition, among others, are available to stu-
dents who want to learn more about the region of the world with which 
America is most intimately embroiled. 
While the importance of Middle East education often fades to the 
background during the stressful height of the semester, the Clifford Sym-
posium brought it to the foreground and served to remind us all just how 
important a topic this is. As we head into the heart of the semester, we 
hope that the interest and enthusiasm we saw this weekend will not fade. 
  Online Manager
Lea Calderon-Guthe
Due to his plummeting poll numbers, 
especially those judging his handling of the 
economy, and the persistently gloomy unem-
ployment numbers, President Obama needs 
a serious facelift before he can appeal to the 
American people to keep his job for another 
four years. Obama, however, who vehe-
mently criticized politics as usual during his 
first presidential bid, repeatedly makes deci-
sions apropos of his reelection chances rather 
than out of concern 
for the country. The 
ever-growing jobless 
claims and ballooning 
American deficit il-
lustrate that the Can-
didate-in-Chief has 
proven himself more 
adept at pocketing 
campaign donations 
than balancing the 
U.S. budget.
Not surprisingly, 
the timetable of troop 
withdrawals that 
Obama announced at 
the beginning of this 
summer is more con-
sistent with the tim-
ing of the upcoming election than the advice 
from his generals. Those on the ground sug-
gested a more reserved withdrawal at the end 
of 2012 so as not to interrupt the main fight-
ing season, which takes place in the spring and 
summer. Embracing the expertise of politicos, 
such as the president’s favored political advis-
er David Axelrod, however, Obama, without 
any strategic military logic, insisted that the 
withdrawal of 33,000 troops be completed in 
September 2012 — only two months before 
voters would decide his fate. How convenient! 
Additionally, predictions on the fiscal in-
solvency of our government entitlement pro-
grams conclude that Social Security will go 
belly-up in less than three decades, and that 
Medicare will be penniless in less than two. 
Obama exposes his political cowardice by 
avoiding the necessary reassessment of these 
bloated programs, which are the leading con-
tributors to our nation’s growing deficit. His 
single cut to Medicare, — a 21 percent cut to 
doctors — was a concession made only in an 
attempt to pay for ObamaCare. As unemploy-
ment rages on, increasing costs in Medicaid 
will also far outweigh this small cut. Instead, 
the president continues to insist on raising 
taxes on the rich as the grand solution to our 
debt crisis, even though taxing 100 percent 
of the top 10 percent of filers wouldn’t come 
close to filling the budget gap.
Similarly, Obama refuses to seriously 
tackle entitlement reforms because of the 
political consequences, especially within his 
party. Obama’s former Press Secretary Robert 
Gibbs alleged that the president was willing to 
make the tough decisions necessary to halt the 
country’s growing debt, even if this precluded 
a second term. The 
president, however, 
has invalidated this 
selfless love of country 
by means of his aver-
sion to any politically 
hazardous, although 
necessary, entitle-
ment reforms.  In his 
jobs plan, Obama did 
nothing to address the 
eventual bankruptcy 
of our country’s en-
titlement programs. 
Instead, he added 15 
more bureaucrats to 
our swelling govern-
ment to oversee the 
rationing of Medicare 
prices. Furthermore, the president has stood 
aside and criticized Republican rookie Paul 
Ryan for unveiling his party’s serious attempt 
at tackling the debt. Obama did so in order to 
shift the blame for any unpopular budget cuts 
onto the opposing party. Even if this political 
maneuver helps him win reelection, it does 
nothing for America or the next generation — 
a.k.a you and me, who without any reforms, 
will be forced to pay for the last years of these 
entitlement programs only to receive nothing 
in return. 
Finally, although the president is on the 
record promising to never raise taxes during 
a recession, he has proposed a $1.5 trillion 
tax hike, primarily on the wealthy, in order 
to pay for his job plan. The so-called “Buffet 
Rule,” which is predicted to raise the capital 
gains tax, will stifle the investment necessary 
to stimulate small business growth and hiring. 
Obama has begun to stir up the principles of 
class warfare as a campaign strategy to ap-
pease his base. It seems the principle of “fair-
ness” trumps any economic sense — perhaps 
because it makes for a better stump speech.
9
campusopinions10 29 September 2011
Even if this 
political 
maneuver 
helps him win 
reelection, it 
does nothing for 
America or the 
next generation.
heardoncampus
”
““Most kids won’t even notice the [Grille] 
price increase[s] on a 
Saturday night.”
    — Meg Anderson ’14
Elephant in the Room: Katie Earle
Candidate­in­Chief
Apply Liberally: Zach Dallmeyer­Drennen
The real freedom party
As I read fellow columnist Katie Earle’s 
debut article last week, I was reminded of 
how effective the Republican Party has been 
in seizing the mantle of freedom. Vote for us, 
they say, and we’ll protect your liberty. A vote 
for the Democratic Party, on the other hand, 
is a vote for the so-called “nanny state.” And 
no one wants a nanny state.
It is true that Republicans support cer-
tain freedoms: the freedom to carry a ma-
chine pistol with 
body-armor piercing 
bullets, for example, 
or the right of mil-
lionaires to buy big-
ger yachts and faster 
private jets without 
having to sacrifice 
some of their wealth 
to that same hor-
rid government that 
builds their roads 
and protects them 
from invasion.  
As with most po-
litical issues, the real-
ity is far from black 
and white. The vast 
majority of Repub-
licans are not hard-
core libertarians; they 
support restrictions 
on many freedoms. 
So when you hear 
someone say that he 
or she is a Republican 
because they believe 
in “freedom” and “liberty” — incidentally, 
the names of Rick Perry’s cowboy boots — 
ask them why they don’t support the freedom 
of gays and lesbians to marry the partner of 
their choice. Conservative organizations have 
spent millions upon millions of dollars trying 
to block such a freedom. What about the right 
of gay men and women to serve in our armed 
forces? A gay soldier who asked Republican 
candidates about their stance on “Don’t Ask, 
Don’t Tell” received nothing but boos from 
the audience for his role in protecting our na-
tion’s freedom. Do the freedoms of gay men 
and women not matter to Republicans? 
Ask them why they don’t support a 
woman’s right to choose an abortion or even 
the timing of her pregnancy. Republicans 
in Oklahoma just passed a law that requires 
women to receive an ultrasound probe and 
to look at the image of their fetus before al-
lowing them to have an abortion. Shamefully, 
this provision contains no exception even for 
pregnancies that result from rape or incest, 
forcing victims to relive traumatic experi-
ences that they deserve to forget.  Conserva-
tives have also eliminated, or supported the 
elimination of, funding to clinics that provide 
birth control and family planning to poor 
women, both married and unmarried. Do 
the freedoms of poor women and the victims 
of sexual assault somehow not count to the 
Republican Party?      
Ask them why they support the type of 
warrant-less wiretapping used by the Bush 
Administration to listen to the private phone 
calls of thousands of Americans. If Republi-
cans are really the “freedom party,” why do 
they support the right of the government to 
spy on its own citizens without just cause?  
Ask them why, in a nation with the 
world’s most advanced medical care, they 
don’t support the right of the working poor 
to access this treatment without the fear of 
medical bankruptcy. 
Does “liberty” really 
require allowing the 
sick to go bankrupt 
because they can’t af-
ford insurance?  
Earle used, as her 
primary example of 
government intru-
sion, the prohibition 
policies of the early 
twentieth century — 
which, interestingly 
but not surprisingly, 
were heavily support-
ed by the same “free-
dom-loving” evan-
gelical Protestants 
who make up a large 
chunk of the Repub-
lican Party’s base, and 
were later repealed 
with the support of 
freedom-loving Dem-
ocrat Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt.  No doubt, 
then, as an opponent 
of government intrusion, Earle also favors 
the legalization or decriminalization of mari-
juana and other drugs — suggestions that 
most Republican candidates wouldn’t even 
consider.
So which party, then, is really the party 
of freedom? Is it the party that supports the 
freedom of Americans to live free of poverty, 
hunger and despair?  Or the party that would 
like to shrink our government just small 
enough to fit inside your bedroom, main-
taining Puritan values and listening to your 
phone conversations? The Democratic Party 
supports the freedoms of every citizen, for-
tunate or not, while the Republicans support 
the freedoms of millionaires and militias. It’s 
the party of those who feel Big Business and 
Big Brother must know best, and that those 
who have to ask for help must not deserve it.  
As a Democrat, I refuse to cede the man-
tle of liberty to the same conservatives who 
seek to preserve an antiquated system that 
denies natural rights to large segments of the 
population — to the party that has drifted so 
far from common sense that it would dismiss 
Ronald Reagan as a “big-government liberal.” 
The Democratic Party is the true party of 
freedom in the 21st century.    
Katie Earle ’12 is from 
Bedminster, N.J.
Zach Dallmeyer-Drennen ’13.5 is from 
Canandaigua, N.Y. 
The Democratic 
Party supports 
the freedom of 
every citizen, 
fortunate or 
not, while the  
Republicans 
support the 
freedoms of 
millionaires and 
militias.
s my solar d
122
upda te
is making friends really worth the price of 
doing intramural soccer?! 
whispering audibly in the library to establish 
my dominance as a senior
someone obvi aggressively quizzed me on 
capitals last night #geographymajorprobs
!"#$%&'(%)*%+,#$%-..-%/-,0(12$1345,0#&)'3-
tweets 
wait i thought resumania was a dance party 
in mccullough tonight???
why is seeing my friend doing a dumb circula-
tion desk job soooo thrilling? 
.5+21'66*%300(%$.%6.70,%)*%08-02$'$1.3#%.5%
meeting my future husband at proctor dinner
9:;:%1#%'6,0'(*%6..<134%'#%"35"6+66134%'#%
okcupid #seniorprobs
A Week in 
Tweets
By middtwitt  (twitter.com/middtwitt)
#lastday2picnic
#bugsupmybutt
#go/bonerweb
#proctorpestodrought  
              campusopinions 29 September 2011 11
On any given day, it’s difficult to tell if 
what you are doing, in the moment you are 
doing it, is exactly what you want to do. It’s 
not easy to look introspectively at yourself 
and to consider whether you are being true to 
yourself; that’s the challenge I hope to some-
how confront in this column. How often do 
we do what we want because we want to do it?
For this column to have meaning to those 
who read it, I’ll implore you to suspend your 
individual knacks for taking any and all soci-
ological (if that’s what 
you would call this) 
explorations to their 
absurd extremes and 
to take seriously my 
requests for restraint 
as it relates to hyper-
bolic statements. Try 
not to scoff at my sug-
gestions; open your 
mind before your 
mouth.
If this sounds 
confusing or uninter-
esting, my apologies, 
read no further. If I’ve 
piqued your interest, 
I hope this writing 
leaves you sated on a 
bi-weekly basis. That 
said, please be willing to push your own emo-
tional and psychological envelopes as you 
read this column, but remember, a lot of sub-
stantive personal questioning can stem from 
rather mundane, day-to-day occurrences. 
You will not need to scour the depths of what 
it means to be a human in our society to find 
in practice the topics you may encounter in 
this space. I’ll try to keep things obvious, if 
not always novel.
So, without further ado, let me begin 
with the most obvious question: what are 
you doing here at Middlebury? Why have you 
come here to this place? Personally, I struggle 
to answer this question with anything beyond 
the ordinary: to equip myself with skills my 
society deems important so that I can have 
choices and options when it comes to find-
ing a satisfying career. You may answer this 
question differently, but you may answer it 
similarly as soon as you start being honest 
with yourself.
If the above “why are you here?” answer 
satisfies you, ask yourself another question: 
do you want to have “choices” and a “satis-
fying career?” You probably do. But what the 
f*ck does that really mean? Why do you need 
to have a career? Money might play a part in 
your justification. So too might your desire to 
live in a comfortable house in a safe neigh-
borhood. You also might want to send your 
kids to Middlebury or some place similar, but 
why?
How many times have you thought to 
yourself: I don’t want to do work tonight or 
I don’t want to go for a run right now or I 
would rather go for a hike or play tennis or sit 
on my ass and do nothing than do something 
I don’t want to do (whatever that is)? 
In some ways I am evoking the philoso-
phy of the protagonist Peter in the movie Of-
fice Space. After see-
ing a hypnotherapist 
he started to do as 
he pleased, when he 
pleased. He stopped 
going to a job he 
hated because he was 
eager to get on with 
living the one life he 
could. Peter’s chal-
lenge resembles my 
own.
Clearly, if no one 
did anything, our so-
ciety might look a 
little different. There 
are things that our 
society has made that 
have made lives better 
— by saving and ex-
tending them. Without some current medi-
cal advances, my mother would not be alive 
and my father would not have a job. With-
out governments, some of the most vulner-
able citizens in this country and others would 
live without the amenities — that are conse-
quences of societal advancements themselves 
— most of us take for granted. Without col-
lege, my life might not be as easy, fun or in-
teresting. I could go on ad nauseum about 
how things might be different if people only 
did what they wanted to do. Such an exercise 
would not be helpful.
We face trade-offs and would probably 
consider ourselves lucky to live in a soci-
ety like ours. Most of us are probably pretty 
happy with our decisions and our respective 
abilities to attend Middlebury. 
For this column to work, you have to 
read it serially, starting now. Take the afore-
mentioned for granted and let it serve as a 
jumping-off point for future discussions 
about answers to the questions of “why” that 
we will entertain in this space.
It seems like a lot to work on and think 
about, but let me give it a try and then, only if 
you want, do this exercise with yourself. 
An Examined Life: Addi DiSesa
A place to start
Addi DiSesa ’12 is from 
Wynnewood, Pa.
It’s not 
easy to look 
introspectively 
at yourself and 
to consider 
whether you are 
being true to 
yourself.
Dear Mrs. Willard,
I’m not sure if you know who I am, but I 
know who you are. I know who you are most-
ly because of a muggy, gray September morn-
ing back in 2007. I wore bellbottoms (a relic of 
the 1970s and a fashion disaster you should be 
glad you missed) and a modest maroon car-
digan with a large plastic button that fastened 
just below my Adam’s (sorry, Eve’s) apple. 
My father had dragged me on what seemed 
a fool’s errand to visit some competitive col-
lege in an isolated cow town. The college was, 
you guessed it, Middlebury, and the town, also 
Middlebury. We walked 
along Route 30, and the 
sprawl of the campus 
coquettishly revealed 
itself to us: first a sign 
announcing the pres-
ence of the college, next, 
a finely groomed lawn. 
We approached a quaint 
colonial house as my fa-
ther noted, “Emma Wil-
lard House, we’re here!” 
I was angry, aggravated, 
anxious, agitated — all 
the things a 17-year-old 
might be. 
The understated 
New England taste that 
determined the small 
building’s atmosphere 
was misleading. It her-
alded a repressed, Cau-
casian elitism that I had 
never before encountered 
— the oriental carpets that lay parallel to each 
wall complimented golden memorabilia and 
tchotchkes indicative of a rich history of suc-
cess in business, sport, investment and brood. 
Of course, this appealed to some Freudian, 
self-denying impulse within me, and, despite 
myself, I was sold by your beautiful set of of-
fices. Fondly reminiscing over that afternoon, 
I did a bit of research on you. You are not the 
shiksa goddess I thought you might be. Rath-
er, your hair is like mine — dark and slightly 
crinkled; your bust is large. I might have taken 
you for an immigrant had I not been better 
learned. In this well-known famous stock 
portrait, you port a most dramatic veil. I don’t 
really get your style. 
To the point: you are revered for chang-
ing the face of higher learning, many thanks 
to your treatise, “A Plan for Improving Female 
Education,” if you can remember. And since 
women were first admitted to Middlebury in 
1883, we have continued to make progress. 
In fact, at this moment in College history, 
some of the most popular, if not the largest 
and most influential, student organizations 
are lead by powerful women of equal convic-
tion and sass like Kara Shurmantine of The 
Campus, Nadia Schreiber of MCAB, Janet Ro-
drigues of the Student Government Associa-
tion and Joanna Rothkopf of WRMC 91.1 FM 
(I’m sorry. Don’t hate me. I had to).
I openly celebrate this progress, but I 
must qualify this celebration with the re-
minder that we have miles to go before we 
sleep. This lasting academic inequality is es-
pecially apparent in our first-year seminar of-
ferings — offerings that are described on the 
College website as vehicles “through which 
Middlebury College introduces first-year stu-
dents to the values of a residential liberal arts 
education during their first semester on cam-
pus. Seminars provide the opportunity for 
students to become acquainted with the skills 
which will eventually enable them to perform 
high quality, independent work throughout 
their college years and in the future as active 
members of their communities.” Seemingly 
high stakes for a course about Andy Warhol’s 
genitalia. I conducted an amateur statistical 
survey to help us better understand where the 
College still falls short of what I imagine your 
dreams might have 
been. In said survey, 
I calculated that this 
semester approxi-
mately 41 seminar 
choices were offered 
(I qualify that state-
ment with “approxi-
mately” as I have not 
taken a mathemat-
ics class since high 
school and am un-
able to vouch for the 
trustworthiness of 
my counting skills). 
Of those 41 options, 
25 listed a selection 
of writers, philoso-
phers and activists 
to be studied during 
the semester in their 
catalog descriptions, 
and of those 25, only 
12 featured women. 
Of these 12 were selections like “Jane Austen 
& Film” and “The Brontë Sisters” — fascinat-
ing and rewarding classes to be sure, but part 
of the very small body of work written by 
women that has entered into mainstream aca-
demia. The fact is that we still read a predomi-
nantly male canon, despite female success 
within it, and the College continues to teach 
such a canon, despite our efforts at complete 
equality.
Last semester, my “Sexing the Canon” 
class discussed the notion that “literature that 
stands the test of time” is literature that was 
touted by social hierarchy. Urgently, we need 
a new academic tradition based on the spec-
tra that we comprise. But, although you were 
probably fairly racist, the slightest bit fickle 
and not quite as progressive as your contem-
porary politico, Elizabeth Stanton, I still must 
salute you, Emma Willard, for paving the way 
for future Middlebury ladies to make a sham 
of etiquette, beating the boys at their own 
game. In 150 years, when some bushy-tailed 
prospective student walks into the Joanna 
Rothkopf Admissions Center, I want the walls 
to be hung with slouchy boho tapestries and 
abstract iron-wrought sculptures. I want my 
portrait to feature me in a gender-neutral uni-
form of slacks and a hemp top. No wait, I’m 
just kidding, I’ll be wearing a couture Dior 
gown.
Love,
Jojo
That Thing Down There: Joanna Rothkopf
A letter to Midd’s sassiest female champion
But, although you 
were probably 
fairly racist [and] 
the slightest bit 
fickle ... I still 
must salute you, 
Emma Willard, 
for paving the 
way for future 
Middlebury 
ladies.
Joanna Rothkopf ’12 is from 
Washington, D.C. 
To the Editor, 
We are disappointed in last week’s 
“Campus Character” on John Diebold ’11.5. 
We feel that it is inappropriate to feature 
a student that has repeatedly violated the 
values of Middlebury College and the 
Middlebury community as a whole. 
We feel that the “Campus Character” 
should honor a student that has demon-
strated positive change to our student body. 
Therefore, promoting his reckless and dan-
gerous behavior that has marked his career 
at Middlebury College is irresponsible to the 
standards of this publication. 
We ask that you please adequate-
ly research your subjects before cel-
ebrating them in our college newspaper. 
With respect, 
A committee of concerned 
2011.5 students
Letter to the Editor: 
“Character” needs some work
The Sept. 22 editorial implied that the Student Activities Office was inconsistent in its application 
of hazing education to student organizations. This, in fact, is not true; every student organization 
has or will receive training in College hazing policies this year.  The Campus regrets this error.
Campus Correction
2005 FORESTER – One 
owner, automatic, gold, 
129,000 miles. Diligently 
maintained (records 
available). Includes 4 studded 
snows. $8,500. 802­425­
features 1229 September 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Lots of students make it to the upper echelons of academic success, but only a select few have reached the 
actual rooftops on the Middlebury campus. From the tumultuous history of the roof of Bicentennial Hall 
!"#$%&'(# )*%+!,#%-# !./#,!*&0'*,/#"1#2"!/03,#40/#/,'*-/5# !./#6"77/8/3,#9*0&"%,#./&8.!,#.*9/#://+# !./#
,/!!&+8#1"0#,";/#&+'0/<&:7/#,!"0&/,#*+<#=&7<#*<9/+!%0/,>#?"#:/#'7/*05#0""1@'7&;:&+8#=&!."%!#/A-0/,,#
permission is a deviant act — Public Safety’s policy states that “students are prohibited from 
:/&+8#"+#0""1,#"0#"%!,&</#"+#:%&7<&+8,>B#C?./0/#*0/#!="#,&8+&4'*+!#0/*,"+,5B#,*&<#D,,"'&*!/#
E&0/'!"0#"1#F%:7&'#G*1/!H#E*+#I&*"!!&#&+#*+#/;*&7>#C?./#40,!#J&,K#,*1/!H>#L""1,#'*+#:/#9/0H#
<*+8/0"%,#-7*'/,#*+<#1*77&+8#="%7<#0/,%7!#&+#,/0&"%,#&+)%0H>#?./#,/'"+<#0/*,"+#&,#
<%/#!"#!./#<*;*8/#!.*!#"''%0,#!"#!./#:%&7<&+83,#0""1#!&7/,#"0#,7*!/>B#?./#Campus 
,!*+<,#:/.&+<#!./#6"77/8/#&+#;*!!/0,#"1#,!%</+!#,*1/!H5#*+<#=/#0/'"%+!#!./#
1"77"=&+8#M*+H#,!"0&/,#"1#0""1#7"0/#-%0/7H#!"#/+!/0!*&+5#+"!#!"#*<9"'*!/>#
Fortunately, we are also able to provide some reports of totally 
7/8*7#*+<#,'.""7@,*+'!&"+/<#!0&-,#!"#*#'"%-7/#80/*!#0""1,#"+ 
# '*;-%,5# ,"# &1# H"%# 4+<# H"%0,/71# &+,-&0/<# :H# ,(H@.&8.#
*<9/+!%0/,5# !./0/# *0/# ,*1/# *+<# 6"77/8/@10&/+<7H#
options to pursue.
Some names have been redacted.
?./#'/+!/0# "1# .&8.@*7!&!%</# ,!%</+!#</9&@
ance at Middlebury is undoubtedly the roof 
of Bicentennial Hall. Back in the day, all 
it took was a butter knife for a student to 
jimmy the lock and brave the bitter winds 
*!#!./#!"-#"1#!./#'*;-%,3#.&8./,!#:%&7<&+85#
*+<#!./0/#.*9/#://+#0%;"0,#"1#/9/0H!.&+8#
10";#&77&'&!#,/A#!"#-0/'*0&"%,#<0%+(/+#<*+'/#
-*0!&/,#!"#1*77&+85#N*;&+8#(*H*(,>
C?./0/#=*,#!.&,#'%7!%0/#"1#-/"-7/#0/8%7*07H#
48%0&+8#"%!#=*H,#"1#."=# !"#8/!#%-# !"# !./#
0""15B#,*&<#D+&(*#O*;/,#3PP>#
?./#Q&#R/&8.!,#'0*M&+/,,#'*;/#!"#*#<0*@
;*!&'#/+<#=./+#!./#'0&!&'*7#1"0;/0@,/'0/!#"1#
how to access the roof was revealed, ironi@
'*77H#/+"%8.5#&+#!./#Campus>#D+#*0!&'7/#"+#
!./# :/,!# 7&!!7/@(+"=+# ,-"!,# *!# !./#6"77/8/#
;/+!&"+/<# !./# (+&1/# !0&'(5# 40,!# -0";-!&+8#
*# ,-&(/# &+# ,!%</+!# %,*8/# *+<# !./+# *# 7"'(#
'.*+8/# !"# !./# 0""1@/+!0*+'/# :H# S*'&7&!&/,5#
much to the displeasure of the student 
body.
?."%8.# %+,*+'!&"+/<# /,'*-*</,# .*9/#
://+# 1"&7/<5#Q&@R*77#.",!,#;",!#"1# !./# 1/=#
6"77/8/@*--0"9/<#9&,&!,# !"#*#'*;-%,# 0""1>#
D# :&"7"8H# ,!%</+!5# D+)*7&# T/0'.*+!# 3PU>V5#
</,'0&:/<#!./#!0*<&!&"+#1"0#6/77#Q&"7"8H#PWV#
!"#8"#!"#"%!# !"#!./#0""1# X=&!.#*''";-*+H@
&+8#1*'%7!HY#*!#!./#/+<#"1#!./#!/0;#!"#/+)"H#
!./#9&/=#*+<#C8/!#!./&0#/H/:*77,#"11#!./#;&@
'0",'"-/,>B#Z!./0#"+@8"&+8#1*'%7!H#/A-/0&@
ments that have to do with weather or sky 
research have also sponsored allowed trips 
!"#!./#0""1#1"0#-*0!&'&-*!&+8#,!%</+!,>
Sometimes a roof adventure is not calcu@
lated, but when the opportunity presents it@
self like an open door, it is hard to pass it by. 
D#8/"80*-.H#;*)"0#"1#!./#67*,,#"1#U[P\>V#
recounted a time last winter when she no@
!&'/<#,+"=#'*,%*77H#1*77&+8#!.0"%8.#!./#'/&7@
&+8>#G./#,!0"77/<#"9/0#*+<#0/*7&M/<#!.*!#S*@
cilities had left a trapdoor and ladder open 
to the sky, so she climbed it and found her@
self on top of the Davis Family Library roof. 
?./#;*&+#7&:0*0H#&,#+"!"0&"%,#"+#"+/#'"77/8/#
0*+(&+8#,&!/#X'*;-%,80"!!">'";Y#1"0#7""(&+8#
7&(/#*#,-*'/,.&-#=&!.#&!,#'.*0*'!/0&,!&'#NH&+8#
,*%'/0@,.*-/<#0""1>#D,# 1*0#*,#,./#(+"=,5#
the student who serendipitously ended up 
on top of the library was not beamed up by 
*+H#9&,&!&+8#*7&/+#'0*1!,5#*+<#!."%8.#,./#.*<#
*#80/*!#9&/=#"1# !./#;"%+!*&+,5# !./0/#=/0/#
no comfortable, conveniently placed blue 
armchairs on the roof.
?./#!0%!.#&,#+"#"+/#$%&!/#(+"=,#!./#0""1@
!"-,#"1#T&<<7/:%0H# 7&(/# !="# 0/'/+!#80*<%@
*!/,5#D+&(*#O*;/,#3PP#*+<#?&;#T%00*H#3PP>#
?./H#*0/#!./#0""1@'7&;:&+8#7/8/+<,#"1#T&<@
<7/:%0H#]#!./H#'7&;:/<#"9/0#U[#:%&7<&+8,#
<%0&+8#!./&0#!/+%0/>#D77#"1#!./#0""1@'7&;:&+8#
stories told here have been basically ren@
dered unrepeatable, so while these feats 
*0/# *;*M&+85# !./H# *0/# ;/0/7H# ;&,'.&/1# "1#
the past.
CDA&++3,# 0""15B# O*;/,# ,*&<5# C.*,# *# -*0!#
!.*!#,7*+!,#<"=+#!"#*#N*!#-*0!5#*+<#<%0&+8#
the winter when it snowed, it was the per@
1/'!#,7"-/#1"0#,7/<<&+8>B#
D1!/0# ,/9/0*7# +&8.!,# "1# ,7/<<&+8# "+# !./&0#
,/'0/!#,/'"+<#,!"0H#,7/<<&+8#.&775# !./#0""1@
'7&;:/0,# :/'*;/# '"'(H# *+<# +/87/'!/<# !"#
'./'(#!"#,//#&1#*77#=*,#'7/*0#:/1"0/#/;/08@
&+8#"+!"#!./#0""1#"+/#,-*0(7H5#,+"=H#+&8.!#
with sleds in hand.
?./H# ./*0<# *# 9"&'/# ,*H&+85# CR/H# H"%^#
6";/# <"=+# ./0/^B# *+<# =/0/# :/=&7</0/<#
!"#:/#'*%8.!#:H#*#9/0H#*+80H#F%:7&'#G*1/!H#
"14'/0># ?./H# </,'/+</<# &+!"# ,";/# -0/!!H#
,/0&"%,#!0"%:7/#*+<#,";/#9/0H#,!//-#4+/,>#
“We felt bad that we ruined it for future 
0""1@'7&;:/0,5B#O*;/,#,*&<5#,&+'/#*1!/0#!./H#
were busted, Facilities made sure to seal off 
their old access routes. “We had, in no way, 
*+H!.&+8# *8*&+,!# F%:7&'# G*1/!H_# `# *;# 9/0H#
-0"@F%:7&'#G*1/!H>B#
D,# *# 4+*7# !."%8.!5# O*;/,# *<</<a# C`#
="%7<+3!# 0/'";;/+<# <"&+8# =.*!# =/# <&<#
… some of the scariest moments of my life 
=/0/#10";#!./,/#!&;/,>#?./#"14'/0,#*+<#!./#
0%7/,#*0/# !./0/# 1"0#*+#/A!0/;/7H#8""<#0/*@
,"+#]#!"#(//-#/9/0H"+/#,*1/>B
D#,%:,/!#"1#!./#0""1@'7&;:&+8#'%7!%0/#!.*!#
&,#</4+&!/7H#;"0/#'"+'/&9*:7/# &+9"79/,# !./#
'*;-%,3,# .&8.@NH&+8# 40/# /,'*-/,># b"%30/#
:"%+<#!"#8/!#*#'&!*!&"+#&1#,-"!!/<5#:%!#="0<#
"+# !./#,!0//!# &,# !.*!# !./#,%+,/!#9&/=&+8#*!#
!./#!"-#"1#F/*0,"+3,#40/#/,'*-/#,//;,#*7@
;",!#="0!.# &!>#G.*0&+8# !./#:/*%!&1%7# 9&,!*,#
"1# !./# I0//+#T"%+!*&+,# *--/*0,# !"# :0&+8#
-/"-7/# !"8/!./0# ]# !./# T&<<7/:%0H# 0""1@
'7&;:&+8#7/8/+<,#'7*&;#!.*!#*# 7*08/#-*0!#"1#
!./&0#0/7*!&"+,.&-#=*,#,%09&9&+8#&+,*+/#0""1@
!"-#/A-7"&!,#!"8/!./0>#D#:&"7"8H#;*)"0#"1#!./#
67*,,# "1# U[PU>V# *+<# *# 40/# /,'*-/# *4'&"@
nada told me about how she and her best 
10&/+<#%,/<#!"#.*+8#"%!#*+<#,//#!./#,&8.!,#
10";#*:"9/#!"8/!./0>#
C`#1//7#7&(/#"%0#10&/+<,.&-#:7",,";/<#*!#!./#
!"-#"1#!./#2"!/0#40/#/,'*-/5B#,./#,*&<>
features
The Middlebury Campus
If you are a botany student, you might get the chance to legally 
scale one of the most appealing roofs on campus — the green roof 
of Atwater Dining Hall.
The grassy roof is an example of sustainable architectural design 
found in the more recent construction projects on campus, and 
according to the “sustainability” section on the College website, 
the living carpet of native plants “increases storm water retention, 
improves insulation, and provides moderate replacement to lost 
habitat.” Professor of Biology Helen Young’s Plant Biology class 
requires a community service project, and Merchant, who is cur-
rently in the class, opted to take a census of the plants on top of 
the Atwater roof.
!"#$%#&'%()*+&',&-+.%#&,.'&/01'&2341*'5&1%#6&7,)*+&/#448&/01'$5&*,'&
doing well,” Merchant said. “Some tree seeds have dispersed up 
there unintentionally, so we also have to make sure no trees are 
growing on top of the dining hall.” 
When asked to describe the roof, Merchant said, “It’s a big slope 
/)'0&7)99#%#*'& :,*#5&,9&+%155#5&1*7&;,/#%)*+&341*'5&1*7& )5&1& 4,'&
bigger than I expected it to be.” 
If you are not approved to identify plants with Merchant and 
Young, do not expect to get a chance to roll down Atwater’s grassy 
hill.
“Only people who are supposed to be up there are given a code 
',&'0#&#*'%1*<#&=&'0#&,*4(&'0)*+&'01'&5.%%,.*75&'0#&#7+#&2,9&'0#&
%,,96&)5&1&5',*(&31'08&5,&(,.&4)'#%144(&<,.47&',334#&,998&1*7&'0#&>,4-
lege really wouldn’t like that,” Merchant said.
James claims that of all the roofs she’s scaled at Middlebury, the 
CFA was the best. 
“Something about the postmodern architecture and all the little 
triangular windows just made it really fun,” she said. 
She and her boyfriend, Murray, were able to scale the CFA around 
the time the biomass plant was being built. During the wee hours 
of the morning, they borrowed an enormous orange ladder from 
the construction site and carried it across the street to the CFA to 
%#1<0&'0#&',3?&@&<4,5#&<144&/)'0&5,A#&5.53)<),.5&B.C4)<&D19#'(&,9--
cers almost terminated the whole covert operation, and when they 
eventually got to the top, they soon came back down. 
“It feels like a different world when you’re on a roof than when 
you’re on the ground,” James said. “Half the time we climbed 
roofs, it was to see the stars. You’re on top of the world up there 
— literally.”
She cited the inspirational adventures of Lyra Belaqua, a charac-
ter from a series of books by Phillip Pullman, as the original motive 
to explore the high, forbidden spaces on campus. In the books, 
Lyra runs wild over the roofs of the college in Oxford, England, 
1*7&'0#&'/,&E)774#C.%(&%,,9F<4)AC#%5&-+.%#7&'0#%#&A.5'&C#&5)A)41%&
possibilities in the heights of their own campus. Their time on many 
different roofs showed them just how few people considered the 
sky and the spaces above their heads.
“No one ever looked up,” James said. “We used to joke about 
throwing acorns on the heads of people walking under us. It’s re-
ally amazing how oblivious people are to things they don’t expect 
to see.”
The main library is notorious on one college 
ranking site (campusgrotto.com) for looking 
4)G#&1&531<#50)3&/)'0&)'5&<01%1<'#%)5')<&;()*+&
saucer-shaped roof. As far as she knows, 
the student who serendipitously ended up 
on top of the library was not beamed up by 
any visiting alien crafts, and though she had 
a great view of the mountains, there were 
no comfortable, conveniently placed blue 
armchairs on the roof.
with sleds in hand.
They heard a voice saying, “Hey you! 
Come down here!” and were bewildered 
to be caught by a very angry Public Safety 
,9-<#%?& H0#(& 7#5<#*7#7& )*',& 5,A#& 3%#''(&
5#%),.5&'%,.C4#&1*7&5,A#&I#%(&5'##3&-*#5?&
“We felt bad that we ruined it for future 
roof-climbers,” James said, since after they 
were busted, Facilities made sure to seal off 
their old access routes. “We had, in no way, 
anything against Public Safety; I am very 
pro-Public Safety.” 
@5& 1& -*14& '0,.+0'8& J1A#5& 177#7K& !L&
wouldn’t recommend doing what we did 
… some of the scariest moments of my life 
/#%#&9%,A&'0#5#&')A#5?&H0#&,9-<#%5&1*7&'0#&
rules are there for an extremely good rea-
son — to keep everyone safe.”
“The roof or outer 
surface of any 
College building 
is not to be used 
for activities 
or storage 
of objects. 
Accessing a roof 
in any manner 
or climbing 
on a building 
is considered 
dangerous 
behavior and is 
3%,0)C)'#7M&-*#5&
2NOPP6/)44&C#&
assessed.”
 -FROM THE 
STUDENT LIFE POLICIES, 
RESIDENCE HALL 
REGULATIONS
32
’08/’09
YEAR
N
U
M
B
ER
IN
VO
LV
ED
 
in
 R
O
O
FT
O
P
 
IN
C
ID
EN
TS
29
’09/’10
21
’10/’11
12
Sept. ’11
is allowing people to shape their own nar-
ratives and identities, even under authoritar-
ian governments. He also cited the common 
desire across nations for freedom and dignity, 
and drew parallels between the demands of 
the protestors across the Middle East and 
American values. Telhami concluded his 
speech on a more ominous note, warning of 
the possible implications of the instability and 
vulnerability of the region in the future.
Following the keynote address, journal-
ists Wendell Steavenson and Amira Hass led 
the !rst session, entitled “"e Reporter’s Chal-
lenge.”  Steavenson spoke !rst, and shared a 
personal account of Tahrir Square in Cairo 
during the uprising, painting a picture of the 
events and emotions that transpired there in 
the early days of the Egyptian Revolution.
Alison Foster ’12, a political science ma-
jor, also attended the keynote and dinner as 
well as attending Wendell Steavenson’s talk 
“Tahriria.”
“Even though you couldn’t see her, Wen-
dell’s narrative and gra!ti slideshow created 
this beautiful narrative of both the di#culties 
and frustration as well as the energy of the rev-
olution,” Foster said. “By the end of the story 
all I could think was. ‘I wish I had been there’.”
 Following Stevenson, Amira Hass, a 
writer for the Israeli newspaper Haaretz and 
a resident of the Palestinian occupied terri-
tories, explained her struggles as a writer to 
grapple with the problematic language sur-
rounding the disputed territories. 
Friday a$ernoon’s session, “Responding 
to Revolutions,” featured Radwan Ziadeh, 
Visiting Scholar from Elliot school of Inter-
national A%airs from George Washington 
University as well as Middlebury Assistant 
Professor of Political Science Quinn Mecham. 
Ziadeh spoke about Syria, calling attention 
to the human rights violations taking place 
there, and condemning the international 
community for its lack of action and failure 
to intervene. Ziadeh said in his concluding 
remarks, “Syrians know there is a price to be 
paid. Freedom is not free. But silence from 
the Security Council is not the right price. We 
want the international community to be on 
the right side of history.”
Quinn Mecham followed with a presen-
tation entitled “Islamist Movements and the 
Arab Uprisings,” in which he explored the role 
of Islamist groups in the various uprisings. 
He argued that the removal of authoritar-
ian power has created something of an iden-
tity crisis in countries such as Tunisia, Egypt, 
Libya and Yemen, and noted, “Islamist groups 
are uniquely well-poised to serve as vehicles 
for protest and political change when the op-
portunity is right,” and warned that Islamist 
groups are “inching their way closer to center 
stage” in countries where the political land-
scape is still evolving.
Jordan Weiss ’12, an international studies 
major with a Middle Eastern focus, attended 
Telhami’s keynote address, as well as both Zia-
deh and Mecham’s talk. She also had the ben-
e!t of having dinner with the speakers.
“It was a really impressive group of peo-
ple that ... Mayer and [Pardon Tillinghast Pro-
fessor of Religion] Larry Yarbrough managed 
to congregate in one place at a speci!c time to 
discuss one of the world’s most pressing politi-
cal issues,” she said.
Walid El Hamamsy and Mounira Soli-
man gave a joint presentation entitled, “Trans-
lating Revolution: Artistic Representations of 
the Egyptian Spring.” "ey began by discuss-
ing the Mubarak regime’s use of images and 
idyllic representations of the Egyptian presi-
dent before the uprisings, and then contrasted 
these images with artistic representations of 
revolution. Hamamsy and Soliman pointed to 
the use of cell phone cameras, gra#ti and im-
provisational comedy groups as evidence of a 
new form of organic, visual representation of 
popular culture. 
On Saturday, the fourth and !nal session 
of the three-day symposium, “Articulating 
Identity in Dance, Word, and Film,” focused 
on the tenets of Middle Eastern identity. Sat-
urday’s session featured !ve di%erent speak-
ers, including Middlebury professor of Arabic 
Huda Fakhreddine, who discussed topics such 
as Yemeni poetry and tribal dance, the mean-
ing of “homeland” in Palestinian writings and 
questions of Israeli identity in !lm. 
Mayer, who teaches geography classes 
on the Middle East, was enthusiastic about 
the success of the symposium. “"is sympo-
sium delivered what we had hoped it would: It 
helped us go beyond the headlines and better 
understand the multiple ways through which 
cultures and nations in the Middle East have 
expressed and articulated their newly shaped 
and evolving identities,” she said.
Yarbrough, co-organizer of the sympo-
sium, similarly expressed his satisfaction with 
the timeliness and caliber of the discussions 
generated by the lectures, saying, “Many of 
[the speakers] noted how many students 
showed and how engaged they were,” noting 
that the questions students asked were per-
ceptive and well formed.  “Creating just such 
an environment for discussion was one of the 
main goals ... Mayer and I had in organizing 
this year’s Cli%ord Symposium.”
14 29 September 2011 campusfeatures
A look into the Cli!ord Symposium
&
Better build an arc. And get 
out those knit sweaters.losers
Panthers
Men’s and Women’s soccer, vol-
leyball and !eld hockey win!
Far more e#cient than sprinting 
to Bi Hall at 9a.m.
No matter what, Williams is 
always losing.
80 degrees
Who knew Vermont could 
reach 80 in September?
Midterms
...Already!?
Bikes
The coming rain Purple Ephs
winners
The L-Word
I have a hard 
time reconciling my 
two opposing views 
on sex. Between six 
and 12, I was ob-
sessed with love and 
I imagined an ap-
pealing culmination 
to all of the e%orts love requires. "at was 
sex. I surmised that you would make out a 
lot, and then basically a Disney movie would 
happen in between your naked bodies: mag-
ic, a lot of epic music, a hint of danger, so 
many warm fuzzies and then happily ever 
a$er. 
Sex seemed to be a primary motivator 
for adults, and a corollary to my obsession 
with love. My stu%ed animals spent the ma-
jority of their time impregnating each other 
(generating zoological marvels like bear-
cats and horse-mice), and Barbie and Ken 
couldn’t keep their clothes on. If you had 
asked me why all of my toys were all over 
each other, I would have told you it was be-
cause they “just wanted to be nice to each 
other.” Sex was the nicest thing. 
When I discovered the wild world of 
the Internet around 13 or 14, I started to 
develop a very di%erent idea about sex. My 
early un!ltered Lycos searches taught me a 
lot, but the real eye-openers were encounters 
with other human beings in the unrestricted 
chatrooms on AOL. In a chatroom about fast 
food, I struck up a conversation with a man 
about hamburgers. I don’t know how it came 
to this, but he invited me to a private AIM 
conversation and then started asking me all 
sorts of questions about how much I liked 
to eat hamburgers and other meat, eventu-
ally leading him to ask me if I ever thought 
about eating another human. I didn’t answer 
that one, but he went on anyway to describe 
very vivid fantasies about being eaten alive 
by a beautiful woman. “Uh, cool, dude, I 
have to go.” My 14-year-old brain struggled 
to process the situation; I knew this man was 
describing a very sexual experience, but for 
obvious reasons it completely clashed with 
my ideas about sex. What that man wanted 
was taboo, dirty, dark.  
"at online conversation, along with 
high school and growing up in general, let 
in the darkness around sex that I have since 
strived to embrace, but not without qualms. 
It took me a long time to realize it, but what 
that man wanted was acceptance. He was 
si$ing through strangers, bu%ered by the 
safety of anonymity, in the hopes of !nd-
ing someone who could understand, and 
even satisfy, his desire. I value the courage 
in following a pressing desire well beyond 
the boundaries of societal approval, and 
yet I have a lot of trouble giving myself that 
permission. Maybe it’s just all that subli-
mated Puritan culture, but when I day-
dream about public sex or ask to be handled 
roughly, I almost immediately follow the 
thought with the rose-tinted vision of sex 
from my childhood. And then I feel guilty. 
I want to want romantic, wholesome sex 
with a nice girl or boy who really loves me. 
But not only that. And that’s not really what 
pushes the “Super Hot” button for me. It’s 
the way I want to be a vegan and eat only 
organic: I like organic vegetables, and they 
are generally agreed to be “good.” But eating 
meat and dairy products is so viscerally ap-
pealing to me, and sometimes I just want to 
buy what’s cheaper, or the most local. I want 
to want that magical Disney-style love-mak-
ing, but instead I’m trying to make my way 
in the world as a conscientious carnivore.
My forays into that darker side have 
been pretty tame—mostly limited to owning 
(and occasionally using) silk ties and blind-
folds, and listening to a lot of She Wants Re-
venge. Mostly. But my curiosity is insatiable 
about the rest of that dark world, and maybe 
I’ll give myself permission one day to ex-
plore it. Until then, I think I know that the 
nicest thing, really, is !guring out what you 
want, and then !nding someone who’ll give 
it to you.
From le!, presenters Maryam al-Khawaja, Mounira Soliman, Walid El Hamamsy and moderator Usama Soltan speak at a session 
about grassroots activism as part of the Cli"ord Symposium, “(Re)Presenting National and Cultural Identities in the Middle East.”
Cedar Attanasio
Continued from page 1
Lea Calderon-Guthe, 
Senior Sta" Writer
“You can trace it back, I guess, to my !rst 
serious crush in high school,” said Assistant 
Professor of Political Science Kemi Fuentes-
George as we discussed exactly where and 
when his interest in environmental studies 
and political science developed. As the story 
goes, Fuentes-George had a little thing for a 
girl in the environmental club, so he joined 
the group in order to impress her. Tragically, 
she later le" the club, but Fuentes-George 
admits that is was a price to pay to discover 
his true passions. 
But let’s pause for a second. Most of 
you are probably wondering who this Pro-
fessor Fuentes-George character is in the 
!rst place, which is not surprising, consid-
ering this is only his !rst year teaching at 
Middlebury. 
Fuentes-George grew up in Kingston, 
Jamaica. At 19 years old, he le" to attend 
Ohio Wesleyan University to study electrical 
engineering, a decision that his family sup-
ported. Coming from the third world, Fuen-
tes-George said, there is a lot of pressure for 
young people to become one of three things: 
a doctor, lawyer or an engineer. 
It didn’t take long, however, for Fuentes-
George to realize that engineering was not 
for him. Over his second semester, he took a 
political science course that blew him away, 
and it was then that he began to understand 
where his interests truly lay. 
“In retrospect, it seems so obvious,” said 
Fuentes-George of his eventual decision to 
study environmental science and political 
science. Ever since that day when he joined 
the environmental club, he has possessed a 
concern for the environment and has even 
participated in protests against environmen-
tal harm. Fuentes-George also has experi-
ence working on an Amnesty International 
!eld research program that helped spark an 
interest in public policy, law enforcement 
and the negative impact they can have on 
human rights.
“When I saw the connection between 
the environment and human rights … it just 
seemed like a natural !t for me,” he said.
Once Fuentes-George !nished up his 
undergraduate study at Ohio Wesleyan, he 
went directly into graduate school at the 
University of Massachusetts at Amherst, 
where he designed his own courses for the 
!rst time as a teaching assistant. During his 
years at UMass, he conducted !eld research 
in Mexico and Egypt, studying biodiversity 
management. Finally, in the fall of 2009, 
Fuentes-George was hired for a visiting po-
sition at the College of William and Mary. 
He taught there until the start of this aca-
demic year when he came to Middlebury. He 
is currently teaching International Environ-
mental Politics and Transnational Transfor-
mations and the Environment.
“#ere is some degree of narcissism in 
[teaching],” said Fuentes-George. “#ere is 
something really gratifying about doing re-
search in something you !nd attractive and 
talking about issues with people who want 
to talk about it.”
And for him, teaching at Middlebury 
is almost a “dream job.” For one thing, the 
interdisciplinary nature of the courses 
at Middlebury piqued his interest in the 
school. He also says that the smaller class 
sizes are preferable for forming closer rela-
tionships with students, making it easier for 
the professors to notice when students are 
struggling.
“#e impression I get from Middlebury 
is that there are a lot of resources for stu-
dents to take advantage of and for faculty to 
take advantage of,” said Fuentes-George. 
But all this is only one side of him. 
When he’s not “Professor,” he spends time 
participating in other hobbies, such as rel-
ishing in nature and !shing. 
“If I wasn’t an academic, I would be a 
!sherman. I would just live on the beach all 
day, everyday, and I would !sh, and I would 
swim,” said Fuentes-George. 
And while we’re on the !sh theme, I 
!nd it appropriate to mention that his favor-
ite food is, shockingly, !sh.
“Fish. Fried !sh. But proper fried !sh. I 
don’t mean that battered rectangle,” as Fuen-
tes-George puts it. 
He is a very passionate and educated in-
dividual in his area of study, and he certainly 
brings a lot to the table. 
But his smarts extend beyond the 
realm of environmental studies and politi-
cal science. Fuentes-George is an extremely 
knowledgeable and intelligent person in 
other areas as well. He tries to keep every-
thing in perspective, even when the going 
gets tough. 
“You’re not on !re, and you’re not in a 
ditch,” Fuentes-George tells himself when 
he feels overwhelmed by stress. “Whatever 
your situation is, it could be signi!cantly 
worse if you were on !re or in a ditch.” 
I am sure that these are only a taste of 
the words of wisdom yet to be heard from 
Professor Fuentes-George. Hopefully we 
will all be lucky enough to hear more in the 
future. 
Welcome to sophomore year, fall semes-
ter, when the pressure is on to answer these 
questions: Where are you studying abroad? 
What semester are you studying abroad? Are 
you studying abroad?
And the hardest part is — how can you 
make these decisions when you really know 
very little about what it’s like to study abroad 
anyway? Sure, you’ve gone to the fairs, listened 
to speakers, and done research on the ever-
confusing Middlebury website. But all that 
information just skims the surface of study 
abroad. You’ll get !nancial !gures and appli-
cation deadlines, but you aren’t going to get an 
idea of how it feels, what it’s really like to be a 
Middlebury student in a foreign country.
Luckily, we’ve got some older and wiser 
souls to share their experiences and thoughts 
on the junior year study abroad program. 
Robert Fellciano ’12 enjoyed his time 
spent abroad, an entire year in Paris. He 
loved France, but loathed the classes he took 
through the Middlebury program. But in-
stead of su$ering through a spring semester 
of lectures with fellow Americans, Feliciano 
decided to direct enroll in public university 
and took only French-run classes.
For Feliciano, study abroad was a liber-
ating experience. In Paris, Feliciano had his 
own apartment and got an internship at a 
booking agency where he ran the budget. He 
also worked two jobs — bartending in a club 
and tutoring. 
A"er the independence, Fellciano really 
misses being abroad.  
“Coming back to Middlebury, I feel like I 
had my freedom taken away,” he said. “I can’t 
work more than 20 hours per week. I can’t do 
an internship. [In France], I ran my own bud-
get, cooked, bought groceries.”
Coming back to “Club Midd” is like be-
ing a kid again, a"er Feliciano felt like he was 
living a very adult life.
One challenge in France can be the anti-
American sentiment. Rob recognized that his 
Puerto Rican heritage gave him a bit of an 
edge, because it made him seem less Ameri-
can. He has curly black hair and brown eyes. 
He speaks Spanish at home, and so his accent 
in French doesn’t sound American. It is more 
ambiguous.  
“It worked out for me because people 
thought I was Brazilian,” he said.
Public university is a dog-eat-dog world, 
he agrees, and it forces you to make friends. 
And these friendships stuck. During the in-
terview, he actually received a BBM from one 
of his French friends. 
Feliciano keeps in touch with his friends 
from France both because of the bonds they 
formed, but also because he is afraid of losing 
his French.
“I talk and text to my friends in France 
more and more,” he said. “You have to work, 
but it’s worth the e$ort [to make and main-
tain friendships]. Follow up and show that 
you care for them. #ey took their time to 
show me the ropes, when I was just this study 
abroad kid.”
When it comes to his social and per-
sonal life, Feliciano reminds students that the 
Middlebury program is far from holistic, and 
that people have to be responsible for their 
own experience. 
For example, he strongly encourages 
students to date people in the host country. 
“People who date locals really are the most 
successful at learning the language and gain-
ing social independence,” he said.
Feliciano also advises sophomores and 
!rst-years to scout out their countries beyond 
the Middlebury website, including hobbies, 
clubs and potential jobs. “Look for your inter-
ests online before you go. Don’t try to be in 
the Midd group mentality. Be an individual.”
But what about students who didn’t want 
to go abroad? RJ Adler ’11.5 spent his entire 
junior year at Middlebury, and he was very 
happy with his decision not go abroad.
Adler cited the fact that he had traveled 
during his Feb-mester to South Africa, France 
and Switzerland.
“I !gured there only had four years at 
Middlebury and I wanted to soak up as much 
as I could,” he said. “I wouldn’t have had as 
many opportunities with [Stuck In the Mid-
dle], I wouldn’t have been able to continue a 
relationship with my girlfriend, I never would 
have joined Xenia, I never would have learned 
how to bake bread, I never would have been a 
psychology major — I would have been stuck 
being a theatre major.”
Adler believes that the time at Middlebury 
should be valued for just that: time spent here.
“I can go to this place and that a"er grad-
uation,” he said.
Jordan Ashleigh Jones ’13, however, only 
agrees to some extent. Jones is a theatre major 
with a concentration in costume design, and 
because of the major she has not had the op-
portunity to study abroad.
“I have study abroad envy,” she said. “But 
I love the theatre department so that’s why I’m 
not going abroad. I declared late and my ad-
viser told me that I’d get a lot more out of my 
major if I stayed.”
O"entimes, majors in the science depart-
ment also have trouble !tting in time to go 
abroad, and stay on campus in order to !nish 
all their requirements.
Sophomores: you have some time to 
think, but by February when applications are 
due, the decisions need to be made. Where, 
when and if. Study abroad is a major decision 
in your academic career, and the more advice 
you can get, the better. Keep looking for ex-
perienced travelers to share their experiences 
with you, and good luck !guring it all out.
29 September 2011 15campusfeatures
By Alexandra Strott
Staff Writer
Campus Character: Kemi Fuentes-George
Students react to their abroad experiences
By Shannon Fiedler
Features Editor
Professor Fuentes-George enjoys nature, and is interested in keeping the environement safe.
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
Sophomores listen at the informational Study abroad meeting about how to start the process.
arts&science16
The Middlebury Campus
29 September 2011
“French fries!” 
!is single prompt from the audience launched the Otter Nonsense Players 
and their special mystery guest, mash-up artist E-603, into an hour of improvisa-
tional comedy in the McCullough Social Space on Saturday, Sept. 24. !e perfor-
mance marked the "rst time Otter Nonsense and MCAB have joined forces, and 
the result was a night of pure fun, full of fast-paced and unpredictable entertain-
ment. 
!e show took the form of “Monologue Deconstruction,” in which E-603 
provided the monologues and the eight Otters provided the deconstruction 
through their improvised scenes. Inspired by the audience’s choice of food, E-603 
recalled a favorite restaurant in New York City, which was the setting for a “dis-
gusting experience” involving a friend for whom beer and French fries did not 
mix well. !e Otters then swept the audience into a series of scenes responding to 
this theme, each actor clad in a di#erent solid-color T-shirt. Ben Orbison ’12.5 be-
came an unpleasant character on a train ride through Europe and bought a ticket 
for a neighboring passenger in need, played by Asher Hussain ’14. Hussain then 
had to withstand the creepy advances of his benefactor, the comic tension ratchet-
ing up a notch when the conductor announced that all stops in France had been 
cancelled and the ride wouldn’t end until they reached Germany.
In the following scene, Chris de la Cruz ’13 and Adam Benay ’13.5 cre-
ated a dramatic moment in which the challenge of jumping o# the swimming 
pool high dive tested a long-standing friendship. Perched on the diving board 
and peering down into the abyss, Benay recounted in desperation all the times 
he had followed his best friend’s lead to disaster, such as when they sold all of 
their belongings and moved to Portugal. De la Cruz countered that they were 
both about to turn 30, the age when even the closest friendships die, and that 
the jump would re-solidify their bond. !e scene provided a "tting metaphor 
for the challenges faced by Otter Nonsense in producing improvisational the-
ater. 
Benay said that the key to the group’s success was “the trust that you and 
your partner are trying to go in the same direction. Or at least that you’d fol-
low each other anywhere. Or at least most places.” 
“What we strive to do, which I think ultimately ends up being more hu-
morous then a joke, gag or punch line here or there, is to create honest ‘slice-
of-life’ scenes on stage,” de la Cruz said. Many moments throughout the show 
captured this honesty, and the trust shared by the players was evident as they 
followed each other on outrageous twists and turns.
Alexandra Kennedy ’13 and Jenny Johnson concluded the "rst round 
of deconstruction with a bizarre interrogation sequence. Kennedy, a school 
principal, held her helpless student, played by Johnson, trapped in cage and 
was questioning her about a recent grenade blast that had injured another 
teacher. In a cleverly-constructed $ashback scene, the audience discovered 
that Johnson’s father had smuggled the explosive into school while packing his 
daughter’s lunchbox. !e scene in the principal’s o%ce reminded E-603 of his 
own school days, and in his second monologue he recounted the unfair pun-
ishment he su#ered a&er coming to school dressed in drag in order to earn 
extra credit for his class. In a wacky reinterpretation of this story, two Otters, 
Greg Dorris ’13 and Hussain, managed to realistically portray the challenges 
of coming to work dressed in "sh costumes to please their deranged boss and 
earn bonuses.
Later on, Dorris and Cec-
ily Glouchevitch ’13 found themselves 
playing two parents chaperoning a 
school dance. Under the in$uence of 
the spiked punch, they began a cau-
tious $irtation which quickly turned 
awkward when Glouchevitch’s daugh-
ter reminded her mother that she 
was married. !e scene hilariously 
reversed the roles of chaperone and 
student, with the parents displaying all 
the hopeless insecurity of the adoles-
cents they were supervising.
A&er the second round of scenes, 
the Otters concluded their show to 
thunderous applause and turned the 
stage over in full to E-603. !e Social 
Space quickly became a dance $oor 
and an energetic mash-up concert 
lasted well into the night.
Over the summer, the idea of a 
collaboration between Otter Nonsense 
and E-603 struck de la Cruz while he 
was working as an intern in the Stu-
dent Activities O%ce. 
“When I brought it to the group,” 
said de la Cruz, “they suggested that we 
make E-603 a ‘Special Mystery Guest’ 
to provide more hype for the show and 
also to give a gi& to all the people who 
would originally come out to see us re-
gardless of the fact that E-603 would perform a&er.” 
Dan Crepps ’12, chair of the MCAB Concerts Committee, took the lead in organizing the 
event. !e creative advertising from MCAB and the Otters paid o#. By the time the show started, 
just a&er 9:30 p.m., the $oor of the Social Space was packed with students.
Standing alone on stage hunched over his laptop, head bobbing up and down to the mu-
sic, E-603 provided his own improvisational entertainment a&er the Otters. Although he has 
many musical personas, including re-mixer and band member, he made a name for himself in 
2008 when his "rst mash-up album, Something for Everyone, became a hit on the blogosphere. 
He released his latest album, SMOKESHOW, on Sept. 6. During E-603’s live shows, a computer 
program called Ableton allows him to cue up previously-manipulated samples of music — for 
instance, the beat from a Lady Gaga hit, rap lyrics from Ludacris or an AC/DC guitar ri#. By 
combining up to seven samples at a time and constantly changing them on the $y, he creates a 
seamless stream of dance music with recognizable parts combining to form a unique whole. 
SMOKESHOW is available for download for free at www.e-603.com. Learn more about Otter 
Nonsense at http://otternonsense.org.    
 By Leo DesBois, Staff Writer
Battle of the (Improv) Bands
In the jam-packed Pearson’s Lounge, Don-
ald Trump is giving a speech. His model coun-
terpart whispers political nothings into his ear as 
an audience of students stare bemusedly at him. 
Donald Trump, as it turns out, is a 
Middlebury sophomore embroiled in the "rst 
scene of Middlebrow’s top-notch show on !urs-
day, Sept. 22. !ough the Trump send-up was 
announced in posters plastering Proctor walls, 
the surprise and excitement elsewhere in the 
show far surpassed the advertisements. 
!e Middlebrow Society for Improvisa-
tional !eatre, established in 2008, performed 
with gusto and originality as they eased into the 
!ursday evening show. !e members, Andrew 
Powers ’11.5, Ele Woods ’11.5, Mark Carlough 
’12, Alyssa Limperis ’12, Ryan Urquidi ’13, Tom 
Califra ’13, Cailey Cron ’13.5 and Matt Ball ’14 
presented skits of di#erent lengths and far-$ung 
topics to the delighted audience watching them, 
trading on and o# between each other as the 
mood struck. 
Introduced and mediated throughout by 
Limperis, the "rst skit spun o# of an audience 
shout-out of the word “pizza.” Soon we were 
plunged into the world of awkward "rst dates 
before the actors were redirected by another 
prompt to reenact a never-written book entitled 
When the Elephant Ate the Dinosaur.
!e skit was narrated by Powers seated at an 
imaginary typewriter and writing a monologue. 
As the scene in his head played out in the Pear-
sons Lounge, characters interjected ideas of their 
own in Powers’ mind, redirecting and grappling 
for plot control. Donald Trump, now as a dino-
saur-endangering elephant, started to maneuver 
and mangle furniture in his desperate elephant-
hunger, while his mother, Limperis, brought the 
scene to life with strangled cries to stop. 
Following another audience prompt of 
“Walrus!” the performers reshu'ed themselves 
again, their characters twisting and morph-
ing into others. All these scenes $owed into 
each other well and the performers became 
more comfortable with each passing joke. Each 
stilted moment was eased away by sheer absur-
dity, imagination and the occasional rhyme. !e 
group’s ability to create spontaneous comedy and 
full $eshed out scenes at a moment’s notice was 
wildly impressive, and they made it look natural 
and easy. 
!e "nal scene of the night really showcased 
the troop’s ability to spin o# each other’s ideas. It 
began with a job interview in a defunct Kinko’s, 
where all the machines were out of order. Soon 
the entire troop was manically scribbling out 
copies of imaginary documents instead of "xing 
the machines, grabbing the initial concept and 
running full-speed away with it into new and ex-
citing places. 
Middlebrow got up on stage with just three 
rehearsals behind them last !ursday night, and 
the quality of their performance is, quite frankly, 
to be envied. 
By Emily Scarisbrick, Arts and Science Editor
M
I
D
D
L
E
B
R
O
W
Middlebury’s comedy troops were out in full force last week, featuring improvisational humor, stories and even a dance party. 
O
t
t
e
r
N
o
n
s
e
n
s
e
Photos by Jiayi Zhu,  Photos Editor
Veteran Otters Adam Benay  ’13.5 and Chris de la 
Cruz ’13 improvised a dramatic moment concerning 
a long-term friendship.
Otters Ben Orbison ’12.5, Adam Benay ’13.5 and Chris de la Cruz ’13 
take a car ride to the realm of hilarity in one of the show’s many scenes.
Members of Middlebrow relax as they prepare for their semester debut.
18 29 September 2011campusarts&science          29 September 2011 17
Every generation of gaming consoles brings 
about new intellectual properties with its series. 
While some of these series never see the light of 
the retail store, others !nd mild success and a 
very few become icons of a generation. Gears of 
War is one of these. From the almost-adorable 
brutish nature of the characters to the vicious 
chainsaw-on-a-gun Lancer Ri"e, Gears de!ned 
cover-based shooting. Now the last chapter has 
hit stores and it wraps things up with a bang. 
Gears of War 3 is the complete package on a 
single disc. #ere is a full plot-driven campaign 
that can be played with a friend locally or with 
three other friends online. Even better, you can 
combine the two, playing with a friend locally 
and two more online. 
Gears of War 3 also has competitive online 
multiplayer with a plethora of di$erent game 
modes. It has a four-player survival “horde” 
mode and even a mode where one plays as the 
Locust Horde, the series’ resident bad guys. 
#e game’s plot !nishes the story of Marcus 
Fenix, a soldier in the Coalition of Ordered 
Governments (COG) as he tries to push back 
the Locust and Lambent invasion once and for 
all. But, in a not-so-shocking twist, Marcus’ 
father is still alive, so he embarks on a journey 
to !nd him and !nally save humanity from its 
by Santiago Azpurua­Borras
ONE LIFE 
LEFT
Indistinct shapes "it around the periph-
ery of my vision, now coalescing into shad-
owy !gures, then returning to ether. I am 
standing in a dark, circular space at the end 
of a passage. 
#is is no dream. #is is the recently 
inaugurated M Gallery on the !rst "oor of 
the Old Stone Mill. As I step back down the 
passage, the !gures reveal themselves to be 
students, busy with !nal preparations for M 
Gallery’s !rst exhibit, an installation piece by 
Ki Chan Lee ’12 titled Preempt. 
Outside the exhibit, the students are set-
ting up signs and response cards, pouring 
water into mason jars and checking the im-
maculately painted “M Gallery” sign. #eir 
black uniforms belie the fact that M Gallery 
did not start as a uni!ed idea. It was rather 
a classic and fortuitous case of simultaneous 
discovery or, as co-founder Cha Tori ’13 de-
scribed it, “an awesome convergence.” 
Last spring, Tori and Lilah Leopold ’13 
submitted a proposal to the Old Stone Mill 
board to open a gallery for student artwork. 
At the same time, Nerissa Khan ’12 sub-
mitted another almost identical proposal. 
Elori Kramer ’13, who was serving on the 
Old Stone Mill board at the time, received 
the two applications. Since board positions 
are only held for one year, Kramer was in a 
prime position to dive into a new project. 
Employing the knowledge that four heads 
are better than one, Leopold, Khan, Kramer 
and Tori combined their visions to create the 
M Gallery. #e four e-mailed frantically over 
the summer in preparation for their !rst 
show, Preempt. 
Preempt consists of a series of black ban-
ners, their gaps echoing the striated pattern 
on the exhibit’s promotional materials, also 
drawn from Lee’s work. It is a tightly con-
!ned yet vaguely de!ned space in which 
natural light loosely reveals shapes, shadows 
and textures. Preempt invites personal inter-
pretations and explorations into our rela-
tionships with space. 
It is a !tting !rst exhibit for the M Gal-
lery, which is itself a reinterpretation of 
space. #e M Gallery got its start through 
the Old Stone Mill, which typically provides 
space and support for students to pursue 
creative endeavors. However, M Gallery did 
not need a space to contain its project — the 
space is the project. M Gallery hopes to !ll a 
void in the arts scene on campus: namely, a 
lack of a real gallery for student artists.  
Leopold conceded that while the John-
son Memorial Building does o%en display 
the work of studio art students, the lack of 
time for which the pieces are exhibited as 
well as the nature of display in a building 
of working classrooms and studios make it 
unwelcoming and inaccessible to students 
not in the studio art program. Tori explained 
that other spaces used to display student art 
on campus, such as the hallways of the Mc-
Cullough Student Center, su$er from almost 
the opposite problem. While lining the route 
to the mailroom with photographs assures 
that art will be seen by a wide audience, it 
leaves little room for contemplation. 
#e idea to house M Gallery at the Old 
Stone Mill emerged last year a%er several 
exhibits, most notably the Object/Experi-
ence VACA showcase curated by Khan, re-
vealed the incredible potential of !rst-"oor 
space.  In the past, the gallery was used for 
the Old Stone Mill tenants showcase, as well 
as for isolated concerts and exhibits by Old 
Stone Mill tenants. However, it remained 
underutilized for most of the year. M Gal-
lery represents the !rst attempt to carry out a 
sustained project in the space. Remembering 
the dynamism of Object/Experience VACA, 
Kramer recalls thinking, “It should be like 
this all the time.” 
Determined to stay relevant to an active 
college campus, M Gallery has set the ambi-
tious goal of opening a new exhibit every two 
weeks. Fortunately, the College has plenty of 
artists eager to display their work. M Gallery 
already has exhibits lined up to !ll the rest 
of the fall semester, as well as students inter-
ested in displaying over Winter Term. 
#e upcoming exhibits are impressive in 
their diversity, material, subject and source. 
Following Lee’s installation piece, the gallery 
is scheduled to host an exhibit of pen and ink 
drawings by Sam Tolzmann ’14 and Maddie 
Dai ’14. #e space will then showcase a col-
lection of pieces in various media, curated by 
Khan. A photography collection is also on 
the docket.  In the future, the gallery hopes 
to expand the de!nition of art even further, 
perhaps playing host to concerts, fashion 
shows or poetry readings. As Tori notes, the 
gallery’s attitude is “the more interdisciplin-
ary events, the better.”
#is inclusive attitude applies to the art-
ists featured as well. While most of the up-
coming exhibits feature work by students 
in the studio arts program, M Gallery also 
looks forward to strengthening its ties with 
Old Stone Mill tenants. M Gallery’s physi-
cal location, which Tori described as being 
in the “middle realm between the College 
and the town,” also alludes to the possibility 
of collaborations with artists in the greater 
Middlebury community. 
#e true extent of this middle realm 
became clearer as the guests at the Sept. 24 
opening mingled on the patio outside the 
Old Stone Mill, nibbling on homemade 
hummus and sushi as the large wire question 
mark sculpture loomed over them. #e ven-
ture has amazing potential to connect dispa-
rate elements of the Middlebury community 
and create a dialogue about the importance 
of art in the College environment. However, 
like Lee’s art, M Gallery will require the par-
ticipation of the audience to truly ful!ll its 
purpose. Fortunately, if the energy and inter-
est shown by the steady stream of visitors on 
opening night are any indication, this will be 
more than possible. 
“M Gallery” opens 
at Old Stone Mill
By Anna Flinchbaugh
Staff Writer
Game | Gears of War 3
Console | XBox 360, PC 
Rating | Mature
!
"#$!"#$%&'$!(')*'%+!,-./&$0!122!3&45$-&06!
"781"98!
1:;,",<=3!
>)'!3?'/-*!@AB@!?')54C&/)-0!
!
"#4'05%DE!3$?&$+F$'!@G!
H6IA?+JG6AA?+!
K%#%-$D!L$-&$'!>)'!&#$!1'&0!9))+!B@M!
8+%/26!F4'-#%+N+/552$F4'DO$54!>)'!/->)!!
PPPO+/552$F4'DO$54Q%C%5$+/C0Q&#$%!
multiple enemies. 
#e campaign is a good conclusion to the 
story with plenty of water-cooler moments. 
But Gears of War 3 falls into the same pitfalls 
the last games did: it tries to be something that 
it’s not. For some reason the developers try 
to add emotional depth to characters whose 
forearms are bigger than their heads. #is may 
seem like a silly complaint, but it just doesn’t 
work when the most common utterances Mar-
cus yells are things like “**** yea!” or “Scratch 
one grub!” Yet what the campaign lacks in 
depth, it makes up for with tight gameplay and 
fantastic cooperative play. 
When the credits roll, its time to jump 
into the multiplayer, which is the most fun 
I’ve had online in a very long time. It still 
follows the Gears series’ classic !ve-on-!ve 
cover-based shooting. All the maps are very 
well constructed, !lled with hidden paths and 
opportunities for team-strategy. 
Taking a few notes from the book of 
Modern Warfare, the online mode has a 
ranking system in which experience points 
are gained from doing certain things within 
matches. Downs, revives and even special 
kills are rewarded with bonus experience 
which then increase your rank. Increasing the 
rank means new weapons for your beginning 
loadout, new character skins and new weapon 
modi!cations. To keep players motivated, 
new rewards are given at every new rank, 
which is an intelligent move since it keeps the 
experience somewhat dynamic and fresh for 
the player. 
#e horde mode makes a return and pits 
up to four players against 50 waves of enemies, 
which increase in strength and intelligence. 
#is mode is great to play locally as players 
will !nd themselves laughing as they get over-
whelmed. Perhaps it will even create a sense of 
camaraderie. It really is up to the people you 
are playing with. 
Gears of War 3 is not only a good game 
but it is a complete package of entertainment. 
Sure, one could say Black Ops tried the same 
thing, but in my humble opinion, Gears of 
War 3 blows Call of Duty out of the water. 
Gears of War 3 gets a perfect 10/10.
Have an awesome research project?
     Know a professor doing something cool?  
  
Want to share your opinion on science at 
Midd? 
 Let us know!
campus@middlebury.
edu
$1.7 million could buy you many things, 
such as a Bugati Veyron car or about a thou-
sandth of the Space Shuttle Endeavor.  But for 
Professor of Geology Pat Manley and Visiting 
Assistant Professor of Geology Tom Manley, 
this sum will be put toward state-of-the-art 
equipment to bene!t Middlebury undergrads 
and faculty thanks to a recent National Sci-
ence Foundation grant. "e Campus asked 
them about their experiences with and plans 
for the project so far. 
!e Middlebury Campus: We hear that 
the National Science Foundation has re-
cently awarded funds for a project of yours. 
Could you brie!y outline the goals of the 
project from your point of view? What are 
the long and short terms goals of an endeav-
or of this nature?
Pat Manley: We have received two NSF 
grants over the past two years. "e !rst one 
was for a new research vessel for the College. 
"is vessel will be a #oating laboratory that 
can be used by many disciplines at the Col-
lege. It has been named a$er David Folger, a 
Middlebury geology professor who started 
the Lake Studies program at the College back 
in the 1970s. "e RV David Folger is currently 
being built at All American Marine in Bell-
ingham, Wash. "e boat is a twin-hull cata-
maran with smart classroom capabilities and 
is equipped with hydrodynamic, sub-bottom 
pro!ling and water sampling equipment. It is 
designed to enable the College’s Lake Studies 
program to grow with an interdisciplinary ap-
proach. 
"e second grant was from NSF’s Ma-
jor Research Instrumentation program. "is 
grant will enable us to purchase a multi-beam 
sonar system for the new research vessel, 
along with a hull-mounted Acoustic Doppler 
Current Pro!ler (ADCP). A multi-beam sys-
tem will allow us to generate bottom bathym-
etry data as the boat navigates the lake. "e 
resolution of this system is such that we will 
be able to detail bottom shapes down to the 
10s of centimeters.  "e ADCP will provide us 
with the directions and speeds of the currents 
we encounter as we transverse the lake. "is 
equipment will be integrated into the new 
boat design.
"e RV David Folger will be !nished in 
March 2012. At that time it will undergo sea 
trials, and then it will be loaded onto a trans-
port ship and start making its journey to Ver-
mont. "e transport ship will go through the 
Panama Canal, and the RV David Folger will 
be o%oaded in Port Everglades, near Fort 
Lauderdale, in mid-June. At that time, I’ll join 
Tom Manley, the College’s captain, Chris Go-
odrich (electronics specialist), and Richard 
Furbush (past captain of University of Ver-
mont’s research vessel) to begin sailing the 
vessel up the East Coast. We speculate that it 
will take us three to four weeks to bring the 
RV David Folger to Lake Champlain through 
the canal and lock system at the northern end 
of the Hudson River. 
MC: Do you have any concerns about 
the project at this point?  
PM: Our only concern at this time is to 
keep the building process on schedule. 
MC: What processes were involved in 
developing this idea? Has it been the culmi-
nation of your professional research so far? 
PM: Replacing our current aging re-
search vessel (RV Baldwin) has been on the 
agenda for over 10 years. "rough the work 
of many people (including undergraduates) at 
the College, a plan for replacement has been 
evolving.  Fortuitously, stimulus funds under 
the American Reinvestment & Recovery Act 
(ARRA) were available at the time that we 
completed our report on replacing the ves-
sel and delivered it to the College’s admin-
istration. With the approval of the College, 
we wrote a proposal to NSF and applied for 
ARRA monies.  
With this new research vessel, Tom and 
I have several new ideas for future research 
on Lake Champlain, such as looking at !sh 
spawning grounds (with Professor Ellen 
Marsden of UVM), improving our deep circu-
lation studies that are constrained by bottom 
topography, characterizing the lake bottom 
(sediments, #ora, and fauna), locating speci!c 
bottom types where we want to do detailed 
bottom biological sampling (with Timothy 
Mihuc of the Lake Champlain Research In-
stitute at SUNY Plattsburgh) and creating a 
high-resolution bathymetry map that would 
bene!t municipalities, !shermen, researchers, 
and other users of Lake Champlain. 
MC: Will this include Middlebury un-
dergraduates at any stage? Do you antici-
pate the project will have any signi"cant 
impact on the nature of research conducted 
in Bi-hall in the future?
PM: Middlebury undergraduates will be 
using the new research vessel in several cours-
es starting in fall 2012. At this time we are 
planning to use the vessel for Alumni College, 
a !rst-year seminar, and two geology courses 
— Oceanography and Marine Geology — and 
it will also be used by the biology and chemis-
try departments for sections of some of their 
courses. It will have a dedicated captain, so 
there will be many opportunities for students 
in a variety of courses to get out on the RV Fol-
ger at some point in their Middlebury career. 
MC: What do you think the implica-
tions of this work might be for the broader 
Vermont community? 
PM: With the new vessel and equipment, 
we will be able to do more far-reaching re-
search on Lake Champlain. Currently Tom 
[Manley] and I are part of an EPSCoR-fund-
ed program looking at the e&ects of climate 
change in Vermont. Our role will be to use the 
vessel, with its bottom mapping capabilities 
and hydrodynamic equipment, to begin the 
baseline studies needed to assess phosphorous 
18 29 September 2011 campusarts&science
by Santiago Azpurua­Borras
Artist | The Aquabats!
Album | Hi­Five Soup!
FOR THE 
 recordspotlightON...
Pat Manley 
Professor of Geology
By Emily Scarisbrick
Arts & Science Editor
 
02
A trophy wife leads the family busi-
ness and proves to be a great leader, 
but complications arise when an ex-
lover shows up. Sponsored by the De-
partment of French. Free.
editors’ 01
"is “experience” examines the cycle of 
waste in our culture and questions who 
and what is deemed expendable. Come 
hungry — refreshments and cookies are 
served throughout the performance.   
picks
Potiche
Dana 
Auditorium
3 p.m. & 8 
p.m. 
Big APE: 
Disposable 
Goods 
MCFA 109
5 p.m.
29
An original chamber opera, Lotus 
Lives incorporates elements of rap, 
Chinese folk music and techno mu-
sic. A repeat performance will be at 3 
p.m. on Sunday, Oct. 2. Free. 
Lotus Lives
MCFA 
Concert 
Hall
8 p.m.
THIS WEEK ON
WRMC91.1FM
MUSE
Sunday 2­4 p.m.
Listen to the second episode of the weekly 
alternative programming block on WRMC 
produced by Michael Polebaum ’12 and Eliza 
Wallace ’14. "is week features a roundtable 
on the Middle East and the Israel-Palestine 
con#ict featuring a diverse panel of faculty 
and students. "en, hear personal re#ections 
on the issues with three Middlebury com-
munity members.
Pita Chips and Rosé
Monday 2­3:30 p.m.
Pita Chips and Rosé is a satirical “ladies’ va-
riety hour” with Andrea Whittle ’13 and Zoe 
Isaacs ’13 that includes music from many 
eras as well as talk about current events. 
Every week, the pair will focus on a di&er-
ent category of fabulous ladies in music and 
discuss the following (and more!): “Who’s in 
the doghouse?,” Atwater Crush of the Week, 
Workout Plans, #whitegirlproblems, CRIME 
ALERT and their favorite new music. 
Stratocumulus 
Tuesday 6­8 p.m.
Stratocumulus will continue to broadcast the 
fuzzy sounds of shoegaze, dream-pop and 
related sub-genres from the 80s to today, 
including classics by artists such as Mazzy 
Star, Chapterhouse and "is Mortal Coil, 
and new tunes from bvdub, Crystal Stilts 
and Lust for Youth. "e show is run by Sam 
Tolzmann ’14. 
Look! Up in the sky! Is it a bird? 
Is it a plane? No! It’s The Aquabats! 
They’re back, with more synth than 
ever with their fifth studio album, 
Hi-Five Soup! The costumed crusaders 
have come a long way since their 1994 
debut as a wacky ska band to their slow 
metamorphosis as a pop-punk sensa-
tion. But unlike the villains they face 
on stage, Hi-Five Soup! is somewhat 
powerless.
The album opens with “The Shark 
Fighter!” (yes, they are a big fan of the 
exclamation mark), which is an exciting 
song about a man who fights sharks. 
Not exactly the “deepest” theme for a 
song, but it makes up for it in fun fac-
tor. One can’t help but feel solidarity 
with this nameless hero of the sea. But 
as soon as the track ends, it transitions 
into “B.F.F!” which is easily the worst 
song on the album. Its lazy vocals and 
lyrics are only slowed down further 
by even lazier guitar. The contrast of 
quality in the music is strange, and this 
seems to be a constant pattern within 
the entire album. After “B.F.F!,” “The 
Legend is True!” comes on and places 
the listener back in a dancing mood 
about various fictional characters with 
some Victorian-esque dialogue in the 
center of the song. Yet the pattern 
continues; the following track is unin-
teresting, and is followed by another 
feel-good track about riding bikes — 
something I’m sure a lot of Middlebury 
students could appreciate. 
The album ends on a trippy note 
with “Luck Dragon Lady,” which dis-
cusses the pressing social issue of an 
adventurer requiring a dragon for a 
quest. Confusing, to say the least.
Overall, the album’s strongest 
qualities are its lyrics, which often tell 
stories that one can’t help to be brought 
back to their childhood or adolescence, 
even though some of the tracks are 
nonsense with just a hint of whimsy. 
This is all accompanied by catchy key-
board strokes.
The MC Bat Commander (each 
member has a superhero name — I’m 
guessing it is to keep loved ones safe) 
has a voice that, at best, makes you 
want to rally with them against the lat-
est super villain, and at worst, makes 
you bored. 
However, the biggest pitfall The 
Aquabats! continue to face is the lack-
ing of a horn section to which long-
time fans have grown accustomed. 
Even without it, no matter what track 
you’re listening to, you can’t help that 
there is always something missing. But 
you know what isn’t missing? An audio 
cameo of Strongbad and Homestar 
Runner. That has to count for some-
thing, doesn’t it? 
But while were all waiting for The 
Aquabats!’s return to their ska roots, 
we can pass the time with some of their 
other projects such as Yo Gabba Gabba! 
or their new Power-Rangers-esque 
show. 
Evil-doers beware, because the 
‘Bats are back. 
Be sure to listen in to these stellar shows on 91.1 FM 
or online at http://wrmc.middlebury.edu
 29 September 2011 19campusarts&science
As a rather ignorant appreciator of art, 
I instinctively judge works of art based on 
their aesthetic beauty. I cannot even pretend 
to appreciate Impressionists, I hate modern 
art and one life goal of mine is to obtain — 
by whatever means necessary — a Winslow 
Homer painting. I consider John William 
Waterhouse’s idealized, pre-Raphaelite style 
perfect for his subject of the classical mythol-
ogy. I !nd Munch’s !e Scream and Picasso 
weird. I feel angry when staring at Pollock’s 
splatters and I !nd solace in Turner and 
Claude Lorraine. 
At the Middlebury College Museum of 
Art, Painted Metaphors: Pottery and Poli-
tics of the Ancient Maya displays the crude, 
shameless works of the ancient Mayans — 
the fragments of their faces, the pieces of 
their past and the shattered scenes of their 
society. 
But the span of 1300 years eventually put 
everything into perspective: the ancient Ma-
yans created these various artworks without 
!ne tools. "e painted vessels, the potter-
ies, the intricate incense burners, the jewel-
ries made of jadeites and the obsidian ritual 
tools, as well as other various objects, were 
not made with ease but with an apparent 
sense of necessity. 
Painted Metaphors, which will continue 
to be shown at the Middlebury College Mu-
seum of Art until Dec. 11, allows us glimpses 
of the ancient culture’s complex writing sys-
tem and calendar that extended until 2012. 
With a rather didactic and historical atmo-
sphere, the exhibition teaches us of this un-
familiar world in an unfamiliar past.
Despite the initial disappointment, I 
visited the exhibit twice and enjoyed both 
of the visits. I pondered over the similarities 
between the Mayans and the ancient Greeks, 
I saw that their polytheistic religion was an 
integral part in their lives and I wanted to 
know more about the ancient culture. I now 
understand that art is not only about the vi-
sual aesthetics but about what is captured 
by any work, ranging from the grandest of 
sculptures to even the most commonplace of 
potteries. 
It is in our nature to be concerned with 
just the present and the future, but by con-
templating the past, we can recognize the 
past’s profound e#ects on what is and what 
will be. Students should visit and experience 
the immortalized culture of the ancient Maya 
through the daily objects in the exhibition — 
a life of early death, a belief in benevolent 
yet ruthless gods, an ancient creation myth 
and a life of spiritual devotion. But these are 
merely glimpses, and for the facets of their 
culture that we can never know, we can only 
imagine.
Painted Metaphors celebrates 
Mayan culture at MCMoA
By Jamie Lee
Staff Writer
Guest lecturer explores 
Mars, searches for water 
John Grotzinger, professor of geol-
ogy at the California Institute of Tech-
nology and chief scientist for the Mars 
Science Laboratory, is going to be spend-
ing the next two years in a dark room 
with blacked-out windows while living 
on Mars time. The length of the Mar-
tian day, which is 24 hours and 35 min-
utes, means that he will soon be out of 
sync with the Earth day. It will take him 
a month to sync up again. He will have 
to miss, among other things, taking his 
daughter to her first day of college. But 
for Grotzinger it is worth every inconve-
nience, as he will be monitoring the next 
rover exploration of our closest neigh-
bor, the red planet Mars. 
Grotzinger spoke at the College on 
Sept. 20. During his lecture, he outlined 
the mission that has many speculat-
ing that NASA is trying to find life on 
Mars. Grotzinger, however, is very clear 
that this is not the goal of the Mars Sci-
ence Laboratory rover, set to launch 
over Thanksgiving weekend. The rover 
was seven years in the developing stage, 
and is equipped with an online chemi-
cal laboratory that will measure rocks, 
soils, and atmosphere for evidence of 
what conditions were like on Mars 3.5 
to four billion years ago. This includes 
how much water was on the planet, the 
temperature and what the environment 
looked like. NASA’s website describes the 
mission as a chance to “determine the 
planet’s habitability.”
Grotzinger does concede that the 
rover will be looking for organic carbon, 
the essential ingredient for life, and that 
if such carbon is found another mission 
will be sent to bring back the rocks con-
taining it. But, Grotzinger says, even if 
carbon is found it is not necessarily the 
bioorganic carbon that would indicate 
signs of life in microbes. He is trying not 
to set high expectations but to take small 
steps with the new mission. Grotzinger 
is looking forward to simply successfully 
landing and then conducting a scientific 
mission to discover what Mars was like 
when it stopped developing four billion 
years ago. 
“It’s like looking for a needle in the 
haystack the size of the earth,” Grotzing-
er said. For water, while it sustains life, 
also destroys it after an organism has 
died. The sediment degrades and oxidiz-
es organic matter, transforming organic 
carbon to carbon dioxide. Therefore, 
even if these sediments are found, scien-
tists will not necessarily be able to learn 
anything from them. 
The Mars rover mission will cost 
2.5 billion dollars, Grotzinger says, al-
though when this number is divided by 
the number of tax-paying Americans, it 
comes out to about the price of a latte. 
It will also cost Grotzinger much of his 
time and energy, as he will be on sabbati-
cal from teaching and spending most of 
his time in a darkened room. However, it 
is something that Grotzinger does will-
ingly. He moved to Pasadena from Bos-
ton, where he taught at MIT, so that he 
could work on this program and not have 
to leave his family for months at a time. 
The Mars Science Laboratory rover 
will land on Mars at 10 p.m. PST on Aug. 
5, 2012. It will be on Mars for two years, 
or one Martian year, although it could 
potentially be functional and operation-
al for over a decade. It will launch from 
Cape Canaveral in November. 
By Amelia Furlong 
Staff Writer
Pultizer Prize-winning author 
and Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology Rudge and Nancy Allen Pro-
fessor of Writing Junot Diaz read to 
an audience in Mead Chapel on Tues-
day, Sept. 27. The Dominican-born 
author has an impressive list of prizes 
to his name, including a Eugene Mc-
Dermott Award, a fellowship from the 
John Simon Guggenheim Memorial 
Foundation, a Lila Acheson Wallace 
Readers Digest Award, the 2002 PEN/
Malamud Award, the 2003 US-Japan 
Creative Artist Fellowship from the 
National Endowment for the Arts, a 
fellowship from Harvard University 
and the Rome Prize from the Ameri-
can Academy of Arts and Letters. The 
talk followed a discussion with the 
author earlier in the afternoon that 
was geared toward first-years who 
had read his novel as a part of their 
College orientation. 
Diaz read vivaciously from The 
Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, 
bringing to life his narrator Yunior 
and his protagonist Oscar as they 
struggled through college intimacies. 
Following the reading, Diaz answered 
a range of questions from the audi-
ence, showing his intellectual clout 
and charm. He touched upon his cur-
rent writing project — a story about a 
world in which Superman has landed 
in the Dominican Republic — as well 
as the narrative function of his no-
table footnotes, detailing their goal in 
Oscar Wao as “to ask the reader which 
narrative to empower.” 
The most memorable moments 
in the evening were his abstract an-
swers to questions, in which he dis-
cussed his role in society as an artist 
and his own aversion to keeping silent 
on important topics no matter what 
the ramifications for polite society. 
Throughout, Diaz’s personality and 
humor made the evening a success, as 
he honestly and poignantly respond-
ed to musings of the Middlebury con-
sciousness. 
 Junot Diaz read a passage from his Pulitzer Prize-awarded novel in Mead Chapel on 
Tuesday, Sept. 27, and then !elded questions from the audience.
Courtesy
By Emily Scarisbrick
Arts & Science Editor
artsbrief
PULITZER WINNER READS TO 
MIDDLEBURY FANS
20 29 September 2011 campussports 
Athletes Anonymous
1. If you could be any mythical creature, what would you be?
I don’t know much about mythical creatures but I guess anything out of Harry Potter works.
2. What is your favorite Middlebury dining hall offering?
Maple balsamic dressing is the best! My favorite dessert is de!nitely ice cream, chocolate sauce, 
oreos, natural peanut butter, granola, and apples all mixed up. People do strange stu" with 
peanut butter and granola here.
3. Favorite article of clothing?
I’m a big fan of winter jackets. I have also been told that I dress like a grandma because I like 
sweaters, but I suppose that is better than being called a grandpa like Amy Schlueter.
4. Best thing about being a Middlebury Panther...
Is the unlimited meal plan! Listening to strangers sing the Midd Kid song when they !nd out 
you go to Middlebury is up there too.
5. When you’re not playing soccer, you are...
Free time? I don’t really have much. I guess the soccer team is in the library a lot, but I make it a 
point to go out maybe three or four nights a week ;) I spend a lot of quality time eating in Ross.*
In this new Sports widget, each week a mystery character from 
a sports team will answer questions about him or herself . #e 
people on their team will read these responses, and in an at-
tempt to see if they really know their teammates, will try and 
guess who it is. In the following week we will post a photo of 
the mystery player along with the team’s guesses! #is week we 
are featuring the varsity women’s soccer team.
Good luck, girls!
WHO AM I? WHO I AM.
?
* number 5 is probably inaccurate. i actually get crunk probably 5 nights a week ;)
!is past weekend the men’s tennis team 
traveled to Williams for the ITA Regional Tour-
nament while the women’s team took the week-
end o". !ree middlebury men advanced to the 
round of 16. Teddy Fitzgibbons ’14, Bratner Jones 
’14 and Alec Parower ’13 all won two matches 
each before losing in the competitive round of 
sixteen. 
!e team had even more success in doubles 
play with two teams advancing to the semi#nals. 
Jones again came out on top with partner An-
drew Lebovitz ’14 advancing to the semi#nals. In 
the #rst round they beat out Levin and McCon-
nel of Trinity 8-3. !ey continued on to the next 
round where they beat the Laber, Barad team 
from Tu$s again winning 8-3, before continuing 
on to the quarter#nals which they won in a hard 
fought 8-6 victory. !e Panthers then matched 
up against Williams falling 8-2 to the team that 
would go on to win the tournament. 
!e other Middlebury doubles team of 
Parower and Derrick Angle ’12 also advanced to 
the semi#nals. On the road to the semi#nals they 
won 8-3, 8-6, and 8-3 before losing in the semi-
#nals 8-3 to the Williams team of Sun, Micheli. 
“I think we were happy how this weekend 
went in general but we’ve got a lot of work to do,” 
said Lebovitz.
!e men anticipate the upcoming Gail 
Smith Doubles Tournament, followed by the 
NEWITT tournament. !e women will play in 
this same ITA regional tournament this coming 
weekend at Bates. 
Tennis goes to Williams 
By Alex Edel
Sports Editor
Ground your higher learning 
in real-world education.
Get a New York Times Digital Subscription for as low as $1.88 a week.
Now you can become a Digital Subscriber to the world’s finest journalism 
on your computer, smartphone or tablet at our new college rate — and save 
50%. For as low as $1.88 a week, you can stay connected to the influential 
news source counted on by opinion leaders in every field, across the nation.
Subscribe at the new college rate available 
only at nytimes.com/CollegeDS
To qualify for this special college rate, you must be a current college or university student, faculty 
member, staff or administrator with a valid college or university e-mail address, which usually ends in 
.edu. Smartphone and tablet apps are not supported on all devices. Does not include e-reader editions, 
Premium Crosswords or The New York Times Crosswords apps. Other restrictions apply.
www.middleburyshop.com
Downtown Middlebury
802-388-3444
800-540-3447
Your Source of MIDDLEBURY Hoodies!
Also Tees, Shorts, Hats + + +
We’ve got you covered
in authorized
MIDDLEBURY apparel
29 September 2011 21campussports campussports 
52
Number of yards on a !eld goal kicked Sunday by former 
Panthers kicker Steven Hauschka ’07, who now plays for the 
Seattle Seahawks.
9 Number of games the Tampa Rays have gained on the Boston Red Sox in 22 days.
8
Number of balls punted by Panthers wide reciever Zach 
Driscoll ’13 in their season opener. Driscoll !lled in for 
regular punter Matt Wassel ’12.
.286 Shot percentage of women’s soccer stud Scarlett Kirk ’14 who’s already scored six goals in just !ve games on the season.
14 Number of saves made by tri-captain Becca Shaw ’12 in an e"ort to stave o" the Polar Bears on Saturday.
Date Sport Vs. Results Comments
9/24 Football Wesleyan 16-15 L
Zach Driscoll ’13 was named the Special 
Teams Player of the Week a#er downing four 
punts inside the Wesleyan 20 yard line.
9/22
9/24 Women’s soccer
Plattsburgh
Bowdoin
2-0 W
3-2 W
Scarlett Kirk ’14 was named NESCAC 
Player of the Week a#er scoring three goals 
over two games.
9/24
9/25 Men’s soccer
Bowdoin
Colby-Sawyer
2-2 T
5-0 W
In a rematch against the NESCAC 
champions and the NCAA semi!nalists, 
rivals were forced to settle for a tie.
9/24 Field Hockey Bowdoin 3-2 L
Field hockey played their long-time rivals 
at home and fell by just one point in 
overtime.
9/24 XC MenXC Women
Purple Valley 
Classic
$ird
First
$e women beat out 15 teams to take the 
victory at the Williams tournament.
Women’s, men’s cross-country stand out 
at Purple Valley Classic, !nish 1st, 3rd 
Last weekend, the men’s and women’s 
cross-country teams travelled to Williams 
College to compete in the Purple Valley 
Classic, a race that typically gives 
Middlebury an early sense of where they 
stand in the NESCAC. In a competitive 
!eld of sixteen schools, both the men and 
women proved that they are poised for 
success, as the men !nished in third place 
and the women took !rst. 
With the course’s infamously brutal 
hills caked with mud and over 90 percent 
humidity, the Panthers were undoubtedly 
thankful for their weeks of pushing 
through repeats on Chipman Hill.   
On the men’s side, co-captain Michael 
Schmidt ’12 led the team, as he placed 
second with a time of 26:27, a mere 5:19 
average per mile. Kevin Wood ’15, co-
captain Sam Miller ’12, Nate Sans ’14 and 
Patrick Hebble ’13, who !nished 12th, 
16th, 18th and 23rd respectively, rounded 
out the pack, garnering a total score of 
71 points for Middlebury. "e Panthers 
only failed to top !rst place Williams 
and runner-up Fordham University, 
who tallied 42 points and 58 points, 
respectively. Middlebury outran other 
NESCAC contenders Amherst and Colby 
handily. 
“We had a good day at Williams but 
we de!nitely have some things to improve 
on,” said Schmidt. “Our strategy for this 
meet was not much di#erent from our 
home meet: work in groups in the !rst 
few miles and then move forward and 
attack the last part of the race. We did that 
mostly well, but as it’s early in the season 
we have room to improve on our pacing. 
We’re not disappointed with 3rd because 
it’s probably the best we’ve ever done at 
this meet. "e team is in a solid place. 
"e key right now is just to get our pack 
tighter.”
"e women defended their spot as 
the top ranked Division III school in the 
country, as they put their !rst !ve runners 
in the top 20. On the six kilometer course, 
Addie Tousley ’13 and co-captain Margo 
Cramer ’12 led the Panthers, as they 
placed second and third, respectively, 
!nishing only four seconds apart, with 
times of 22:26 and 22:30. Emily Attwood 
’14, co-captain Chelsea Ward-Waller ’12, 
and Katie Carlson ’15, claimed the rest 
of the team’s scoring positions, placing 
seventth, 15th, and 18th, respectively. 
With just 45 points, the Panthers 
comfortably beat Williams College, as the 
Ephs !nished with 56 points. Plattsburgh 
State University placed a distant third 
with 116 points. 
“We showed that we are a strong team 
considering the hills and the mud that we 
had to deal with,” said Cramer. “We also 
ran strategically, as we had !ve [runners] 
in the top 20 but I don’t think any of our 
top !ve were in the top thirty of the race 
at the mile mark. Smart pack running 
helped create our success.” 
Middlebury’s next race is the 
Vermont State Championships, which 
will be hosted by St. Michael’s College on 
October 1st. 
Schmidt described the race as “a more 
low-key meet that will give us a chance 
to work more on smart race tactics and 
running together.” 
"e Panthers will certainly want to 
take advantage of one of their last tune-
ups as they hope to gain momentum with 
the NESCAC Championships now only a 
month away. 
"e men’s team will look to capture 
their second consecutive NESCAC 
Championship while the women hope to 
further their long-standing, 11 year reign 
as champions. "is years NESCACs are to 
be held at Amherst on Oct. 29. 
Questions Katie Siegner Damon Hatheway Dillon Hupp Alex Edel
How many goals will 
men’s, women’s soccer, 
and !eld hockey score vs. 
Wesleyan?
6
Enough for three wins!
6
But Scarlett Kirk ’14 will score 5 
of them.
7
It seems like a good lucky number 
for our teams this weekend.
8
Just because I am trying to be more 
positive than Dillon. 
Who (from the three 
above teams) will be the 
leading Panther scorer?
SCARLETT KIRK ’14. 
Trying to stop her from scoring is 
like trying to tell Midd Kids to stop 
wearing %andex.
SCARLETT KIRK ’14. 
See above prediction. She scores 
goals faster than Brangelina 
adopts kids.
LAUREN GREER ’13
Does she ever have a bad game?
SCARLET KIRK ’14
NESCAC Player of the Week and 
she scored 3 out of 5 goals in two 
games. 
How many games will 
volleyball win on the 
weekend?
6
$ese girls are ready for a big 
weekend!
6
Dillon’s going with the lucky 7s 
but can you really ever bet against 
Brangelina? $ey have six kids.
7
Liking the seven theme this week. 
One more for a jackpot.
8
Sticking with consistency. 
Everybody’s got the same number 
so I guess same for me.
Who will lead football 
in recieving yards in the 
home opener vs. Colby?
WHAT DAMON SAYS
 He knows the football team like the 
back of his hand.
ZACH DRISCOLL ’13
 I bet the kid catches footballs 
in his sleep. He’s going to have a 
monster game against the Mules.
ZACH DRISCOLL ’13
Maybe this week he’ll have more 
yards catching than punting.
ZACH DRISCOLL ’13
Copying is the greatest form of 
%attery
Which NFL team will win 
by the largest margin on 
Sunday?
BUFFALO
I’m on the Bills Bandwagon. And 
their quarterback went to Harvard!
ATLANTA
$ey play the Seahawks this 
weekend right? Yup, the dirty 
birds will prey on the seagulls.
PHILADELPHIA
Playing at home against Alex 
Smith? Yes please.
SAN DIEGO
Becuase that is the closest team to 
my hometown out of those named 
by Damon.
Career Record 52­67 (.437) 5­4 (.556) 66­55 (.545) 29­29 (.500)
Editors’
Picks
By Brandt Silver-Korn
Staff Writer
down run. !e junior running backcarried the 
ball 33 times in the game for 101 yards to spear-
head the Panthers rushing attack.
!e Cardinals responded on their "rst pos-
session of the fourth quarter, cutting the lead to 
"ve when Cardinals kicker Sebastian Aguirre 
nailed a 34-yard "eld goal. 
A#er Foote’s second interception ended a 
promising Panthers drive and Wesleyan failed 
to score points on their ensuing possession, the 
Cardinals special teams downed a punt on the 
Panthers two-yard line. Two crippling false start 
penalties forced the Panthers to punt the ball 
from the shadow of their own end zone minutes 
later, giving the Cardinals excellent "eld posi-
tion. 
!e short "eld led to the Cardinals game-
winning drive, which Coyne "nished with a 
draw play over the right side and into the end 
zone from nine yards out. Leading 16-15, the 
Cardinals went for two, but could not convert as 
Coyne fumbled the attempt.
!e Panthers had a shot at a last minute 
score, but a#er four straight incompletions they 
turned the ball over on downs and with it, the 
game.
“Our o$ense moved the ball well, but 15 
points isn’t enough to win games,” said Foote. 
“We are going to work this week on "nishing 
drives and getting the ball in the end zone.”
!e Panther face Colby this Saturday, Oct. 
1 in their home opener. 
!e MCRC earned its "rst Division I 
win this past weekend, thrashing South-
ern Connecticut 30-7 at home. Middlebury 
worked over the opposing squad to the tune 
of a "rst half shutout and 25 unanswered 
points to open the game. 
Tackling and rucking problems 
plagued Middlebury during last week’s 
match against UMass and wet conditions 
seemed to favor the larger visitors again 
this week, threatening to turn the game into 
a grind-it-out-in-the-trenches a$air.
All the kinks seem to have been ironed 
out for the MCRC, however, as the home 
team showed o$ some serious defensive 
improvement. !e Middlebury front line, 
which included three sophomore front-row 
players, negated Southern Connecticut’s 
size advantage with great execution and 
superior tackling. Meanwhile, the back line 
was its usual dominant and cohesive unit. 
!e soggy "eld, which might have troubled 
the Middlebury players, appeared to be a 
non-issue, as they looked faster and shi#ier 
than their opponents. Some especially nice 
runs came from inside center Jack Maher 
’12, who showcased an impressive spin 
move that le# the Southern defenders in the 
mud, and backs captain Brian Sirkia ’12.5, 
who scored both a penalty kick and a try in 
the opening moments to give the MCRC an 
8-0 lead. !en, a#er a brief period of sloppy 
play by the home side, wing Zach Withers 
’11.5 took the ball down the sideline to add 
Middlebury’s second try of the a#ernoon. 
Sirkia slotted home the conversion to make 
it 15-0, and the rout was on. 
 !e second half started just as the "rst 
half had, with Southern giving up a pen-
alty early into the action and Sirkia "nding 
the posts with his penalty attempt to make 
it 18-0 Middlebury. !e MCRC back line 
continued to put together some impressive 
phases, despite the less-than-favorable con-
ditions, and eventually found wing Ken-
nedy Mugo ’12 for the third Middlebury 
try of the game. At that point the immense 
o$ensive advantage that the MCRC had 
enjoyed previously began to slacken, and 
the Southern backline started to have more 
success moving the ball into their attack-
ing end of the pitch. However, their late-
breaking attack would do little more than 
to help them avoid the shutout, as the out-
come of the game was no longer in doubt 
by the time the Southern ruggers "nally got 
on the board. A#er this consolation try was 
scored by Southern Connecticut, MCRC 
%anker Ross Berriman ’12 put the exclama-
tion point on the match with the "nal try 
of the day, rounding out the score at 30-7.
“It was great to get our "rst Division I 
win,” said fullback Geo$ Kalan ’12.5. “We 
have a historic rugby tradition and it took 
extreme mental toughness to bounce back 
in the second week and get the job done.”
Kalan was also con"dent in his predic-
tion for Middlebury’s on-"eld success in 
the coming season.
“!is was the "rst of what will be many 
wins for the blue this year,” he said.
!e win was the "rst in the history 
of the MCRC as a Division I program. 
Middlebury travels to Northeastern this 
weekend to take on the perennial Eastern 
Conference powerhouse on their home 
"eld.
campussports22 29 September 2011
!e women’s volleyball team took to the 
road twice last week to play in three match-
es, going 2-1 in the away stretch. None of 
the games that they played were NESCAC 
challenges, but the weekend tournament 
did take place in rival Amherst’s gym. !e 
Panthers traveled to Amherst, Mass. for 
the Amherst Classic, where they lost to the 
Coast Guard in a tough 3-2 match and then 
went on to beat Brandeis 3-0. 
Last Tuesday night, the Panthers trav-
eled to Union, where they won in three 
games, 25-16, 25-18 and 25-20. Megan 
Jarcow ’14 and Sarah Studwell ’13 lead the 
team with seven and 11 kills, respectively. 
Other top statistics for the game came from 
Caitlin Barrett ’13, who had 16 digs, and Ju-
lia Gibbs ’13, who had 25 assists. 
A few days later, the team traveled to 
Amherst, where they opened up the week-
end against a competitive Coast Guard 
team. !ey played "ve games, 16-25, 25-23, 
24-26, 25-20 and 15-10, losing 3-2. Barrett 
again stood out in this heartbreaker with 40 
digs in the match. 
Jarcow and Studwell again powerd the 
Panther attack, with 18 kills each: Jarcow 
converted .326 while Studwell converted 
.317. Amy Hart ’14 also stepped up in the 
match with 10 kills. Although the match 
ended in a loss, the girls were happy with 
their play.
“We played a lot better against them 
than we did last year,” said Jarcow. “Al-
though its hard to come away from that "ve 
set game with a loss, it was a well played 
game on both sides. I had a lot of fun.”
Co-captain Elissa Goeke ’12 added 
some perspective on the tough loss. “We 
learned against Coast Guard that although 
we did some good things to "ght for the 
game, we need to improve our ability to 
come out with a win in these back-and-
forth games,” she said. 
Bouncing back well from the defeat, 
the team rallied to a 3-0 victory against 
Brandeis on Saturday. Studwell and Jarcow 
led the team in kills with nine and eight re-
spectively. Barrett also led in digs with 20 
during the match. 
“We had amazing play from all of our 
new players and we were %uid and deter-
mined against Brandeis,” said Goeke of the 
win.
Tomorrow, the team will play Amherst 
at home in their third NESCAC game of the 
season, a game that will go a long way in 
establishing the Panthers’ prospects in the 
division.
“We are still ironing things out,” said 
co-captain Jane Handel ’12, “but our team 
looks promising and we are really look-
ing forward to the weekend’s conference 
matchup with Amherst.”
Volleyball takes on Keene State on this 
Saturday, Oct. 1, and NESCAC foe Con-
necticut College Oct. 7.
By Alex Edel
Sports Editor
Volleyball goes 1-1 for the weekend 
Men’s rugby dominates 
Southern Connecticut
Women’s, men’s golf place high 
!e men’s varsity golf team traveled to 
Williamstown, Mass. last weekend to play in 
the Williams Invite, an 18-team tournament at 
Taconic Golf Club. !e Panthers "nished fourth, 
11 strokes behind rival Williams and 24 strokes 
behind winner Salem State. Manhattanville and 
Trinity rounded out the top "ve.
Middlebury was led by Chris Atwood ’14 
with a four-over-par 146. It was good for a share 
of third place overall in the tournament, only be-
hind a pair of Vikings from an extremely strong 
Salem State program. Robert Donahoe ’14 and 
Charlie Garcia ’15 had solid rounds and tied for 
13th overall with scores of 153. William Prince 
’13 and Max Alley ’14 each shot a pair of 82s 
on the weekend to round out the Middlebury 
squad.
“We didn’t perform that well this weekend, 
as we all felt that we le# a few strokes out there,” 
said Atwood, though he was positive looking 
forward. “Our team has bonded really well this 
season. Everyone is preparing to elevate their 
game for the NESCAC Quali"er. It’s the biggest 
weekend of the fall.”
!e women’s varsity golf team made the trip 
down to the Orchards Golf Club in South Had-
ley, Mass. to participate in the Mount Holyoke 
Invitational. Middlebury came away with sec-
ond place, trailing Williams by 10 strokes and 10 
strokes ahead of third-place Amherst.  
Flora Weeks ’12 continued her dominant 
stretch of golf, earning match medalist honors 
for the second consecutive week with a score of 
148. Trailing by a stroke to Georgiana Salant of 
Williams a#er the "rst day, Weeks shot a three-
over-par 75 to win by a single stroke over Alex-
andra Battle of St. John Fisher College.
Jordan Glatt ’15 and Keely Levins ’13 
turned in great rounds for Middlebury, tying for 
20th place overall with scores of 165. Caroline 
Kenter ’14 (168), Michelle Peng ’15 (170) and 
Alison Andrews ’12 (198) rounded out the Pan-
thers squad.  
“We had another good weekend,” said 
coach Bill Mandigo. “Flora and Alison had their 
personal bests as Middlebury players. !e team 
is playing very well.”
!e men will head down to Wesleyan Uni-
versity for a NESCAC Quali"er on Saturday 
while the women will stay at home to host teams 
at the Ralph Myre Golf Course. With all their 
second-place "nishes in recent weeks, home-
course advantage could just give the Panthers 
the li# they need to pull out a tournament win.
By Dillon Hupp
Sports Editor
By Kevin Yochim
Staff Writer
Foote ’14 throws for 228 
yards and TD in debut
!e Panthers dominated Brandeis 3-0 on 
Saturday.
Courtesy
Continued from page 24
Sopheak Chheng
!e MCRC scored 25 unanswered points.
Panthers keep 
cool to stave 
o! comeback
with a penalty kick. But you are seeing more of 
our strengths emerge, and there are of course 
some weaknesses to work on, but we are improv-
ing as a team week by week. !ere are great mo-
ments in our games where we possess, build and 
make combinations. And we do especially well 
when we build out of the back from our defend-
ers who have really worked on their precise, pen-
etrating passes.”
!e Bowdoin comeback, while commend-
able, was ultimately for naught, as Middlebury 
managed to swing the momentum back to their 
side during the "rst overtime. !e Panthers 
scored on Madding’s third corner kick "nish of 
the season, all o$ of balls delivered from "rst-
year standout Claire Nishioka ’15, shortly into 
the overtime. Jocelyn Remmert ’13 made four 
saves in the Panther victory, which was crucial in 
the team’s pursuit of an eventual NESCAC title.
Madding, rather than revel in the glory of 
her game-winner, preferred to heap praise on 
the rest of her teammates. “Scarlet Kirk smoked 
their back line with her speed, while Julie Favori-
to played gorgeous through balls to her, one of 
which resulted in the "rst goal. Lucy Wagner, an 
outside back,  casually made several destroying 
runs up the %ank,” said the junior.
Middlebury takes on Wesleyan and Con-
necticut College this weekend at home, hoping 
to maintain a home-turf advantage that has thus 
far this season seen them undefeated. 
Continued from page 24
VOLLEYBALL
Friday, September 23
Middlebury
Coast Guard
2
3
Wednesday, September 24
Middlebury
Brandeis
3
0
Last Saturday, the !eld hockey squad 
headed for Maine to face the fourth-ranked 
Bowdoin Polar Bears in a very close match 
which featured Middlebury’s defensive 
prowess. Tri-captain and goalkeeper Becca 
Shaw ’12 !nished with 12 saves while Lau-
ren Greer ’13 tallied two goals for the Pan-
thers.
No team found any scoring opportuni-
ties in the early going of the match. Sti"ing 
defenses from both teams kept the ball from 
the forwards, which turned the competition 
into a battle for possession. Both Bowdoin 
and Middlebury were unable to convert 
their shots until Greer hammered a penalty 
shot on the 22nd minute to put Middlebury 
up 1-0. But the comfort of that goal would 
only last for so long, as Bowdoin kept on 
!nding ways to push the ball up the !eld. 
34 seconds into the second half, Bowdoin 
forward Katie Herter pierced through the 
Middlebury defense and smacked the ball 
right at Shaw, but another other Bowdoin 
forward, Liz Clegg, was able to control the 
ricochet and ease the ball in for the equal-
izer.
“We played well at Bowdoin,” said Shaw. 
“We executed on our o$ensive corners and 
shut them down on our defensive corners.” 
%at execution would keep the Panthers in 
the game for the majority of the contest.
 %e Panthers responded with a Greer 
goal through a penalty shot that hit the 
back of the goal in the 53rd minute of the 
match. But the Polar Bears would pounce 
right back as Cathleen Smith sniped a ball 
from close range to get back on the board 
with 4:26 le& on the clock. Bowdoin and 
Middlebury could not produce any o$en-
sive moves as both back!elds reverted to 
their !rst half defensive domination. A&er 
regulation, Bowdoin was able to take ad-
vantage of their penalty corners, eventually 
!nding the winning goal through the stick 
of Ella Curren who !red a shot through 
Shaw nine minutes into overtime. Bowdoin 
would take the game 3-2.
“%e ball spent a lot of time in our 
defensive zone,” said Shaw. “%at hurt us 
at Bowdoin, and we can’t score when we 
spend half the game defending corners.”
Despite the defensive stagnation by 
Middlebury, Bowdoin also held an advan-
tage in the stat book; 18-4 in penalty cor-
ners and 27-10 in shooting. 
On Tuesday, the Panther’s played their 
!rst game under the new lights on Kohn 
Field. In a matchup between two of the top 
twelve teams in the country the Panthers 
pulled of a mild upset, beating the previ-
ously undefeated third ranked %ourough-
breads of Skidmore. %e team took the early 
lead 23:44 a&er the opening faceo$, when 
Hannah Clarke ’xx scored her !rst goal of 
the season. 
Charlotte Gardiner ’13 doubled the 
Panther’s lead in the 40th minute of the 
game for her third goal of the season. Skid-
more responded in the 56th minute when 
Caylyn Sullivan scored. %e team did not let 
that stop their momentum as they clinched 
the win with just under three minutes le& in 
the game as Greer added a goal to go along 
with her two assists. 
“%e game was a great way to start o$ 
the week and to christen our new !eld un-
der the lights,” said Lucy Jackson ’12. “We 
played aggressively and it payed o$. All we 
need is another Panther named Tim Rig-
gins and I’d say we were in Dillon, Texas 
tongiht not Middlebury, VT.”
Middlebury will face NESCAC rival 
Wesleyan this Saturday Oct. 1, and Con-
necticut College on Oct. 2, at home on 
Kohn Field. A&er this weekend, the team 
will only have four more NESCAC games 
before competing in NESCAC champion-
ships. 
Photos Courtesy Tyler Wark and Sebastian Damberg-Ott
Middlebury athletes from several 
sports teams have been focusing some of 
their weekend time lately on o$-the !eld 
activities, namely, helping Vermonters 
who were a$ected by the "ooding caused 
by Tropical Storm Irene in early Sep-
tember. %is last weekend, women’s soc-
cer and baseball trekked down to Bethel 
to assist in cleanup activities, while the 
previous weekend men’s rugby could be 
found in Stockbridge digging out "ooded 
garages and gutting damaged houses.
“It was great to get out and do some 
good work in the community,” said rugby 
player Sebastian Damberg-Ott ’12.5. “%e 
damage in the a$ected areas was astound-
ing; it’s crazy to think about what hap-
pened just an hour down the road. It re-
ally makes you want to help however you 
can.”
Groups of students and athletes 
continue to organize Irene relief e$orts 
through the College’s Education in Ac-
tion Center.
PANTHER ATHLETES GET DOWN AND DIRTY FOR IRENE VICTIMS
!e baseball team did work down in Bethel, Vt.
campussports 29 September 2011 23
Holding for 
Hauschka
Minnesota, Baltimore, Detroit, Denver, 
now Seattle. %ere was even a stop in Las 
Vegas to play for the Locomotives of the little-
followed UFL for kicker Steve Hauschka ’07 
a&er setting the Panthers record for career 
!eld goals during his illustrious career at 
Middlebury. From cow-tipping country to the 
bright lights and local WCAX-TV to ESPN 
and national television, Hauscka’s journey 
hasn’t always been smooth, but he’s sacri!ced 
what some might call a “normal” life to make 
a living kicking in the NFL.
“It’s tough,” Hauschka said in a phone 
interview Tuesday referring to his transient 
lifestyle. “%at’s the job of a place kicker. If 
you look at the number of team’s I’ve been on 
it’s not that rare for a kicker. It’s a lot to deal 
with in your personal life moving a lot and 
not knowing where your stu$ is. You can’t take 
any of it too personally. It’s not easy to get to 
the NFL and it’s not easy to stay here so you 
have to be at the top of your game all the time.”
A&er becoming the most accomplished 
kicker in Middlebury history, Hauschka used 
a year of his remaining eligibility to play for 
North Carolina State University. At that point 
he didn’t envision playing on Sundays so 
much as he wanted to prove that he could play 
Division I football. 
“My goal a&er Middlebury was to kick 
at the Division I level,” he said. “And then I 
surprised myself at that level with the good 
!elds and the snappers and the holders and I 
had a good season there. And then the teams 
started talking to me and I kind of fell into the 
NFL.”
%e former Panther has certainly found 
his feet. He won the job in Seattle out of 
training camp, beating out incumbent and 
former Super Bowl winner Je$ Reed for the 
spot. And then Sunday he helped his team to 
their !rst win of the season, hitting two !eld 
goals from 30 and 52 yards respectively. He 
also converted one extra point for a perfect 
day kicking. But If Hauschka’s kicking didn’t 
impress his new team, then his touchdown-
saving tackle late in the second quarter must 
have. A&er kicking o$ to Arizona Cardinals 
dangerous return man A.J. Je$erson, 
Hauschka faced the daunting task of being the 
last player between Je$erson and the end zone. 
While his former coach Bob Ritter probably 
won’t use the highlight as instructional video 
for his own team, Hauschka hung on to make 
the play. 
Hauschka, who says he would have gone 
to dental school if the NFL had never shown 
interest, has learned valuable lessons from 
some tremendous teammates. “I’ve been 
around some of the best at every position,” 
he said. “Ray Lewis is the most intense player 
I’ve ever been around and is the most focused 
person I’ve ever seen on game day. And then 
there are those guys who are the most tough 
mentally like Ryan Longwell. And you pick 
up something from all these players and you 
realize how good they are.”
Indeed the kicker position remains one 
of the most mentally-taxing in the league. 
Kickers will o&en face long stretches of time 
when they can do little but wait and prepare 
to kick. Hauschka demonstrated the ability to 
do this before ever thinking about playing in 
the NFL when he kicked the game-winning 
!eld goal for NC State in a hostile road game 
against perennial powerhouse Miami. 
%e mental aspect of the game remains 
key to Hauschka’s success. “%at’s probably the 
hardest part about kicking,” he said. “At every 
other position if you make a mistake you can 
make it up on the next play. But if you’re a 
kicker you might only have one kick or one 
chance at the end of the game and you have to 
capitalize on it. Whether it’s an extra point or a 
50-yard !eld goal you want to approach every 
kick equally because they’re all important. 
You have to stay steady.”
Hauschka has been perfect so far this 
season, connecting on three !eld goals in the 
Seahawks !rst three games. And as his game-
saving tackle on Sunday showed, Hauschka 
is ready to hold on, even to just the smallest 
patch of jersey, for the long run.
Field Hockey loses 3-2 to NCAA Champs
Rank Team10/14 Damon’s Decisions
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
4
8
3
5
––
2
6
1
Men’s Soccer
Cross Country
Men’s Rugby
Volleyball
Women’s Soccer
Field Hockey
Football
Can’t lose your number 2 spot with another 
sparkling second place !nish.
"ey showed their resolve in a gritty draw with 
Bowdoin and potential with a 5-0 win over Colby 
Sawyer.
"e men’s team !nished in third but the women came 
to the rescue with another !rst-place !nish.
MCRC  got their !rst win of the season by powering 
through Southern Connecticut, but it wasn’t enough to 
upstage women’s soccer.
"e Panthers are coming o# a dominant shutout win 
against Brandeis which is good enough for the !nal 
nod.
Scarlett Kirk ‘14 continues to dominate NESCAC 
opponents as they bounced back with two strong 
wins this weekend.
"ey lost a heartbreaker in overtime against Bow-
doin but will bounce back this week.
Women’s Golf
Tough loss to Wesleyan, but the pieces are in place for 
a promising season.
Women’s soccer was the 
only team to emerge 
from Brunswick with a 
win on Saturday. Here we 
go Midd!
Andrew Podrygula,Photos Editor
The Middlebury Great Eight
Meanwhile, men’s rugby volunteered in the town of Stockbridge, Vt.
By Vincent Mariano
Staff Writer
By Damon Hatheway
Sports Editor
A!er a seemingly jinxed "rst 
few weeks, the men’s soccer team 
went into this weekend looking for a 
little bit of luck. All season the Pan-
thers have outshot their opponents, 
but most attempts have ended in 
near misses. #ese misfortunes have 
resulted in multiple losses and ties 
for the Panthers.
#e road to redemption began 
away at Bowdoin on Saturday, in a 
hotly anticipated rivalry match. #e 
game was the "rst time the Panthers 
met the Polar Bears a!er the teams 
split last year’s NESCAC Champion-
ship and NCAA regional "nal. 
#e game got o$ to a quick start, 
with both teams scoring in the "rst 
few minutes of the game. Macgill El-
dridge scored "rst for Bowdoin just 
two minutes in, but Middlebury was 
quick to answer. Robbie Redmond 
’12 set up a perfect pass to Josh Ly-
vers ’13, who drilled the ball into the 
far side of the net. 
“I got a great feed in from Rob-
bie, turned and hit it low and hard,” 
said Lyvers of his "rst goal of the 
season.
#e score remained at 1-1 for 
the remainder of the "rst half, and 
the Panthers knew they needed to 
perform as they entered the second. 
Senior captain Tyler Macnee ’12 
stepped up quickly and scored at the 
50-minute mark to take the lead, 2-1. 
It was now up to the Middlebury de-
fense to hold on to the lead. Senior 
captain and goalkeeper Tim Cahill 
’12 made three saves, but Bowdoin’s 
Sam White snuck in a diving header 
from Eldridge to tie it up with one 
minute to go. 
In overtime, Middlebury again 
outshot their opponents 3-1, but 
neither team could break the draw. 
#e Panthers le! Brunswick with 
a disappointing tie, but they had 
a chance to take out their frustra-
tion the next day, as they delivered 
a pounding to a weak Colby-Sawyer 
squad. 
“Saturday was a tie that felt like 
a loss,” said Cahill, “so for us to come 
back from Maine and then get up for 
a game the next day was important.”
#e Middlebury men de"nitely 
showed up to play at home against 
Colby-Sawyer on Sunday. #e Pan-
thers held nothing back, leading 
the Chargers 29-1 in shots over the 
course of the game. #e "rst goal 
netted came nine minutes in when 
captain Otis Pitney ’12 drilled the 
ball into the le! corner o$ a perfect 
pass from Lyvers. 
#e shots continued from the 
Panthers, and 28 minutes later a de-
%ected shot batted away by Colby-
Sawyer goalkeeper Will Berry was 
successfully returned to the goal by 
Brett Brazier ’13. Captains Pitney 
and Macnee earned the next two 
goals for Middlebury at the 59th 
and 61st minutes, respectively. #e 
"nal goal of the game came from 
Ethan Galiette ’13, who redirected 
a rebounded shot from Alvand Ha-
jizadeh ’13. 
#e Panthers ultimately earned 
their second shutout of year with 
the impressive team performance 
Sunday a!ernoon, "nishing the day 
with a score of 5-0 and ended the 
weekend with a 2-2-2 overall record. 
#e Middlebury men will play host 
to fellow NESCAC teams Wesleyan 
and Connecticut College this week-
end. Two wins within the confer-
ence will certainly help kick-start 
the men’s season and set them up for 
success come time for the NESCAC 
Championship; this team can never 
be written o$ from playo$ conten-
tion.
games to watch
Football vs. Colby 
Saturday, Oct. 1, 1pm. 
Men’s rugby
Panthers dominate Southern 
Connecticut in 2nd game since 
their move to Div. 1, page 22.
Volleyball
Middlebury goes 1­1 for the 
week, beating out Brandeis in a 
shutout Saturday, page 22.
sports 2429 September 2011
The Middlebury Campus
this week in sports
Football is drawn into one-point loss in opening game
Leading 15-7 going into the 
fourth quarter, the Panthers gave up 
nine consecutive points, including 
a touchdown scramble to Wesleyan 
quarterback Matt Coyne with 1:57 
le! in the game, to drop their sea-
son opener 16-15 at Wesleyan on 
Saturday. #e Panthers were ripped 
by Wesleyan’s dominant run game, 
which gashed the young Panthers 
defense for 234 yards and two touch-
downs on the ground. Coyne led the 
way for the Cardinals with 93 yards 
rushing on just 12 carries, while 
Vince Miller and LaDarius Drew 
both totaled more than 60 yards on 
the ground. 
Despite struggling to stop the 
run, the Panthers largely kept the 
Cardinals out of the end zone. 
“I thought our defense played 
really well and came up with a lot of 
big stops,” said head coach Bob Ritter. 
“Other than the "rst and last drive, I 
thought we did a really good job. It 
was a really hot and muggy day  and 
our defense rose to the occasion.”
On the other side of the ball, 
turnovers hurt the Panthers as quar-
terback Mac Foote ’14 threw two 
interceptions that ended productive 
drives.
 “Turnovers always hurt and 
both were fairly deep in their territo-
ry,” said Ritter. “On the "rst intercep-
tion their corner made a good play 
on the ball and the other de%ected o$ 
the receiver’s hands so they were both 
tough.” 
In his "rst start in a Panthers 
uniform, Foote was 26-50 for 228 
yards and a touchdown and two in-
terceptions. Ritter was impressed 
with the play of his signal-caller in his 
"rst-ever NESCAC game. 
“He had great command of the 
o$ense,” Ritter said. “He knew where 
everybody was and he was hitting 
second and third reads. I thought he 
played really well.”
Foote, meanwhile, was more 
critical of his own performance. “I 
did some good things, but there were 
some throws near the end of the game 
that I should have made and probably 
would have helped us win,” he said. 
“So that is disappointing.”
#e player of the game for the 
Panthers was junior wide receiver 
Zach Driscoll ’13. Driscoll, who in 
addition to catching "ve passes for 59 
yards and the team’s lone touchdown 
through the air, also handled punting 
duties for the Panthers. #e junior 
from Concord, Mass. did an excep-
tional job, punting eight times and 
downing the Cardinals inside their 20 
yard line four times, including twice 
inside the "ve-yard line, en route to 
being named the NESCAC Special 
Teams Player of the Week. 
Driscoll’s best play of the game 
came on a punt late in the second 
quarter. Facing a fourth and seven 
from mid"eld, Driscoll booted the 
ball 49 yards and the Panthers spe-
cial teams downed the ball inside the 
one-yard line. Two plays later Mat-
thew Crimmins ’14 and Alex Englert 
’12 brought down Wesleyan wide-out 
Jay Fabien in the end zone for a safety, 
cutting the Cardinals lead to 7-2 with 
2:42 remaining in the "rst half.
#e safety proved to be pivotal, 
swinging momentum to the Panthers 
who took the lead on their next pos-
session when Foote found Driscoll 
for a "ve-yard touchdown pass with 
just 28 seconds remaining in the half. 
#e Panthers momentum car-
ried them into the second half when 
they extended their lead on their sec-
ond possession of the third quarter. 
Remi Ashkar ’13 capped o$ a 10-play 
52-yard drive with a two-yard touch-
Remi Ashkar ’13 runs o! right tackle for one of his 33 carries on Saturday.
Courtesy of Je$ Patterson
Women’s soccer wins 
3-2 at Bowdoin in OT
Men’s soccer can’t !nd the win, 
ties Bowdoin a"er extra period
By Mike Oster
Staff Writer
Josh Lyvers ’13 "res one of the Panthers’ 29 shots in Sunday’s home game.
Andrew Podrygula, Photo Editor
By Damon Hatheway
Sports Editor
Although a close game, the Panthers pulled an OT win at Bowdoin.
File Photo
#e Middlebury women’s soc-
cer team withstood a furious Bow-
doin comeback last Saturday, hold-
ing on for the OT win a!er a Rachel 
Madding ’14 game-winner six and 
a half minutes into the extra period 
in Maine. #e win was the Panthers’ 
third on the season, and improved 
their overall record to 3-1-1.
A!er a frustrating loss to 
Amherst the previous weekend, 
Middlebury started o$ slow against 
the Polar Bears, struggling on slip-
pery "eld conditions and commit-
ting several turnovers, which led 
to some dangerous chances for the 
hosts. However, the Panther defense 
held, and as the half moved along, 
Middlebury seemed more and more 
con"dent on the o$ensive end, hold-
ing possession and taking the at-
tack to the Bowdoin side of the "eld. 
Middlebury was awarded a penalty 
kick early in the half, but failed to con-
vert the high-percentage chance. #e 
Panthers "nally came through right 
before the half, with Scarlett Kirk ’14 
taking a beautiful pass from assists 
machine Julie Favorito ’14 and "nd-
ing the back of the net 39 minutes in.  
Middlebury didn’t lose a step 
during hal!ime and came out "ring 
on all cylinders to start the second 
half. Just seven minutes into the sec-
ond frame, Amy Schlueter ’13 beat 
the keeper and slotted one home in 
the face of a porous Bowdoin defense. 
It was at this point, however, that the 
momentum of the game began to 
shi!. 
Despite having a two-goal lead, 
Middlebury was unable to "nish the 
game, and the Polar Bears seemingly 
steeled themselves against the over-
whelming task at hand. Creeping 
back into the game with an increased 
attack, Bowdoin "nally got on the 
board during the 76th minute on a 
header a!er a well-placed crossing 
assist. #en, just 10 minutes later, the 
Polar Bears were able to complete the 
improbable and dramatic comeback 
when the Panthers committed a foul 
inside the box, leading to a Bowdoin 
penalty kick. With ice-water running 
through her veins, Bowdoin player 
Ellery Gould converted the goal, and 
the Panther lead had been erased, the 
teams found themselves heading to a 
sudden-death period.
“We owned the "rst half, and 
should have scored more to put away 
the game,” said Jocelyn Remmert ’13. 
“#ey capitalized on a defensive error, 
scored a nice goal, and then got lucky 
By Dillon Hupp
Sports Editor
See Panthers, page 22
See Foote, page 22
