A reduction in parking ticket fees 
this year from $50 to $10 marked a 
concession of Public Safety to the 
demands of the Student Govern-
ment Association (SGA).
In February 2013, Public Safety 
raised the price of a parking ticket 
from $10, the cost that has been im-
posed for the past 10 years, to $50, 
in an effort to deter students from 
violating parking regulations and to 
minimize the discrepancy between 
the cost of a parking ticket and the 
cost of towing, which costs $175. In 
considering the SGA’s request to 
reverse the raised price of parking 
tickets, Public Safety found that the 
increased fee did not result in a sig-
parking violations.
As a result, Public Safety de-
cided to compromise with the SGA, 
parking violations, but instating a 
reserved for Faculty and Staff. 
“We realized that we wanted to 
meet [the SGA] halfway because 
we’re not about making money,” 
Associate Dean of the College and 
Director of Public Safety Lisa Bur-
chard said. “We really just want 
people to park where they need to 
park and understand the rules.”
Ticketing students for parking 
violations is necessary because, at 
times, improperly parked cars can 
disrupt the regular functions of the 
College by inhibiting snow plowing 
parking. The College promises that 
faculty members are given parking 
walk to the academic building in 
which they teach. 
“In order for us to complete 
the more important aspects of our 
work, we need parking to work,” 
Burchard said. 
Parking during the 2013-2014 
academic year has been further 
complicated by the construction of 
october 3, 2013 | Vol. 112 no. 4 | middleburycampus.com
VT IMPLEMENTS 
NEW HEALTH CARE 
LAWS
PAGE 6
MEET CAMPUS 
CHARACTER AMARI 
SIMPSON
PAGE 13
CONTROVERSIAL 
SCULPTURE 
RETURNS TO 
CAMPUS
PAGE 14in
sid
e
Students Seek to Reduce Waste
By Emily Singer
Milk Chocolate, an R&B duo comprised of Mohan Fitzgerald ’14 (left) and Innocent Tswamuno ’14 
(center), performs in front of Homestead House on Saturday, Sept. 28  during the 2013 Weybridge 
Fall Feast. The feast, which featured an entirely local menu, attracted nearly 200 students. 
Kelsey Collins
College Revises 
Alcohol Policy
By Kyle Finck
By Emilie Munson
SEE WASTE, PAGE 4
SEE PARKING PAGE 4
A FEAST FOR THE PALATE AND THE EARS
SEE COLLADO, PAGE 4
Every other Tuesday evening 
during the the fall semester, stu-
-
ing their dinner plates to peers and 
watching as any unconsumed food 
is scraped from the plate and into a 
plastic bucket. Generally relegated 
to the room hidden behind the dish 
deposit conveyor belts, the new, 
more visible waste separation effort 
is part of a data collection and waste 
reduction project by student-led or-
ganization, “Weigh the Waste.”
Cailey Cron ’13.5 and Molly 
Shane ’13.5 started Weigh the Waste 
as an offshoot of their MiddChal-
lenge project, “Share the Surplus,” 
which aimed to lessen food insecu-
rity in Addison County by recover-
ing excess unserved food from the 
College dining halls and diverting it 
to community organizations such as 
the weekly Community Supper.
In considering pre-consumer 
food waste, however, Cron and 
Shane realized that focusing on 
post-consumer waste is an equally 
important element of food waste.
“We started thinking, how do we 
make waste visible and once waste 
is visible, does that encourage peo-
ple to reduce the amount of waste 
they’re producing?” Shane said. 
“And so our focus shifted from this 
pre-consumer food that would have 
been coming out of the kitchen, to 
the post-consumer level of this food 
chain, looking at the food that’s left 
on students’ plates.”
The College has reported that 
300 tons of food waste is produced 
the waste are unknown. 
students are responsible for,” Cron 
said. “Because that’s the number 
that, with enough awareness and 
enough visibility, we feel like we can 
change.”
Biweekly food waste collections 
will allow for the compilation of data 
on both edible and non-edible food 
waste from Proctor and Ross din-
the 300 tons of food waste is and 
food waste trends.
better sense of what this 300 tons 
actually is,” Shane said. “And then 
our second goal is visibility. We 
think that when you have these kids 
scraping plates, people are going 
to see it, people are going to start 
thinking about it, people are going 
to be talking about it. And I think 
In a detailed letter sent out to all 
students on Tuesday, Oct. 1, Dean 
of the College Shirley Collado and 
Dean of Students Katy Smith Ab-
bott outlined changes to both the 
written alcohol and party policies 
and the College’s education, pre-
vention and response programs. 
While the changes may seem 
trivial, top administrators said they 
have game-changing possibilities, 
streamlining the party system while 
promoting safety and transparency. 
“It’s my hope that students will 
see this and understand that this 
could have a great impact,” Col-
lado said. “The changes are asking 
students ‘what do you want to do? 
how do you want to claim the kind 
of culture that you want on this 
campus?’ because the barriers have 
challenge students to really not sit 
around and be frustrated because 
the current system really gives stu-
dents a tremendous amount of re-
sponsibility within the framework 
of Vermont State law that we have 
an obligation to follow.” 
Unbeknownst to many students, 
Vermont has some of the strictest 
alcohol laws in the country, often 
binding the College’s hands when it 
comes to promoting a vibrant social 
scene. 
The current changes were the 
accumulation of a multi-year, com-
prehensive look at the College’s 
policies that began in 2012 with 
the creation of the Task Force on 
Alcohol and Social Life. The Task 
Force, co-chaired by Abbott and 
Head Football Coach Bob Ritter , 
brought together students, faculty, 
-
-
ommendations to Collado on May 
4, 2012, and spent the following 
academic year meeting in smaller 
“Implementation Teams.”
“We didn’t just wake up and 
make these changes,” Collado said. 
“It was strategic and thoughtful.” 
Abbott wrote in the email that 
it is important to remember that “a 
huge amount of student effort” in-
“That has been one of the great 
take-a-ways for me in this ongoing 
students on campus are deeply 
invested in trying to improve so-
cial life and to take responsibility 
for planning parties and other so-
cial functions that are varied, fun 
and yes, safe,” Abbott wrote in the 
email.  
Abbott noted that the recom-
mendation for creating a party 
monitors program and the idea 
of extending the end of registered 
parties at Ridgeline until 3 a.m. all 
came from students. 
“When I got the email from the 
Dean of the College this morning, 
I was actually ecstatic,” Nathan 
LaBarba ’14 said. “Middlebury stu-
dents are responsible adults, for the 
most part. We can be responsible 
and we can be held accountable for 
our own safety and security to an 
extent, and I believe that is what 
this program will allow us to do.” 
LaBarba was one of the seven 
students on the original Task Force, 
and called the changes “a great vic-
tory.” While serving on the Task 
-
trating legal roadblocks and liquor 
policies that made implementation 
a challenge. 
“Navigating all of these differ-
ent channels was tough, but we 
came together and presented what 
I thought were a fairly compre-
hensive system of changes and re-
forms,” he said. “I would say that 
every single one of our most impor-
Public Safety Cuts
Parking Ticket Fee
paul gerard
Weigh the Waste publicly scraped and sorted edible and inedible waste from students’ plates on Oct. 1.
After 34 years of diplomatic tensions 
between the U.S. and Iran, the presi-
dents of the two countries made direct 
contact with one another last Friday 
for the first time since 1979. President 
Barack Obama placed a telephone call 
to Iranian president Hassan Rouhani as 
Rouhani was heading to Kennedy Air-
port in New York, after spending a week 
at the United Nations.
The call, which occurred around 2:30 
p.m., lasted 15 minutes. Iranian officials 
requested the phone call, and the White 
House, encouraged by recent public 
statements from the moderate Rou-
hani, readily obliged. This call marked 
the first conversation between the two 
countries since the removal of the Shah 
of Iran from power in the Iranian Revo-
lution of 1979 and the ensuing hostage 
crisis.
Earlier in the week, both leaders de-
livered remarks to the United Nations 
General Assembly in which both lead-
ers expressed a conciliatory tone and 
a willingness to work together to solve 
Iran’s nuclear issue. Both were expected 
to attend a luncheon on Tuesday where a 
potentially historic handshake between 
the two could have taken place; how-
ever, President Rouhani skipped out on 
the event at the last minute. Iranian of-
ficials claimed that a meeting between 
the two leaders at this point would have 
been premature and would have caused 
complications with conservative hard-
liners back in Iran. On Thursday, Secre-
tary of State John Kerry and his Iranian 
counterpart, Mohammed Javad Zarif, 
had a meeting that was described to be 
productive. 
According to an American official 
who was on the Sept. 26 call, the two 
presidents spoke about the nuclear is-
sue, with Obama acknowledging Iran’s 
right to peaceful nuclear energy but 
demanding a halt to any enrichment of 
weapons-grade uranium. Obama also 
pressed Rouhani on the detainment of 
two Americans in Iran. The two ended 
the call by exchanging farewells in the 
other’s native tongue.
Rouhani returned to Tehran on Sat-
urday morning to a crowd of mostly ju-
bilant supporters. However, as Rouhani 
waved to the crowd through the sunroof 
of his car, a small group of hardline pro-
testors began pelting the vehicle with 
eggs and one shoe.
“Our people are awake, death to 
America!” chanted the protestors, sug-
gesting an unwillingness among Iran’s 
hardline factions to improve relations 
with the U.S. after decades of hostility. 
While he was in New York, Rouhani 
and the Iranian delegation struck a 
moderate and cooperative tone with the 
rest of the world leaders. He expressed 
a general desire to reach a settlement 
on the nuclear issue and wipe away the 
sanctions that have severely affected the 
country’s economy and the lives of daily 
Iranians. Rouhani’s position is report-
edly backed by Ayatollah Ali Khame-
nei, the Supreme Leader of Iran who 
has the final say in all political matters. 
Though no proposals were presented at 
the U.N. by either side on the nuclear 
issue, talks will continue between Iran 
and six Western powers. The parties are 
to meet again at a summit in Geneva in 
mid-October.
President Obama, speaking from the 
White House after Friday’s phone call, 
tried to assure Israel that diplomacy 
from Iran does not mean the U.S. will 
abandon Israel’s security or interests. 
Israel and other U.S.-allied Arab coun-
tries in the Middle East are wary of 
Iran’s sincerity and the potential geopo-
litical consequences of normalized rela-
tions between Iran and the U.S.
BY DANNY ZHANG
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| october 3, 20132 NEWS
Clinton Hosts Students 
at Global Conference
By Kelsey Collins
Armel Nibasumba ’16 and Rabeya 
Jawaid ’16 were invited to attend the 
Clinton Global Initiative Annual Meet-
ing in New York City from Sept. 25-27.
Established in 2005 by President Bill 
Clinton, the Clinton Global Initiative 
(CGI), an initiative of the Clinton Foun-
dation, convenes global leaders to cre-
ate and implement innovative solutions 
to the world’s most pressing challenges. 
Nibasumba and Jawaid, who are both 
alums of United World College (UWC) 
international schools, were invited 
through their affiliation with UWC, a 
CGI member organization, to join over 
one thousand leaders from across sec-
tors in participating in the ninth CGI 
annual meeting. 
The theme for this year’s annual 
meeting was “Mobilizing for Impact,” 
and the meeting’s agenda was designed 
to enable the participants — largely a 
mix of chief executives, heads of state 
and celebrities — to consider how they 
might improve the ways in which they 
leverage people, organizations and re-
sources in their achieving the Commit-
ments to Action made by all attendees. 
Jawaid and Nibasumba both at-
tended the Clinton Global Initiative 
University (CGI U) conference in St. 
Louis last April, a similar conference 
which invites university students from 
all over the world to make commitments 
to global social issues. The two students 
also received summer grants from the 
Middlebury Center for Social Entrepre-
neurship (MCSE) to implement their 
Commitments to Action made while at 
CGI U. 
Jawaid, who hails from Karachi, Pak-
istan, received $3,000 from MCSE to 
implement her Commitment to Action 
over the summer to provide deaf women 
in Pakistan with vocational training. Ni-
basumba, a native of Burundi, also re-
ceived a grant from the MCSE to teach 
peace-building and entrepreneurship 
skills to young adults in his home coun-
try. 
The two sophomores were invited 
to participate in a panel session mod-
erated by Chris Isham, Vice President 
of CBS. The two Middlebury students, 
along with a third UWC alum, spoke 
about their respective social enterprise 
projects and how UWC alums can con-
tinue working towards the school’s 
commitment to sustainable peace after 
graduation. 
“It was inspirational to be among 
such talented, successful individuals,” 
said Jawaid of the experience. “I talked 
at length to UWC coordinators, [CBS 
Vice President] Chris Isham and [Stan-
dard Chartered Bank CEO] Peter Sands 
all of whom inspired me to not give up 
on Pakistan, which can be a challenge. 
It enabled me to look for networks and 
people who can help me in the future to 
work for global harmony and peace.”
“There were so many people doing 
incredible things, and it just inspires 
you,” added Nibasumba. “I was sur-
rounded by other people who are com-
mitted to helping people.It was great to 
feel like I was a part of the movers and 
shakers. And it was a good reminder 
that there are so many problems and 
issue around our communities that we 
can actually change. You don’t need to 
be Barack Obama, you don’t need to try 
to change the whole country. But you 
can change your community, change 
your school, change your hallway in 
your dorm. That’s what CGI is about.”
Tickets Still Avail-
able!
Pick Yours Up at the 
october 3, 2013 |  3        News
Status of Egypt School Still Uncertain
By Aleck Silva-Pinto
Before the school year began, Dean of 
International Studies Professor Jeffrey 
Cason decided to close the College’s school 
abroad in Egypt based at the University 
of Alexandria due to the political turmoil 
that continues to rock the country.
After the removal of President Mo-
hamed Morsi, Egypt erupted into a state 
of chaos.  After June 30, protests became 
violent and to date more than 600 peo-
ple have been killed.   Andrew Pochter, 
a 21-year-old American student from 
the Washington, D.C. area, was stabbed 
to death during a protest in Alexandria. 
Pochter was teaching English to 7 and 8 
year-old children while studying Arabic.  
Tragedies like the one involving 
Pochter are exactly why the college de-
cided to postpone the program in Egypt.
“Our main concern is the safety of the 
students,” said Cason, “Alexandria has 
seen its fare share of protests and clash-
es.” 
The current situation is not unfamiliar 
either to Hileil or to Cason. The College 
evacuated all of the students out of Alex-
andria in February 2011, but reopened the 
Alexandria program once again for the 
2012-2013 academic year. 
Nihad Hileil, the director of the pro-
gram in Egypt, agrees that the decision 
was a logical one.  
“(Cancellation) for the Fall was a more 
natural decision,” said Hileil. “A regime 
had been toppled and people were in the 
streets.  Strife was inevitable.”  
The closure was initially only meant for 
the Fall, but it became clear to both Hileil 
and Cason that the school should remain 
closed through the spring.  A resident 
of Alexandria herself, Hileil noted that 
“While things are relatively calm now, 
there has still been sporadic violence, and 
there is this overwhelming uncertainty.  It 
has only been two months since the situa-
tion became truly bad.” 
For students of the College and other 
universities who applied to study in Al-
exandria, this means spending either the 
semester or the entire year in Amman, 
Jordan instead.  However, not all students 
have been driven away by the danger in 
Egypt.  Jeremy Kallan ’14 spent the sum-
mer in Cairo after having studied in Al-
exandria during the first semester of his 
junior year.  
“When it comes to politics in Egypt, it 
is impossible to predict what is going to 
happen”, said Kallan. “But I know that I 
got a lot out of being there, despite the 
unrest.”  
Even before the closure, the Alexan-
dria program maintained strict rules for 
the American students.  Often, students 
were prohibited from leaving campus due 
to protests in the city.  Both Kallan and 
Hileil agreed that these restrictions can 
be stifling to the learning process, but are 
necessary concessions to student safety.  
The program has a variety of other safe-
guards in place to keep students safe and 
to expedite an evacuation, if and when the 
program returns.  The College maintains 
a contract with Global Rescue, a firm that 
facilitates evacuation from any location in 
the world, along with a detailed contin-
gency plan.
 “In the end it will be a 24-hour job,” 
said Hileil of considerations to re-open 
the Egypt program in fall 2014. “We will 
have to be constantly aware of the con-
stantly changing nature of the situation”.  
Although Hileil and Cason are hopeful 
that the program will return for the 2014-
2015 school year, they remain unsure as to 
whether or not that will be possible.  
The Community Council met for their 
30 to discuss its role at the College and to 
create a list of agenda topics for the up-
coming academic year.
In considering its role, the group em-
phasized looking at issues beyond those 
that are primarily student-related. Topics 
for discussion throughout the year includ-
the hard alcohol policies on campus and 
the campus wide smoking policy.
The list of agenda topics was created 
through an open discussion among the 
council members. 
The council began a discussion on the 
hard alcohol policies of the school. Associ-
ate Dean of Students Doug Adams began 
the conversation as a continuation of one 
that had been started last year. 
“The Mill has an exception to people 
serving hard alcohol at their functions,” 
said Adams. “We realize it’s a larger con-
versation than for just one house and it 
needs to be a campus-wide conversation.” 
Adams asked questions such as, “What 
are the impact points for hard alcohol? 
Where are we seeing those issues? We 
need to take the time to get the data and 
enter into that conversation.” 
In agreement, Community Council Co-
Chair Luke Carroll Brown ’14 declared, 
“That conversation needs to happen and I 
think it should continue in this group right 
here.”
The council also brought up the pos-
sible use of surveillance cameras, a topic 
that has been raised in previous years 
but never acted upon. The council agreed 
that as damage, theft and sexual assault 
become larger issues across campus, the 
implementation of surveillance cameras in 
public areas needs to be discussed. 
In response to the prospect of security 
cameras, Blake Shapskinsky ’15 suggested 
that social houses hosting parties should 
self-police and be held accountable. As 
an issue that affects the entire campus, 
Brown noted, “It’s a large topic that I think 
will and should turn into a campus-wide 
conversation.”
The council also discussed how better 
to manage visitors to the college. 
“We need to talk about a way of stream-
lining the visitors to campus process,” said 
public safety staff member Chris Thomp-
son. “Last year we had a couple of in-
stances where we had visitors and people 
got in trouble with alcohol and we had no 
we could better manage that so people are 
held responsible when they have guests on 
campus.”
Some other issues discussed focused on 
better means of communication through-
out the Middlebury community. In an 
attempt to increase campus and town 
communication, the prospect of having a 
community forum with members of the 
town of Middlebury was also introduced.
 Annie Pruitt ’14 described the initiative 
as “A place for members from the town 
to come and talk to students, faculty, and 
staff about issues they’d like to see us dis-
cuss and have that dialogue and conversa-
tion.”
The council also addressed the need for 
improved and increased interaction be-
tween students and staff.
Although the meeting was wide-rang-
ing, Brown declared, “Alcohol and surveil-
lance cameras are the two major issues 
that we’re going into this year with and we 
will end up extensively talking about and 
researching them.”
community council
Alcohol and campus safety in forefront for coming year
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
Trivia Night
Team trivia and free food at 
Crossroads!
THURSDAY AT 9 P.M.
Eating Forward Dinner
Kick off a month of speakers 
on food sustainability in
Atwater Dining Hall.
FRIDAY AT 6:00 P.M.
Free Friday Film 
Ace Ventura: Pet Detective
will play at Dana
FRIDAY AT 7 & 10 P.M.
By Ellie Reinhardt
FALL 2007
Program 
opens in 
Alexandria
“JANUARY 
25th
Revolution” 
2011
JAN. 31, 
2011
All 22 
students in 
Alexandria 
evacuated
FALL 2012
Students 
return to 
program
SPRING 2013
New students 
arrive for 
spring term
SUMMER 
2013
leads to 
suspension 
of program 
for fall
Alexandria 
program 
suspended
Timeline of Middlebury Program in Alexandria
Midd Night Thursday
Thursday, October 3 | 
5-9 p.m.
1/2 price appetizers with 
your Middlebury ID.
Eight 02
Friday, October 4 | 
8-11 p.m.
Check out Eight 02’s unique 
blend of smooth and fusion 
jazz. Influences cover world 
beat artists to traditional, 
modern and contemporary 
jazz, jazz-rock. 
Bohemian Blues Quartet
Saturday, October 5 | 
8-11 p.m.
The Bohemian Blues Quar-
tet brings the sounds of a 
French bistro to 51 Main, 
playing gypsy jazz clas-
sics by Django Reinhardt, 
Stepháne Grapelli, and more. 
Come enjoy this timeless 
unique jazz style.
MCAB Trivia
Thursday, October 3 | 
9-11 p.m.
Pub Night
Friday, October 4 | 
8 p.m.-12 a.m
Special Performance by 
The Dissipated Eight from 
10-11pm, Beer and wine avail-
able w/2 forms of ID. 
All ages welcome!
Late Night Karaoke
Saturday, October 5 | 
10 p.m.-2 a.m. 
Hosted by Wonnacott 
Commons
4 NEWS | october 3, 2013
I have been in Brazil for a month 
now, but it feels like I’ve been here for 
almost a year. It’s uncanny how easily 
I adjusted to life in another country. 
I touched down in Rio de Janeiro, on 
Aug. 29, and even at the airport, I was 
already worried about so many things: 
fitting in, classes, culture shock, safety, 
homesickness. You name it, I probably 
was worried about it.  But all of those 
emotions were normal for a foreigner 
going abroad somewhere with no fam-
ily or place to call home. 
After my first month here, I’ve real-
ized that all of my emotions, particu-
larly those that bordered on paranoia, 
were normal, but entirely unnecessary. 
My host family was more welcoming 
than I expected, and they understand 
my needs and interests here in Bra-
zil and have provided me with a home 
away from home. I live pretty close to 
my university’s campus and have devel-
oped a habit of going on long walks and 
just taking in my surroundings. 
That’s the other amazing thing about 
Brazil — the environment. Although 
not all parts of Brazil are thriving, the 
area near my school and host family has 
many beaches (one which is a five min-
ute walk from my house, Praia da Boa 
Viagem) where you can sit on a bench 
and listen to the waves as they come 
crashing in or watch birds as they dive 
for food. As a woman with a Caribbean 
background, I absolutely love tropical 
whether (except the bugs), and being 
able to sit on a beach and talk about 
nothing of importance with friends 
while enjoying the sunshine is one of 
life’s small pleasures that has made me 
appreciate being in Brazil even more.
However, there have been moments 
when I honestly wanted to just yell at 
anyone and everyone due to frustra-
tion. Most of that came from dealing 
with the bureaucratic system here. As 
a foreigner, there are countless forms 
to be filled out and requirements to be 
met before the end of your first thirty 
days in the country. Even my interna-
tional student orientation at the Feder-
al Fluminense University (UFF) here in 
Niterói was unable to offer me guidance 
in figuring out all of the things I needed 
do and where I needed to go. During 
that process, however, I learned the top 
two rules about being abroad: patience 
is a virtue, and never be afraid to ask 
questions, because the worst thing that 
can happen is someone not being able 
to help you.  
Adjusting to life in Brazil takes time, 
and assimilating while trying to combat 
culture shock has proven to be a chal-
lenge. Things are definitely more laid 
back here, “mais devagar.”  Students at 
UFF don’t worry too much about home-
work and on one of my adventures to 
the library on campus, I realized that 
students really don’t actually use the 
library. Accepting that Thursday nights 
in Niterói are the equivalent of Fri-
days at Middlebury, or that most of the 
Brazilian students head straight to the 
movie theater on weekdays after class, 
took a while, but I have quickly gotten 
used to this laid-back ease. I haven’t, 
however, forgotten how different and 
difficult life at Middlebury can be, and 
my senior year will be the wake-up call 
equivalent to a very, very cold cup of 
water on the face.
So here’s to studying abroad for a 
year in Brazil, “que vale a pena!”
Collado: ‘Ball in Student’s Court’ 
bers are given parking spaces within a 
five to seven minute walk to the academic 
building in which they teach. 
“In order for us to complete the more 
important aspects of our work, we need 
parking to work,” Burchard said. 
Parking during the 2013-2014 aca-
demic year has been further complicated 
by the construction of the new field house, 
which removed parking spaces previously 
reserved for students.
As a result, some students have resort-
ed to driving less.
“I don’t drive around campus because 
there are very few places to park, and it’s 
just not practical to drive,” Luke Carpi-
nello ’16 said. 
The number of parking tickets issued 
during September 2013 is not significant-
ly different from tickets issued in Septem-
ber 2012, however, with 391 tickets issued 
in 2013 and 49 in 2012, with violations 
occurring primarily in the same areas. 
Burchard justified the peripheral loca-
tions and limited the number of student 
parking lots by citing the College campus 
as “a pedestrian campus.” Public Safety 
has added additional spaces in the Ridge-
line parking area to compensate for the 
reduction in student parking at the ath-
letic complex. Burchard noted that due 
to confusion and concerns surrounding 
parking spaces, Public Safety may con-
duct its first major evaluation of on-cam-
pus parking in 12 years.
Some students believe that changing 
the parking system would be the best way 
to reduce the number of parking regula-
tions and violations. 
“Students should be able to park freely 
as long as they are reasonable and obtain 
the proper permits for long term park-
ing,” Leila Schochet ’16 said. 
SGA President Rachel Liddell ’15 be-
lieves that systematic change to the park-
ing policy could make a difference, out-
lining plans to work with Public Safety to 
improve parking in the coming months 
with the goal of reassessing the parking 
lots for designated faculty and staff and 
proposing that students be billed directly 
for tickets, instead of adding tickets on to 
the annual tuition bill.
One of Liddell’s primary goals is to 
clarify the gray areas surrounding appro-
priate student parking locations. 
“I want people to feel they aren’t vic-
tims of a system,” Liddell said, adding 
that students should appreciate the privi-
lege to have a car on campus that the Col-
lege grants them.
Parking Violations Remain Constant
we came together and presented what I 
thought were a fairly comprehensive sys-
tem of changes and reforms,” he said. “I 
would say that every single one of our most 
impor
in the announcement today from the Dean 
of the College.” 
Additional changes included an in-
creased number of spaces for students to 
later party registration deadlines, longer 
maximum party hours and Grille give-
aways to help offset the much-maligned 
food requirement. 
The College’s “Good Samaritan Policy,” 
which grants amnesty to students who seek 
emergency assistance for themselves or 
others, had been practiced informally for 
years but was set in stone as part of the 
changes. 
“We’ve been practicing the ‘Good Sa-
maritan Policy’ for years, but we wanted to 
put it into writing so students knew how se-
rious we were about the safety of students,” 
Collado said. 
While almost all of the changes increase 
also outlined an increased focus on the 
dangers of hard alcohol. Citing language in 
the 2012 Task Force report that attributed 
the majority of hospital transports, issues 
of disrespect and disruptive behavior to 
hard alcohol, the new policy aims at “hold-
ing students accountable at the highest 
level for hard-alcohol-related policy viola-
tions.” 
“We are looking at hard alcohol in-
fractions in a much more serious way, es-
pecially because we know the hard facts 
and sophomores,” Collado said. “People 
get transported to the hospital because of 
hard alcohol, and we are going to intervene 
faster, stronger, and earlier.” 
While Collado would not say the College 
is on the road to a hard alcohol ban, she 
said the Community Council would be tak-
ing up the issue of hard alcohol on campus 
this coming semester. 
Both Associate Dean of Students Doug-
las Adams and Collado stressed that the 
puts the ball in students’ court. 
“I encourage social houses and other 
student organizations who want to host 
parties to take advantage of the new regu-
lations,” Adams said. “I have had a very 
positive response from social house leaders 
about the new policies and hope that we 
will see more well-run, registered events at 
the houses and in residential lounges.” 
Collado further emphasized that stu-
dents at the College have it good. 
“There are campuses around this state 
that are dry and where students have to 
deal directly with the police,” she said. 
“These changes are about giving students 
agency while still holding them respon-
sible. Ultimately, it’s on students to decide 
‘what am I going to do on Friday night?’”
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
overseas
briefing
BY SPENCER SALIBUR ’15
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Waste Reduction Effort Ramps Up
er more specific statistics on food waste 
trends.
“That’s our first goal — to get a bet-
ter sense of what this 300 tons actually 
is,” Shane said. “And then our second 
goal is visibility. We think that when you 
have these kids scraping plates, people 
are going to see it, people are going to 
start thinking about it, people are going 
to be talking about it. And I think that 
through that, behavior may already begin 
to change.”
The first Weigh the Waste collection 
was held on Sept. 18, and produced 139.75 
pounds of edible food waste in Proctor 
and 160.25 pounds of edible waste in 
Ross. The project will continue on a bi-
weekly basis throughout the semester.
While the College currently composts 
food waste and food prep scraps, and 
many students understand composting 
edible food waste to be environmentally-
friendly practice, Director of Dining Ser-
vices Matthew Biette said that too much 
compost can still be a bad thing. 
While Weigh the Waste provides a 
means of gathering data and exposing 
waste collection to students, Biette called 
for an effort to reduce waste that begins 
at the serving station.  
“We would like for people to be as en-
gaged in the eating process as they are in 
the classrooms,” he said.
Currently, Weigh the Waste remains a 
means of collecting data and increasing 
visibility, but Biette added that it also has 
the potential to highlight issues of com-
munity responsibility on campus.
“[What if you] could you control your 
cost, and every other person could con-
trol their costs so that they’re doing the 
quote-unquote, right thing, … [so] that it 
actually reduces the cost of what it takes 
to go here?” Biette said. “And that’s not 
just food. That’s whether someone is van-
dalizing trees, that’s whether someone is 
keeping their window open in the winter, 
that’s whether is taking plates … Whatev-
er that is, we as a community can help to 
control that. It’s not about finger-point-
ing. It’s just understanding that we, as a 
group, have power.”
Cron and Shane see similar potential 
benefits of waste reduction, noting col-
laboration with members of other on-
campus food organizations, such as “Eat 
Real,” as a means of achieving shared 
goals.
Shane listed potential environmental, 
economic and community benefits which 
could be achieved through the reduction 
of edible food waste.
“There’s so much potential for in-
creased freedom within the dining budget 
if we’re not spending our money on food 
that we’re not eating,” Shane said. 
Natalie Valentin ’15, a member of the 
Commons Sustainability Coordinator’s 
(CSCs) food focus group and local food 
marketing assistant to Biette, has been 
functioning as a go-between for Weigh 
the Waste and student-led food organiza-
tions on campus that may be working to 
achieve similar goals.
“As [Biette] and I were discussing ef-
forts to increase local foods on campus, 
and to foster a more conscious food 
culture on campus more generally, we 
repeatedly discussed the issue of food 
waste,” Valentin said. “An essential part 
of a conscious campus food culture is how 
we as students approach the food that we 
eat. Tackling food waste will not only save 
money, but will help develop a … respect 
for the food systems that feed us.”
While the Weigh the Waste project is 
still in its earliest stages, students and 
staff members alike have lauded its ef-
forts.
The Sept. 18 food waste collection 
was conducted by members of the men’s 
hockey team, coordinated by the team 
sustainability representatives and Direc-
tor of Athletics Erin Quinn.
George Ordway ’15 said that Biette ap-
proached the hockey team about partici-
pating in the weighing of food waste.
“He had mentioned that it was an idea 
[dining services] had been discussing for 
a while, but they weren’t sure how to go 
about it,” Ordway said, noting that he 
thought food waste collection by students 
was far more effective than if it had been 
done by dining staff members.
Biette echoed Ordway,
“When students do this for students, 
it’s peer to peer, and that’s far more pow-
erful,” he said.
Respecting the regular operations of 
Dining Services, as well as those of the 
College, has been integral to the develop-
ment and planning of Weigh the Waste 
efforts.
“Something that Molly and I worked 
on a lot over the summer is not assum-
ing that we know what the problem is, 
but rather getting guidance from people 
who know a lot more than us,” Cron said. 
“We’ve talked to Dining [Services] about 
things that students can do to make their 
jobs easier or something that they see 
happening that we can change.”
Dining Services staff members, too, 
noted the impact of Weigh the Waste 
collections, expressing their gratitude to 
Cron and Shane for revealing to students 
what it is that they do behind the walls 
of the dish room and allowing them to be 
acknowledged for their hard work.
“We have no grand notions of how a 
food waste project will make all Middle-
bury students respect all Middlebury staff 
members,” Cron said. “But I think it’s an 
opportunity for people to build relation-
ships and develop and appreciate those 
working behind the scenes.”
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
local
Farm Stands Offer a Local Approach to Meat Sales
Many U.S. farmers and industries rely on GMOs and worry about la-
Carol’s Hungry Mind Cafe has just been selected to be a distributor of marijuana.
Yelp.com
On every test and paper turned in by 
Middlebury College students, the honor code is 
scrawled across the bottom of the page. But out-
side of the Middlebury bubble, students may en-
counter a slightly different kind of honor code: 
ones that exist at meat and dairy farm roadside 
stalls in the local area.  
A mile down Weybridge Road, at Scholten 
Family Farm, is a tiny cube-shaped structure 
painted red and marked by a neat white sign ad-
vertising the “Farm Stand.” It is an experiment in 
trust. Anyone can drop in and peruse the fridges 
full of whole chickens and ground beef sausage 
while eying a smaller selection of eggs, as well as 
the Scholten family’s “Weybridge” cheese. 
If one finds produce to his or her liking, he or 
she can consult with a whiteboard hanging on the 
wall for the price, leave money in a jar while tak-
ing the proper change, and head home, purchases 
in hand. 
Patti Scholten, who produces her cheese in a 
building not 20 feet from the stand, quotes her 
husband Roger on the logic of the honor system 
farm stand: 
“Our consumers trust us to put up high-quality 
food, so we should trust them too,” said Scholten.
The Farm Stand isn’t a unique entity in the 
township of Weybridge, however.  Just one mile 
north of Scholten Farm lies Duclos and Thompson 
Farm, home to what Middlebury students have 
nicknamed, “The Meat Shack.” The operation is 
comparable to the Farm Stand in the way that it 
is run, but Lisa Thompson, who manages the farm 
with her husband Tom Duclos, is hesitant to pub-
licly label her store 
any which way. 
“We don’t try 
to hide the fact 
that there’s a store, 
but there’s a rea-
son we don’t have 
a sign out and that 
we don’t adver-
tise,” Thompson 
said. “Because you 
know, the wrong 
people learn [how 
it works] and it gets 
abused and we have 
no business left.”
Despite Thomp-
son’s reservations, neither farm has encountered 
major problems. 
“I had a New York plate stop in here once and 
they took what was in [the cash box],” Scholten 
said. 
Thompson too had the cash box stolen one 
night seven or eight years ago, but she suspects 
that it was high school students. 
“It wasn’t what they took, it was just feeling 
violated. In general people are very appreciative of 
the way we do it and they want the meat … and 
they’re willing to respect that,” said Thompson
Students at the College rave about the services 
provided by these two farms. In fact, if you were at 
Weybridge House on Sept. 28 for the Weybridge 
Feast, you probably consumed Duclos and Thomp-
son bacon. At 10 p.m. the previous night, Isaac 
Baker ’14 and a cohort of Weybridge House mem-
bers ventured out to purchase the bacon. Baker 
and his friends gathered the meat they needed, left 
over fifty dollars in the cash box and went home.
If you were one of the lucky ones in attendance 
at Jordan Collins’s ’15.5  “Local Bacon” themed 
Dolci shift last spring, you enjoyed the very same 
bacon.  Or, if you managed to make it to Brooker 
last spring for the Pig Roast, again you would have 
tasted a Duclos and Thompson raised hog. 
Both Collins and Myles Kamischer-Koch, ’15, 
who helped to plan the Pig Roast, are frequent cus-
tomers at the “Meat Shack” and can attest to the 
high quality of Duclos and Thompson bacon and 
other meats.
For Kamischer-Koch, it is the variety of the 
meats. He attests that it is a quality that you often 
can’t find at the store, which brings him back to 
the Meat Shack again and again. 
When Baker wants chicken he skips the Meat 
Shack and goes to the Farm Stand, which he has 
also visited about fifteen times.  
The Meat Shack and the Farm Stand are, on 
the whole, profitable enterprises for their owners. 
Scholten estimates the profits of the Farm Stand to 
account for only one to two percent of the farm’s 
yearly income, taking in approximately $600-900 
a month. The Meat Shack brings in $4,500-5,500 
in business most months, one-third of Duclos and 
Thompson’s annual income.
Thompson explained that for many years her 
farm’s focal point was the “hot-house lamb” or 
“roaster lamb” market, meaning that most of the 
lambs were sold at Easter and Greek Easter to be 
consumed for holiday dinners. 
“The economy tanked after 9/11 and the peo-
ple in the cities weren’t ready to celebrate [and 
as a result business] slowed down significantly. 
It came to a point where we had been planning 
on the income from those lambs going and when 
they didn’t go we had to do something because we 
had to market the animals. So we built the store,” 
Thompson said. 
Thompson also explained that the Meat Shack 
is unstaffed, partly to save the cost of labor and 
partly because the farming schedule keeps them 
in the fields. And of course, there is the aspect of 
convenience.
 “People come all times of the day and night, 
because it doesn’t have hours,” Thompson said. 
Five years after the Meat Shack opened, the 
Farm Stand arrived up the road at Scholten Farm 
with a slightly different origin. Roger Scholten, in-
tent upon producing organic milk and selling his 
family’s farmstead cheese, started visiting farms to 
gain a better sense of the industry. What he found 
was that many of the farms he visited had farm 
stands, derivative of their inclination towards a lo-
cal customer base. 
Scholten estimates that on average, the Farm 
Stand will attract six customers a day. An excep-
tional day might bring twenty. 
“Even on our worst days we get someone. It’s a 
very diverse group,” Scholten said.  
At the Meat Shack, Thompson describes a sim-
ilar situation. 
“There is never a day that people don’t come 
and sometimes there is never a week when we 
don’t have new customers,” she said. Citing the in-
voice papers left in the Meat Shack for customers 
to fill out as her source, Thompson estimates that 
the Meat Shack sees 300 customers a month. 
Customer-producer relationships are a poten-
tial subject of debate with the honor system ser-
vice. For the Scholtens, said relationship was the 
“inspiration” for the Farm Stand. 
“When you’re just shipping fluid milk, milk 
drivers pick up and leave,” said Scholten. These 
days, she enjoys receiving notes from the Farm 
Stand’s customers, many of whom she has gotten 
to know over the years. 
 Not everyone is convinced that this kind of 
connection between consumer and producer exists 
with such shacks and sheds, however. Meat Shack 
customer Rebecca Roe ’15 is torn in terms of how 
she feels about the business model.
“I love that the Meat Shack operates [the way 
that it does] — but that means that I’ve never met 
or talked to the people who raise the animals,” Roe 
said. “I’ve only read profiles of the farmers online, 
so I’ve lost a key part of the consumer-producer 
relationship.” 
But Nicholas Frazier, ’16.5, a Meat Shack regu-
lar disagrees.
“Half the times I’ve been there, [Tom and Lisa] 
walk in and say hello,” he said. “I think they do 
make an effort to try to meet as many of their cus-
tomers as possible.” 
Frazier’s testimony is consistent with Thomp-
son’s admission that while there are times during 
the summer when she and Duclos are “gone on 
tractors all day long . . . there [are other] times 
we’re around here a lot, and if I come home and 
there’s a customer there I always go check and see 
if I can help.” 
Thompson’s check-ins at Meat Shack have giv-
en birth to friendships, not only with Middlebury 
students, but with visiting families as well. Thomp-
son recounted the story of a certain Middlebury 
graduate of 2012.5 whom she came to know.
Though the student was from the Keene Valley 
in New York, an hour and 45 minute drive from 
Middlebury, she had introduced her parents to the 
Meat Shack on a visit. 
“It got to the point that her folks were here al-
most every week. And even though she’s graduated 
they’re still here on a pretty regular basis getting 
their meat,” Thompson said. 
“Sometimes it’s the parents, the grandparents, 
a stray uncle,” said Thompson. “Parents weekend, 
homecoming, whatever, your folks are visiting, a 
huge number of kids bring their parents out and 
say ‘you’ve gotta see this,’ and then the parents say 
‘you couldn’t do this where we live!’”
By Maya Peers-Nitzberg
“There is never a 
day that people 
don’t come and 
sometimes there’s 
never a week when 
we don’t have new 
customers.”
Lisa Thompson, Duclos and Thompson Farm
The Duclos and Thompson Farm and the Scholten Family Farm sell fresh meat, poultry and dairy 
products from unmanned farm stands, saving them money and connecting customer and farmer.
KYle finck
On Oct. 1, the Vermont Health Ex-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
as Vermont Health Access Plan (VHAP), 
-
-
-
-
-
-
Vermont. 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3Vermont Implements New Healthcare
By Harry Cramer
Green Mountain Oktoberfest in 
Hancock
If you’re 21+, stop by a beer tasting tent at 
the Hancock town green. Sip some brew, 
try some tasty food from local restaurants 
and toss in your two cents and vote in the 
chicken wing contest. Once you’re full of 
beer, food and fun, sit on the grass and 
listen to the live band! 
OCT 5, 12 P.M. - 5 P.M.
Local 
lowdown
 | October 3, 2013Local 6
Dead Creek Wildlife Day in Addison
Head out to the Dead Creek Wildlife Man-
agement Area on Route 17W for a day of 
wildlife events and fun. The annual series 
and a beginner’s birding walk. Free ad-
mission and parking. For more informa-
tion, call 241-3700.
OCT. 5, 9:30 A.M. - 4 P.M.
National Theater Broadcast of  
“Othello”
If you’re in a Shakespeare class this 
semester, or maybe you’re just kind of a 
nerd and like Shakespeare, you’ll enjoy 
watching “Othello” at Town Hall Theater 
in Middlebury. The production is a high-
def broadcast from London and is starrt-
ing Adrian Lester and Rory Kinnear. 
www.tonhalltheater.org
OCT. 3, 7 - 10:15 P.M.
Marsh, Meadow, and Grassland 
Wildlife Walk in Middlebury
Ever wonder about the wildlife that lives 
beside you here in Middlebury? Now is 
that make up the wildlife population in the 
local area. Leader Warren King is inviting 
beginners and more experienced birders 
to help survey birds and other wildlife on 
this walk. Those interested should meet at 
Otter View Park parking area. For more 
information, call 388-1007.
OCT. 10, 8 A.M. - 10 A.M. 
Button Up Day in Weybridge
What’s more enticing than free apple pie, 
donuts, cider and coffee on a Saturday 
morning? Head on over to Weybridge 
Recycling Center on Oct. 5. Join Wey-
bridge in celebrating the realization of 
for a chance to win an LED bulb while 
you’re there! For more information, call 
338-1644. 
OCT. 5, 9:30 A.M. - 11:00 A.M.
Green Mountain Club Paddle in 
Ferrisburgh
Looking for new ways to enjoy this beau-
tiful weather before it takes a turn for the 
cold? Join the Green Mountain Club for a 
4-5 mile round trip paddling experience 
on the Little Otter Creek in Ferrisburgh! 
The conditions are moderate, and you’ll  
this opportunity! For more information, 
call 388-4894.
OCT. 5, TBA
Emily Yahr
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1 in 8700: John Wetzel of Stone Leaf Tea
By David Ullmann
Courtesy
opinions
We often discuss the need for more community en-
gagement as a student body. We’ve devoted barrels of 
ink and hours of our time to panels, papers, and sympo-
sia. Yet all of that leaves us with little more 
than a general agreement that something 
needs to be done differently. We would like 
to suggest a concrete solution to this prob-
lem: the implementation of a Community 
Education (C.E.) credit to be completed by 
every student before graduation.
The Weigh the Waste initiative launched 
by Molly Shane ’13.5 and Cailey Cron ’13.5 
this year takes a look at the food waste pro-
duced in our dining halls by getting volun-
teers to scrape the extra food from student plates before 
putting them on the conveyer belt to the dish room. That 
this is not a step 
performed by stu-
dents themselves 
on a daily basis 
speaks volumes 
about life here at 
Middlebury. In 
this community, 
we are divorced 
from much – if 
not all – of the 
work that keeps 
our lives comfort-
able. When we 
put food on our 
plates, we don’t 
consider the work 
required to cook 
-
ish eating, our 
dishes become somebody else’s problem. We don’t cut 
the grass outside our houses or trim the trees along our 
paths. Staff members mop up after our parties and take 
Breaking a glass in the dining hall is met with mocking 
applause and a blue-uniformed staff member rushing to 
sweep up the shards while the student who dropped it 
continues on to their meal. At Middlebury, the only re-
sponsibility that many students have is their classes and 
their laundry, and some don’t even do the latter them-
selves.
We do not intend to ignore the many students who 
do have campus jobs, but few of those fall into the cat-
egory of maintenance, grounds work, or cleaning.  This 
should feel strange to us. This should feel uncomfort-
able. At home, we play a part in these essential tasks, 
after graduation.  That labor is what gives us ownership 
in our living space and pride – or shame – in its state of 
repair. That labor is the difference between a home and 
a hotel. 
Although for students, Middlebury is a transitory 
space, it should feel like a home for our short time here. 
The implementation of a C.E. credit that would replace 
the second required Physical Education credit would 
endow students with an extra appreciation for this cam-
and one at which Middlebury students excel – it is no 
less important than an awareness of the work that goes 
into maintaining a habitable space. If golf, tennis or sail-
ing are pastimes that can last a lifetime, the tasks per-
formed by Middlebury staff members are no less criti-
cally important and often more physically demanding. 
The C.E. credit would allow students to participate 
in one of these many tasks, whether gardening, scraping 
plates, or changing light bulbs. Like the P.E. credit that 
it would replace, it would require a minimum of eight 
hours of commitment – hardly a crippling burden to a 
chronically overcommitted student body. Seven colleges 
around the country currently form a consortium of in-
stitutions that require students to work at least ten to 
change to the working college model would be drastic, 
a lighter work requirement would serve to increase stu-
dent ownership in their living space and to allow them 
to gain an appreciation for the hard work done by our 
many staff members without threatening their jobs. 
A C.E. credit would also help to abate many of the 
challenges that we often blame on a lack of respect by 
the student body. A sense of ownership provides a bet-
ter incentive to preventing vandalism than offers of free 
pizza. Students tasked with trimming the trees could 
watch them climb upwards over four years and feel the 
same anger as Landscape Horticulturist Tim Parsons 
when their branches are stripped in careless drunken 
shenanigans. Students who roll up their sleeves and 
wash dishes in Proctor might better appreciate the pres-
sure created by cups that disappear faster than they can 
Atwater suites on Sunday mornings would feel disgust 
and contempt at the messes left by their peers.  
for dialogue and community without investment. Own-
ership creates respect, and respect creates change. We 
call on the SGA to petition the administration to imple-
ment a Community Education credit requirement that 
would help to create a community that feels like home 
rather than a well-manicured holding tank. This re-
quirement would represent a major leap forward to a 
Middlebury College that truly integrates students into 
their community. 
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifi-
able events; the use of vulgar language or per-
sonal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article 
that contains any of the aforementioned will be 
removed before publication. Contributors will 
be allowed to reference prior articles published 
in the Opinions section or announcements for 
the public record. If a reference is made to prior 
articles, the submission will be considered a let-
ter to the editor.  The Campus will not accept or 
print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed 
by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as 
reviews, columns, editorial comics and other com-
mentary, are views of the individual contributors 
and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submis-
sions at 800 words or less. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at 
www.middleburycampus.com. To be considered 
for publications, submissions must be received by 
5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic 
year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and busi-
ness offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, 
Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is 
produced on Apple Macintosh computers using 
Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press 
Republican in New York. The advertising deadline 
for all display and classified advertising is 5 p.m. 
Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Mid-
dlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business 
phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribu-
tion concerns to the Business Director. First class 
postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
A Different Kind of Education
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kyle Finck
MANAGING EDITOR
Alex Edel 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Emily Singer, Kelsey Collins, Nate Sans, 
Claire Abbadi
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Zach Drennen,  
Jack Dolan
SPORTS EDITORS 
Damon Hatheway,
Owen Teach, Alex Morris, Joe MacDonald
LOCAL EDITORS 
Molly Talbert, Illana Gratch
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Isabelle Stillman, 
 Joe Flaherty
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Ben Anderson,
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anthea Viragh, Paul Gerard,  
Jessica Munyon
DESIGN EDITORS
Olivia Allen, Ian Stewart
ONLINE EDITORS
Greg Woolston, Stephanie Roush
COPY EDITOR
Dan Bateyko
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
decided by the 
editorial board.
How do we use the skills and opportunities we have to 
make the world a better place? Middlebury students revisit 
this question time and time again, from conversations in the 
dining hall to the “Careers for the Common Good” blog from 
the EIA. Hudson Cavanaugh ’14 has explored this question 
over the past two weeks in his column, “Warm Glow,” but his 
simplification of this question into 
pure economic terms neglects some 
important elements of this discus-
sion.
The world in which we live is in-
herently complex and full of inequali-
ties. Some work to better this world 
saves lives directly, like the expansion 
of medical care, and some indirectly, 
like working to mitigate the impacts 
of climate change. In the long-run, climate change will lead to 
extreme weather events, crop failure, and rising sea levels that 
will cost many lives and threaten many more, but in the short 
term, medical care has a greater impact. 
Thus, while donations with the goal of immediate lives 
saved are undoubtedly important, 
working towards a more equitable 
and sustainable world requires both 
short and long-term investments. 
The benefits of these investments 
are difficult to measure, for they op-
erate on a longer time frame and are 
therefore discounted; however, they 
are no less important. 
Moreover, individual passions 
are indispensable in creating a long-
term model for change. We often 
talk about exploring our passions, 
acknowledging that this love allows us to work harder than 
otherwise possible and sustain energy over long periods of 
time.
As Michelle Obama often said on the 2012 campaign trail, 
“real change is slow.” Perhaps the hardest lesson I’ve learned 
from engaging in climate activism is that real change is also 
exhausting. Passion spurns the determination that allows me 
to keep working. know I wouldn’t be able to put as much into 
investment banking as I can into political and environmental 
organizing because I wouldn’t feel the same gratification. 
Cavanaugh addresses the idea of marginal utility of job 
decisions and accounts for morality; however, there are many 
nuances in this argument. While his example, Jennifer, who 
pushes JP Morgan toward social responsibility, may be work-
ing to push an unjust institution into socially responsible 
practices, her impact could still be overrun by what I would 
consider a net negative impact from investment banks. The 
Koch brothers donate money to environmental organizations 
like the Nature Conservancy and to cancer research; however, 
they make their money in the oil, gas and chemical industries 
and use much of it to lobby for lax environmental regulations, 
leading to cancer-causing contamination. They definitely do 
not break even on damage from their industry, despite their 
philanthropic habits. For an individual like Jennifer, her in-
fluence only can extend so far. Creating the large scale, sys-
tematic change required to dismantle the oppressive system 
reinforced by her employer requires a much greater movement 
with both internal and external pressure.
We see this dichotomy on our own campus with divest-
ment. Our College educates many students who go off and do 
good in the world, often in environmentally friendly fields. But 
these efforts are hindered by the fact that our endowment in-
vests in fossil fuels, allowing these companies to further maxi-
mize their profits by exploiting our planet’s resources with 
little regard for the social cost of carbon. We are not morally 
exonerated from investing in fossil fuels because we have a 
strong program in environmental studies. Indeed, that pro-
gram should serve as a strong reminder for why we must divest 
our endowment and put our money where our mouths are.
Even if everyone were to give money in the most short-
term cost effective way, paying careful attention to the ethics 
of their employer as well as the ethics of the organizations to 
which they are donating, we still need 
people on the ground working tireless-
ly to distribute malaria nets or vacci-
nate children. Change requires time 
as well as money, and in many cases, 
time can be more difficult to give. 
Just as we cannot value the life of 
an American over the life of anyone 
else, we cannot simply treat people as 
numbers and base decision solely on 
cost-effectiveness. What is the point 
of saving a life if you cannot provide 
other basic human rights and needs 
like access to a livable environment free from containments? 
We must work together to create a safer and healthier global 
community, and this is a multi-faceted project. We do not want 
to eradicate guinea worm only to find that we have raised the 
global temperature beyond a salvageable threshold. Working 
to increase gender equality and education opportunities may 
not specifically save a life, but it will increase economic op-
portunities and quality of life for many future generations and 
could save children who are not yet born.
So do what you love and incorporate social responsibility 
into all aspects of your life.  In the long run, following your 
passions will sustain you far longer than working in an in-
dustry for the sake of opportunity cost and will allow you to 
maximize your total good. We need all pieces of the puzzle — 
both short and long-term goals, effective and fulfilling giving 
practices, and time and monetary donations. Creating lasting 
global change takes time and effort on all fronts, and there is 
no single solution. We can only do the most we can in a re-
sponsible and thoughtful way to comprehensively address the 
injustices that surround us both abroad and at home.
notes from 
the desk 
Hannah Bristol ’14.5 is 
an Opinions editor from 
Falls Church, V.A.
Fighting for social good on all fronts
“We must work together to 
create a safer and healthier 
global community, and this is a 
multi-faceted project. We do not 
want to eradicate guinea worm 
the global temperature beyond 
The other day, a classmate asked me, 
“so is Washington State, like, crazy now that 
weed is legal?” Although I joked that Seattle 
seemed more overcast than normal, truth-
fully, little has changed since Washington 
voters passed Initiative 502 last November. 
That’s not to say that marijuana consump-
tion is not prevalent: percentage-wise, far 
more Washing-
tonians smoke 
marijuana than 
Nether land-
ers. But, the 
same can be 
said about the 
adult popula-
tion in nearly 
every state. In 2012, more than 17 million 
Americans admitted to smoking marijuana, 
and the Pew Research Center recently esti-
mated that 48 percent of adult Americans 
have consumed cannabis. Despite trillions 
marijuana consumption, cannabis prohibi-
tion seems to have worked as ineffectively 
as alcohol prohibition in the 1920s. 
Just as alcohol 
prohibition led to or-
ganized bootlegging, 
cannabis prohibition 
has empowered a sys-
tem of underground, 
violent drug cartels 
that the Justice De-
partment estimates operates in more than 
one thousand American cities. “Competi-
-
licit industry has led to the deaths of tens of 
thousands of individuals in [Mexico], and 
an ever-increasing amount of violence spill-
ing over into the United States,” said for-
mer American Immigration and Customs 
Agent Jamie Haase. Moreover, these same 
drug cartels ferrying marijuana across the 
border also provide the vast majority of 
hard drugs in circulation within the United 
States. Legalization cripples these drug 
runners and could effectively prevent im-
ported drugs like cocaine and heroin from 
entering our borders. In Washington and 
Colorado, where marijuana is now regu-
lated and grown domestically under state 
supervision, dangerous synthetic marijua-
na use, drug-related crime, and hard drug 
consumption are already declining.
From an economic perspective, can-
nabis legalization will redirect the billions 
of dollars now empowering drug cartels 
towards state governments. According to 
a 2010 study conducted by the conserva-
tive Cato Institute, marijuana legalization 
would generate $8.7 billion in annual state 
tax revenues. Washington alone estimates 
that marijuana taxation will generate $1.9 
limited to taxation; American hemp and 
medicinal marijuana-related industries 
gross nearly $100 billion annually, and are 
expected to provide over 100,000 new jobs 
however, legalization will save Americans 
$150 billion on annual policing and court 
costs. Every year, nearly 800,000 people 
are arrested for marijuana possession, and 
as Sen. Rand Paul opined over the summer, 
“there are a lot of young people who [smoke 
marijuana], and in their thirties, they grow 
up and quit ... I don’t want to put them in 
jail and ruin their lives.”
Finally, while prescription drugs are 
blamed for over 100,000 deaths annually, 
countless medical studies have failed to 
identify a single death, disease or deleteri-
ous health trend caused directly by mari-
juana use. Moreover, the vast majority of 
doctors now believe that cannabis provides 
cancer, HIV/AIDS, Alzheimer’s disease and 
numerous other ailments. Over three mil-
lion Americans with chronic health condi-
tions use medicinal marijuana annually, 
their health and comfort. Marijuana is also 
comparatively non-addictive, with a 1999 
Federal Institute of Medicine study show-
ing that “fewer than 10% of those who use 
marijuana meet the clinical criteria for de-
pendence, while 32% 
of tobacco users, and 
15% of alcohol users 
do.” 
Certainly, can-
nabis legalization 
facilitates increased 
consumption among 
adults, but rest assured that legalization al-
most certainly minimizes marijuana abuse 
among teenagers. Growing up just outside 
of Seattle, far more of my high-school peers 
smoked than drank because it was easier to 
get marijuana from a neighborhood dealer 
than to pay someone with a fake ID to pur-
chase alcohol. With hundreds of licensed 
and regulated marijuana distribution cen-
ters set to replace individual dealers over 
the next year, under-age Washingtonians 
will undoubtedly have a harder time get-
ting ahold of the drug in the future. This is 
in line with historical trends: young Ameri-
cans consume far less alcohol per capita 
today than in the 1920s and American to-
bacco use continues to decline. And though 
many misconceive that marijuana is a gate-
way drug whose legalization could encour-
age hard drug abuse, the Drug Enforce-
ment Administration concedes that 90% of 
marijuana users have not tried other illegal 
drugs. Marijuana, we must recognize, is not 
a gateway drug, but a terminus. 
This editorial does not seek to encour-
age or promote marijuana use; it remains 
an addictive drug requiring caution and 
moderation. But the many social, econom-
-
nabis legalization are undeniable. The drug 
war begun forty years ago cannot be won, 
just as alcohol prohibition was doomed to 
fail. The majority of Americans now sup-
port cannabis legalization, and our gen-
eration has become its greatest advocate. I 
predict that when our children are our age, 
they will ask us what Middlebury was like 
during the cannabis prohibition era.
As someone whose academic inter-
ests lie primarily in the humanities and 
social sciences, I would hardly identify 
as someone who “does science.” How-
ever, I am also someone interested in the 
environment, specifically the ways our 
ideas about our environment fit in with 
the ideas we have about pretty much ev-
erything else, including our ethics, our 
economics, and more fundamental no-
tions about the way our world works. 
So when I do philosophy – a discipline 
which, at its core, is concerned with clear 
thinking – I take it to be of the utmost 
importance to have clear thoughts about 
the subject matter I am dealing with. 
Now where might someone obtain clear, 
correct ideas about the environment or 
any other natural phenomena? One of 
the most reliable sources has proven to 
be people who actually “do science.”
Some of the most important work 
in conservation efforts is done by those 
who might identify as natural historians. 
Natural history, as defined by Thomas L. 
Fleischner, Professor of Environmental 
Studies at Prescott 
College, consists of 
“the study of life at 
the level of the in-
dividual – of what 
plants and animals 
do, how they react 
to each other and 
environment, how 
they are organized 
into larger groupings 
like populations and 
communities.” Fleis-
chner argues that the 
human practice of natural history pro-
vides the genealogical underpinnings for 
much of today’s natural science. While 
its present form can be traced most di-
rectly back to the work of Aristotle, Fleis-
chner proposes that natural history may 
have been practiced for as long as our 
pre-historic ancestors painted on caves 
and learned to track the patterns of the 
animals they hunted. In short, natural 
history represents the human attempt to 
put into narrative an empirical record of 
the natural world. In an ecological con-
text, if we do not know what’s actually 
occurring in ecosystems, we can’t make 
judgments about where our conservation 
efforts should be focused. 
I think this represents one iteration 
of a key insight we might infer about the 
importance of a commitment to a scien-
tific perspective: that the kinds of norma-
tive judgments we can reasonably make 
about matters face constraints imposed 
by what we can know about the world. 
We can make arguments for climate ac-
tion based on romantic notions of “wild 
nature” found in literary sources, but a 
stronger argument might be supported 
by appeal to, say, trends in organismal 
populations observed in data provided 
by long-term studies, or climatological 
data. The idea that normativity might be 
rooted in what we can observe about the 
natural world is nothing new; the under-
pinnings of Aristotle’s work in ethics and 
political philosophy can be found in his 
works on animals, physics, and meta-
physics – works that concerned the na-
ture of things, or “first philosophy.” And 
it would be awfully hard for someone to 
consider herself 
a good philoso-
pher of mind 
without an un-
derstanding of 
what neurosci-
ence can tell us 
about our physiology. 
At the same time, I would hardly ad-
mit that science has a monopoly over our 
possible modes of thinking. I clearly be-
lieve that there’s value in doing philoso-
phy, and I enjoy a good book as much as 
any other pretentious humanities major. 
I am also cautious about situations where 
our science gets too far ahead of our eth-
ics (see: climate issues, the nuclear age, 
etc.), but I am consistently hopeful that 
we can move past 
such issues because 
we have methods of 
understanding our 
way out of predica-
ments by means of 
explanation. It is a 
fact of the matter 
that many of our best 
explanations are sci-
entific and material-
istic — many, but not 
all. And as Columbia 
University philoso-
pher Philip Kitcher points out in an ar-
ticle written in response to some of the 
positions held by Thomas Nagel (who 
my fellow columnist Harry Zieve-Cohen 
’15 quotes in his column “A Defense of 
Books”) one of the main challenges to 
science and philosophy consists in try-
ing to provide naturalistic explanations 
for things like consciousness and our 
systems of valuing. We can hardly say 
that things like love and death are topics 
about which science has no jurisdiction 
because it is likely that one day they are 
things we will have explanations for.
Science and materialism have been 
considered as viable perspectives for as 
long as natural science has existed as an 
offshoot of natural philosophy. Just as 
it would be impossible to provide an ac-
curate natural history of a region while 
ignoring the role humans play in shap-
ing the landscape, we cannot do good 
science without remembering the lens 
through which it develops and is per-
formed – the human lens. I doubt that 
anybody in our community or academia 
legitimately questions the value of hu-
manities. We will discover the actual na-
ture of “meaning and truth” inasmuch as 
science and the humanities are capable 
of collaborating in writing the human 
narrative.
elephant in 
the room
Ben Kinney ’15 is from 
Camano Island, W.A.
the human environment
Green Piece
Julian Macrone ’14 is 
from Clifton, N.J.
“Marijuana, we must 
recognize, is not a 
gateway drug, but a 
terminus.”
“We can hardly say 
that things like life and 
death are topics about 
which science has no 
jurisdiction because it is 
likely that one day they 
are things we will have 
explanations for.”
opinions8 october 3, 2013 | 
The Case for Cannabis
|october 3, 2013 9opinionsoctober 3, 2013 | 
Terror Tweets
Somehow, without any U.S. troops 
being deployed or thousands of civil-
ians dying as collateral damage, both 
Iran and Syria seem to have given in 
to international diplomatic pressure. 
Iran’s new regime, after being demo-
cratically elected to succeed that of the 
highly question-
able Ahmadine-
jad, has lived up 
to its more mod-
erate rhetoric 
by entering into 
high-level talks 
over its place in 
the international community as well 
as the state of its nuclear program. 
Meanwhile Syria has succumbed to the 
Russian plan of placing its chemical 
weapons stockpile under international 
control – a far cleaner option than the 
vague, limited strikes suggested by the 
Obama administration.
What is notable about both these 
developments is that the U.S. has not 
been the key actor. The world can sort 
itself out without America. This is not 
a blemish on our only super-power; it 
can be a good thing for Kerry and co.: 
reduced dependency could bring about 
more reasoned and less gung-ho ap-
proaches. Instead of being the world’s 
policemen they can be great media-
tors. The Syrian crisis has just proven 
to be a propaganda disaster compared 
to what Putin achieved. He has man-
aged to make Russia seem like the most 
rational and obedient members of the 
international community – especially 
with his crude but cool piece in the 
New York Times only days before the 
new plan came about. Thus it seems as 
if other nations are not inherently an-
tagonistic to Western intentions.
The danger lies in those groups that 
have no ties to their populous: despotic 
governments and nefarious terrorist 
groups. To focus on these new belliger-
ents we cannot use means of traditional 
warfare. The war 
on terror should 
have been a war 
against non-
state actors, but 
that never came 
about because 
the great and 
glorious Presi-
dent Bush de-
cided that there was an “axis” of evil 
states and not a collection of malicious 
ideas. When these states are in danger 
of committing great horrors then state-
on-state war may be acceptable (such 
as would have occurred had Assad not 
opened talks last week). But in order to 
fight other antagonistic groups differ-
ent methods are needed.
Al-Shabbab, for example, the lat-
est Al-Qaeda off-shoot to commit a 
major atrocity, killed dozens at the 
Westgate mall in Nairobi during a hor-
rific three-day siege. Scarily, several of 
the militants are said to have had U.S. 
citizenship and one of them, known 
colloquially as the “white widow” (her 
husband blew himself up during the 7/7 
attacks in London), is thought to be the 
orchestrator and is British. The ideas 
of these toxic groups are not contained 
by borders and nor are there actions or 
their goals. They are embracing the ever 
hyped ‘social media’ and although that 
could very well be a ploy to distract ana-
lysts and intelligence officers, the very 
sight of a tweet from Al-Shabbab with 
“#westgate” is chilling in a whole new 
way.
It reminds me 
especially of the 
Woolwich attack 
this summer when 
two men ambushed 
a soldier in broad 
daylight on a street 
in South London 
and chopped him 
up with a meat cleaver. One of them 
then walked confidently up to the then-
arriving news cameras (who got there 
quicker than police) and proceeded to 
explain their rationale to the shocked 
public. Michael Adebolajo, who was 
raised in a Christian Nigerian home 
in England, killed a British soldier on 
a London street under the pretext that 
“Muslims are dying daily by British sol-
diers” and he would thusly “never stop 
fighting you until you leave us alone.” 
It is the toxic appropriation of anoth-
er culture - if it deserves that name - 
against his own and then the harrowing 
defense of his actions that makes this 
modern version of terrorism so horrify-
ing. This highlights another issue that 
is being hinted at through the Kenyan 
tragedy: seemingly perfectly rational 
human beings (Adebolajo was suppos-
edly radicalized at a London universi-
ty) are subscribing to militant Islamic 
rhetoric without any real ties, blood or 
otherwise to the original cause. It is ter-
rifying to think that an ideology that 
makes murder intelligibly acceptable is 
being preferred over all of our ever-so-
great bastions of peace, democracy and 
whatever. The recent use of modern 
technologies only further proves that 
these ideas are not limited to the back-
wards and ill connected.
On one level we must make our 
own culture appealing again, and fight-
ing fire with fire as we have done in the 
last decade is probably not the best way 
to do so. Then again, the dangers of 
transnational, transcultural terrorism 
are not solely going to be eradicated by 
ideological warfare. Just last week 80 
people died in a church in Pakistan af-
ter bombings by the Pakistani Taliban, 
independent of the aforementioned in-
fractions.  However, that should surely 
be the first step, to keep people on “our 
side” from slipping over to “theirs.” We 
inhabit a world where our enemies may 
not take the form of entire states, just 
as we do not represent in ourselves the 
UK or the US. Instead we are fighting 
against ideas and, far more dangerous-
ly, people who will die for those ideals, 
no matter how flawed or vicious they 
may be.
eye on the 
outside
Jack George ’16 is from 
London, U.K.
“We inhabit a world 
where our enemies may 
not take the form of entire 
states, just as we do not 
represent in ourselves the 
UK or the US.”
WE’VE GOT MORE THAN ENOUGH ROOM FOR YOU! 
ADVERTISE WITH US: CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
The Middlebury Campus| OCTOBER 3, 201310 11features
1 | Pieter Broucke
Professor of  History of  Art and 
Architecture; Associate Curator 
of  Ancient Art
“A book I read in recent years 
that had a big impact on me is 
Jared Diamond’s ‘Guns, Germs, 
and Steel.’ Not all that recent, 
but [it’s an] amazing history of 
humankind on a global scale, 
long before there were any writ-
ten sources. [It’s] chock-full of 
insights, creative in its approach 
and well written, though, like 
so many non-fiction books, the 
book is about a quarter too long, 
and it is mostly the third quar-
ter that should be shortened 
dramatically.”
2 | Doug Shivers
MiddXpress Retail Cashier/
Clerk
“In [‘Love in the Time of Chol-
era’], Màrquez told a secret in 
this book, which is that he lived 
with a family that was multi-
generational, and he listened 
to everyone and different ways 
people got along. You can see it 
in this book because you see the 
way that he is so precise about 
the way people interrelate to each 
other--no matter if they’re 16 or 
80. It’s a love story that starts 
from 16 and grows into their 80s, 
but [the girl] marries somebody 
else and [the] whole pursuit of 
[the man’s] life is to win her over. 
It is a remarkable book. [I] read 
it [in] Spanish, but there is an 
some things that I knew already 
but brought them out better. 
matter what age we’re at. It’s a 
love that took an entire lifetime to 
get there. It’s emotional because 
it can make you cry, it make you 
warm inside, it can make you 
feel desperate.”
3 | Julia Alvarez
Writer-in Residence
“This is no fair!  We writers 
[and] readers are so fickle.  To-
day’s must-read is tomorrow’s 
on-the-long-and-growing-list-of 
must-reads. So, I can give you the 
most recent must-reads: [I] just 
by Seamus Heaney. As an English 
[professor] for many years, it was 
of course assumed that I had read 
what was the beginnings of the 
one of my literary skeletons in the 
closet: I had never read it.  With 
Seamus Heaney’s death I decided 
to reread or read anything by this 
beloved poet — and lo and behold, 
I didn’t know, he had translated 
feel that though Heaney’s life was 
over,  this wonderful, haunting 
translation, as well as his stir-
ring poems, are still with us.”
4 | Mike Roy
L. Douglas and Laura J.  
Meredith Dean of  LIS
“If I had to choose a book that I 
think all Middlebury undergradu-
ates should read, I would suggest 
that they read ‘Code’ by Lawrence 
Lessig. It is a book that describes 
how the Internet’s design and 
structure both impact our current 
social and political practices and 
how we as a society need to think 
hard and act decisively in order to 
ensure that the technology we cre-
ate, and the structures in which 
this technology exists, support the 
creation of a world that we want 
to live in.” 
5 | Greg Buckles
Dean of  Admissions
“Abbey gained notoriety as kind 
of an environmental activist in the 
60s and 70s out west — he was oc-
casionally called the ‘Thoreau of 
the West.’ He was best known for 
his books ‘Desert Solitaire,’ a work 
Wrench Gang.’ ‘The Fool’s Prog-
ress’ was his attempt near the end 
of his life to become a serious nov-
elist — he hoped the book would 
be his ‘fat masterpiece.’ It takes 
place over the course of a journey 
from Arizona to his home state of 
West Virginia. It’s Abbey at his 
best: curmudgeonly, controver-
sial, crude, and comedic. It’s one 
of only a handful of books I reread 
every couple of years. For some 
reason, it always speaks to me.” 
6 | Tim Parsons
College Horticulturalist
“This was easy: ‘Pilgrim at Tin-
ker Creek’ by Annie Dillard. [It 
is] some of the best writing ever, 
good enough to leave you breath-
less at the end of the page. It’s a 
master class in seeing as opposed 
to looking and a good lesson in 
having a sense of place. I read it 
nearly changed majors.”
7 | Febe Armanios
Associate Professor  
of  HIstory
“[‘Dialectic of Enlightenment’] 
provides an eye-opening critique 
of enlightenment discourses sur-
-
jectivity and progress as well as a 
poignant analysis of the dangers 
and pitfalls embedded within 
modern tools of mass culture 
work during graduate school, and 
it had a profound effect on the 
way I viewed the study of the past 
and present.”
8 | Rob Cohen
Professor of  English and 
American Literatures
“A book everyone should read, 
tricky question — there are so 
many, and the reasons are so per-
sonal and idiosyncratic. Maybe for 
me the book I cite most often in 
that regar — the book that seemed 
to peek inside my head and narc 
me out to some unseen authority 
for judgment — is actually a no-
in the Jungle’.  I wouldn’t say it’s 
a book everyone should read, but 
for a certain kind of bright, roman-
tic idealist who attends a liberal 
arts college, it hits close to home. 
It’s about a guy who feels himself 
singled out for some extraordinary 
and immaculate destiny, though 
what that destiny actually is as 
he reports, over a period of years, 
of his, remains weirdly obscure. 
It’s always immanent, just out of 
reach, like a code he can’t quite 
solve.  Eventually, not to give away 
anything, he makes a fateful dis-
covery about all this, too late to 
do any good — at least for him. 
For me it did a lot of good, scared 
me straight, changed the way I 
saw myself and more important-
ly, other people. All through my 
20s, if not much longer, I felt the 
shadow of that beast lurking over 
my shoulder, breathing harshly, 
waiting to spring.  For all I know 
it’s still there.”
9 | Yonna McShane
Director of  Learning Resources 
and Lecturer in Psychology
“[‘Everything’s an Argument’] 
talks about how you can be a re-
ally good public speaker, how you 
build arguments but also the kind 
of pieces that you need to do in 
terms of eye contact with the au-
dience, feeling [relaxed]. It’s an 
incredibly powerful thing to know 
how to speak to people in a group, 
and it’s a life skill that you use in 
many different circumstances. I 
see it as important as being a real-
ly good writer. I came across this 
book because I was one of those 
people phobic of public speaking, 
then I got really good at it, hav-
ing done presentations in front of 
[hundreds] of people and interna-
tional conferences. And I thought, 
this is something that a lot of peo-
ple are afraid of, but what an in-
credible way to empower students 
and everyone with a liberal arts 
education — being able to com-
municate ideas not only in writing 
but also verbally.”
10 | Jon Isham
Professor of  Economics
“‘The Metaphysical Club,’ Louis 
Menand’s masterful intellectual 
history of pragmatism, has re-
oriented my professional work. 
Through his portrayal of the 
lives and times of Oliver Wen-
dell Holmes Jr., Charles Sanders 
Peirce, William James and John 
Dewey, Menand unravels prag-
matism’s central premise: that the 
ideas that matter within any given 
culture and at any given time are 
the ideas that work; [they] make 
a difference in people’s lives. This 
worldview, particularly as it plays 
out in John Dewey’s advocacy 
of hands-on learning embedded 
within the surrounding social 
context, has become a north star 
for my teaching and scholarship.”
11 | Michael Moser
Director of  Facilitites Services
“[‘The 7 Habits of Highly Effec-
tive People’] has provided valu-
able insight for practice in both 
my professional and personal life. 
I’ve been immersed in the lessons 
of this book for over 20 years, and 
each new reference to or experi-
ence with this information [yield] 
enlightenment to enhance my re-
lationships with others and also 
provide focus on my personal de-
velopment goals.  This is the book 
that keeps giving as long as I am 
willing to receive.”
12, 13 | Ian Martin
Catering Manager and Com-
mons Chef
“Despite their ‘bestseller-ness’ 
and all the negative connotations 
and stigma that may bring, [‘The 
Time Traveler’s Wife’ and ‘Cutting 
for Stone’] are two of my not-so-
recent favorite books. And they 
made an okay movie adaptation 
of ‘The Time Traveler’s Wife,’ re-
ally rare in my opinion.”
14 | Bill McKibben
Schumann Distinguished 
Scholar
-
ist, perhaps — and he’s been a re-
lovely, a story about community 
and commitment. It’s a master-
piece not just of ecological think-
ing, but of American literature 
generally.”
15 | Rick Bunt
Burr Professor of  Chemistry 
and Biochemistry
“[‘Angle of Attack’] is a story 
about the ‘race to the moon’ in the 
1960s, written from the point of 
view of the engineers at North 
American Aviation who build 
the Apollo Command Module, 
rather than the astronauts who 
flew the missions on whom 
most books focus. [It is a] very 
interesting period in America’s 
history, and landing a man on 
the Moon is still the proverbial 
yardstick by which other events 
are measured. It’s actually quite 
a page turner. I’ve used it in sev-
eral [First Year Seminar] cours-
es, and students uniformly seem 
to enjoy reading it and learning 
more about this fairly recent US 
history, especially as it relates 
to their parents or grandparents 
lived though it.’ 
16 | Murray Dry
Charles A. Dana Professor of  
Political Science
“I am currently teaching Plato’s 
‘Republic’ in a political philoso-
phy class. I have had the privi-
lege of teaching it almost every 
year of my long teaching career at 
Middlebury College.  Rereading 
Plato’s Republic is an educational 
delight because Plato’s mode of 
writing, his use of Socratic conver-
sations, allows his readers to learn 
something with each reading.  And 
Plato’s ‘Republic’ is the greatest 
work ever written on the subject 
of justice.  That is perhaps because 
Socrates succeeds in this conversa-
tion in engaging his interlocutors 
in philosophy and poetry as well 
as politics.  He does it by allowing 
us to ‘see,’ to grasp via images, the 
human soul.”
17 | Marion Wells
Associate Professor of  English 
and American Literatures
“Perhaps [Virgil’s ‘Aeneid’] is an 
unexpected answer from an Eng-
-
ate training included a lot of work 
in Latin literature, but even be-
fore then, I had been completely 
stunned by Virgil, not just the 
‘Aeneid,’ actually, but also the 
Georgics. I sat and translated 
12 at around the age of 16 or 17, 
with a dictionary at one elbow 
and a massive commentary at 
the other. I memorized lines and 
lines of it and read paragraphs of 
commentary on the intricacies of 
a single line. No poem had ever 
made the kind of impression on 
story of Dido and Aeneas, made 
on me at that time. I believe that 
it was this early and transforma-
tive experience of translation that 
taught me to love poetry, and to 
see how much, in the hands of a 
skilful poet, a line of poetry can 
do. Unexpectedly, then, I have my 
demanding and wonderful Latin 
teacher to thank for my later life 
choices.”
1
2
3
4
5
108
9
7
6
11
12
13
14 15 16
What’s on Your Night Stand?
We asked sta!, faculty and administrative members each to choose one—
and only one—book that has changed their lifes, the one book all students 
need to read before they die.
Quotes collected by Jessica Cheung,  
Joe Flaherty and Isabelle Stillman
Layout by Ian Stewart
17
Although much of the attention on im-
migration reform in Congress centers on the 
policy toward illegal immigrants, Professor 
of Public Policy at the College of William and 
Mary  Harriet Duleep brought to light a sur-
prising fact about immigration.  
-
tion has been the cornerstone of U.S. immigra-
tion policy,” said Duleep. “But now buried in 
the comprehensive immigration reform pro-
posal that’s been put forth by the Senate is a 
recommendation that the relatives such as 
siblings and the children of immigrant citizens 
could not get in unless they obtain visas for 
In the D.K. Smith ’42 Economics Lecture 
Immigrants – Blessing or Bane?” 
“Most of the attention in the newspaper 
is about illegal immigrants but I thought that 
realize and it has received almost no attention 
Duleep began by saying that contrary to 
popular belief academic research does have 
an impact. According to her, the studies on 
-
tion reform debate. Duleep is well aware of 
introduction, David K. Smith Professor of Ap-
plied Economics Phanindra Wunnava praised 
Duleep’s contributions to the economics of im-
migration. 
“In my view, Professor Harriet Orcutt Du-
leep is an authority on ‘immigration economic 
the ongoing debate concerning the direction 
Wunnava in an email.  
-
sonally. 
“Given her expertise on immigration over 
the years she was invited to testify in front of 
the House of Representatives commission on 
immigration reform and the Senate Judiciary 
Committee,” said Wunnava. 
Duleep explained how there are two mo-
-
tion. 
“One is that family admissions serve hu-
manitarian goals only,” said Duleep. She then 
quoted the late Senator Edward Kennedy who 
said it would be inhumane to cut out sibling 
preferences.  
“But he didn’t mention that there would 
be economic fallout from doing so,” Duleep 
said.  
-
migrants who gain entry to the U.S. because 
“It falls from that that to be economically 
competitive the U.S. needs to bring down fam-
ily-based admissions and increase employ-
ment-based admissions,” said Duleep. 
She said there may also be some underly-
-
est numbers recently are Asian and Latin 
American immigrants, with European coun-
tries sending fewer migrants, and that the U.S. 
has historically viewed new immigrant groups 
with suspicion.   
“Would there be the same concerns about 
the economic productivity of recent immi-
grants if most came from Europe and Canada? 
-
though immigrants may still face discrimina-
tion … there is enough openness in the econ-
omy that this can be overcome,” said Duleep.
how we measure immigrant earnings affects 
blessing or a bane for the U.S. economy. She 
also said people who already thought we need 
to cut down on family admissions were hand-
ed a tool in these types of studies that may as-
sume too much.  
Duleep explained a variety of reasons why 
family-based immigrants are not a drag on the 
economy. First and foremost, employment-
based immigrants have siblings too. 
 “A family friendly policy may be one rea-
son the U.S. has been able to attract the best 
and brightest,” said Duleep. “Eliminating the 
attractive destination for employment-based 
immigrants.”
-
grants also contribute economically by a will-
a greater percentage of immigrant groups go 
to school than U.S. natives. Additionally, in or-
der to add to the economy, one has to stay in 
the country.
“Immigrants with family ties are more 
-
manence,” said Duleep. “If you’re not going to 
that may be applicable to the U.S.” 
when they decided to stay in the U.S. had high 
earnings growth beginning that very same 
year.
ties to whether immigrants have relatives here. 
-
ness, the most important variable that far sur-
is whether an immigrant has siblings in the 
U.S.  It’s a very strong result,” said Duleep.  
An overarching point to the lecture was 
a word of warning about assumptions in aca-
demia. 
“When you read economic studies as 
they are reported in the newspaper, be wary 
what you should pay most attention to and 
Duleep.
said in an email that the U.S. sought to con-
tinue family-based immigration.
“Prof. Duleep accurately highlighted the 
importance of permanence in our ever-chang-
ing world. Citizens and immigrants are much 
that country,” he said.
the Economics of Immigration
By Joe Flaherty
In Professor William Pyle’s economics 
class, we were taught how socialist economics 
affect the organization of cities. In Moscow of 
the former USSR, land was not priced accord-
ing to its opportunity cost. Consequently, there 
were no incentives to redevelop obsolete land 
that is valuable. In the absence of incentive to 
recycle valuable land, the buildup of population 
the center during urban migration, which left 
drive across the city from its center, you will be 
able to observe the successive rings of Stalin, 
typical of the period it was built, as if they were 
-
-
tory.
In this light, we can say that capitalist cit-
ies suffer from Alzheimer’s. With limited space 
and the pricing mechanism in place, structures 
are constantly demolished and rebuilt with 
the land awarded to each successor with the 
in Hong Kong where each inch of space is con-
tended.
help but marvel at how uninhabitable this 
-
phy – on steep hills, underground, in valleys, 
chaotic spread of undulating roads, and such 
Few resources have been channeled into heri-
tage preservation because of economic activity, 
the constant renewal of land use.
certain vastness and openness about American 
cities – the wide avenues, the huge tenement 
this Easter, I remember being blinded by the 
glare of the sunset shining from the far end of 
avenue so straight and wide it reaches the other 
end of the horizon, where the setting sun is. 
Order is also ever-present – the grid structure 
of the city, and the names of roads that go by 
number.
And yet somehow, there is a sense of tran-
sience, as though the huge Chicagoan build-
historical structures remain, there is still an 
uneasy sense of novelty that still pervades the 
bright advertisements and the mass produced 
missing.
In the pursuit of inspiration for this col-
-
tives and qualities – “rugged individualism,” 
“paranoid” and “crowd-identifying” – no one 
At the end of my economics class on 
Wednesday as Pyle and I were discussing the 
events of the cultural revolution, he said it is 
-
preciate the stability of the environment in 
why the structures in the cities don’t hold any 
perspective – America has hardly experienced 
any event traumatic enough to leave a lasting 
imprint on its national memory to give shape to 
a national character. Although Hong Kong has 
a very short history, I cling onto its deep-rooted 
traditions and values shaped from its many 
collective experiences, such as the Japanese 
Occupation and British Colonization. Perhaps 
America’s “rugged individualism” stems from 
the fact that there had been no concentric rings 
-
mon shelter for the different groups, leading to 
the formation of a culture that is diverse but its 
elements dispersed and divided.
12 features | october 3, 2013
“... although immi-
grants may still face dis-
crimination … there is 
enough openness in the 
economy that this can be 
overcome.” 
Harriet Orcutt Duleep
Research Professor of Public Policy, 
The College of William and Mary
¡AMurica!
By Joy Zhu
Style Tips from the Man in a Blouse
By Stephanie Roush
How heavily is our style influenced 
went to Berlin, Germany last fall with 
one self-identity and left with a new, 
improved and slightly more European 
one.  
Before leaving to go abroad Supple 
didn’t necessarily consider style among 
his top priorities, although he was con-
stantly searching to add new, unique 
items to his repertoire.  
-
ball shoes in bright colors,” commented 
Supple.
Supple credits the College for initially 
pushing him to try out new styles and be-
come more free in his wardrobe choices. 
“Before coming to Middlebury I only 
wore the clothing that my mother and fa-
-
lege gift shops,” said Supple.
abroad, he realized that he had never 
been exposed to such a vibrant, evolv-
ing culture of street style.  He’s also from 
Boston, Mass.   
“I got to Berlin and thought why do 
times more cool than me? I 
good as them.”
of clothing in particular spawned his 
new style he responded with an anecdote 
about his first experience thrift store 
shopping in Berlin. 
old clothes,” said Supple. He described 
his encounter with one man who owned 
clothes and essentially refurbishes them) 
who sold him a pair of sweatpants made 
from an old sweater. 
“I basically lost my mind when I saw 
those pants. It’s a great feeling when you 
realize something was literally made for 
you,” he laughingly said.
Supple, after hours of contemplating 
German street style and the European 
aesthetic decided to put a more conscious 
effort into his dress. 
put something where it doesn’t belong 
In addition, Supple has a new-found 
penchant for cutting his shirts into differ-
ent shapes and sizes. 
“Just wearing a t-shirt is boring. You 
-
sors and an old tee,” he said, adding that 
it is also a good incentive to layer your 
clothing when your t-shirt is not covering 
much.
In his Sociology of Gender class Sup-
ple learned about Judith Butler’s theory 
that dress is a performance.  
good in,” said Supple.  
He also commented that one of the 
advantages of having so many cool clothes 
is that it allows you to try on new identi-
ties.  
“One of my favorite pieces of clothing 
was formerly a woman’s blouse and it’s 
in the wind.”
choices demonstrates his wiliness to try 
on new identities and be constantly in-
volved in the creation of his ever-evolving 
self-identity. 
style in three words Supple struggled 
to respond.  After a couple minutes of 
For pictures of Jack Supple’s style 
transformation check out our Features 
section online.
478,780
146,406
143,998
348
Immediate relatives of 
U.S. citizens gaining 
legal permanent 
residence status in 2012.
Persons gaining legal 
permanent resident 
status in U.S. from 
MEXICO
Persons gaining legal 
permanent resident status 
because of employment-
based preferences in 2012.
Persons gaining legal 
permanent resident status 
in U.S. from FINLAND
Persons gaining legal 
permanent resident 
status in U.S. from 
CHINA
by the Numb3rs
81,784
Source: U.S. Department of Homeland Security
JACK SUPPLE ’14 ON HOW ABROAD 
SHAPED HIS SENSE OF STYLE AND SELF
In this week’s Campus Character, The 
Campus sat down with Amari Simpson ’16, 
a Posse Scholar and Neuroscience major 
from Chicago who is active in the Student 
Government Administration and has also 
done cancer research.
Middlebury Campus: Tell me about 
yourself and what you do on campus.
Amari Simpson: Most of the time I go 
from doing something that gradually leads to 
me being the face of something. As a fresh-
man in high school, I started in a simple 
position in student council, which gradually 
led me to become vice-president of that and 
vice-president of my class year. I remember 
one of my goals then was to meet as many se-
niors graduating with me as possible, so that 
was 483. Out of all of the seniors, I met 450, 
knew their names, face and what they were 
considering for a college choice. I worked on 
really appreciate genuine relationships and I 
try to carry forth with that in everything that 
I do.
MC: How do you like being the Di-
rector of Student Organizations?
Simpson: I report to Rachel [Liddell] 
but ultimately it is like taking the president 
am doing but at the same time I am like, “Let 
me tell someone else to do it!” But being able 
to be in a key position and being responsible 
for a number of things is inspiring. 
MC: What do you like about neuro-
science? 
Simpson: I love astronomy because 
we are learning about something that is so 
far out of our reach but we put so much ef-
fort into learning about it. I feel the brain is 
also its own little universe and we’re trying 
to get in so many nitty-gritty details about 
how it functions and how we are as we are. 
end because there is always something new 
everything we can is what is most fascinat-
ing. I don’t think about the end point, I think 
about leading up to it.
MC: What was it like coming from 
Chicago and moving to Middlebury?
Simpson: I’m a Posse 
scholar from Chicago and so 
we had a lot of conversations 
about going from an urban city 
life to something that might 
appear slower or might come 
off as different than you’re 
used to. I’ve done research in 
Bethesda and Philadelphia 
and I’ve gotten bits of life out-
side Chicago. I realized there 
is a range of fast-paced and 
slow-paced life and that I am 
very adaptable. Going from 
Chicago to here, yes, it was ex-
treme…But I have made things 
work as best as I can in terms 
of making sure I am staying in-
volved with past relationships 
I’ve had, making sure I’m ac-
tive in trying to form new rela-
tionships and maintain what I 
create with those. 
MC: What was the re-
search in Bethesda?
Simpson: The research 
that I did was at the National 
the Tissue array Research Program. Forma-
lin at that time was known to be a solution 
that after we extracted a tissue or brain we 
would place that organ within that solution 
and we would prepare it to be preserved for 
long-term use. It was important because a 
lot of cancer research involves researching 
patients that have passed away as a result 
of some invasive or very malignant related 
are able to preserve whatever tissue or organ 
that the cancer impacted and we are able to 
better see how it evolved, why did it become 
as problematic as it was and be able to go for-
ward and have better research applications.  
MC
Posse class at Middlebury –what was 
that like?
Simpson: We were really nervous hav-
ing New York as a partnership because we 
were worried about our dynamics being very 
New York has its own ego. In so many ways 
they don’t compare and do compare, like 
pizza, style, rappers, etc. A lot of my Posse 
concerns were about not being able to con-
nect with New York Posse. But now being on 
campus and seeing how close we are, that’s 
something that we’ve really loved. It’s simi-
lar to the idea of MTV’s Real World – you’re 
taking 12 random strangers, putting them 
together in a group and expecting them to 
rely on each other, respect each other. We’re 
always concerned that might not happen and 
we’ve become very open-minded that if that 
wasn’t to happen it’s okay to have differing 
Posses. As long as we’re the best individual 
people we can be, that can resonate in be-
ing a leader for people who are younger than 
you.
MC: You are also interested in 
photography, isn’t that right?
Simpson: I feel like pictures can say so 
many words just by capturing an event or two 
people talking. I love photography because it 
on his phone wallpaper of Battell Hall]. Bat-
things happened there in terms of making 
friendships and sustaining that through 
Wonnacott commons and being an RA. That 
is something that I like to do in terms of pho-
tography, capturing memories. 
13features
NEW IPHONE SOFTWARE
So we can all pretend we have the 
iPhone 5C. 
NEW IPHONE SOFTWARE
Avoid the future.
LEMON CUSTARD IN 
PROCTOR
Bite-sized new delicacies!  
GOVT. SHUTDOWN
Time to stock up on the es-
sentials.
FREE SUBSCRIPTIONS
New York Times and Wall-
street Journal have landed.   
FREE SUBSCRIPTIONS
Don’t forget about your tried 
and true Campus!
WINNERS&losers
october 3, 2013   
Campus Character: Amari Simpson ’16
You know that one person you’ve 
hooked up with so many times you can’t 
you two are not, never have been and most 
certainly never will be anything serious. It’s 
the person you call at 1 a.m. when you’re 
in the mood and no one else is around. It’s 
the person who you sleep with in between 
relationships. You’re a boomerang and this 
person is the one you just keep coming back 
to.
But you’re not drawn to them. Because 
they’re somehow not the tragic love of your 
life that you can’t seem to let go of. In fact, 
chances are they’re the exact opposite. You 
don’t like this person — like, at all. Other-
wise, you two probably would be together. 
The fact is, they probably don’t want to be 
with you either. No, this hook-up buddy of 
yours does not derive from a feeling of un-
requited love or a lack of closure — it’s pure 
convenience, accessibility and maybe just a 
way to fend off boredom.
break up, they’re the perfect no-emotions 
under this old lame. Or the party you’re 
at is starting to resemble Noah’s Arc and 
you’re the only one not paired off, so you 
give this person a call. Or, it would just take 
someone else, and this one is a total layup. 
I think it’s more than that. The reason we’re 
so quick to revert back to an old hook up in-
stead of to fool around with someone new is 
that, by doing so, we don’t have to increase 
our number. We don’t have to add another 
name to that list we keep in our iPhone 
notes.  We go back to the same utterly va-
nilla hook up again and again because we 
get to have sex without having to add on 
another sexual partner.
I believe that there is still something 
inside of us that hates the idea of that num-
ber getting higher and higher. We want to 
say it doesn’t matter. But we can’t help that 
feeling we get when asked, “what’s your 
number” and the answer is more than we’d 
like to admit. 
It’s a funny dichotomy, because at the 
same time we don’t want to rack up ump-
teenth partners, but we want to be having 
as much sex as we can. We want to walk 
into a hook up and totally wow in bed with 
all kinds of tricks, but we don’t want to 
admit (even to ourselves sometimes) that 
we’ve gotten our practice from a slightly 
large sampling of people. 
As sexually liberal as we might think 
we are, sex is still a big deal. We may like 
to think that sex can be casual, and while 
in many ways it can be, it still means some-
question you ask a friend when they tell 
of like, “oh no biggie,” but if they did, it’s 
with someone, not only do you add one to 
your number, but your relationship to that 
person changes. For the rest of your life, 
even if you never see them again, they will 
always be a your sexual partner.  
already had sex with, you’re avoiding all 
of the inherent side effects of the hook up. 
Nothing changes. It’s the easiest way to 
satisfy one of our most basic desires with-
out any of the residual feelings or changes. 
You’ve been there done that, literally, so 
-
times, we don’t want sex to mean as much 
as it does, and if you’ve done something 
once it’s less of an event to do it again. 
We may not even realize it as we’re 
walking back to that person’s room again 
(and noticing that their wall decorations 
haven’t changed since freshman year). At 
that moment, we may be wondering why 
we are doing this again. But in the morn-
ing, when we wake up feeling pretty good 
from our night of pleasure and don’t have 
to worry about having another person on 
campus we feel slightly awkward running 
into at a meal, it makes perfect sense why 
we went back, why we’ll probably go back 
again and maybe even again.
hooking  sober
By Shannon Fiedler
-
Courtesy of sga
We’re kind of like a big deal 
So come join our team. campus@middlebury.edu
ONLINE  
WANT A PIECE OF THE 
ACTION?
To apply to write for any of these sections, please submit a brief letter 
campus@middlebury.edu.
NEWS
LOCAL 
FEATURESSPORTSOPINIONS
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Movement Innovation and Collaboration
In this lecture/demonstration, Catherine Cabeen and 
members of Hyphen perform excerpts from their up-
coming performances and discuss the collaborative 
process. Bring a bag lunch. Free. 
10/9, 12:30 P.M., MCA DANCE THEATRE
Othello Screening
The major new production of William Shakespeare’s 
celebrated play about the destructive power of jealousy. 
Olivier Award-winning actor Adrian Lester (Henry V at 
the National Theatre, BBC’s Hustle) takes the title role. 
Playing opposite him as the duplicitous Iago is fellow 
Olivier Award-winner Rory Kinnear.
10/3, 7 P.M., TOWN HALL THEATER
Angelique Kidjo in Concert
Kidjo has been called “Africa’s premier diva” by 
Time magazine and “the undisputed queen of 
African music” by the Daily Telegraph of Lon-
don. Her music is recognized for its diverse in-
Afropop, Congolese rumba, jazz, and more.
10/3, 8 P.M., NELSON RECREATION CENTER
On top of a small incline adjacent to the 
Mahaney Center for the Arts sits a small, steel 
structure that appears to be housing electri-
cal equipment. Upon taking a closer look, the 
back of the piece resembles a house of cards, 
and viewers realize that they are looking at 
a work of art.  This sculpture is a part of the 
current Museum of Art exhibition Vito Acco-
nci: Thinking Space, and it carries a contro-
versial 30-year history at the College.
When prominent visual and perform-
ing artist Vito Acconci came to the College 
as a Visiting Professor of Studio Art in 1983, 
his public, participatory art spurred impas-
sioned reactions.  Acconci’s J-term course, 
“Art in Public Spaces,” included an installa-
tion of thought-provoking sculptural pieces 
throughout the campus.  One piece in par-
ticular, a steel sculpture called Way Station 
(Thinking Space) was described by the artist 
as “A closet-like structure by the side of the 
road, at a college campus, that descends to a 
partially underground space that can serve as 
a study room … A way station can come mid-
way to the journey ...” 
-
nent architectural commission, was erected 
on what was the busiest pathway on campus, 
halfway between what are now the Ross com-
plex and the Freeman International Center. 
Community members entered the sculpture, 
-
side door and a sliding mirror door directly 
in front of them.  Upon entering, participants 
found a table, concrete seat and shelving unit, 
and could sit hunched inside to accommo-
date the sloping back wall.  On the back wall, 
a person inside the structure could rearrange 
nine panels, letters spelling out “God,” “Man” 
and “Dog,” on one side and playing cards on 
the other.  
Students and community members im-
mediately reacted to the piece, many calling 
it a waste of space and an eyesore.  The Com-
mittee to Relocate the Acconci Sculpture was 
formed in April of 1983, and hundreds of stu-
dents signed a petition to move the sculpture 
to a more secure, and less public, location.  
The petition’s main argument was that 
“people who don’t want to look at it shouldn’t 
have to.”  As time went on, students and fac-
ulty continued to complain about what they 
felt was an oddly located and ugly piece, and 
the structure was repainted four times due to 
varying degrees of vandalism.
Museum Curator Emmie Donadio re-
participatory art form.
“We never thought about vandalism 
or security,” she said. “There was no public 
sculpture on campus before the art museum, 
and there was no administration to oversee 
the structure.  The only people with responsi-
bility would have been the art gallery.” 
The drama surrounding the sculpture 
reached a breaking point after the graduation 
ceremony of 1985, when the sculpture was 
ignited by a blow torch and 75 percent of the 
Part of the College’s history is revitalized 
with Vito Acconci: Thinking Space, which 
honors the artists’ career and features a rep-
lication of the controversial Way Station 
(Thinking Space) sculpture, now behind the 
pond by the Mahaney Center for the Arts.  
The exhibit marks the 30th anniversary 
of Acconci’s residency and celebrates his var-
ied works, particularly in architecture.  After 
Way Station 
(Thinking Space), the artist founded the 
Acconci Studio and worked internationally 
as a designer of public places.  Projects have 
included, among others, retail stores, recre-
ation facilities, airport terminals, and recy-
cling plants.  The exhibit on display now sur-
veys Acconci’s career through a timeline of 
photographs, diagrams, videos and explana-
tions written by the artist stretching around 
the walls of the museum space.  
Acconci’s work boldly asks for partici-
pants and consistently returns to the theme 
of both blending in and sticking out.  On the 
other side of the exhibition space, a time-
line details the construction of Way Station 
(Thinking Space), augmented by articles 
from The Campus tracking the controversy 
of the piece.  Six of the original playing card/
letter panels are in the exhibition, some clear-
of the reconstruction of the sculpture, called 
Way Station (Thinking Space) II.  The rem-
nants of the original steel shell were reused, 
and the only primary difference between the 
replica and original is location.  
Acconci’s piece to the College.
“This reconstruction has been a proj-
ect of Museum Director Richard Saunders 
since he arrived at the museum in 1985,” said 
Donadio. “The piece is a historic monument 
– we want people to know about it, what it 
represents, the thought that went into it and 
what it conveys.  Acconci’s work partly in-
spired The Committee on Art in Public Plac-
es, which oversees 22 works now on campus.” 
Despite the negative reactions to his 
work, Acconci accomplished his goal of using 
art as a public conversation piece and forever 
changed the Middlebury College art commu-
nity as a result.
Now a member of the Art Faculty of the 
City University of New York and at Pratt In-
stitute, as well as an active architectural de-
signer, Acconci returns to campus on Thurs-
day, Nov. 7 at 7 p.m. for a free illustrated talk 
in Dana Auditorium.  He will also visit with 
students in programs in Studio Art and Ar-
chitectural Studies.
Vito Acconci: Thinking Space is cur-
rently on exhibition in the Overbrook Gal-
lery until Dec. 8, and Way Station: Thinking 
Space II will be unveiled the weekend of Oct. 
18.  This fascinating sculpture and artist pair 
has a unique connection to the Middlebury 
community, and even those uninterested in 
art will appreciate Acconci’s talk and innova-
tive design style. 
Controversial Sculpture Returns to Campus
By Leah Lavigne
Courtesy OF  acconci studio
Vito Acconci’s original version of Way Station sat outside Ross Commons for two years before it was burned down by students.
Courtesy OF  acconci studio
Fence-on-the-Loose, a sculpture created by Acconci in 2013, has become part of the architecture of Waterpark City in Toronto.
A walk in the woods with a forager re-
veals all the neglected treats. As Jake Faber 
undergrowth looking for edible plants and 
mushrooms. He lets loose a victorious cry, 
strides over to a small tuft of weeds, and takes 
a handful. 
“This,” he explains, “is a wood sorrel. It 
tastes good, kind of like a lemon, and is used 
much because the oxalic acid in it can be poi-
sonous in large quantities. You would have to 
eat a lot of it though.” I eye it, take a bite, and 
decide to pick some to munch on later. 
Foraging is a growing trend in the U.S. 
and Faber and Aiofe Duna ’16.5, co-founders 
of the Foraging Club, are trying to introduce it 
to the College. Foraging is the act of searching 
for wild plants, fungi and fruit to consume. 
The idea for the club started last spring se-
mester in a conversation between the two. 
“Aiofe and I found out we were both re-
ally interested in foraging,” Faber said, “and 
when we started talking about it we heard 
there were a lot of other people on campus 
who thought that it sounded cool and wanted 
to learn about it, but were afraid to try it be-
cause they didn’t now enough to avoid things 
that would poison them.” 
The two then decided to create a group 
where students could learn to safely identify 
and collect wild mushrooms and plants. The 
club plans on holding expeditions into Mid-
dlebury’s surrounding woods for a hands on 
foraging experience, as well as inviting guest 
professional lecturers on campus to speak 
and hold workshops. 
Duna and Faber thought students would 
be interested in foraging on a number of lev-
els. For starters, it’s a valuable survivalist skill. 
don’t want to end up like Alex Supertramp 
and eat a handful of poisonous seeds. And, 
rough situation, people still enjoy being pre-
pared for the worst and knowing they could 
do what survivor man does. On another level, 
it brings a heightened appreciation and un-
derstanding of nature.
“There’s the survivalist aspect,” Faber 
said. “But I think practically it’s something 
that gets people to become more aware of 
what’s going on around them in the forest. 
It changes how people view the landscape. 
There’s a lot going on in it.” 
Foraging is also a nice way to apply the 
knowledge learned in the class to one of the 
most fundamental of personal concerns, hun-
ger.
“If you understand the basics of ecology 
and plant biology,” Faber said, “you can apply 
it and make it more relevant. A lot of people 
are turned off by that sort of memorization 
because they think it’s tedious and abstract, 
but if you can apply it to something tangible it 
Foraging also taps into the same well 
of inspiration as the organic farm and Wey-
bridge house, the effort to build a more per-
sonal connection to the food we consume. 
But foraging also has a darker side. 
Many plants and fungi have evolved toxins 
concerns to humans. Faber is well aware of 
the health threats, and plans to safely avoid 
anything dangerous. 
“The two biggest [concerns] ,” Faber 
explained, “are the Jack O’Lantern and the 
destroying angel. They are both very toxic, 
and look sort of similar to two edible mush-
rooms that some more advanced foragers try 
to eat...” Instead, Jake and Aiofe have made 
up a list of eight safe mushrooms safe for con-
sumption that have little to no chance of be-
ing mixed up with other mushrooms. 
“Morels, chicken of the woods, lions 
mane, hedgehog, puff ball, and lobster,” Fa-
ber said, listing off the safest mushrooms. 
“Each of those is pretty easily distinguishable; 
none of them have look-a-likes that are really 
dangerous or inedible. Each of them has par-
ticular characteristics that give them away, so 
that as long as you teach someone to look for 
that one thing they can determine what it is.” 
It was this concern for safety that led the 
club to be initially rejected by the club com-
mittee last year.
“The approval process for us is slightly 
-
aging has risks that are associated,” Faber 
said, “So we need to work with risk manage-
activities, so right now we are reworking our 
constitution that will hopefully allow us to 
start doing things pretty quickly before the 
fall foraging season ends.”
The Foraging Club hopes to get approv-
but it is important to spur on interest in a ne-
kingdom is not only the most diverse in the 
animal kingdom, but it is also one of the least 
understood. The fungi kingdom has given us 
penicillin and many other useful drugs. While 
cancer, it would raise awareness of this often-
neglected kingdom of life. 
-
proval sometime this Fall and start leading 
expeditions as soon as possible. To contact 
them to express interest head over to their 
website, go/shroomsquad.
By Toby Aicher
I knew Grand Theft Auto (GTA) V had 
hooked me when, minutes after putting the 
-
ring to people as “homie.”
version of Los Angeles called Los Santos, 
and it is hard to imagine a more perfect 
setting. The reality of the game is a height-
ened one where criminality is the norm. 
Almost everyone you meet in GTA V is a 
criminal in some respect. The three pro-
tagonists of the game — Michael, Franklin 
and Trevor — are no exception to this rule. 
They kill, they lie, they steal and they do 
it not so much out of necessity, but out of 
anger. 
Los Santos is a sick city, and I do not 
mean that in a complimentary way. It is a 
city that chewed up and spat out the Amer-
ican Dream. The world the player sees is 
corrupt and morally bankrupt. Whether it 
is the up and coming pop star who chases 
Franklin and his paparazzi friend through 
the streets in her car after she catches them 
spying on a backyard sex romp, or the 
marijuana enthusiast who spikes Michael’s 
joint with a bit of something else, everyone 
in Los Santos seems out to get the protago-
nists. 
As a result, their villainous and argu-
ably evil deeds become almost laudable. As 
I played through the game I found myself 
laughing at the awful things these char-
acters did and that I did while controlling 
them. These characters kill and steal not 
because they need the money, but because 
the world around them is so insane that 
for the ride. 
While GTA V excels in both story and 
theming, it struggles a bit more with its 
gameplay. The GTA series has always been 
known for controlling a little strangely. The 
previous entry in the series put many peo-
ple off — myself included — with its awk-
ward lock-on shooting and boring, heavy 
driving controls. GTA V does take steps to 
address those control issues. The shoot-
ing and movement feel a bit snappier, and 
the driving is more manic and satisfying. 
The controls are still weighty, however. I 
once climbed a ledge on a roof and found 
off the edge due to his apparently massive 
inertia. And while driving around dodging 
cops is fun, the learning curve on the driv-
ing physics is a bit steep. 
While the controls still retain some of 
their old clunk, they do manage to work as 
intended. Rockstar’s games are much more 
like world engines, and the characters real-
ly do feel like they are placed in the world. 
Walking around Los Santos feels like walk-
ing around a city, and the fact that you can 
so easily spin out and get overwhelmed by 
cops makes the car chases all the more ex-
citing. 
As the game progresses you will even-
tually be able to switch between all three 
lives in progress. You might switch over to 
-
scription from the green clinic, or swap to 
-
tion covered in blood and wearing a dress 
(as was said in one of the game’s trailers, 
the less that is said about Trevor, the bet-
ter). This character swapping gives the 
world an organic, dynamic feel and makes 
the characters seem like they have their 
own lives going on outside of your control. 
The character swapping is also used during 
the game’s heist missions. These are multi-
step affairs where each character will have 
a role to play. Sometimes you will switch 
control to a different character at set mo-
ments, and other times you will be able 
These scenes were some of my favorite in 
the game, and pulling off a successful heist 
Visually and orally, GTA V excels. I 
could go into greater detail about how 
the game is bright and colorful while still 
maintaining a realistic aesthetic, or how 
the radio stations are tailored wonderfully 
to each character, but it’s a Rockstar game: 
it was always going to look and sound 
great. GTA V is a game about terrible peo-
ple doing terrible things to a terrible world. 
It is not a happy game, but it made me 
laugh. The characters are despicable, but I 
cared about their lives, and wanted them 
to win. It plops the player down in a world 
that might make them sick, presents them 
three characters who are as disgusted by it 
as the player is, and then hands them guns, 
lots of guns. GTA V is a violent game, and 
it uses that violence to great effect to tell 
its sordid tale. It is a game that can get the 
player thinking, even while allowing them 
a rip roaring good time tearing apart Los 
Santos. If you like open world games, gang-
sters, cars, or thinking about how America 
has failed you, look no further than GTA V.
october 3, 2013 | 15arts SCIENCES
It feels like The World’s End was made 
using some kind of miraculous alchemy. 
This is the third movie by director/writer 
team Edgar Wright and Simon Pegg which is 
spastically, ridiculously funny while some-
how remaining sincere and even poignant. 
The basic structure sees the oncecool, now-
alcoholic Gary (Simon Pegg) drag his four 
old buddies from their adult lives towards 
their hometown of Newton Haven in an at-
tempt to complete the epic 12 pub bar-crawl 
they failed to complete years ago. The last 
bar is the titular “World’s End,” which, by 
way of an alien/robot/blue people inva-
sion, becomes a delightfully appropriate 
name. The themes underlying this comedic 
storm of an invasion are the anesthetized 
consumer life, melancholic nostalgia and 
invasion going on around him and Gary has 
to reach “World’s End” to get one more beer 
because it is “all he has.” This is an aston-
ishing comedic balance to pull off, yet, The 
World’s End makes it look so easy. 
Gary repeatedly tells us that his life 
was never better than that night: he bum-
bles around bars announcing his name as 
if he were a legend who everyone would 
remember. He recalls all of the little mo-
precision. Of course, Gary remembers all of 
the minutiae so well because he has never 
actually left that moment – and of course, 
everyone has forgotten the legendary Gary 
already. The World’s End centers itself on 
this metaphor: people don’t remember 
partially because it has been 20 years, and 
partly because Newton Haven has had its 
population removed and replaced by the 
aforementioned aliens, who want to “civi-
lize” humans. Gary stands for – or thinks 
he stands for – individuality and freedom 
in his immaturity, so naturally he leads the 
charge in a massive, outlandish, hilarious 
The World’s End is fundamentally a 
fast-paced movie: the dialogue is up-tempo, 
the action scenes are cut quickly as Wright 
rapidly darts from scene to scene. The mov-
ie consciously takes the cliché “never a dull 
moment” and then speeds everything up 
from that baseline – it’s all great fun. 
At the same time, Pegg knows exactly 
when to stop and give us the static shot; 
like when four of Gary’s buddies are sitting 
-
ing what to say to each other after 10 years, 
and not knowing why they’ve come. It 
shows a great deal of restraint from Wright 
to even allow such scenes in the middle of 
the comedic chaos that is The World’s End.
What has always been great about writ-
ers Edgar Wright and Simon Pegg is that 
the crises they depict are not themselves the 
central problem for their characters – the 
apocalypse is an almost incidental annoy-
ance that prohibits them from solving their 
other problems. In Shaun of The Dead, the 
zombies were annoying foremost because 
they prevent Frost and Pegg’s characters 
from drinking and dicking around. The 
World’s End operates almost inversely: the 
characters have already matured here, and 
the alien invasion has dragged them back 
towards their youth. 
has a different tone and demeanor which 
is quite abruptly and quite literally torn 
apart by the alien invasion. But in the world 
of Pegg and Frost, this transition makes a 
strange amount of sense – the populous of 
Newton Haven long complains about being 
“robots” before we learn that they are actual 
robots. They are people that have retreated 
to a comfortable life in a static town, going 
through routines as machines. In this way, 
it feels both logical and necessary that the 
town be peopled by actual robots. 
The World’s End is one of the funniest, 
nicest, and most pleasantly ridiculous mov-
ies I’ve seen since Wright and Pegg’s earlier 
work. It feels like we’re checking in on old 
friends each time Wright, Pegg, and the rest 
of their gang make a new movie – and the 
The World’s End is stylized in such a way 
that it unmistakably belongs to them. There 
are few directors who even try something 
such as The World’s End, and other than 
Pegg and Wright, there is essentially no one 
else making movies who can pull it off.
the 
reel critic
By Oakley Haight 
science sp   tlight: the foraging club
one life left
BY CHAPIN BOYER
grand theft auto V
A bunch of morels, a choice edible mushroom found by the Foraging Club last May.
jake faber
BE A PART OF a TRADITION
the 
campus 
has 
printed 
for 108
Years.
join us  
for 108.
Whether you care 
about politics, 
sports, investigative 
journalism, the arts, 
food, scandal or film, 
there’s space for your 
words. 
campus@middlebury.edu1905
1955
2013
 16Advertisement October 3, 2013 | 
With the game tied at 10 at the beginning 
of the fourth quarter, Middlebury needed 
someone — anyone — to make a play. After 
before, had possession of the football to start 
The Mules had outgained 
game’s interquartile range, tying 
seizing all momentum from the 
Panthers.
And then, in the span of time 
body to the far sideline. Sitting on the route, 
in all three phases of the game 
gain.
formation, sneaking inside the pylon for the 
The Mules then tied the game on their 
goal, knotting the game at 10. 
The Panthers had an opportunity 
to retake the lead on the subsequent 
 
safety help. 
game open as Foote found a streaking Minno 
game.
season.
October 3, 2013| SPORTS17
Crimmins Pick-Six Sparks Football Victory
panther sc0reboard
Men’s Soccer vs. Colby    
Rugby  vs. Northeastern  
Women’s Soccer vs. Colby
5-0 W
37-7 W 
2-1 W
Adam Glaser’s ’17 hat trick 
bested a weak Colby.
Three decisive wins in the 
ECRC competition put MCRC 
on top.
Another late goal boosts the 
women Panthers to victory.
Women’s and Men’s Cross Country Teams 
Impress in First NESCAC Competition
Williams College. The meet featured 
“We run together, in our blob, and I 
to rebound.
our team strength against some other top 
By Bryan Holtzman
the middlebury
great  eight
8
men’s soccer
5-0 win over Colby, yes, but 
you can’t lose to Williams and 
get love in this space.
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Damon’s Decisions
2
Football
memory, the defense is 
outplaying the offense.
volleyball
10-0. They’re killing it. Spikes 
rule. 
3
Men’s RUGBY
There is no do, there are only 
tries.
4 
FIeld hockey
They’ve allowed one goal in 
their past three games.
5
Women’s soccer
They’ve lost one game, and 
a third of their team wasn’t 
7
Cross country 
They must enjoy running in 
this weather.
6
MEn’s and Women’s Golf 
First and second this weekend, 
but just sixth in the GR8.
By Damon Hatheway
PRESS PLAY
Listen to the WRMC 
Sports broadcast 
of this moment (and
others) online at  
middleburycampus.com
| October 3, 201318 sports
Field Hockey Sneaks by Williams, Colby, 
Improves to 4-1 in Conference, 6-1 Overall
 Middlebury picked up two hard-fought 
wins over the weekend, beating Colby 2-0 
on Saturday, Sept. 28 and Williams 2-1 on 
Sunday, Sept. 29, adding a third victory over 
Skidmore on Tuesday, Oct. 1. Coach Katherine 
DeLorenzo became the Middlebury Field 
Hockey’s most successful coach with 183 
career victories to date. 
The narrow margins of victory 2-0 and 
2-1 raise less concern about the quality of 
Middlebury’s play, rather than announcing 
the increasing competitiveness of programs 
across the NESCAC league.  The defensive 
performances of both Colby and Williams, 
parrying away large shot advantages for 
Middlebury, showed that both teams 
prepared well to counter the Panthers 
offensive power. 
Despite not registering blowout wins, 
Catherine Fowler ’15 believes that this is not 
a bad thing.
“It’s exciting now that every game is up in 
the air.  Not many teams are not going down 
by eight goals like they used to,” she said. 
On Saturday, Fowler opened the scoring 
after converting a goal off of a penalty 
corner eight minutes into the game.  Fowler 
received the ball smoothly, slid it around a 
Colby defender to Elinore O’Brien ’14 on her 
right, who drew the goalie’s attention before 
reversing it right back to Fowler for an easy 
put-away. 
The Panthers defended the less frequent 
Colby attacks by committing plenty of bodies 
back and having Emily Knapp ’15 yelling 
orders from her spot in goal.  Chrissy Ritter 
’16 hustled all the way back from her forward 
position numerous times to catch Colby from 
behind and retake possession.  
Central defender Meredith Rowe ’14 
also played rock solid defense throughout 
the game with block tackle takeaways that 
caught the Mules by surprise.  The risky 
ground to create a road block for the rushing 
opponent. 
“I wish I could put down a block tackle 
comforting to know that she is back there.”
Before halftime, Bridget Instrum ’17 
lifting a rebound opportunity above a prone 
The second half proceeded tensely as 
Middlebury yearned for a bigger lead but 
Colby’s tightly packed defense resisted blow 
after blow. 
With about four minutes left in the game, 
Lauren Berestecky ’17 found the ball near the 
top of the Colby arc and muscled to her right 
around a lunging defender before careening 
a bouncer off the the left wall of the goal 
to effectively seal the game.  Once again a 
testament to DeLorenzo, the play mirrored 
the exact drill that the forwards practiced 
over and over that week.  
Berestecky was relieved to pass that 
milestone. 
way and take that pressure off,” she said. 
On Sunday, against Williams, no fan or 
player could shrug about Berestecky’s goal, 
as she struck yet again to break the tie in the 
54th minute.  As designed in the set corner 
post where Berestecky battled it away from a 
defender and shoved it into the goal. 
Middlebury spent the majority of the 
afternoon experimenting in the Williams 
zone, earning 20 corners to Williams’ one. 
The Panthers dug deep into their corner 
playbook, calling a dozen different plays to 
Two minutes after breaking the ice, Fowler 
scored on yet another corner opportunity, 
a low shot past the Williams goalie.  
The lone goal that Middlebury conceded 
over the weekend puttered over the goal line 
for Williams with just over one minute left to 
play. Middlebury wound the clock by letting 
Alyssa DiMaio ’15 carry the ball forward and 
avoid the swarm of Williams tacklers.
The Panthers stalked and snacked on the 
Skidmore Thoroughbreds on Tuesday night, 
piling on four late goals to win 4-0.  The 
glistening green turf, slightly wetter at night 
than during the day, charged up the team to 
play its most crisp and dynamic game of the 
streak.  
“We really played our game tonight,” said 
Ellie O’Brien. “We moved the ball well from 
the middle out to the wing on the attack.”
when Instrum beat a Skidmore defender one-
on-one and chipped a pretty backhand shot 
high into the goal.  Shortly after, Berestecky 
and Rowe sunk two more goals.  The last lick 
of the feast went to captain Deidre Miller ’14, 
Deoul ‘14, increaing the Panthers lead 4-0 —
The Panthers travel down to Boston to 
face Tufts on Saturday, Oct. 5 before taking 
on MIT on Sunday, Oct. 6.
By John Wyman
Jessica MunYon
Middlebury was able to thwart Colby’s attacking efforts at home on Saturday, Sept. 28.
Men’s Soccer Records 500th Victory 
particularly impressive sequence, earning 
two of his four saves by diving from the 
ground for each after a Colby striker was 
able to get the ball at his feet twice in a row. 
one more on the board for the panthers. He 
cleanly and powerfully struck the ball from 
the top left corner of the penalty box, and 
into the top right corner of the goal. 
imperative for his team going forward into 
tougher competitions.
“Everyday we strive to get a little bit 
better,” Saward said. “You’ve got to have a 
little bit of swagger in order to have self-
belief and to believe in the guys next to you 
and around you … there’s no substitute to 
winning convincingly.”
Glaser echoed his coach’s sentiments.
“We should have great momentum 
going into the rest of the week, and 
hopefully with such a great result this 
weekend there’ll be lots of support there,” 
Glaser said. “Looking forward, this team 
is capable of anything. The combination 
of talent and senior leadership will be very 
dangerous.”
Tuesday’s game against Williams 
presented an early test of Saward’s hopes 
only managed three shots on net, two found 
the back of the goal despite the best efforts 
of the Panthers defense and goaltender 
Ethan Collins ’14.
Middlebury went down early when 
Williams’ junior back Andres’ Burbank-
Crump scored on a low laser from 25 yards 
out. That score held for the majority of the 
game. In the 49th minute Collins made an 
impressive diving stop to keep the game 
close.
Greg Conrad ’17 made things interesting 
career goal by sneaking a free kick into the 
top left corner of the net to knot the score 
at 1-1. Conrad deferred the credit to his 
teammate.
“[The] free kick … came because of Tom 
Bean’s [‘17] hard work to get in a dangerous 
position,” said Conrad.
Less than two minutes later Williams’ 
Matt Muralles responded with a goal to 
ruin the Middlebury comeback and give 
Williams a 2-1 victory.
“Ninety minutes is a long game and 
emotionally that can take its toll on the 
team after a while,” said Conrad. “We just 
made a few small mistakes that they just 
capitalized on.”
The Panthers now sit at 3-2-1 and 2-2-
1 in NESCAC play, which will resume this 
Saturday at Tufts (5-2-1, 3-2).
CONTINUED FROM 20
Dawg Days
I am a die-hard Boston sports fan. For 
example, in 2003, at only 10 years old, 
I fell asleep in the 7th inning of Game 7 
of the ALCS. I woke up at 4:30 a.m. and 
turned on my TV to see continuous replays 
toward Aaron Boone’s bat and subsequently 
rocketing into the atmosphere, at which 
point my howls of misery awoke my parents 
in the room next door. 
This past Saturday, I found myself 
suddenly devoted to another team, another 
fan base, another history. Even I, so 
seasoned in the art of sports viewing, could 
not comprehend the scene that I witnessed 
– that I was a part of – in Athens, Ga. this 
weekend. 
Two weeks ago a friend from Bowdoin 
called me with the idea to visit a high school 
buddy in Georgia for a match up of top ten 
him that my summer job of painting houses 
for a month did not supply me with the 
adequate funds necessary to undertake this 
voyage. But the idea stewed in my mind, and 
I could not quell my enthusiasm any longer. 
With a loan from the First Bank of Dad, the 
trip became a reality. On Friday, four of my 
best high school friends and I descended on 
Athens where our gracious host introduced 
us to life in a major college football town.
We arrived in Athens around 11 p.m 
on Friday. On both sides of the street 
intoxicated minors clad in red and black 
streamed out of frat houses. Outside our 
friend Bradley’s house, a sloppy pledge laid 
down some freestyle beats on stage in the 
parking lot in front of 100 or so people. Later, 
our contingent joined the revelry downtown 
where it seemed that the doormen at every 
bar had very poor eyes. 
I saw guys with Ralph Lauren polos and 
boaters and girls in short sun dresses and 
cowboy boots. Every bar played the same 
songs but got the same excited reaction 
every time. Apparently, a lot of college 
students have the same ‘f****** problem’.
When Saturday morning began, around 
8:30 a.m., the party began with it. Right 
outside our door a band played live in front 
of a few hundred rowdy Dawgs fans. Dozens 
of tents shaded tailgaters playing corn hole. 
A giant smoker produced delicious brisket 
that had begun cooking the day before.
Around 11:30 a.m. we crossed the road 
to enter the main quad where the College 
GameDay crew had set up shop. Swarms 
of fans from LSU and UGA held signs and 
hollered their approval or displeasure with 
every opinion offered by the show’s hosts. 
Three hours of tailgating later, the game 
began.
Running solely on adrenaline, I cheered 
the roller coaster contest along with 85,000 
other Dawgs fans. When LSU countered a 
Dawgs score with one of their own, the few 
sections of purple and yellow outdid the 
vast majority with their chants of “Geaux 
Tigers!” The red and black responded with 
“Glory, glory, glory Georgia, and to Hell 
with LSU!” 
The game went back and forth seemingly 
every drive, and with only a few minutes left 
the ball was in the hands of UGA quarterback 
Aaron Murray, who then conducted a near-
perfect drive to give the Dawgs a three-point 
lead. On the ensuing drive the crowd roared 
as it tried to affect the LSU offense. With 
each incompletion, the crowd’s fervor, and 
my own, increased. When the ball hit the 
ground on 4th down and Georgia sealed its 
victory, the stadium exploded. 
On my drive back to the College on 
Sunday afternoon, I thought about how 
connected I felt to those people in the 
last moments of that game. I still felt the 
intensity in that stadium of 92,000 and the 
joy of the Mardi Gras-like crowd roaming 
the streets of downtown later that night. 
I had gone on the vacation of a lifetime, 
sandwiched between class on Friday and 
Monday morning. I lived in a different 
world for a day, and what a day it was.
Dawgs on top.
-Joe MacDonald is a sports editor from 
Pepperell, Mass.
500
10
Wins for the Middlebury men’s soccer 
program.
Number of players who have 
scored so far for the women’s soccer 
team.
Seconds that separated the women cross 
country runners Erzsie Nagy ’17, Katherine 
Tercek ’16, Emily Singer ’14 and Katie 
Rominger ’14
John Louie’s ’15 shot total that earned him 
8
145
by the Numb3rs
Number of hours Palmer Campell’s ’16 ITA 
Williams.
2
10cornerback Nate Leedy ’17, a team high on 
Saturday, Sept. 30
The Middlebury men’s and women’s 
golf teams enjoyed extremely successful 
The women hosted and earned a second-
place Trinity (612) and third-place Amherst 
host the NESCAC Championship next April. 
with Williams (622). 
The men’s team held a commanding 
14-stroke lead after day one of the 
Sunday with a score of 303.
John Louie ’15 led the way for the 
with a score of 145. He narrowly edged 
Louie and Donahoe both shot rounds of 70 on 
in fourth place while Eric Laorr ’15 and Fitz 
scores of 154.  
weeks were all in preparation for this weekend 
The NESCAC Championship will take 
place April 26-27. Middlebury has won the 
most recently in 2012. 
While Williams (628) pulled away from 
Middlebury (664) was able to earn a second-
to pull ahead of Amherst and Mount Holyoke 
for good. 
top three golfers. Theodora Yoch ’17 (167) 
(168) captured a share of tenth place. Michelle 
“Each of us has the potential to shoot a good 
The women will play their last tournament 
october 3, 2013| 19SPORTS
Women’s Soccer’s Late Goal Bests Colby
The Middlebury women’s soccer team 
Sept. 28.
The Mules took control of the game in 
low shot into the right corner.
Despite going behind so early in the 
possession. 
around the back line.
Middlebury was left to rue many missed 
box limited the amount of Middlebury shots 
on goal. 
double-teams. Her best chance came in 
the 32nd minute as she split the defense 
could only watch as her shot just went 
was able to round the keeper after she had 
a defender for a corner. While Middlebury 
score line by the end of the the half.
Middlebury was unable to settle into 
play that often resulted in passes to Colby 
Raszka ran into the shot from the top of the 
into the top right corner with Mules keeper 
goal.
and hopefully it will be a good starting point 
in the game. Middlebury continued to 
pressure Colby and looked likely to go ahead 
a through ball from Carter Talgo ’15.
waiting at the back post.
Casey said.
refusing to sit back and instead continued 
future.
The team is in a strong position in the 
By Alex Morris
men’s and women’s tennis teams faced 
some of the best players in New England 
While the weekend had no bearing on the 
The men’s tennis team hosted the New 
all were able to win multiple match-ups.
Campbell and Williams’ Conrad Harron 
preceding a grueling second set. The war of 
winning the 
in doubles play with partner Jones. The 
one another. Easily beating their initial 
two sets with their opponents before falling 
10-7 in the tiebreaker to end their day. 
weekend and was the only player to be in 
 “He and 
College. 
picking up multiple wins with ease. She 
tournament with teammate Sadie Shackelford 
’16. The sophomores rolled to two early wins 
(8-1) and (8-2) before losing to the entrants 
Shackelford said.
best competition they will see this year. The 
to Mount Holyoke to take part in the Newitt 
By Kevin Yochim By Stephen Etna
be the most potent yet.
We want the cup!
Owen Teach (81-82, .497)
Damon Hatheway (117-107, .522)
Joe macdonald (5-6, .455)
so far.
these sports.
to win the Cup and the Lightning at 
A hard loss midweek against 
any good.
at the moment.
certainly a win or a push. You still 
YES
She will. 
Jumbos are good and at home.
YES
games. No-brainer
editors’ picks
Alex Morris (7-4, .636)
 The volleyball team continued 
its undefeated streak, utilizing the 
depth of its team to advance to 10-
0. The team traveled to Clinton, NY 
this past Saturday, Sept. 28 to play 
Hamilton and Union. It continued 
their winning streak Tuesday, Oct. 
1 with a win against Plattsburgh. 
The team started off the 
weekend with a convincing 3-0 win 
against Hamilton. The Panthers 
were able to keep the Continentals 
at a fair distance winning all three 
sets 25-17, 25-16, and 25-17. Piper 
Underbrink ’15 led the team with a 
.875 hitting percentage and 7 kills 
for the game. Megan Jarchow ’14 
followed close behind with 6 kills. 
In a display of the depth of the 
team, Hannah Blackburn ’17 led 
on the defensive side with 12 digs, 
while Lauren Alper ’16 followed 
closely behind with 11. The captains 
attribute this widespread talent to a 
development of the program in the 
last four years. 
“We’re very proud of the 
progress that Middlebury Volleyball 
has made over the past four - six 
years and much of that pride lies in 
our consistently deep teams,” said 
tri-captain Amy Hart ’14. “It’s an 
advantage that many teams don’t 
have and it gives us a whole other 
incredibly more productive and 
challenging when we consistently 
have two solid teams to scrimmage 
and push each other just as much 
as or even more than any opponent 
of ours might.”
The win against Bowdoin 
marks the team’s second NESCAC 
matchup leaving them 2-0 in league 
games thus far. The NESCAC play 
will heat up for the Panthers in the 
following weeks with games against 
Wesleyan and Trinity on Oct. 4 
and 5. While Middlebury’s few 
NESCAC matchups thus far may 
lead some to think that the team’s 
Meg Anderson ’14 feels that it is as 
strong as ever.
“We haven’t faced the toughest 
teams in the league yet but I think 
we have shown that we are ready 
to compete in the league no matter 
who we play,” Anderson said. “We 
may have played fewer games than 
some other NESCAC teams but we 
top of league again this year.”
Later in the day Saturday, 
the Panthers continued on their 
winning streak defeating Union 3-1 
while, dropping only their second 
set of the season. The women 
came out strong with a 25-19 win 
able to creep back in the second 
set, the Panthers were able to pull 
away in extra points ending the set 
27-25. The third set proved more 
Dutchmen came away with a 25-20 
win. The team did not let this phase 
set 25-22. 
“Dropping sets is just part of 
volleyball and every team is bound 
to drop a set sometimes,” Anderson 
best team we’ve faced so far and I 
think dropping a set made us work 
harder to win the match. We never 
doubted that we would win and just 
The team then continued 
on in its usual fashion, beating 
Plattsburgh in a mid-week game 
enough to go into extra points, the 
Panthers came out with in front, 
taking the set 26-24. The Panthers 
won the next two sets 25-15, 25-
22 coming away from the match 
without dropping a set. 
The team will continue play this 
coming Oct. 4 and 5 at Wesleyan 
and Trinity, but the team is already 
looking forward to its games 
against NESCAC rivals Amherst 
and Williams. 
“This weekend we play two 
NESCAC teams but I really think 
that our home games against 
Amherst and Williams in two weeks 
will set the pace for the second half 
of the season,” Anderson said. 
“They are typically two very good 
teams and I think if we practice 
hard and beat them, we will have a 
team in the league.”
The Panthers will host the Lord 
Jeffs and the Ephs Oct. 11 and 12 at 
home. 
On Saturday, Sept. 28 the 
Middlebury men’s soccer team 
celebrated its 500th win in 
program history in style. The 
Panthers roared their way to 
victory with a dominant 5-0 over 
bottom-ranked Colby. 
The Panthers’ failed to match 
their offensive output from 
Saturday’s game in a 2-1 home 
loss against Williams on Tuesday, 
Oct. 1.
Middlebury wasted little time 
getting the scoring started. Just 
Adam Glaser ’17 buried the ball 
in the bottom left corner after 
receiving a slick through ball from 
co-captain Adam Batista ’14 near 
continued an attacking trend 
several similar chances created by 
balls up the middle.
Colby had a few chances to 
three corner kicks and several free 
kicks just outside the penalty box. 
However, the Panthers defense 
remained stalwart and took the 
ball outside dangerous territory 
each time the Mules threatened.
Middlebury senior goalie 
the back line playing in front of 
him.
“The defense has being playing 
incredibly well,” Collins said.  “A 
big part of this has to do with 
the work ethic and drive of our 
defenders in the back.  They 
every tackle and 50-50 ball.  The 
guys in front of me have also 
been communicating very well 
which helps them shut down the 
opposition.”
scoring just one before the 
halftime whistle, and with 1:22 
left, forward Dan Skayne ’15 put 
an unassisted strike behind the 
goalie, after beating a defender 
above the box. 
Coming into the second half 
an immediate and electric 
continuation to Middlebury’s 
minutes into the half, Batista 
sent a rocket of a throw-in from 
deep in Colby’s territory into 
Conrad ’17 delivered a header to 
the feet of Glaser, who drove the 
ball high above the goalie’s head 
into the opposite top corner. 
Just 12 seconds later, Glaser, 
still hungry for another goal, was 
able to beat two defenders and 
the goalie, putting the ball into 
the bottom corner of the net after 
yet another assist from Batista. 
of his young Middlebury career.
career was huge for me,” Glaser 
said. “I used to feel so anxious 
worrying that my game wouldn’t 
translate to the college stage but 
I feel like a huge weight is now off 
my back.” 
Despite Glaser’s hat-trick, 
Batista’s impressive supporting 
role did not go unnoticed.
“Adam has got that ability as 
well, he’s a very dynamic player,” 
head coach David Saward said. 
“It’s early days, but even in 
practice he’s just hungry to score 
… he’s a predator who’s going to 
get in and around the penalty 
box.”
Middlebury kept up the 
intensity for the remainder of the 
match, with the defense shutting 
down Colby’s attack down at every 
given chance, including three 
more corner kicks. Collins had a 
20
By Alex Edel
GOLF TEAMS 
OUT-STROKE 
COMPETITON 
PAGE 19
MIDDLEBURY TENNIS 
TEAMS IMPRESS AT 
ITA REGIONAL
PAGE 19
Five-Goal Outburst 
Propels Men’s Soccer
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Volleyball Wins 10th Consecutive 
Match, Has Dropped Just Two Sets
By Ben Buckles
SEE MEN’S SOCCER, PAGE 18
sports
CATCH ME IF YOU KHAN
Billy Sadik-Khan ’14  
makes his NESCAC-best 15th 
reception on a crucial fourth  
down in a 27-10 victory over  
Colby. See page 17.
Jessica MunYon
File photo
Volleyball improves to 10-0 overall with three straight road victories. 
