From Sept. 27 to Sept. 30, 
Middlebury students, faculty 
and staff from the College’s 
Vermont and Monterey cam-
puses discussed Middlebury’s 
identity and future as part of 
the “Envisioning Middlebury” 
strategic planning process.
Tobi Marcus, a management 
consultant who focuses on non-
profit organizations and philan-
thropic advising, facilitated the 
conversations. She encouraged 
members of the Middlebury 
community to voice their per-
sonal responses to three ques-
tions: Who are we? What does 
the future look like? Where do 
we want to go? The goal of ask-
ing these questions is to collect 
ideas that will later be synthe-
sized into a strategic plan for 
Middlebury’s future.
The most recent set of con-
versations were held on the 
Middlebury College campus, 
but the conversations will con-
tinue at the Monterey campus 
until Oct. 27, and community 
members in Vermont will be 
able to participate via video 
conference.
“Over the course of the year, 
we will gather creative and 
meaningful input from all of 
Middlebury’s constituencies 
and synthesize it into a compel-
ling vision that will guide our 
strategic decisions for years to 
come,” College Provost Susan 
Baldridge said in an email. 
President of the College Lau-
rie L. Patton said in a campus-
wide email that the Envisioning 
Middlebury team was presented 
with three central goals for this 
year: creating a “vision state-
ment,” continuing “community 
conversations” and making 
“strategic directions that will 
shape Middlebury’s future.”
These facilitated conversa-
tions are part of the “exchange” 
stage of the strategic planning 
process that began last winter. 
Conversations are made up of 
small facilitated groups, which 
consist of participants repre-
senting many diverse perspec-
tives. Each group is guided by a 
professional facilitator. 
Another way in which mem-
bers of the community have the 
opportunity to join the conver-
sation in this stage is through 
community-initiated conversa-
tions that focus on a particu-
lar issue to the organizer. So 
far these organized discussions 
have focused on language and 
culture, the environment, the 
arts, learning spaces, engaged 
The College has officially 
rolled out a series of changes 
at the Parton Center for Health 
and Wellness.
Atop the list of changes is the 
addition of new resources for 
survivors of sexual assault. On 
Aug. 18, the College announced 
a new collaboration with Porter 
Medical Center to expand the 
number of Sexual Assault Nurse 
Examiners (SANEs) employed 
at both the College and Porter 
from three to seven. 
Per the International As-
sociation of Forensic Nurses, 
SANEs are “registered nurses 
who have completed specialized 
education and clinical prepara-
tion in the medical forensic care 
of the patient who has experi-
enced sexual assault or abuse.”
Funding for the partner-
ship came from a three-year, 
$272,528 grant that the College 
received from the Department 
of Justice’s Office of Violence 
against Women in 2013. The 
College received the grant as 
part of their ongoing initiative 
to change campus culture re-
garding sexual violence. 
“In rare situations, a SANE 
exam may not be available at 
Parton. Students will be direct-
ed to Porter Hospital for fur-
ther care. Students always have 
the option of going directly to 
Porter Hospital and request-
ing SANE services,” said Mark 
Peluso, M.D., director of health 
services at Parton. 
Now, both students and 
community members will have 
greater access to SANE servic-
es, lessening the need for survi-
vors of sexual assault to travel 
to Burlington or Rutland.
“Our collective hope is that 
sexual assault survivors will 
continue to have prompt access 
to excellent SANE care in our 
local community,” Peluso said. 
“Both the college and Porter 
continue to have a strong inter-
est in ensuring timely access to 
SANE care for survivors of sex-
ual assault. Combining resourc-
es results in the college and 
surrounding community having 
improved local access to excel-
lent SANE care and support.”
Currently Middlebury is the 
only institution of higher edu-
cation in Vermont that has a 
SANE on staff. The partnership 
between the College and Porter 
may serve as a model for other 
college communities around 
the country. 
“According to our colleagues 
at the Vermont Network Against 
Domestic and Sexual Violence, 
the Middlebury College-Porter 
Hospital SANE collaboration 
appears to be unique among 
small college communities, in 
Vermont, and possibly nation-
ally,” Peluso said. “We are hap-
py to share the model we devel-
oped with other colleges and 
towns.”
 This year, students will also 
have access to confidential 
counseling phone support ser-
vices during the evening and 
on the weekends when Parton 
is closed. To reach a counselor, 
students should call (802) 443-
514 and follow the voicemail 
prompts. The service is also 
available to faculty and staff 
who are supporting a student 
and need advice from a coun-
selor. 
Parton has also changed 
their hours to better accom-
modate student-need. The Cen-
ter will now be open Monday 
through Friday from 8 a.m. to 
6 p.m., and on Sundays from 
noon to 4  p.m. Counseling 
hours will remain from Monday 
through Friday from 8 a.m. to 
5 p.m. For more information, 
visit go/parton. 
Four students were elected 
to serve as Student Government 
Association (SGA) Senators for 
the 2016-2017 academic year. 
The election, which took place 
from noon on Sept. 26 to noon 
on Sept. 27, featured eleven 
candidates spanning three rac-
es. 
Ceryn Schoel ’19.5 ran un-
opposed to serve as Feb Sena-
tor. She will replace Sebastian 
Grandas ’19.5 who resigned ear-
lier this year. 
In the senate, Schoel plans 
to work with the administration 
to provide a copy of all class 
textbooks on-reserve in the li-
brary. She takes issue with the 
high price of class materials and 
believes that widespread on-re-
serve copies of texts will lighten 
students’ financial loads.
“I know a lot of people are on 
financial aid here,” Schoelsaid. 
“Spending $230 on an [eco-
nomics] book for one semester 
is crazy. Without a doubt, we 
need a copy of every required 
textbook in the library.”
Schoel also intends to further 
integrate Febs and first-years 
into the rest of the Middlebury 
community. She wants to pro-
pose a “buddy system” that will 
pair new Febs and first-year 
students with more acclimated 
juniors to smoothen their tran-
sition to the College.
“I think that it’d be cool if we 
integrated an organic buddy sys-
tem where Juniors adopt Febs 
and Freshman,” said Schoel. “I 
think it’s better to have some-
one who isn’t just assigned to 
babysit you but genuinely wants 
to make you feel at home within 
this unfamiliar environment.”
From a field of four candi-
dates Kian Waddell ’19 emerged 
victorious to serve as sophomore 
senator. He will replace Isabella 
Martus ’19 who stepped-down 
earlier this year. Former Sena-
tor Charles Rainey ’19 also ran 
for the seat. Last Spring, Rainey 
opted not to pursue re-elec-
tion to the senate, and instead 
launched an unsuccessful bid 
for SGA President.
“I don’t know if I expected 
[to win],” Waddell said, “but 
I put as much as I could into 
OCTOBER 6, 2016 | Vol. 115 no.4 | middleburycampus.com
LOST KINGS 
CONCERT HYPES UP 
CROWD 
PAGE 15
RUTLAND 
PREPARES FOR 100 
SYRIAN REFUGEES
PAGE 4
STUDENT-RUN 
“FIASCO” DEBUTS AT 
51 MAIN
PAGE 9in
sid
e
By Kyle Naughton
Contributing Writer
newly elected sga senators discuss goals
Parton Adds New 
Staff, Services
By Will DiGravio
News Editor
SEE NEW SENATORS, PAGE 2
SEE COLLEGE, PAGE 2
Students, faculty and staff gathered in Middlebury to consider the college’s identity and its future 
goals. Monterey will host the next set of conversations on Oct. 27.
Michael Borenstein
Parton increased its staff and partnered with Porter Hospital to ex-
pand its care for victims of sexual assault.
‘Envisioning Middlebury’ Discussions 
Focus on College’s Goals for Future
By Lucy Grindon
Contributing Writer
Ivan valladares
SEE PARTON-PORTER, PAGE 5
This past summer, the Center for Com-
munity Engagement (CCE) at the College 
accepted the ALL IN Campus Democracy 
Challenge. Put on by Civic Nation, a non-
partisan organization located in Wash-
ington, D.C., this competition aims to 
increase student voter participation and 
overall democratic engagement on college 
and university campuses throughout the 
country. The competition currently has 
189 participating campuses located in 37 
states. 
Ashley Laux, associate director of the 
CCE, initially accepted the challenge. Erin 
Bodin, interim associate director of the 
CCE, has since taken over as point person 
while Laux is on parental leave. The CCE 
submitted the finalized draft of its action 
plan last week.
The action plan states, “This year, 
Middlebury College accepts the ALL IN 
Campus Democracy Challenge, continu-
ing a multi-faceted approach to demo-
cratic participation as well as identifying 
new ways to improve democratic engage-
ment, increase student voter participation 
rates, and prepare students for a lifelong 
commitment to being informed and active 
citizens.”
Every enrolled school first receives a 
detailed preliminary analysis of its student 
body’s voting demographics. This is con-
ducted through The National Study of Vot-
ing, Learning and Engagement run out of 
the Jonathan M. Tisch College of Citizen-
ship and Service at Tufts University. Each 
campus is then tasked with setting goals 
and developing an action plan. After the 
election, a follow-up report will gauge how 
much voter participation has increased. 
Several prizes, including one overall 
champion, will be awarded to schools ex-
hibiting the greatest success in driving up 
student participation rates.
“There have been a lot of what we would 
call voting competitions, based upon voter 
registration, but it’s usually not done in a 
very ‘scientific’ way,” said Director of the 
ALL IN Campus Democracy Challenge 
Zaneeta E. Daver. “It’s often people count-
ing how many people they have registered, 
or asking students to indicate whether 
they are registered. Unfortunately, there is 
really no way to verify those numbers. We 
are the first, I believe, to use data on ac-
tual voter participation and in a way that 
is verified.”
Bodin emphasized that there are a 
number of faculty and students involved 
in increasing civic engagement at Middle-
bury. Her hope is to continue connect-
ing with other departments and student 
groups on campus to co-sponsor events 
and coordinate efforts.
Several noteworthy departments and 
student groups are highlighted in the ac-
tion plan, one such being Middvote. “A 
signature program at the Center for Com-
munity Engagement is MiddVote, a stu-
dent-led, non-partisan initiative that mo-
bilizes students on campus to engage in 
democracy through voting. MiddVote con-
ducts multiple voter registration drives 
during election season to help eligible stu-
dents register to vote and request absentee 
ballots.”
The action plan also delves into current 
ongoing initiatives such as TurboVote, 
which was launched on campus with the 
help of the CCE and MiddVote. TurboVote 
helps students register to vote online, 
request an absentee ballot and send the 
absentee ballot back to the polling place. 
MiddVote has also continued to offer stu-
dents access to local Vermont election 
events such as the Vermont PBS Guberna-
torial Debate.
On the competition, Daver said, “While 
the rewards are highly driven by data 
about whether the students vote or not, 
the program is one is where we are re-
ally encouraging students to think more 
broadly about democratic engagement. 
The big elections are every two years, but 
we want campuses to be consistently send-
ing strong messages to students about be-
ing involved in democracy in other ways as 
well, so a part of their action plans should 
be how they’re doing that.”
In terms of goals and initiatives, key 
highlights outlined by The College’s action 
plan for the 2016-17 academic year include 
a series of initiatives surrounding demo-
cratic and political engagement, promot-
ing opportunities for students to partici-
pate in the presidential election as well as 
facilitating campus-wide conversation and 
collaboration. 
More specifically, this plan calls for 
such things as organizing debate watching 
parties with professors to provide context 
for attendees as well as providing trans-
portation for students to access polling 
stations.
For students looking to get involved, 
Bodin recommends attending debate 
screenings at Crossroads Café, joining stu-
dent initiatives and clubs centered around 
the democratic process and visiting go/
MiddVote throughout the fall.
| October 6, 20162 NEWS
campaigning and I’m pretty happy about 
how it all went. I tried to keep everything 
casual while running for the position, 
and I guess it worked.”
Waddell designed his slogan, “Who 
the f--k is Kian?” to not only spread 
his name throughout campus, but also 
to break away from conventional cam-
paigning.
“These elections can be popularity 
contests sometimes,” Waddell said. “A 
lot of people never know the names they 
see, so I thought it’d be refreshing to fo-
cus on who I am.”
Waddell hopes to establish more class 
unity as sophomore senator and increase 
the amount of transparency within the 
SGA itself.
“I think something like class t-shirts 
would really create a sense of belong-
ing,” Waddell said. “Also, offering of-
fice hours for individual class senators 
would really help connect the SGA with 
students. This way, people could become 
more interested and excited about SGA 
affairs instead of just not caring.”
In the election’s most-contested race, 
Mike Hayes ’20 and Jack Goldfield ’20 
were elected to serve as first-year sena-
tors. 
Goldfield campaigned on a platform 
to make the College carbon negative, 
unify first-years across different com-
mons and reinstate diverse dining hall 
menus.
“After talking with a large number 
of freshman students and hearing their 
concerns firsthand, these three issues 
seemed to be the most important,” Gold-
field said. “I particularly hope to help 
[the class of 2020] become the class 
that makes Middlebury carbon negative, 
which President Laurie Patton charged 
us with the day before classes started.”
Voter turnout varied between races. 
46 percent of the class of 2019 voted in 
the sophomore election, a significant 
drop from 64 percent last spring. The 
first-year election had a 37 percent turn-
out, a noticeable increase from 24 per-
cent in 2014. The Feb election still gar-
nered a 10 percent turnout, despite the 
fact that Schoel ran unopposed. 
SGA Director of Membership Andrew 
Smith ’17 hopes to work with the SGA 
Senate to form a committee on consti-
tutional reform in order to change vot-
ing procedures and increase future voter 
turnouts. Smith particularly wants to es-
tablish a first-year debate, similar to the 
SGA Presidential debates, in an effort to 
increase first-year voter turnout in the 
coming years.
“It’s very hard for first-year elections 
to be particularly substantive. They usu-
ally boil down to whoever can spread 
their name the most within those first 
two weeks,” Smith said. “A public forum 
would really give candidates an opportu-
nity to talk with their class and layout an 
actual platform. Hopefully this will get 
students more involved in SGA elections 
from the moment they settle in on cam-
pus.”
New Senators 
Join SGA 
College Community 
Considers Future Goals 
Trivia Night
Take a break from studying and bring 
your friends to Trivia! There will be free 
food and prizes.
FRIDAY AT 9 P.M. IN CROSSROADS CAFE
Roller Rink
Bring your friends and roller skate 
around Wilson Hall! Music and lights will 
ensure this to be a great way to end the 
night.
SATURDAY AT 10 P.M. IN WILSON HALL
Yoga with Chelsea
Come take a break and attend this 
restorative yoga class taught by certified 
instructor Chelsea Colby!
SUNDAY AT 7 P.M. IN CHATEAU GRAND SALON
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
By Ally Murphy
SGA Correspondent & Contributing Writer
SGA 
UPDATE
The Sept. 25 meeting of the Student Govern-
ment Association (SGA) began with a speech 
by Student Liaison to the SGA on Endowment 
Affairs Colin Mackintosh ’17 who introduced 
himself and explained his role on campus. 
Mackintosh is responsible for holding meetings 
with the student body to provide an overview of 
the endowment and receive student input. In 
the future, he plans to meet with the Board of 
Trustees to provide them with more informa-
tion on the SGA.   
Feb Senator Rae Aaron ’19.5 mentioned 
the student body’s concern regarding recent 
changes to the College’s dining halls, specifically 
4 o’clock Proc and how all dining halls now have 
the same menus.
Aaron explained that much of the food 
served at 4 o’clock Proc went uneaten, and that 
menus are now the same to lower prices and the 
volume of food. Aaron suggested possibly stag-
gering dining hall hours, such as having Proctor 
open from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. and Ross from 5 p.m. 
to 8 p.m. Cook Senator Connor McCormick ’18 
said that athletes often have sports practice at 
4 p.m. and are no longer able to eat at 4 p.m. 
Junior Senator Hannah Pustejovsky ’18 men-
tioned that the gluten-free section is no longer 
available. Sophomore Senator Manny Duran 
’19 also highlighted the lack of halal foods in the 
dining halls. 
Senators then discussed the idea of creat-
ing a survey to ask the student body about their 
views of the new changes, and voted to table the 
discussion. 
The Oct. 2 meeting of the SGA began with 
a special appearance by Vice President for Stu-
dent Affairs and Dean of the College Katy Smith 
Abbott. Smith Abbott expressed her desire for 
increased communication between students 
and senior administration on campus. It is her 
goal to hear the opinions of more students re-
garding social life on campus, after recent sur-
vey responses showed that many students were 
dissatisfied with their social life after four years 
at Middlebury.
Senators discussed a suggestion made by 
Senior Senator Aliza Cohen ’18 at the Sept. 25 
to raise a Black Lives Matter flag sponsored by 
SGA. Brainerd Senator Kyle Wright ’19.5 made 
a motion to form an ad hoc committee to ad-
dress Black Lives Matter issues. Community 
Council Co-Chair David Pesqueira ’17 made a 
motion to have the committee comprised of a 
member of  the  Black Student Union and three 
SGA members. Senators approved the forma-
tion of the committee. 
SGA President Karina Toy  ’17 suggested 
sending out polls to understand peoples’ opin-
ions. Senator Colin Boyle agreed, stating that 
actions mean a lot more than words, and that 
the SGA should work with people in the school 
community.
learning and intercultural competence.  
After each round of set conversations 
like the ones from this past week, there 
will also be an opportunity for all faculty, 
staff and students to respond to a survey 
comprised of four open-ended questions.
After the “Exchange” process of col-
lecting perspectives is complete, the 
“Evaluate” and “Engage” stages of the 
process will consolidate the perspectives 
into possible strategies. When the final 
strategic direction is supported by the 
Middlebury community and approved by 
the Board of Trustees, the final strategic 
direction will be enacted in 2018.
According to Baldridge, participation 
in the conversations has been thoughtful 
and productive. “We are really pleased 
with the participation in the process thus 
far,” she said. “The facilitated conversa-
tions are filling up — sometimes within a 
few hours of the invitations going out. So 
far, 257 people have taken part in these 
conversations.” 
In one of the facilitated conversa-
tions on Sept. 28, Tobi Marcus explained 
that conversations are an important part 
of the foundation of the strategic plan-
ning process. Although she wanted par-
ticipants to interact with each other and 
build on ideas together, she stressed that 
the primary goal of the conversations is 
to collect varied perspectives. She en-
couraged everyone to express their in-
dividual ideas rather than responding to 
the ideas of others, in order to include as 
many perspectives as possible.
Some attendees worried that faculty 
and student participation in the conver-
sations was low relative to staff involve-
ment. Currently, there is no waiting list 
for student participants, whereas there 
are not enough spaces in the conversa-
tions for all the interested staff mem-
bers. However, Marcus explained that 
although students have been slower to 
sign up, the conversations she had held 
so far had been balanced in regards to 
student, faculty and staff participation.
Last week also marked the kickoff 
meeting for the Envisioning Middlebury 
Steering and Advisory Committees. The 
Steering Committee will meet regularly 
to undertake the process of creating a vi-
sion statement and will develop strategic 
directions. The Advisory Committee will 
assist and review the Steering Commit-
tee’s work. Both committees will act as 
ambassadors to engage with members of 
the community. 
The next round of facilitated conver-
sations will take place from Oct. 19–21.
Campus democracy challenge 
engages college community
By Eliza Teach
News Editor
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
3Advertisementsoctober 6, 2016 | 
WRITE US A LETTER 
OR OP-ED!
THE CAMPUS ACCEPTS 
SUBMISSIONS 
WEEKLY. 
SEND SOMETHING TO 
CAMPUS@
MIDDLEBURY.EDU
HAVE A 
THOUGHT? 
WANT TO
COMMENT? 
GREEN
The new official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
PEPPERS
LOCAL | HANDCRAFTED | FRESHLY PREPARED |AT YOUR CONVENIENCE
[802] 388-3164
Starting as early as December 2017, the city of Rutland will accept up to 100 Syrian 
refugees. In order to prepare for the influx of refugees, the Vermont Refugee Resettle-
ment Program will open an office in Rutland to work with the community.
Digital Vermont Public Radio 
After gaining approval from the 
State Department, the city of Rutland is 
proceeding with its plan to accept up to 
100 Syrian refugees over the course of 
the next year. The monumental decision 
will bring Syrian refugees into Vermont 
for the first time since the outbreak of 
the Syrian Civil War in 2011. In prepara-
tion, The Vermont Refugee Resettlement 
Program will open an office in Rutland 
and work with the local government.      
Mayor Christopher Louras had ini-
tially announced in April that Rutland 
would accept refugees. Now that the 
city has been approved as a resettlement 
community, families will begin to relo-
cate as early as December. Louras him-
self is a descendant of Greek migrants 
who fled persecution under the Ottoman 
Empire—a fact that he emphasized in his 
initial address to the public. 
The series of announcements has 
elicited a number of different responses 
from the Rutland community, and has 
resulted in a heated debate between 
those in favor of the program and those 
against. 
Proponents of resettlement commu-
nities cite the benefits of cultural diver-
sity as well as the moral imperative to 
assist refugees displaced by war. Many 
assert that the acceptance of refugees is 
not only an affirmation of American val-
ues but also a commitment to humani-
tarian action. 
Further, Louras contends that the 
acceptance of refugees will boost Rut-
land’s sluggish economy. Certain mem-
bers of the community are already 
preparing themselves to help refugees 
adjust to life in Vermont. Specifically, 
Rutland Welcomes, a grassroots organi-
zation, has announced that it is prepar-
ing itself to provide refugees with access 
to transportation, education and medi-
cal care.
On the other hand, many locals who 
oppose the program point to the eco-
nomic ramifications of accepting Syr-
ian refugees, contesting that it will cost 
a substantial sum, drain resources on a 
city that already faces serious drug is-
sues and significantly increase the cost 
of education. Others still are upset that 
Louras did not consult other city of-
ficials about the matter but rather pri-
vately asked the Vermont Refugee Re-
settlement Program to specifically pick 
Rutland as a resettlement site. 
Louras’ actions contributed to the 
controversy. Over the summer, the Rut-
land Board of Aldermen met to discuss 
the future of the program—but exclud-
ed Louras from the meeting. Further, 
a petition circulated demanding that 
the people of Rutland stop Louras from 
following through on his initiative. Ul-
timately, neither the Aldermen nor the 
petition was able to impede or reverse 
the program. Outrage and enthusiasm 
continue to bubble through Rutland. 
Considering the divisive nature of 
the program, Louras has called for the 
formation of a resettlement cabinet to 
help assess the future of Rutland’s ini-
tiative. The six-to nine-person commit-
tee will comprise both supporters and 
opponents for the sake of different per-
spectives.
The hotly contested question of re-
settlement has resonated at the state-
wide level in Vermont. According to 
a VPR Poll conducted in July, 45 per-
cent of respondents reported that they 
thought the arrival of Syrian refugees 
would have a positive effect, while 35 
percent thought that it would have a 
negative one. Reported sentiments 
about resettlement fell along party lines, 
with two-thirds of Republicans seeing it 
as negative and two-thirds of Democrats 
seeing it as positive. Among Indepen-
dents, about 50 percent of respondents 
were favorable of resettlement in Ver-
mont, while 30 percent were not. 
Nationwide, the issue of refugee 
resettlement has been equally divisive, 
particularly along party lines. Shortly 
after the Paris terrorist attacks were 
carried out last November, prominent 
American political figures quickly re-
sponded. More than half of United States 
governors — 29 out of 30 of whom were 
Republican (NPR) — announced that ac-
ceptance of Syrian refugees should be 
put on halt until a better system could be 
put in place. Vermont’s own governor, 
Peter Shumlin (D), was not among this 
group  and publicly announced that Ver-
mont would accept displaced migrants.  
In sum, the Syrian Refugee Crisis 
— a product of a civil war characterized 
by intense divisions — has grasped the 
attention of the American public and 
sparked extensive dialogue about the 
pros and cons of assisting displaced mi-
grants. Rutland has made itself a part 
of these rigorous conversations with its 
significant — albeit controversial — de-
cision to accept and resettle Syrian refu-
gees.
   
Welcome to the Fortnightly Fea-
ture! Every two weeks we feature a va-
riety of awesome trails to hike; if you’re 
looking for adventure inspiration, let 
the Middlebury Mountain Club share 
our  ideas! 
This week we ventured across the 
bridge to New York and into the Adiron-
dacks for a moderate day hike up Noon-
mark Mountain, in the heart of the High 
Peaks. 
From the trailhead on Ausable Road, 
it is a 2.4 mile one-way hike to the sum-
mit over mostly moderate terrain. The 
trail gets steep near the top, but there 
are several rock outcroppings along the 
way where you can catch views of Giant 
Mountain to the north and the Great 
Range to the west. 
Once you’re at the summit, bask in 
the glory of Keene Valley, the 360-de-
gree view of the High Peaks Region, and 
the New England fall foliage we all love! 
The vibrant fall colors are a definite perk 
of hiking Noonmark now, as the trees 
change earlier in the Adirondacks than 
they do here in Middlebury.
After you’ve had your fill of incred-
ible views, reward yourself for a good 
hike by stopping by Noon Mark Diner 
in the nearby town of Keene Valley for a 
slice of their legendary pie. If you’re still 
feeling adventurous, go for a swim in 
Chapel Pond on your way home. By the 
time you get back to campus, we hope 
you’ll be ready and waiting for your next 
Adirondack adventure. Happy Hiking!
For more information, directions to 
the trailhead and the Noon Mark Diner, 
or to see previous Features, visit go/
fortnightlyfeature.
Rutland Prepares for 100 Syrian Refugees 
By Ben Freedman
Contributing Writer
local
Peaks & Pies & Peeping for Leaves! A hike up 
Noonmark Mountain
By Nina Sonneborn and Dorothy 
Punderson
Contributing Writers
Noonmark Mountain is part of the Adirondack 100-highest peaks. The total hike, 
round trip, is 4.8 miles and is a 2 hour 10 minute drive away from campus. At the top, 
you a 360-degree view of the High Peaks Region and Keene Valley. 
Nina Sonneborn and Dorothy Punderson
The Noonmark Mountain trail is a moderate trail but is steep at the top. 
LakePlacid.com
Noonmark 
Mountain
Round trip hik-
ing: 4.8 mi
Round trip driving 
time: 2 hours, 10 
minutes
Difficulty: Moderate
Fortnightly Feature
October 6, 2016 |
This August, Parton Health Center 
and Porter Hospital launched a partner-
ship to provide survivors of sexual as-
sault with around-the-clock resources 
located in the town of Middlebury. This 
means that there will be a sexual assault 
nurse examiner (SANE) on duty at all 
times, either at Parton or at Porter. If 
students seek services and no one is on 
duty at Parton, a Porter SANE cam see 
them, and if residents go to the Porter 
Emergency Department and there is no 
SANE, one will come from Parton. (For 
more information on the partnership, 
see Parton Expands, Staff Offers New 
Services on p. 1).
Prior to this collaboration, Porter 
had 1 to 3 SANEs on staff, according to 
Alison Wurst, APRN, a SANE who works 
at Porter. Despite the best efforts on 
the part of the SANEs, survivors would 
sometimes have to wait several hours for 
an exam after arriving in the Emergency 
Department. Sometimes survivors would 
even be asked to go to the University of 
Vermont Medical Center in Burlington 
or to Rutland Regional Medical Center. 
According to Wurst, survivors who 
were unable to get the exam at Porter 
and subsequently sent to UVM often 
never arrived. The major benefit of this 
partnership is the reduction in wait and 
travel time for completing a SANE exam. 
Although a SANE exam can be performed 
for up to 120 hours following the assault, 
the sooner it happens the better. Time is 
of the essence.
“We now have such good coverage 
that survivors should never have to wait 
long or be sent elsewhere,” wrote Wurst 
in an email to The Campus. 
“Quicker, more responsive services 
from SANE nurses” will be the biggest 
impact of this partnership on the com-
munity, said Kerri Duquette-Hoffman, 
Executive Director of WomenSafe.
Given that sexual assault can happen 
at any time and a SANE exam can take 
one to five hours, the 24/7 staffing is 
crucial to having a comprehensive sup-
port system for survivors. On average, 
Porter performs zero to two examina-
tions each month, but there is hope that 
this may increase. This would not be 
an indication of more sexual violence, 
but that more survivors are choosing to 
come forth if they know they can always 
get support in Middlebury, no matter the 
hour or the day.
“For our community, I hope that 
the publicity will encourage survivors 
to come forward,” Wurst wrote. “I think 
the focus is often on the ‘rape kit’ but the 
care a SANE provides is much more ho-
listic than just gathering evidence.”
Moving forward, she would like to 
see both Porter and the College con-
tinue to grow this service, increase their 
knowledge and spread knowledge of 
the available services to the public. Du-
quette-Hoffman would like to see efforts 
to ensure sustainability of the program 
so that it will work for the long term.
What is a SANE? And what do they 
do? The role of the SANE and the ser-
vices they can offer seem to remain a 
mystery to many, both students and resi-
dents alike. 
Sarah Kunz-Robinson, the state-
wide SANE coordinator at the Vermont 
Network Against Domestic and Sexual 
Violence, explained to the Addison In-
dependent: “SANEs are nurses who have 
undergone a 40 hour training and been 
certified. They have to keep up-to-date 
on training and get recertified every two 
years. While other nurses and physicians 
may be capable of performing the neces-
sary medical aspects of a SANE exam, 
the SANEs are equipped with specific 
information, such as the terminology to 
use or how to best talk to a survivor.”
“Survivors can benefit from the STD 
testing or treatment, addressing any 
physical injuries, helping people to start 
healing emotionally, ensuring the survi-
vor has a safe place to go,” Wurst wrote. 
A visit to a SANE can also help connect 
survivors to other available services, 
such as the Vermont Network Against 
Domestic and Sexual Violence, ongoing 
medical care, 
mental health 
care, financial 
assistance, and 
legal advocacy. 
A c c o r d i n g 
to the Interna-
tional Associa-
tion of Forensic 
Nurses, SANEs 
will testify at 
trial on behalf of 
survivors, if the 
survivor should 
choose to press 
charges. Physi-
cal evidence 
collected could 
also be used in a 
court of law and 
is best if col-
lected as soon 
as possible and 
with the proper 
procedures.
Training is 
a rigorous and 
intense process, 
given the seri-
ousness of the 
matter and the potentially vulnerable 
state of the survivors with whom the 
SANEs are working. 
Wurst explained one of her major 
revelations from SANE training that was 
specific to sexual assault on college cam-
puses. 
 T h e 
typical scenario 
of college sex-
ual assault is a 
younger female 
who is inexpe-
rienced with 
alcohol drinks 
too much, goes 
to a party, has a 
sexual encoun-
ter with a male 
and does not 
remember con-
senting because 
she was drunk. 
Wurst explained 
that this is the 
typical narra-
tive, and to pre-
vent this women 
should learn 
how to protect 
themselves, but 
what is missing 
is the perpetra-
tor’s side of the 
story.
 “What 
he has in fact 
done, is to carefully select an unsure, 
young looking girl to invite to the party. 
He gave her the alcohol…probably some-
thing fruity and stronger than you’d 
guess from its taste.  He already had a 
room picked out, and his buddies know 
to leave that room for him.  He knew she 
wasn’t consenting, and perhaps that’s 
part of the appeal,” Wurst wrote. Many 
college sexual assaults are premeditated 
on the part of the male perpetrator.
According to Wurst, the narrative 
above of the man’s actions has been pro-
vided by many perpetrators of sexual 
assault themselves. These perpetrators 
then go on to repeat this on average of 
six times. While the perpetrator is often 
well-planned and intentional, the victim 
is taken off guard. 
While sexual assault can look very 
different in a college party setting than 
it does among other populations, survi-
vors of any type can benefit from a SANE 
exam. Sexual violence occurs at all ages 
and to all demographics, so the hope is 
that this partnership will help to bridge 
the divide between available services in 
the town and the College to provide the 
best possible care for survivors, no mat-
ter who they are.
The ‘rape kit’ pictured above is just one of the many services, including medical, emotional, and sometimes financial sup-
port, available to survivors of sexual assault who go for a SANE exam, regarless of whether they report the assuault.
  one news page
Parton/Porter Partner to Grow SANE 
Services for Students & Residents
By Alessandria Schumacher 
Local News Editor
5Local
The Porter Medical Center Emergency Department have on average zero to two requests for a SANE exam each month, 
but often survivors seeking services were not able to get the serives they need without driving to Rutland or Burlington.
Addison Independent/ TRent Campbell
“What he [the perpetra-
tor] has in fact done, is to 
carefully select an unsure, 
young looking girl to in-
vite to the party. He gave 
her the alcohol…proba-
bly something fruity and 
stronger than you’d guess 
from its taste.  He already 
had a room picked out, and 
his buddies know to leave 
that room for him.  He knew 
she wasn’t consenting, and 
perhaps that’s part of the 
appeal,”
Alison  Wurst
APRn and SANE at porter medical center
Imagine a utopian world in which one is 
considered successful if she dedicates herself 
to her community, public service leadership, 
the dogged pursuit of knowledge and exercise 
of both bodily and artistic expression.
Now “scene change” to my high school, 
where people crammed information into 
their heads for tests and used extracurricular 
activities only as resume boosters.
I thought the high school system of re-
wards would facilitate my aforementioned 
utopia. But once I arrived at college, I realized 
that the criteria that college admissions offi-
cers rewarded us for — what earned us a spot 
at one of the country’s most selective institu-
tions of higher education —  was not the same 
criteria by which society would stamp us suc-
cessful when we entered “the real world” after 
college.
I felt bamboozled. Students — myself in-
cluded — spent their high school years work-
ing at soup kitchens and participating actively 
in our high school communities in order to 
be rewarded by colleges. Now, many are lin-
ing up for 
finance and 
consulting 
s c h m o o z e 
sessions to 
gain em-
ployment at 
multi-billion 
dollar firms 
— firms with 
mission statements that seem to boil down to 
the increase of profit.
How far the leap between the high school 
and the college reward systems, I thought! 
The talent of some of the most sought-after 
public servants, artists, scientists, novelists 
and socially responsible entrepreneurs will 
languish away at a cubicles 90 hours per 
week, I lamented. 
At this point, I’ve given up on the idea of 
becoming a financier or business consultant 
for the reason that my strengths and talents 
don’t align well with the strengths and talents 
needed in these sectors. But regardless the 
topic remained on my mind because I still 
had a bone to pick with society which I be-
lieve tricked me into thinking people were re-
warded for one type of success when in reality 
— because of trickle-down economics, neolib-
eralism and the remnants of the Reagan Era 
— we are rewarded for another, more mon-
etary and seemingly robotic type of success.
I brought this angst to Associate Profes-
sor of Education Studies and Faculty Head 
of Wonnacott Commons, Jonathan Miller-
Lane, who made me aware of that these two 
different reward systems I was describing re-
ally aren’t that different. Put another way, our 
social contexts may change, but the constant 
in both the high school and college systems of 
reward is an element of “unthinkingness,” a 
catering to “success” absent a lack of genuine 
exploration of the Aristotelian idea of eudai-
monia — human flourishing.
Miller-Lane credits this often “unthinking” 
fast track towards finance or consulting to the 
exorbitant cost of college, which many guilt-
ridden students feel they need to appease to 
whoever’s paying their tuition bills through a 
clear-cut and normalized path of success and 
the k-12 American education system — of 
which many of us are products.
In addition, Miller-Lane said that our cam-
pus often condemns contemplation of human 
flourishing as “excessive” and inferior to the 
process of “getting stuff done.” This occurs 
to the point that our liberal arts college “can 
sometimes feel intolerant of actually slowing 
down and exploring the meaning of human 
flourishing such that we might actually start to 
interrogate the definitions of success.” 
Miller-Lane was similarly critical of the 
work-hard, play-hard mentality, which he 
described as, “the most ‘unthinking,’ habitual 
response to a one-dimensional life you could 
possibly set up for yourself.” He suggests that 
we trade in our frantic desire to be passionate 
about something for true curiosity, which he 
believes can help us achieve greater humility, 
reflection, and consciousness. 
I realized the conversation we should be 
having is less about societal rewards and more 
about the need for genuine contemplation. So 
I went to one of the most conscious people I 
know, fellow senior Stuart Warren, and asked 
him how he is able to be as thoughtful and 
self-reflective as I know him to be. Stuart said 
that he purposefully chooses to take classes 
with less work and less classes each semester 
when possible so that he can exercise greater 
autonomy over his time and what he chooses 
to think about.
Stuart says that we probably don’t have less 
work than previous generations of Middlebury 
students, but that we have a harder time stay-
ing conscious and self-reflective because of 
our obsession with extracurricular activities — 
which can take up as much time and energy as 
a fifth class. Stuart admitted that many extra-
curriculars can be fun and genuinely fulfilling 
but that, oftentimes, the reason we do them 
is for career and resume padding purposes. 
Ultimately, therefore, these activities take our 
time and can thus make our schedules so rigid 
that we have no time to think. Stuart and I 
also agreed that our campus’ career-orientat-
ed mindset also leads many students to take 
classes they are not interested in and therefore 
do not engage in with as much thought as the 
ones they actually enjoy.
Another thoughtful friend, senior Nate 
Henning, overheard Stuart and I having this 
conversation in Proctor lounge. He interjected 
to say that we shouldn’t be so anti-extracur-
riculars — his own tenure as co-president of 
the men’s Frisbee team has been the anchor 
from which he’s engaged in some of his most 
“consciousness-raising” activities while at 
college (and he didn’t just mean the Frisbee 
parties). I empathized with Nate because my 
time with the Socially Responsible Invest-
ment Club and Divestment Movement was 
the source of much of my deepest reflections 
on campus. But I ultimately agree more with 
a middle ground philosophy — I’ve also found 
that while extracurriculars can instigate reflec-
tion, they can also take up so much time as to 
debilitate thought.
In sum, if our problem is “unthinkingness” 
— a lack of consciousness about ourselves 
and our world — and if this “unthinkingness” 
stems from a lack of time, then we need to give 
ourselves more time by doing just what we 
deem necessary. I really don’t think it’s more 
complicated than that.
I’ll leave you with this—when I studied 
abroad in Madrid in the spring, I lived next to 
the best park in the city. But up until the last 
weeks of my time abroad, I insisted on run-
ning on the dirt path that hugs the outer rim 
of the park. I was afraid to change up my route 
— despite the extra amount of time I had while 
abroad, that was the only amount of time I al-
lotted for myself to be in the park. 
I felt in my gut that I was missing out on a 
profound experience by not journeying inside 
of the park — full of interestingly cut hedges 
that created maze-like paths, ponds, glass 
garden building and statues of Classical gods. 
One day, a mantra came into my head: “Don’t 
cling so close to the edge.” I finally broke my 
routine and ventured into the park. Inspired 
and fulfilled by what I’d seen, I arrived home 
much later than expected. And I think that 
says something. We need to give ourselves 
time to explore and think often — to stay up 
late talking with a friend even if you have an 
assignment due the next day; to read a book 
or do an activity that’s calling to you even if 
it’s not on the syllabus; to give ourselves a bit 
more time and space to think; to refuse to cling 
to the edge of the park. 
Last spring, Middlebury launched the 
Envisioning Middlebury project, a two-year 
process aimed at producing a cohesive and 
actionable plan for 
its future. In this 
initial phase of the 
project, we are ask-
ing three big ques-
tions of ourselves as 
a community: who 
are we and what are 
our deepest values? 
What does the fu-
ture look like? Where do we want to go? All 
programs under the Middlebury umbrella 
have been invited to engage these ques-
tions; unfortunately, most Middlebury un-
dergraduates have not participated to date, 
while a number of representatives from 
the Middlebury Institute for International 
Studies at Monterey (MIIS) did sign up to 
participate. And while we commend Mon-
terey for being involved, few undergradu-
ate students on this campus interact with 
the Monterey campus at all, which begs the 
question, who constitutes this “we” and how 
will the disparate components under Mid-
dlebury’s purview come together to create a 
single cohesive vision for the College mov-
ing forward?
 The College’s other programs, such as 
the Language Schools, C.V. Schools Abroad 
or Breadloaf School of English, are more 
established as part of the Middlebury 
brand. Due in part to our relative proxim-
ity to these campuses – or at least the staff 
running them – the average Middlebury 
student likely incorporates these programs 
into their overall idea of what constitutes 
Middlebury College. Student interactions 
with MIIS, however, have been limited, al-
though opportunities exist for cross-over 
studies. As the newest component of the 
Middlebury community, MIIS has yet to 
become fully integrated with the Middle-
bury brand, at least in the minds of the Col-
lege’s undergraduate population.
 MIIS has plenty to offer the College, 
both in terms of student access to excep-
tional programming and in terms of the 
College’s reputation. Undergraduates from 
Middlebury have the opportunity to study 
“abroad” at MIIS for a semester, though 
only two students took advantage of this of-
fering last semester. Middlebury graduates 
also qualify for reduced tuition to MIIS’s 
graduate programs through a legacy schol-
arship program. On its own, MIIS already 
had a reputation for outstanding research, 
and its strength in non-proliferation studies 
and other international programs accentu-
ates the Middlebury brand’s global quality. 
In time, MIIS could establish itself as a cen-
tral part of the Middlebury identity, just as 
many of the College’s other programs have 
done.
However, MIIS’s growth and incorpora-
tion into the Middlebury community must 
never interfere with the quality of the Mid-
dlebury undergraduate experience that is 
the core of our school identity. As the Col-
lege navigates what its relationship with 
MIIS will be in the future, we call on College 
leadership to ensure that the sanctity of our 
small, liberal arts experience is preserved. 
First, our high standard of excellence in aca-
demics and all other areas must always be 
upheld – on all of our campuses. Second, the 
integration of MIIS with the undergraduate 
experience at Middlebury must never in-
fringe upon the quality of our education and 
life here in Vermont. MIIS’s programs can 
easily benefit our community, and we must 
ensure they never impact us negatively.
The program in Monterey has struggled 
financially in the past. With a single, con-
solidated budget incorporating both MIIS 
and the undergraduate program, further 
financial issues at MIIS in California could 
burden our finances here in Vermont. For 
the most part, the undergraduate campus 
has distinct financials from MIIS. Tuition, 
the endowment, financial aid and other 
campus-specific costs for each school are 
kept separate. However, in the long-run, 
persistent budget issues deriving, at least 
in part, from MIIS, could negatively impact 
aspects of the undergraduate experience. 
Most vulnerable are faculty and staff ben-
efits and salaries. Declines in benefits or 
salaries on the Vermont campus could po-
tentially harm hiring and faculty and staff 
retainment, ultimately harming the quality 
of the liberal arts experience that should al-
ways be at Middlebury’s heart.
In the end, the undergraduate experi-
ence that we take advantage of every day 
is the foundation of the Middlebury brand 
and it is why we chose this school over its 
competitors. Moving forward, even as we 
widen the reach of our programs, we must 
prioritize the quality of that foundation.
This initial feedback stage of Envision-
ing Middlebury will play a huge part in de-
termining what the College’s relationship 
with MIIS will look like in the future. As 
students, we have been afforded a unique 
opportunity to speak up about issues that 
will affect the direction the College takes 
for years to come. If we want a say, now is 
the time to get involved, or else, in another 
ten years, we’ll be bitterly wondering why 
student opinion was not accounted for in 
determining the College’s future.
opinions
editorial board 
The content written within the 
Opinions pages may cause emotional 
distress. Please exercise discretion.
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor. The 
opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions 
section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial com-
ics and other commentary, are views of the individ-
ual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the 
opinions of the newspaper. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.
middleburycampus.com. To be considered for pub-
lications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. 
Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all 
submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
Envisioning Who “We” Are
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Ellie Reinhardt
MANAGING EDITOR
Christian Jambora
BUSINESS MANAGER
Julien Miller
NEWS EDITORS 
Caroline Agsten, Phil Bohlman, Ethan 
Brady, Will DiGravio, Eliza Teach
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Blackburn, Erin Van Gessel, Sara 
Hodgkins, Francesca Haass, Edward 
O’Brien
SPORTS EDITORS 
Will Case, Remo Plunkett, Andrew Rigas 
LOCAL EDITORS 
Annie Grayer, Harry Kramer, Alessandria 
Schumacher, Rebecca Walker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Henry Burnett, Renee Chang, Charmaine 
Lam, Alex Newhouse
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Toby Aicher, Finn Murphy, Dominick 
Tanoh, Elizabeth Zhou,
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Michael Borenstein, Anahi Naranjo, Mi-
chael O’Hara, Ivan Valladares
DESIGN EDITORS
Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway, Corde-
lia Prouvost
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Pyone Aye, Jerrica Davy 
COPY EDITOR
Rachel Iacono, Emma Walker
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Nathaniel Wiener, Sara Hodgkins
OFFICE MANAGER
Sarah Koenigsberg
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
official opinion of 
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Disclaimer: Reader op-eds do not reflect the opinion of The Middlebury Campus editorial board. 
unthinking college
SWUGlight
Sophie Vaughan ’17 
writes about the trials 
and errors of college.
  7opinions
Thoughts about home, from abroad
News travels really quickly. I esti-
mate that, since the advent of high-speed 
internet, news takes somewhere between 
.44 and .53 seconds to get from A to B. 
That is how long Google took to give me 
results for the searches “violence jerusa-
lem” and “dapl standing rock,” respec-
tively. My first search was for news about 
the recent (approximately 2.5 weeks ago) 
flares of turbulence in Jerusalem and the 
West Bank. The latter was a search for 
information about the Native American 
resistance to the Dakota Access Pipeline 
(DAPL). Through technological advance-
ment, we are informed about what oc-
curs 5,700 miles away as fast as we learn 
about events in the US. It is possible for 
our national political discourse to in-
volve both news abroad and at home in 
real time, almost creating equivalence 
between disparate events.
However, I do not think this equal-
ity of information actually exists. On 
the contrary, we prioritize certain issues 
abroad more than domestic challenges. 
In this case, the Palestine-Israel conflict 
takes precedence over the US’s oppres-
sion of Native Americans. The irony is 
that violence in Jerusalem bears great 
resemblance to the DAPL protests – 
both represent a struggle for legitimacy 
against state forces.
Within the American psyche, we 
view a struggle for sovereignty in the face 
of state-sanctioned marginalization as a 
foreign issue. We engage with the topic 
in mainstream media like it is a problem 
unique to the Orient – i.e. the Palestinian 
or Kurdish fight for sovereignty. America 
thinks it is too inclusive, too much of a 
democratic republic for that sort of op-
pression to exist. Our actions reveal this 
mindset. How often do we discuss the 
ramifications of our history of heinous, 
violent actions towards the Native Amer-
ican tribes? The answer is we don’t and 
the temporary block on the DAPL is not 
proof that we do. It is temporary and it 
took months before anyone, especially 
the federal government and major news 
outlets, spent a minute caring.
Perhaps there are some exceptions to 
our American exceptionalism…Perhaps 
on some level, in our national dialogue, 
we subcon-
sciously project 
our domestic 
problems onto 
other parts of 
the world. Na-
tive American 
c o m m u n i t i e s 
around America 
have sought and 
continue to seek 
basic rights 
and autonomy 
in a way that 
is quite similar 
to the Palestin-
ian struggle. 
However, we consistently disregard our 
government’s awful treatment of Na-
tive Americans while we talk for hours 
about a solution to the Israel-Palestine 
conflict. Let’s look at the commonalities 
between these issues and understand the 
hypocrisy at play.
I am currently studying abroad in 
Amman, Jordan and I semi-recently 
spent a week in Palestine and Israel for 
the Eid al-Adha holiday. My friends and 
I stayed in West Jerusalem, but visited 
many cities, one of which was Hebron. 
For those that do not know, Hebron is 
arguably the most volatile and conten-
tious city in the West Bank. Violence in 
Hebron partially triggered the 2014 Gaza 
conflict.
The visit was sad – Palestinians ex-
perience intense oppression from heav-
ily armed Israel Defense Forces (IDF) 
soldiers. They constantly patrol and have 
the right to enter and search Palestinian 
homes whenever they choose. Moreover, 
Israeli settlers build on top of the Pal-
estinian homes which line the old souk. 
They then dump trash and fecal matter 
down into the Palestinian souk. Under 
Israeli occupation, the Palestinians of 
Hebron are actively being erased. An-
drea Smith’s logic in “Heteropatriarchy 
and the Three Pillars of White Suprema-
cy” is that “indigenous people must dis-
appear…[and]…
always be disap-
pearing, in order 
to allow non-in-
digenous people 
the rightful claim 
over [the land]”. 
If the settlers and 
the Israeli gov-
ernment – via the 
IDF – can physi-
cally subordinate 
Palestinians to 
the point that 
their presence is 
irrelevant, then 
Hebron quite 
easily belongs to Israel.
The United States has been complicit 
in similar crimes of erasure in America. 
As Andrea Smith points out, the U.S. 
was established on “precarious ground-
ing,” just like Israel. Thus, in order to 
establish legitimacy in a land that was 
not ours, we used violence and enacted 
a form of genocide against Native Ameri-
can communities. The Trail of Tears – 
when we forced Indian tribes to relocate 
further West – exemplifies this erasure. 
It also bears uncanny resemblance to the 
Nakba Day, when Israel was created and 
700,000 Palestinians had to seek refuge 
in neighboring countries.
Since the founding of the U.S. in 
1776, the U.S. government and corpo-
rations have continued to actively force 
disappearance onto Native American 
people for our colonialist operation. The 
DAPL is the most recent iteration of US 
systematic erasure against American 
Indians. The DAPL would stretch 1,100 
from North Dakota to Illinois and carry 
a notable 470,000 barrels of crude oil 
day. Since the summer, the Standing 
Rock Sioux tribe has been protesting 
and speaking out against it. An oil leak 
from the pipeline would contaminate 
the Missouri River, the Sioux’s drink-
ing water. The tribe is also concerned 
because the pipeline would run through 
sacred land and burial sites. Lastly, it is 
federal law for the US government to re-
spect tribal sovereignty and maintain a 
“government-to-government” relation-
ship with the tribes. However, the tribes 
were not consulted until the pipeline was 
already a foregone conclusion. Construc-
tion of such infrastructure would disre-
spect Sioux cultural heritage, endanger 
their access to clean water and further 
the oppression. The DAPL would be an-
other state-sanctioned crime of erasure 
against the Indian tribes and I hope it 
is shut down. If people keep talking the 
way they talk about Israel-Palestine, 
maybe it will be.
Like the separation walls and check-
points that border the Palestinian terri-
tories, the Native American reservations 
serve as a means of marginalizing people 
so that they are less visible and can be 
erased from our consciousness. Talking 
about Palestinian sovereignty, but not 
talking about justice and equity for Na-
tive Americans is problematic. Systemic, 
state-sanctioned oppression of people is 
not unique to Israel. Israel is not the first 
colonialist operation and it is important 
to recognize that the US – the pillar of 
democracy and liberty – has commit-
ted similar atrocities towards the Native 
tribes. We should do something to right 
that long history of wrongs. Caring is a 
good place to start. 
I Stand With Refugees Because...
I was raised with the refugee story. 
I always knew my grandparents’ 
haunting tale of surviving the Holo-
caust and its aftermath. They were Jews 
who lived in Eastern Europe in the 20th 
century under rampant anti-Semitism. 
When Hitler came to power, they were 
forcibly taken from their homes and sent 
to concentration camps. Their liveli-
hoods were stripped away from them be-
ginning with the loss of their identities. 
Their names were replaced with num-
bers and their dignity with the despera-
tion of survival. It was almost as if Hit-
ler’s work had not yet ended when my 
grandparents were left in refugee camps 
to fend for themselves with little family, 
friends and absolutely no belongings. As 
refugees they remained without identi-
ties as they had no place to call home. 
My parents and grandparents raised me 
with their stories not only to better com-
prehend my past but to see the danger 
in remaining silent in the face ofto in-
justice.
Growing up with the disturbing real-
ity of my family’s history, I feel a moral 
obligation to stand for those left power-
less. The world was silent as millions 
of people were being sent to the gas 
chambers and the world is silent to-
day as thousands of people drown in 
the Mediterranean Sea. History can 
be a lesson for the future or an inevi-
table repetition of the past. We have 
the power to take a stance and shape 
our future for the better. 
We have the luxury in the United 
States to practice, believe and preach 
whatever we choose. That privilege 
comes with responsibility. We cannot 
afford to remain silent any longer. Al-
lowing such cruel injustices to occur 
is allowing ourselves to lose faith in 
humanity. We cannot call ourselves 
civilized people if we do not fight to 
extend every person basic human 
rights.
I see no other solution but to take 
a clear stance on the issue: to support 
and advocate for Syrian refugees seek-
ing asylum in both the United States and 
abroad. For me, the issue is personal: 
my grandparents were refugees. How-
ever, it does not take knowing a refugee 
to sympathize. We all have the power to 
be compassionate. As a Holocaust sur-
vivor, my grandfather says the most im-
portant lesson he could give “is to love 
everyone.” If you allow yourself to see 
all people equally, you can learn to ap-
preciate people for their differences in 
addition to their similarities. Refugees 
should not be seen as stateless people, 
but just like everyone else: citizens of 
the world, striving to survive.
We have the ability to make change 
through various measures. Many pri-
vate institutions in the United States 
have the resources to make a difference. 
For example, an incredible group of stu-
dents whom I am proud to work with 
here at Middlebury College, put forth 
efforts to ensure the college joined 
the Syrian Consortium; an organiza-
tion launched by the Institute of In-
ternational Education to give Syrian 
Refugees the ability to further their 
education. However, our work is not 
done—it has just begun. We are plan-
ning many events for this year from 
film screenings to an upcoming spring 
symposium. People should reach out 
to the private institutions with which 
they are affiliated to see how they can 
help assist the crisis.
When a part of the world loses sight 
of humanity, the whole world can no 
longer be seen as a humane place. 
Let’s do our part in standing up for a 
more just world. It only takes a few to 
make a grand difference. As conscious 
citizens, we can truly change the world.
Interested in helping? Or learning 
more about our organization on cam-
pus?
Go to: http://go-refuge.squarespace.
com/
Reader Op-ed
Hannah Krutiansky ’19 writes in 
about the Syrian refugee crisis. 
THursday Page
Joshua Claxton ‘18 writes in about 
the coverage of international atrocities 
in comparison to domestic ones.
“The DAPL would be anoth-
er state-sanctioned crime of 
erasure against the Indian 
tribes and I hope it is shut 
down. If people keep talking 
the way they talk about Is-
rael-Palestine, maybe it will 
be.”
“I see no other solution but 
to take a clear stance on the 
issue: to support and ad-
vocate for Syrian refugees 
seeking asylum in both the 
United States and abroad. 
For me, the issue is personal: 
my grandparents were refu-
gees.” 
October 6, 2016 |
Anyone watching the debates last 
week had plenty to gawp at. From Hill-
ary Clinton’s gif-worthy shoulder wiggle 
to Donald Trump’s wild tinfoil-hat fin-
ger pointing. But the biggest bombshell 
of the evening was something a little less 
flashy: Federal Taxes. 
Trump, as everyone now knows, has 
repeatedly declined to disclose his tax 
returns. There is no reason his oft touted 
routine tax audit would preclude him 
from releasing them, but he insists on 
keeping those records secret. As Clinton 
pointed out, “Maybe he does not want 
the American people, all of you watch-
ing tonight, to know that he has paid 
nothing in federal taxes.” That kind of 
accusation is ripe for denial. Cries of 
inaccurate data, inflated numbers, 
or political smoke screening should 
have abounded. Trump could have 
easily changed the subject back to jobs 
and China, as he so deftly 
had numerous times 
that evening. Instead, 
Trump replied, “That 
makes me smart.”
Such an admission 
of guilt may make 
Trump many things, but 
“smart” is not among them. Given 
that he proclaimed to have a personal 
income of $697 million dollars this past 
year, it would mean this year alone he 
deprived the federal government of 
roughly $300 million in tax-dollars. To 
put that into perspective, that amount 
would cover total operating expenses of 
Middlebury College for an entire year. 
Although, perhaps given his previous 
forays into higher education, i.e. Trump 
University, we should leave our school 
out of this. 
This admission does not make him a 
genius; it makes him is a massive loser. 
How does Trump avoid income taxes? By 
losing enough money to legally erase his 
yearly tax burden. In- vestigative re-
p o r t ers at the 
New York 
T i m e s 
found that 
in 1995 alone 
Trump wrote off 
$917 million in 
losses. According 
to IRS rules he 
can carry 
f o r w a r d 
t h o s e 
l o s s e s 
for up 
to 18 
y e a r s 
shield-
ing him 
f r o m 
future in-
come taxes. 
Trump’s nar-
rative about 
being an 
astute busi-
nessman capable of 
leading a nation like he leads his busi-
ness falls apart when he manages to 
hemorrhage money in such a grand way. 
His stock line about knowing the US tax-
code better than anyone in the world and 
therefore being able to fix it is also worth 
less than the air he expels delivering it. It 
does not take a genius to lose a boatload 
of money. 
There are many other reasons to doubt 
Trump’s business acumen. For example, 
Alexandra Ber-
zon and Rich-
ard Rubin of 
the Wall Street 
Journal report-
ed in Septem-
ber that records 
indicate Trump 
did not grow a 
$1 million loan 
into a multi-bil-
lion-dollar em-
pire like he fre-
quently asserts. 
In fact, he bor-
rowed millions 
upon millions 
from his father starting in the 1970s and 
continuing all the way into the 90s. 
And if we may return to the question 
of taxation, why is paying taxes suddenly 
seen as the sucker’s way out? What hap-
pened to taxes being an integral part of 
living in a civilized society in which we 
each look out for one another? According 
to the The Tax Foundation, a non-parti-
san D.C. based think-tank, the average 
federal tax rate in the US accounting for 
income, pay-roll, business, and excise 
taxes, is just 21 percent. All-in, top earn-
ers (with income over $1 million) pay on 
average only 33.1 percent of their income 
in federal taxes after rebates, investment 
losses, etc. For comparison, the average 
all-in tax rate for those making between 
$10,000 and $20,000 a year is just 0.4 
percent. Remember, until 1964 the top 
marginal income tax rate in the US was 
90%. Now it’s a mere 39.6 percent!
Taxes are key to allowing our country 
to run. Paying the taxes that are owed 
is a civic duty, not some bizarre ploy to 
swindle hardwork-
ing Americans out 
of their hard-earned 
cash. Anyone receiv-
ing Federal Aid to at-
tend college should 
understand the value 
of tax dollars. Hospi-
tals, schools, and mu-
nicipalities across the 
country need federal 
aid to meet budgetary 
requirements. Fed-
eral dollars subsidize 
our $2 gasoline and 
$2 gallons of milk. 
Federal dollars have 
helped develop treatment protocol for 
diseases like MRSA, SARS, and Ebola. 
And we mustn’t forget that state and lo-
cal taxes are important too. 
Taxes are not just a “necessary evil.” 
Paying taxes is a patriotic duty. Those 
with the means to pay more tax should 
be proud. It is depressing to see a third-
rate real-estate magnate hailing himself 
as “smart” for not paying federal income 
taxes. He should apologize for not pull-
ing his weight. Next time you look at 
your check and see that some of your pay 
has been withheld, be glad that you were 
able to help guarantee healthcare, secu-
rity, education, and so much more, for 
your fellow Americans. 
 cartoon by Rubi Saavedra
A Treatise on the Virtues of Taxation
The Real Hillary Clinton
I’m definitely no fan of Donald Trump, 
and I’ll be the first one to say that he has 
no maturity, class, or moral backbone. 
But at least his flaws are all out in the 
open. He constantly puts himself in the 
spotlight, attracting the attention of the 
media, who pounces on any little thing 
he says, scrutinizing his past, his pres-
ent, and his potential future as President 
of the United States. Because of this end-
less exposure, it seems that many people 
have formed strong opinions about him, 
accusing him of bigotry and claiming 
that he is absolutely unqualified for the 
presidency. But what makes him any less 
qualified than his opponent? Sure, Hill-
ary Clinton may have the right resume of 
political experience, but who is she real-
ly? Perhaps if the media didn’t gloss over 
her past and scrutinized her to the same 
extent as Donald Trump, people would 
know the real Hillary Clinton – a woman 
who is definitely, in my opinion, unfit for 
the office of president.
Hillary Rodham Clinton, born in Chi-
cago, Illinois, started her political ca-
reer at an early age. Writing her thesis 
on Saul Alinsky, the progressive com-
munity organizer famous for his book, 
Rules for Radicals (in which he praises 
Lucifer as the original radical), Hillary 
was inspired by his teachings, disagree-
ing with him only on one issue: Alinsky 
believed that the way to promote radical 
change was through putting pressure on 
the government from the outside, but 
Hillary believed that pressure from the 
inside of government would prove more 
effective. Thus she spent her life trying 
to gain this inside access through which 
she could implement this radical change. 
Fast forward a few years to 1998, the 
year when Hillary’s husband gets im-
peached for having sexual relations with 
a White House intern. This isn’t the first 
scandal that Bill and Hillary have been 
involved in, though. By this time, the 
Clinton name was associated with sev-
eral other scandals, including (but not 
limited to) Whitewater, Travelgate, Chi-
nagate, and Filegate, not to mention all 
the rapes, sexual assaults, and general 
extramarital affairs that Bill has been 
accused of committing. According to re-
search done by Glenn Beck and Dinesh 
D’Souza, Hillary played a key role in 
all of those scandals, usually as either 
the mastermind or the one who tried to 
make any evidence disappear, yet she 
blatantly lied about her involvement in 
all of the events listed. 
The scandals and the lies didn’t end 
there, though. When terrorists attacked 
the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, numer-
ous accounts from the soldiers involved 
indicate that Hillary, then Secretary of 
State, refused to give the order to send 
aid to those fighting to protect Ameri-
can citizens trapped inside. She even 
blamed an Internet video for the attack 
in her speech to honor those who died, 
and based on remarks she made to her 
daughter and the Egyptian prime minis-
ter just a few days earlier, she was com-
pletely aware of the fact that the video 
was totally unrelated to the attack. Not 
much later, she denied sending and re-
ceiving classified materials on her pri-
vate server when in fact, over 1,000 clas-
sified emails were found, and she joked 
around when asked about the thousands 
more that she deleted. 
And today, as she campaigns for the 
presidency, she continues to lie, namely 
about what she stands for. For example, 
she says that she has a record of fight-
ing on behalf of the children, but what 
she doesn’t tell you is that in 1975, she 
defended a 41-year-old man who bru-
tally raped a 12-year-old girl, claiming 
that the child was not the victim, but the 
instigator of the rape. The child, now 
woman, involved in that case has re-
cently spoken out in an article done by 
the Daily Mail, and the whole incident 
has been corroborated by FactCheck.
org. Hillary also greatly admired Marga-
ret Sanger. Most people know Sanger as 
the founder of Planned Parenthood and 
pioneer in the realm of women’s rights, 
but there’s more to her than that. In her 
book, Women and the New Race, Marga-
ret Sanger advocated for racial purifica-
tion, wishing to exterminate babies of an 
“inferior” race in order to create a supe-
rior race (sounds quite similar to the Na-
zis, doesn’t it?). And Hillary idolizes this 
woman while claiming to support the mi-
nority community. Furthermore, Hillary 
portrays herself as a champion of wom-
en’s rights, and in one of her campaign 
ads, she encourages victims of sexual 
assault not to let anyone “silence [their] 
voice.” Yet when it came down to the 
victims of her own husband’s sexual as-
saults, she had a very different message, 
often intimidating them into silence, de-
stroying any evidence of what happened, 
and characterizing their accusations as a 
right-wing conspiracy. 
That is the real Hillary Clinton (and 
that barely even scratches the surface).
After being found guilty of all of that, 
any other person would probably get 
thrown into jail or at least face some pun-
ishment, but Hillary? She gets away un-
scathed, allowed to continue running for 
office. She is a habitual liar, a hardened 
hypocrite, and a criminal, yet people still 
look up to her and want her to lead our 
country. Why? Because they don’t know 
who she really is. So before you cast your 
votes next month, I encourage you to do 
your research and know who a candidate 
really is before you decide to support 
them.  
reader op-ed
Katrina Drury ’19 writes in about 
her take on this year’s Democratic 
presidential candidate.
opinions  8   |October 6, 2016 
Reader Op-ED
Jackson Adams ’17 discusses Trump’s 
decision not to release his taxes. 
“Taxes are not just a 
‘necessary evil’. Paying 
taxes is a patriotic duty. 
Those with the means to 
pay more tax should be 
proud.”
“Hillary Clinton 
– a woman who is 
definitely, in my 
opinion, unfit for 
the office of presi-
dent.”
The TEDxMiddlebury Program was 
founded in 2010 in the spirit of the larger 
organization, TED, which aims to prolifer-
ate “ideas worth spreading.” In this idea, 
TEDxMiddlebury has become an annual 
program on campus devoted to spreading 
ideas in the form of short, powerful talks 
given by guests and a student speaker. 
According to TEDxMiddlebury’s state-
ment, the theme for this year’s TEDxMid-
dlebury is “Playing the Game.” This theme 
strives to highlight the ways in which each 
of us learn to deal with success and failure, 
and how we change in order to get ahead.
Contrary to larger TED Talks events, 
November’s TEDxMiddlebury event com-
bines TEDTalks video and live speakers to 
spark deep discussion and connection on 
campus. The x in this Middlebury event 
points to the independent nature of this 
event organized wholly by Middlebury 
students. The TEDx 
board members or-
ganize the entire 
event – from choos-
ing the theme to or-
ganizing the student 
speaker competi-
tion, to bringing in 
guest speakers. 
 “I started off 
with this organiza-
tion because I en-
joyed watching Ted 
Talks and it was also 
an incredible op-
portunity to work 
with people who are 
passionate about spreading ideas,” said 
Shubha Ganesan ’17, who has been a board 
member of TEDx since her first year at the 
College. 
“Essentially what we get to do is to find 
people who we think would be good fits to 
speak at campus, contact them and work 
through the process of them coming here.” 
Even though the event happens once 
a year, the board members spend a lot of 
time on planning and organizing the event 
to ensure its success.
 “We start generally in the spring se-
mester and devote lots of time to picking 
up a theme, which is the guarding force of 
the event,” Ganesan said. “We choose and 
contact the speakers during the summer 
and we try to find all the other six speakers 
before the fall semester starts.” 
The organization works closely with 
the Center for Creativity, Innovation & So-
cial Entrepreneurship (CCISE).
“We are under the umbrella of the 
CCISE and the main staff that we currently 
work with a lot is Heather Neuwirth, who is 
the resource for us,” Ganesan said. “We ask 
her about opinions and advice especially 
when we run into issues.” 
As the Director of Programs for the 
CCISE, Heather Neuwirth ’08 returned to 
Middlebury as the 
Associate Direc-
tor of the Center 
for Social Entre-
preneurship (CSE) 
and the Programs 
on Creativity and 
Innovation (PCI) 
in 2011. 
“Our Creativ-
ity and Innovation 
Associate, Lucy 
Scott ’16, and I 
work closely with 
the TEDx student 
board as advisors,” 
she said. “We are 
so proud of the student board because they 
collaborate as a team to handle the majority 
of the decision-making, planning, design 
and implementation of both the October 
student speaker competition and the No-
vember event.” 
In addition to facilitating ideas across 
campus, TEDx also builds in reflection pe-
riods for the audience to discuss and de-
brief after each talk. 
 “The good thing about TED events is 
that they are fairly open so speakers come 
from a variety of backgrounds and touch 
on different kinds of issues,” Ganesan said. 
“That’s how we aim to spark discussion and 
thoughts, which benefits our campus dis-
cussion a lot.” 
Neuwirth also emphasized the impor-
tance of having TEDx on campus and the 
influence of TEDxMiddlebury on student 
discussions.
“It is so important for students to have 
a voice in decision-making around speak-
ers that are relevant to them,” Neuwirth 
said. “It offers students [an opportunity] 
to become a part of the official TED ecosys-
tem. This past year, we saw the excitement 
around diving into conversation as most 
talks were followed by several audience re-
flections.” 
Neuwirth hopes that TEDx will foster 
discussion of topics that may not be part of 
daily student life here at Middlebury and 
increase understanding of each others’ per-
spectives on campus. 
Each of the TEDx board members 
brings one of the speakers to campus and 
acts as a liaison for their speaker. Accord-
ing to Neuwirth, students develop a close 
relationship with their speaker throughout 
the planning process. 
At the event, one student speaker is 
selected, from the annual TEDx Student 
Speaker Competition, to take the stage with 
the guest speakers at the event. This year’s 
competition took place on Wednesday, Oct. 
5, at Crossroads Café. 
Students interested can find informa-
tion on the TEDx website (go/tedx). 
Down at 51 Main on the Bridge Thurs-
day, Sept. 29, students who had trekked into 
town gathered around the bar, the buzz of 
conversation growing steadily louder and the 
crowd larger as the night wore on. Behind the 
bar, tenders rushed to prepare the orders for 
the raucous students. Dozens clamored for 
the night’s special: $5.50 margaritas. Waiters 
bearing trays of food swerved around the peo-
ple who, having finally received their drinks, 
had taken up positions around the cocktail 
tables and on the booths. 
It was the first night of Fiasco Food and 
Drink, the new incarnation of a student-run 
bar originally called Cornerstone. The bar 
night was a success according to several stu-
dents who attended. Mackenzie Best ’17.5 was 
pleased with it and thought that it presented a 
new opportunity for socializing. 
“It was a cool atmosphere that brought 
a hip bar feel to Middlebury, which was cool 
considering Middlebury doesn’t really have 
anything like that otherwise,” she said. 
“The Fiasco student bar is definitely 
something Middlebury needs,” added Martin 
Naunov ’17. “The opening bar night was fun — 
good music, great people and delicious tacos.”
Cornerstone began in the fall of 2015, 
when Graham Shaw ’16.5 decided that the Col-
lege’s social scene needed a new variety of late-
night activities. He got together with MCAB, 
the SGA and Dining Services to begin planning 
bar nights for students.
 “I thought there weren’t many spaces 
available that fostered actual conversation, 
and last summer was when I first had the idea 
of starting a student-run bar to address that,” 
Shaw said. 
For Middlebury students who wish to get 
away from dorm parties on a night out, many 
find that Two Brothers Tavern is one of few 
options available. With Cornerstone, Shaw 
aimed to create an alternative. 
Even during its pilot phase, Shaw could 
see that a student-run bar could pull quite a 
crowd. He remembered the very first event 
back in March 2016, when students over-
whelmed the underprepared staff. 
“Our first event in early March landed 
with a big splash and we drew a bigger crowd 
than we were ready for, which was a reality 
check in many ways,” he said. “For one, it was 
validation that students actually wanted this 
new space, but more than anything it made us 
think critically about how we could make this 
operation legitimate and long lasting.”
In April, following the success of the trial 
night, Shaw sent out an all-student email de-
claring that the bar night was now a formal-
ized, weekly event called Cornerstone. For the 
rest of the academic year, Cornerstone held 
special programming like wine tastings, and 
it employed only students as bartenders and 
bouncers. The 2015-2016 academic year end-
ed with Cornerstone as a resounding success.
And now, in the new year, Shaw and his 
partners have unveiled the next step in the 
growth of the College’s  student-run bar. He 
and other students involved with the old Fi-
asco – a late-night food vendor run out of the 
Gamut Room – merged Cornerstone and Fi-
asco to form one single operation. 
Shaw explained that the merger took 
place as an attempt to consolidate the two 
weekly student-run food and drink events and 
make them more recognizable as Middlebury 
staples. 
“We decided to merge Fiasco and Corner-
stone so that we could present a more unified 
front and keep ourselves open to more op-
portunities,” he said. “Branding-wise it made 
sense to consolidate our two operations under 
one name so that students can expect similar 
experiences in different locations, but it also 
helps with some logistical things like schedul-
ing and marketing.” 
Last Thursday’s bar night marked the 
‘new’ Fiasco’s inception. In addition to beer 
and wine, students could buy specialty cock-
tails and margaritas. Fiasco also serves food 
now, and student employees took over 51 
Main’s kitchen during the event to produce ta-
cos and other snacks. 
But Fiasco’s operations do not end on 
Thursday night. Shaw and his partners contin-
ue to serve food out of the Gamut Room every 
Saturday night, and they have plans to hold 
several special events throughout the semes-
ter. These include wine tastings and a home-
brew session with Drop-In Brewery. 
Finally, Fiasco will also hold a series of 
smaller dinners on Monday nights. The first of 
these takes place on Oct. 10. “We’re planning a 
more formal dinner for small groups that will 
allow us to experiment with some more up-
scale offerings,” Shaw said.
In spite of its successful start, Fiasco’s 
bar night did have one hitch. Best noted that 
the bar seemed unable to sufficiently accom-
modate the large number of students that all 
wanted to buy drinks. “I really only have one 
complaint, and that was that for the number of 
people there, they either need more bartend-
ers or should sell drinks by the pitcher because 
that was a little hectic,” she said.
For his part, Shaw knows about these 
complaints and plans to improve in the future. 
“We are definitely conscious of how long the 
wait was for service,” he said. “We’re very for-
tunate that people were in good enough spirits 
to stick around while we worked through that.
“We’re trying a couple new things this 
week: we’re going to streamline our food or-
dering through a different register and have 
a numbering system, which should speed up 
food orders. On the bar side, we are going to 
add more tables away from the bar to encour-
age people to spread out a bit more.”
These issues only arose, however, because 
Fiasco attracted far more people than Shaw 
anticipated. “We overshot our desired number 
of students by almost 100,” he said. In addi-
tion, they had brand-new employees working 
the bar, so they hope that the process will get 
smoother over time. 
Following the merger of Fiasco and Cor-
nerstone, Shaw’s next goal is to keep growing 
the operation into an even larger student food 
service — perhaps with the capacity to provide 
food for even more occasions.
 “Further down the line, we hope to ex-
pand into catering more events as a full-stop 
food-and-drink package,” he said.
october 6, 2016   
TEDxMiddlebury Asks Students About “Playing the Game”
features 
By Alex Newhouse
Features Editor
Fiasco Fills 51 Main On Successful First Night
kayla nahi
Assistant Professor of Dance Christal Brown excites the audience with her combina-
tion of speech and movement during the TEDxMiddlebury program in Nov. 2014.
By Qian (Audrey) Li
Contributing Writer
Bartender Georgia Grace Edwards ’18 serves up two margaritas at Fiasco Sept. 29.
michael o’hara
“Essentially what we 
get to do is to find people 
who we think would be 
good fits to speak at cam-
pus, contact them and 
work through the process 
of them coming here.” 
Shubha Ganesan ’17
tedxmiddlebury board member
9
10 features |october 6, 2016
The Ron and Jessica Liebowitz 
Fund For Innovation (FFI), established 
in March 2015 in honor of the College’s 
16th president and his wife, aims to cre-
ate a culture of innovation and experi-
mentation throughout the Middlebury 
institution. 
The FFI aims to encourage people to 
create programs that they are passionate 
about, according to Presidential Fellow 
in Innovation Michael Dola ’15.
“The FFI invites students, faculty 
and staff to reflect on the Middlebury 
experience, and consider how their own 
ideas, interests and passions might allow 
them to contribute to that experience,” 
Dola said. “Against this background, the 
FFI has funded projects at the College, 
Language Schools, Schools Abroad and 
MIIS. In some cases, funded projects 
have spanned across many of Middle-
bury’s schools and programs.”
The FFI offers two opportunities to 
apply for grants each year. The fall appli-
cation deadline closed on Oct. 6 and the 
spring application will close on Feb. 23. 
“The FFI requires a two-page appli-
cation,” Dola said. “The specifics of what 
we look for can be found on the website: 
a rationale for the project, plans for proj-
ect development, desired impacts, etc. 
In addition, we also ask that applicants 
submit a detailed 
budget.” 
Galen Ander-
son ’11.5, Dola’s 
co-Fellow, said 
that applicants 
should create pro-
grams that will 
benefit the com-
munity. 
A n d e r s o n 
said, “the FFI 
looks for a few 
key points in the 
application: how 
does the project 
‘give back’ to the 
Middlebury com-
munity? We also 
look for true pas-
sion for a project.” 
“We under-
stand that innovation is not only the re-
sult of experimental and risky ideas, but 
also individuals who pursue those ideas 
relentlessly and passionately.” 
Since students only have a limited 
time on campus, it can be difficult to cre-
ate a project that instigates lasting so-
cial change. As such, the FFI also offers 
smaller grants of up to $2,000 with ap-
plications reviewed on a monthly basis. 
According to Tim Spears, vice president 
of Academic Affairs and a member of 
the Fund Advisory Board, these smaller 
grants are open to everybody, not just 
students, although they were created 
with students in mind.
The Fund Advisory Board is the gov-
erning body responsible for reviewing 
the project proposals and deciding how 
to allocate grants. According to Spears, 
the board is comprised of representa-
tives from across the institution. 
“There are student and faculty mem-
bers from Middlebury and Monterey, ad-
ministrators from different parts of the 
institution and a couple of board mem-
bers who don’t work at Middlebury,” he 
said. “Everyone participates equally in 
the discussions of the proposals.”
The FFI, which is currently in its 
second full year, gives out grants from 
the money the program was originally 
endowed with. 
“Thus far we haven’t had to make 
decisions based on the amount of mon-
ey available,” Spears said. “[Though] 
there’s certainly an awareness among 
the folks [on the board] that are admin-
istering the fund of the amount of money 
that is available.”
In addition to evaluating proposals, 
Spears said the board also worked to 
help define what innovation means for 
Middlebury. 
“We launched the Fund without an 
operating definition of what innovation 
is,” he said. “It was kind of ambiguous.”
To clear up confusion regarding in-
novation, the 
Fund Advi-
sory Board had 
lengthy discus-
sions about in-
novation and 
what they were 
looking for in 
terms of innova-
tive projects. 
“Those con-
versations led 
us to emphasize 
experimentation 
more than we 
had in the past,” 
Spears said. “It 
also led us to say 
we were looking 
for projects that 
would have a 
long term, posi-
tive impact on 
the Middlebury educational experience.”
Because of that emphasis on commu-
nity value, Spears said the FFI does not 
function like a venture capitalist firm. 
“We have steered away from fund-
ing projects that are all about support-
ing market oriented profit-making ven-
tures,” he said. “If you have a proposal to 
create some super great widget, and it’s 
a business you want to start and you’re 
hoping to get some seed money to do 
that and you’re going to graduate from 
the college and run that business, unless 
there’s some kind of follow back to the 
institution…we’re probably going to say 
no.”
Anderson appreciates the emphasis 
on creating pro-
grams that im-
prove the Middle-
bury community, 
not just the Col-
lege but the other 
branches of the 
institution. 
“As an 
alumna of many 
Middlebury pro-
grams – including 
Schools Abroad 
and Language School – and a former 
College Commons Residential Advisor 
(CRA), I have rarely seen programming 
that takes into account the Middlebury 
experience in its entirety,” she said. “To 
me, the FFI was a chance to promote 
amazing work that would truly benefit 
our expansive community.” 
One of the projects created with FFI 
funding is Oratory Now, a program that 
trains students to help other students 
improve their public speaking. Accord-
ing to Dana Yeaton, a visiting assistant 
professor of theatre and the founder of 
Oratory Now, the FFI is the only reason 
his program exists. 
“The FFI was there with the fund-
ing to help us start and to give a level of 
legitimacy to the idea,” Yeaton said. “I 
so admire the idea behind FFI because 
it recognizes that sometimes a good idea 
just needs a little time to germinate.” 
According to Yeaton, not every idea 
has to be a good idea. The beauty of the 
FFI is that it gives each idea the support 
that it may need to become a reality.  
“Some things might be worth trying 
and then not merit continued funding,” 
he said. “But if every new idea has to be 
tested by the same standard–that it must 
be self-supporting right away just in or-
der to be tried–then a lot of good ideas 
would never come into fruition.”
Yeaton be-
lieves that the 
FFI represents 
the College’s 
core values. 
“To me, it’s 
an educational 
institution put-
ting its money 
where its mouth 
is. If we value 
innovation, if 
we think of our 
community as something that needs to 
grow in order to just live, then when a 
new idea comes up or a problem con-
fronts us, we need some flexibility in or-
der to respond,” he said. 
He equated it to the writing process. 
“You don’t have to write a perfect 
draft, you just have to write a draft, and 
then it can get better,” he said. “And 
that’s true of our community as a whole. 
We can aspire to something without hav-
ing to achieve it. The critical part is that 
we aspire.”
As a former student, Dola also be-
lieves that the FFI helps the College 
community to be the best it can be. He 
cites the culture of perfectionism at the 
College as a potential deterrent to cre-
ative thinking and risk taking and hopes 
that the FFI will help students redefine 
their ideas of success.
“The value of an FFI project is not 
defined by its outcome, but rather by 
its risk,” he said. “A successful project 
is one that tests, explores and investi-
gates experimental and unconventional 
ideas that could potentially create last-
ing, positive change to the Middlebury 
experience.”
The Fund for Innovation Enters Second 
Year of Kickstarting Creative Ideas
By Sarah Asch
Senior Writer
“It’s an educational in-
stitution putting its mon-
ey where its mouth is. If 
we value innovation, if 
we think of our commu-
nity as something that 
needs to grow in order to 
just live, then when a new 
idea comes up or a prob-
lem confronts us, we need 
some flexibility in order to 
respond.”  
Dana Yeaton
Visiting Assistant Professor  of theatre
Students take part in Oratory Now, a program designed to teach public speaking 
skills. Oratory Now is one project to receive funding from the Fund for Innova-
tion. 
Teddy Anderson
PAID ADVERTISEMENT
“To me, the FFI was a 
chance to promote amaz-
ing work that would truly 
benefit our expansive com-
munity.”
galen anderson ’11.5
Presidential fellow in innovation
“Hillary World vs. Trump World: Where US Foreign Policy Will Go after 
November 8” 
by Ambassador Richard LeBaron
Ambassador LeBaron is a career diplomat who currently works at the Atlantic 
Council.
THURSDAY, 10/13, 4:30 p.m., RAJ 
Career Conversation with Ambassador LeBaron
Bring your questions and learn about Ambassador LeBaron's 30 year career 
as a diplomat. This will be a casual, informal chance to have a conversation. 
Lunch will be provided.
THURSDAY, 10/13, 12:30 p.m., Center for Career & Internships (CCI)
*please note different location than the RAJ
ROHATYN CENTER for GLOBAL AFFAIRS aka The RAJ
In 2007, the Liberal Arts Diversity 
Officers (LADO) consortium was founded 
to “promote best practices and innovative 
strategies in the areas of diversity, eq-
uity and inclusion in higher education,” 
according to its website. From LADO 
emerged C3, the Creating Connections 
Consortium, whose goal is to promote full 
participation of underrepresented groups 
in higher education, according to College 
Provost Susan Baldridge.
C3 consists of four institutions: Mid-
dlebury College, Bates College, Connecti-
cut College and Williams College. These 
four liberal arts schools work alongside 
four research institutions – University of 
Chicago, University of Michigan, Univer-
sity of California, Berkley and Columbia 
University – to provide a variety of pro-
grams for underrepresented faculty and 
students. Such programs include Post-
Doctoral fellowships, summer under-
graduate research fellowships and sum-
mits. 
“A lot of advi-
sors advise against 
teaching at liberal 
arts colleges be-
cause they think 
they are just teach-
ing schools,” said 
Miguel Fernández, 
chief diversity of-
ficer of the College 
and professor of 
Spanish. “But, at 
the top liberal arts 
schools, research 
and teaching are both taken very serious-
ly and weighted evenly for tenure.” 
The College is working with C3 to dis-
pel some of the common misconceptions 
about teaching at liberal arts schools in 
an effort to attract graduate students to 
apply for teaching positions at liberal arts 
colleges. Fernández said the College must 
take deliberate steps to improve under-
standing and diversify its faculty.
“We have to actively recruit faculty of 
color to this campus,” he said. 
To do so, the College has solicited the 
help of Romney Associates to aid in this 
recruitment process. Romney Associates 
has created a series of four workshops 
that parallel the faculty search process to 
help departments understand the chal-
lenges of recruiting diverse faculty: how 
to reach out to graduate students; how 
to understand and fight against implicit 
racial, ethnic and gender biases; how to 
create mentoring programs that will help 
retention rates of postdoc fellows. 
These workshops will not only influ-
ence those departments which are direct-
ly involved with C3 but also those which 
are not and are simply in a search pro-
cess.  
The C3 program mainly focuses on 
the humanities and arts partly as a result 
of being sponsored by the Mellon Foun-
dation, which specifically promotes those 
disciplines. But these workshops help en-
courage the hiring of diverse faculty in all 
departments. 
Once the postdoc C3 fellows arrive on 
campus, they are assigned two mentors: a 
department mentor and a cohort mentor. 
Jessica Teets, professor of political sci-
ence, is a cohort mentor for all three of 
the 2016 C3 fellows. 
“My focus is on the things that I can 
help the C3 postdocs with that they all 
have in common, and the individual fac-
ulty mentors focus on the things that are 
more discipline-specific,” Teets said.
Often the mentors for the postdoc fel-
lows have experienced benefits from their 
own mentors and want to give back.
“Strong female mentors have helped 
me throughout my career, in academia 
but also in former jobs in the govern-
ment and consulting, and I think mentors 
are an especially important resource as 
people begin a new career,” Teets said. 
“I wanted to help 
others as I have 
been helped by my 
mentors.” 
Some faculty 
members, such 
Professor of Amer-
ican Studies Ro-
berto Lint, decided 
to be cohort men-
tors because they 
wished they had 
access to a similar 
program during 
their own entry 
into academia.
“My own postdoctoral experience 
would have benefited from the mentor-
ship and structure that is built into C3 so 
it has been gratifying to work with others 
to make C3 work here,” he said.
Many of the postdocs are taking part 
in the C3 program for different reasons as 
well. Daniel Rodriguez-Navas, a C3 post-
doctoral fellow in Philosophy, decided to 
apply for the fellowship because he knew 
there were not many people like him in 
his field. 
Rodriguez-Navas grew up in Latin 
America, lived in France and Asia, and 
attended a United World College (UWC). 
He had a global perspective and thought 
he could share this with his future stu-
dents. 
“I believe that just being from an 
underrepresented group promotes inclu-
sion” he said. 
Erica Morrell, a C3 postdoctoral 
fellow in sociology, explained that she 
wanted to join C3 because of her desire 
to interact with other people of different 
backgrounds. She was also drawn to the 
liberal arts college experience and hoped 
to advise students who might be inter-
ested in going to a graduate program at a 
research university.
“I’m also very interested in learning 
more about different people’s experienc-
es with diversity and how I as an individ-
ual and us as a community can support 
diversity and create positive academic 
experiences for all,” Morrell said. “I my-
self come from a lower-income, first-
generation background — my mother is a 
refugee and my father was a blue collar 
worker in construction.”
She also stated that some of her own 
negative experiences in academia moti-
vated her to try to help others feel safer 
and more included.
Morrell said “thanks to some won-
derful advisors I had success in academia 
thus far. I hope to be that helpful advisor 
for others now. But, to be frank, depend-
ing on advisors for the help that my fam-
ily and personal networks couldn’t offer 
me also presented challenges.” 
“I was propositioned by my main ad-
visor as an undergraduate, for example,” 
she added. “So I also want to be a voice 
that makes sure those in power in aca-
demia are aware these things can happen 
and to offer a space that is guaranteed 
to be safe for students to develop and 
thrive.”
Once the postdoc fellows arrive on 
campus, receive their mentors and begin 
teaching, the change begins inside the 
classroom. 
“We read things that don’t belong in 
the strict canon,” Rodriguez-Navas said, 
describing the curriculum for his Existen-
tialism course. “But change can be hard 
to measure and may not be so easy to in-
corporate into a curriculum.”  
“We started with a survey and found 
that [it] wasn’t really capturing all the 
information we needed, so we moved to 
doing essentially confidential interviews 
with the post docs at all the different 
liberal arts colleges,” Baldridge, College 
Provost, said. “And that turned out to be 
really valuable.” 
Jessica Teets says the change hap-
pens through exposure.
“I believe that programs like C3 help 
not just by exposing the postdocs to Mid-
dlebury and making it more likely that 
they successfully secure jobs in similar 
places, but also by exposing Middlebury 
to the postdocs,” she said.  
This exposure helps the College an-
swer questions about inclusivity and di-
versity, pinpoint policies that are work-
ing and target those that may make these 
postdocs feel uncomfortable sharing 
their different perspectives. According 
to Teets, all these are crucial areas that 
will help the College better retain faculty 
diversity.
Assessment is hard to measure, but 
the College has seen results. 
 Fernández said “the main goal is to 
get folks hired into liberal arts colleges 
so the main piece of assessment is, are 
we achieving that? And we have had suc-
cess there. Of the three people in our first 
cohort, two people have been hired into 
liberal arts colleges, and the third one 
wasn’t really pursuing a full-time posi-
tion. In our second cohort, they’re still 
here, but one has already been hired away 
into a liberal arts position.”
As the first round of C3 comes to a 
close, the College is thinking about what 
the next iteration of C3 will be and how it 
might improve. 
As Baldridge explained, the faculty 
and administration are already discuss-
ing how they “might propose to the Foun-
dation [the College’s] plans for improving 
and building upon what [it’s] begun.”  
C3 Consortium Increases Faculty Diversity
By Joana Salievska
Staff Writer
middlebury college news room
The previous cycle’s C3 Post-Doctoral Fellows Jessyka Finley, Alvin Henry and Nathan-
iel Nesmith joined the College from Fall 2014 - Spring 2016 as part of the two-year Post-
Doctoral Fellowship with the Creating Connections Consortium (C3).
“I think mentors are 
an especially important 
resource as people begin 
a new career. I wanted to 
help others as I have been 
helped by my mentors. ”
Jessica Teets
Professor of Political Science
october 6, 2016   11features
WANT A PIECE OF THE ACTION?
The Middlebury Campus is always seeking new voices. Writers are 
needed in the following sections:
To express interest, please send an email to campus@middlebury.edu detailing the section(s) for which 
you’d like to write.
NEWS
ONLINE  
FEATURES
SPORTS
OPINIONS
ARTS&SCIENCES
 | October 6, 2016 12 features October 6, 2016 |  13features
Nic Valenti (‘17) and Jacob Dombroski (’17)
Design by Emma Hatheway
Written by Renee Chang and Henry Burnett 
WRMC 91.1 FM: Radio Heads Broadcast New Beats
Mulder, It’s Me 
with Brandi Fullwood ’17 
Inspired by a genre of music called “dream pop” – also known as shoegaze, or PBR&B, – Mul-
der It’s Me is a show “loosely based on the idea of space travel, aliens, and the Beach House.”
Drawing upon the fantastical nature of the music she curates, Fullwood explained that the 
name of her show finds its roots in an equally absurd scene from the long running sci-fi television 
series, The X-Files. 
“[The phrase] ‘Mulder, it’s me’ is taken from a video referencing the sci-fi show The X-Files, 
where FBI Special Agent Scully announces who she is to her partner whenever she calls him, 
‘Mulder, it’s me,’ over and over again for three minutes,” Fullwood explained. “It’s a great bit of 
content. I really like the show and music that is considered ethereal or lucid, so the two together 
seem like a perfect marriage, although I now fear alien abduction more each day.” 
This fear of alien abduction, however, is not just irrational paranoia. Fullwood said the process 
of curating songs that evoke the experience of “sonically floating in space” is one that brings the 
listener into a simultaneous state of wonder and terrifying isolation. 
“On one hand you get this weightless romantic idea of floating above everything [and being] 
amongst the stars. On the other hand, you’re floating in the abyss of absolute darkness – hor-
rifying,” Fullwood said. “Each week, I’ll conceptualize something like floating in space or being 
abducted by aliens through music and when I muster the confidence, I’ll read out alien sightings 
and stories from UFO forums.” 
renaissance! 
with Sam Martin ’19 
Best described as a “fusion of classical influences and contemporary pop,” renaissance!, 
features artists whose music straddles the border between classical music and classic rock. 
“The genre of music I want to focus on is variously referred to as chamber, baroque or 
symphonic pop – it’s simultaneously a pretty broad and distinctive category that’s sort of 
hard to separate out from pop in general,” Martin said. 
In fact, the namesake of Martin’s show comes directly from one of his favorite baroque pop 
bands, known as San Fermin.
“The title of my show is inspired by a song from one such group: ‘Renaissance!’ by San 
Fermin. It’s a gorgeously orchestrated meditation on growing up, and I’ll definitely play it on 
the show at some point. It struck me that the song’s title is a pretty good description of what 
composers like Ellis Ludwig-Leone, who fronts that group, are doing,” he said. “It’s that fu-
sion of classical influence and contemporary pop that I want to explore on my show.” 
Looking for a new song? Check out this playlist 
recommended by our very own WRMC hosts: 
1. “Bye Bye,” by CRO (Friendship from a Distance 2.0)
2. “My Type,” by Saint Motel (Friendship from a Distance 2.0)
3. “Heretic,” by Lady Lamb (renaissance!)
4. “Kitana,” by Princess Nokia (Mulder, It’s Me)
5. “Ain’t it Funny,” by Danny Brown (The Green Note)
6. “I Think You're Alright,” by Jay Som (Infinite Cool Jams)
7. “A Gallant Gentleman,” by We Lost the See (Infinite Cool Jams)
8. “Graceland,” by Paul Simon (Common Scents)
9. “Ode to Viceroy,” by Mac Demarco (Common Scents)
The Green Note 
with Jack Herscowitz ’20
Currently in the middle of its first semester on air, Jack Herscowitz’s The Green Note 
is a weekly celebration of his passion for jazz music. 
“As someone who loves and plays jazz music, I’ve always wanted to share that love of 
jazz and make it accessible to others. The name, The Green Note, is a combination of the 
famous Blue Note Jazz label and Middlebury’s location in the Green Mountains.” 
A combination of commentary and music, Herscowitz said he hopes his show can 
dispel some of the conventional perceptions people might have of jazz music. 
“I design my playlist so that each song transitions into the next based on some 
musical element which I discuss between songs,” Herscowitz said. “I love being able to 
discuss music and share what I know about jazz with others. The main goal of the show 
is to make jazz appear less daunting to show its influence on other music.” 
Friendship from a Distance 2.0 
with Kyler Blodgett ’17 and Jeremy Stratton-Smith ’17
Friendship from a Distance 2.0 grew out of a simple idea when two 
friends, Kyler Blodgett ’17 and Jeremy Stratton-Smith ’17, wondered how 
they were going to keep in touch with each other during their semesters 
abroad. The show revolves around the theme of “maintaining friendship 
at a distance,” and, in the words of Stratton-Smith, became a way for him 
and Blodgett “to document what we were both doing in our year of being in 
vastly different places.” 
“Kyler and I were going to be abroad for opposite semesters of our junior 
year and wanted to figure out a way of staying in contact with each other 
throughout the year,” Stratton-Smith said. 
Even though Blodgett and Stratton-Smith have since returned to Middle-
bury, the show is back for its second go-round (hence, the “2.0”). 
“This year, our mutual friend Toni Cross is studying abroad for the full 
year in Russia and Morocco, so we thought it would be cool to continue the 
show and continue bringing music from different languages and cultures to 
the airwaves of Middlebury,” Stratton-Smith said. 
On top of the banter between friends, Friendship from a Distance 2.0 
also strives to introduce listeners to music from abroad. 
“About half of our music comes from the ‘abroad’ part of the show, which 
means that it is either music that Toni will be hearing in Russia and Mo-
rocco – hopefully in Russian and Arabic – or music that she is listening to 
on her own,” Stratton-Smith said. “The other half is basically whatever we 
want to play, though sometimes we also choose a theme, such as childhood 
tunes, things related to big events in our lives, different artists that we like. 
All in all, it is a pretty eclectic mix of things.” 
Naked Radio
with Julia Shumlin ’17.5, Julianna Childs ’17 and Gracie Farese ’17.5
Now in its fourth semester on the air, Naked Radio was never intended to be a 
real show. Instead, co-host Gracie Farese ’17.5 said the show was conceived as a 
gag.
“We were brainstorming possible radio shows and came up with the idea for 
Naked Radio as a joke, because we were pretty sure it wouldn't be allowed. I think 
we wanted to do a show that worked with body positivity as a theme, and doing it 
naked seemed both hilarious and totally natural,” Farese said. 
As the show has matured since its inception, the name has come to represent 
not just the alternative nature of naked people in a radio booth but also the diverse 
content the hosts play each week.
“We named it ‘Naked Radio’ partly out of laziness, but also because it's not just 
our bodies that are supposed to be stripped down in this show – it's our selves, our 
conversation, the show,” Farese said. “Naked is vulnerable, exciting, and also nor-
mal, and that's what our show is supposed to be.”
This openness of the show allows the hosts to play a variety of content that 
changes with a new theme each week.
“We play all kinds of music on our show,” she added. “We always choose a theme 
first, which comes from something that's been on our mind that week or just some-
thing that sounds fun to put together. Some past themes have been: songs dedicat-
ed to animals, who are always carefree (and unknowing) nudists; songs dedicated 
to different parts of our bodies; our fave songs from soundtracks of movies or TV 
shows that deal with vulnerability or nudity in an interesting way.”
Farese also said that any students interested in getting naked for an hour and 
talking on the air is welcome to reach out and join Naked Radio as a guest.
“You also can be naked to whatever degree you are comfortable, as long as you're 
cool with us being naked around you,” she said.
Common Scents
with Nathan Newbold ’20 and Laurel Rand-Lewis ’20
New to WRMC this year and not yet on the air, Common Scents – as the name suggests – is all 
about smells. The first-year co-founders of the show Nathan Newbold ’20 and Laurel Rand-Lewis 
’20 said the music will vary each show with the smell they use to inspire the weekly playlist.
“We plan to get our smell ideas by going around and asking friends as well as random people 
around campus what their favorite smells are and why,” Newbold said. “Then, Laurel and I will 
sit down and try to create some playlist of music that when you hear it will make you think, ‘Oh 
hey, this sounds like what a campfire smells like!’”
As they planned a radio show, Rand-Lewis and Newbold decided on a name inspired by New-
bold’s work at a summer camp.
“We were told to introduce ourselves with our name and favorite smell, which I thought was 
odd, until I learned how much somebody's favorite smell tells you about them,” Newbold said. 
“So, I thought it'd be interesting to do a show about what people's favorite smells might sound 
like. The name is all thanks to a friend, so shout-out to Steph Miller.”
“The idea was pretty much all Nathan,” Rand-Lewis added. “He’d done an activity at a sum-
mer program where each person said their favorite smell and why, as well as how it made them 
feel. We both thought that’d be an interesting thing to try to develop with music – the idea of 
different senses forming the same type of feeling. I also just really liked the pun.”
As the show gets underway, both co-hosts said they want to hear from other students about 
the scents that interest them the most.
arts &  sciences
don’t
miss
this
Drawing Lab: Your Eye is an Obscure Camera
Alongside Viennese painter, Gerlind Zeilner, par-
ticipants draw from observation in various locations. 
Drawings will result in a collaborative animation. No 
previous drawing experience needed. All are welcome. 
Materials will be provided. 
10/9-10/13, 9 AM-NOON, 1:30-5 PM & 7-10 PM, JOHNSON 
MEMORIAL BUILDING , ROOM 308
Freud’s Colors: Design and Psychology
Sigmund Freud’s Vienna office has long been recognized 
as a site of intellectual revolution and an emblem of mod-
ernism. This talk considers the iconic space somewhat 
differently, linking materiality and color to scientific the-
ories of vision and the mind.
10/10, MONDAY, 4:30 PM, MAHANEY CENTER FOR THE ARTS, 
ROOM 125
Middlebury Motion Capture Lab 
In the inauguration of the newly established 
Middlebury Motion Capture (MoCap) Lab, par-
ticipants will be introduced to the basics of the 
technology and software of motion capture data, 
avatar design and more. Free.
10/7, THURSDAY, 10-11 A.M., MCA DANCE THEATRE
On Friday, Sept. 30, acclaimed film 
and stage actor Roger Guenveur Smith 
presented his one-man show Rodney 
King to a jam-packed audience at the 
Mahaney Center for the Arts Seeler Stu-
dio Theatre. Brimming with vehement 
emotion, Smith’s hour-long piece dra-
matized the harrowing story of Rodney 
King’s highly publicized brutal beating 
by Los Angeles police officers in 1991.
On top of a lengthy film career, 
Smith is a veteran of solo theatre perfor-
mances including his Obie Award-win-
ning A Huey P. Newton Story. He created 
Rodney King in 2012, the year of King’s 
tragic drowning in a swimming pool and 
the 20th anniversary of the riots in L.A. 
resulting from his beating. 
With Rodney King, Smith sought 
to provide a nuanced analysis of King, 
who suffered much public vitriol after 
being thrust into the limelight post-
beating and after the famous 1992 trial 
of the police officers involved. Seeking 
to confront this complex issue head-on, 
Smith provided a visceral and emotional 
account of King’s mistreatment and ma-
nipulation, not only at the hands of vi-
cious cops, but also by the media and his 
own legal counsel.
Unlike many larger-scale theatre 
performances, both the Friday and Satur-
day night performances of Rodney King 
featured a question-and-answer session 
after the show moderated by Middlebury 
professors and outside guests.
Visiting Assistant Professor of The-
atre and Saturday night Q&A moderator 
Dana Yeaton expressed enthusiasm for 
the question-and-answer opportunity.
“You don’t necessarily know who 
someone is from a performance,” he said. 
“But you watch this guy, and you think, 
‘This is a very personable, kind, gentle 
person who thinks hard about these is-
sues and is bringing all of himself to this. 
I want to hear what he has to say after-
wards. I want to ask a question.’”
One of the Friday night moderators, 
Assistant Professor of American Studies 
Jessyka Finley, saw strong connections 
between the show and her courses, such 
as Introduction to African American 
Culture, which touch on theatre about 
the African-
A m e r i c a n 
experience.
Accord-
ing to Fin-
ley, the class 
is “thinking 
about the 
dramatiza -
tion of po-
lice brutali-
ty... thinking 
about dramatizing movements for racial 
justice.”
“We explore how technology enabled 
us to ac-
tually see 
[ K i n g ’ s 
story] in 
a differ-
ent way... 
to make 
links to 
s t o r i e s 
from to-
day,” Fin-
ley said.
The decision to bring Smith to Mid-
dlebury was not a difficult one to make. 
When Director of the Mahaney Center of 
the Arts Liza Sacheli pitched the idea to 
the theatre department, she had no trou-
ble convincing the faculty.
Having heard of Smith’s solo perfor-
mances and seeing a few on the Internet, 
Yeaton praised Smith’s ability to “pick 
characters that he can embody, not nec-
essarily imitate… 
[He can] chan-
nel what they’re 
about, [and] why 
these people 
should matter to 
us still.”
The Fri-
day night per-
formance of the 
show was both 
moving and artis-
tically impressive. 
Smith’s stage was 
simple, consisting 
of a small white 
square on the 
floor with a cord-
ed microphone 
stretched across 
it. The stark whiteness of the stage he 
performed on blended well with lights 
from the gantry above, allowing for a 
range of lighting from bright white to a 
somber blue.
Over the course of the show, Smith 
stomped, slid and gyrated around his 
miniature stage, sometimes even spitting 
in the air to provide a grisly image of the 
bloody reality of a near-death beating. 
This interpretation of King’s beating was 
particularly powerful, as Smith punc-
tuated each crushing blow with a swift 
arm motion and a loud thudding sound 
created by blowing sharply in the micro-
phone.
This constantly dynamic perfor-
mance was accentuated by well-chosen 
sound effects and music that allowed 
Smith to integrate singing and rapping 
into his story. For a portion of the show, 
Smith made the unique and powerful 
choice to depict a melancholy King sitting 
before his television set, drinking heavily 
as he struggles with the violent riots and 
bitterness in his home city unfolding on 
the screen right in front of him.
Though Rodney King’s story wrapped 
up a long time ago, Smith is bringing is-
sues to light that 
still need to be 
addressed to-
day. When asked 
about the most 
powerful and 
emotional scene 
of the piece for 
him, Smith high-
lighted King’s fa-
mously impromp-
tu 1992 “Can’t 
we just all get 
along?” speech. 
D r a m a t i z i n g 
King’s rejec-
tion of a canned 
speech in favor of 
a more heartfelt 
expression struck 
a chord with Smith.
“That moment should have a certain 
resonance for me and for my audience,” 
he said. “That’s the one moment I really 
want to get right.”
Rodney King’s Relevance Rings On 
By Will Simpson
Staff Writer
Anahi Naranjo
Acclaimed solo performer Roger Guenveur Smith provided a powerful and visceral rendition of Rodney King this weekend.
King became nationally known after his brutal beating by L.A. police officers in 1991.
New York Times
“We explore how technology enabled 
us to actually see [King’s story] in a 
different way... to make links to sto-
ries from today.”
-Jessyka Finley
Assistant Professor of American Studies
“You don’t necessarily know 
who someone is from a per-
formance. But you watch 
this guy, and you think, 
‘This is a very personable, 
kind, gentle person who 
thinks hard about these is-
sues and is bringing all of 
himself to this.”
-Dana Yeaton
Visiting assistant professor of theatre
15arts & SCIENCESOctober 6, 2016 |  
Lost Kings: The View from the Middle
Author’s Note: I couldn’t really pro-
vide an exact quote of anything the titular 
“Lost Kings” said at the Fall Concert, be-
cause I’m not allowed to print profanity in 
this newspaper and that eliminates most 
of the nouns, verbs, adverbs and adjectives 
they used during the concert. However, in 
the spirit of journalistic integrity (which I 
take very seriously), I didn’t want to write 
an article about their performance without 
quoting them, so I decided to substitute all 
of the curse words they used with school-
yard insults and fake childhood vulgarities. 
I’m sure it won’t be too distracting, but I 
had to be upfront about that.
 “HOW MANY OF YOU FREAKING 
BABIES ARE COMPLETELY SILLY RIGHT 
NOW?” shouted one of the two, identical-
looking white guys onstage in Wilson Hall 
on Saturday night, Oct. 1. The crowd went 
nuts – apparently we were all completely 
screwed right now. I was jammed between 
an eclectic mix of concertgoers in varying 
states of “silliness,” completely incapable 
of moving, and trying resolutely to keep my 
groin to myself. Inches behind me stood a 
sweet, sweaty couple, very much enjoying 
the tight quarters and providing me with a 
soundtrack of light moans and lip smacks 
that I could somehow hear over the frequent 
and very, very loud picking up and dropping 
of bass.          
duh duh duhduh duhduhduh duhduh-
duhduh 
dUHDUHDUHDUHDUHDUHDUH-
DUHDUHDUHDUHDUHDUHDUHDUH
*silence*
BWAAAAAAAAAAAMMMMM
To my left was a girl crawling on the 
ground violently like one of those Hunger 
Games dogs with real-people eyes, looking 
for her iPhone between everyone’s legs and 
praying silently that it wasn’t cracked. To 
my right was a Public Safety agent yelling 
to somebody on somebody else’s shoulders 
that they really, actually, seriously needed to 
get down. And in front of me was the stage.
Some kind of dazzling, neon fortress 
had been set up on the stage, a facade of 
LED’s that was playing these rave-y color 
patterns, vaguely evocative of those videos 
that would accompany the music in Win-
dows XP. The two white guys on stage had 
climbed up onto it now, and from the floor I 
could just barely see their heads bob up and 
down as they continued hitting buttons and 
things so that the frenzy never died. To their 
credit, the crowd was going totally crazy. I 
tried to think about the music and what I 
would write about it instead of the volume 
of sweat coating my face.
So: the music. I have absolutely no 
experience with EDM, I’m not even com-
pletely sure if this show qualified as EDM. 
All I know is that what I heard pretty much 
sounded like – okay, imagine that these two 
white guys were bitten by a drunk vagrant or 
something, and it gave them a really, really 
circumstantially specific superpower. And 
that superpower happened to be the abil-
ity to take the bass drop from “Turn Down 
For What” and somehow seamlessly work 
it into every song currently on the Top 40. 
Now imagine that those two white guys were 
the Lost Kings and you have a pretty good 
idea of what kind of music was going down. 
Which isn’t to say the music was bad at all; 
it was just actually Drake’s music a lot of the 
time. In their defense, I was spending a lot of 
time focusing on the fact that my t-shirt was 
a little bit too tight around the belly area, so 
I was not paying nearly as much attention as 
I should have been to the sonics.
Eventually, somebody threw a glass 
bottle filled with some kind of white liquid 
up to one of the white guys on stage, who 
had come down from his glowing temple to 
preach, “Okay, Middlebury – I want to see 
just how freaking absolutely silly insane you 
can get for this next song, LET’S FREAKING 
DO IT!” He proceeded to chug the entire bot-
tle of whatever that was, which, it occurred 
to me, looked a lot like Jones Soda but was 
most likely not. Probably conscious of Mid-
dlebury’s position on recycling, he opted to 
set the bottle down instead of smashing it 
against the wall. Smart man. The crowd was 
going absolutely freaking silly now, moving 
in tandem back and forth, walling me in like 
the hot covers of existence, reminding me 
of the curse of the flesh. For a moment, I 
contemplated dying right then and there, in 
that crowd of people, nameless and faceless 
together, a bead of sand in an ocean of sand, 
swirling, swirling, swirling, never anticipat-
ing that the tide could fall away forever into 
oblivion.
“Yo Middlebury, you silly gooses are 
freaking bananas!” he shouted from the 
stage, snapping us all out of it. “If you want 
to party with us we’re headed to the hockey 
house!” He excitedly ran offstage as people 
began to filter out, headed off in the black 
Vermont night to receive their hockey house 
inheritance.
By Cole Merrell
Contributing Writer
Raver Rafting
Rob Gainley and Nick Shanholtz of Lost Kings collaborate to create euphoric EDM.
What do three young men frolicking through 
a field of flowers, an intrepid cross country traveler 
and two siblings locked in dark hospital rooms have 
in common? Besides sounding like the punchlines to 
terrible jokes, all of their stories and more will be told 
at the fourth annual Cocoon: a live storytelling event 
hosted by the College. 
On Friday, Oct. 7, the Middlebury community 
will welcome six speakers as they deliver their tales 
before an audience of almost 400 people at the Ma-
haney Center for the Arts. The rules are simple: all 
stories must be true, none may be over 10 minutes 
and there can be no notes. 
Each Cocoon event is unified by a specific theme, 
with this year’s being “Revelation.”
The theme invites story tellers to “share impor-
tant realizations and the experiences that sparked 
them,” commented August Hutchinson ’16.5. 
According to Celia Watson ’17, the storytellers 
will share their perspectives on “life’s turning points 
and realizations” through “heartfelt and thoughtful 
stories.”
Hutchinson and Watson will act as the hosts of 
this year’s event. They are also co-producers, along 
with Tabitha Mueller ’18.  
This year’s program includes stories from stu-
dents Kai Wiggins ’16.5, Olivia Wiggins ’18.5 and 
Dominick Tanoh ’18; alumna Rachel Liddell ’15; 
associate professor of Psychology Kim Cronise and 
community members Elizabeth Christensen and Eric 
Mortensen. Speakers were chosen based on prior ex-
perience in public speaking or previous  interactions 
with the Moth-Up team. After they were selected, all 
speakers attended workshops with Hutchinson and 
Watson in order to perfect their delivery and maxi-
mize their content. 
The diverse lives of the speakers support the Co-
coon’s mission of showing audience members “dif-
ferent perspectives on what Middlebury’s commu-
nity is,” Watson said.
The Cocoon also strives to help the audience 
“better understand the minds and lives of others,” 
according to Hutchinson. 
“Great, true stories open us up to so many more 
experiences than we could possibly have in our lim-
ited day-to-day existence,” Hutchinson said. “They 
thereby empower us to improve and enrich our lives.”
The Cocoon is an expanded form of the Mid-
dlebury Moth-Up gatherings, monthly storytelling 
events that are usually only frequented by students. 
Aspiring story tellers can apply at go/mothstory. An 
application to join the Moth-Up as a producer can be 
found on go/joinmoth. 
In addition to co-producing the Cocoon and 
Moth-Up,  Hutchinson and Watson are planning to 
collaborate with the Rumpus and Storytelling VT, 
two storytelling groups based in Rutland and Burl-
ington, respectively. They are also deepening ties to 
Middlebury’s own StoryMatters story telling group.  
Tickets for the Cocoon are on sale now. They can 
be purchased in person at the College’s box office or 
online at go/boxoffice at $6, a discounted price for 
students. The event has sold out in the past, so be 
sure to act quickly in order to catch this engaging ex-
perience.
By Dominick Tanoh
Arts & Sciences Editor
Fourth Annual Cocoon Comes to Midd
Middlebury College Moth-Up
The fourth annual Cocoon will take place this Friday, Oct. 7, at 8 p.m.
Raver Rafting
Lost Kings, an L.A. based duo specializing in electronic dance music, performed to a hyped up crowd in Wilson Hall this Saturday.
 Midd Mouth: Featuring Nia robinson
16 arts & SCIENCES   | October 6, 2016
after Angel Nafis
My sister and I are homonyms plunging into a pool
of pure chlorine. 
White men do not Love us,
just the idea of our skin
not being theirs,
only belonging to them in a past life. 
White men do not Love us,
mine just starts to sound
like skin after generations of taking. 
Black boys do not love us,
our skin just sounds like last resort,
our skin just starts to sound like familiar, 
our skin just starts to look too familiar. 
My sister will grow
into being half-white porcelain to a herd of men with hopes of keeping 
her bones
on display like a prized painting.
Proud to possess her as a less than pristine skeleton. The half of white
she bears will mean nothing. 
On a good day, her heart will skip like rocks and ruined records. And 
she will be more than mixed, more than skin for men
to glorify, and stare at, and keep, and repeat,
and glorify, and stare at, and keep, and repeat. 
On a bad day, she will still be more than mixed, but her heart will not
skip.
That will be the day her beauty doesn’t change her or her name from a 
long line of ancestors 
in a lasting language that hangs on the underside of her tongue. 
I hope she learns how to shield herself
from her own voice.
I hope my existence is a prayer
from my sister’s inevitable yellow bones.
I hope she learns how to keep her own name rooted in just enough
fear to keep her safe. 
And I can only hope that she avoids being caught up in her own 
shadow and face.
The part where land mixes with ocean is not a mirror since all we do is 
romanticize overbearing tides.
 
My sister and I are homonyms
and the pale boys and their antonyms will find her beautiful,
pronounce her name like second dessert and mine like stain. 
I have grown to get used to being a possible choice,
second to last, but special.
I remember my uncle telling me white boys
didn’t love me because they didn’t know how to, yet.
I remember boys telling me I’m the first and only black girl they’ve ever 
liked. I remember when that sounded like “I love you.” 
I remember when that sounded like trophy and accomplishment.
They always forgot the medal.
They always forgot how to pronounce my name.
I don’t want my sister’s name to get stuck between their tongue and 
teeth. 
Boys will pronounce our names like we are sisters again when we don’t 
reply to catcalls,
we become grisly and grotesque,
names pronounced like mistake and honor. 
But, we know we are pretty because the boys tell us so. We are just wait-
ing to believe it.
Get pretty tattooed on our foreheads
we got from our fathers. 
Watch us walk away with our hips encased in pockets
that are Ashamed and Proud trying to hide mountains. 
Soon will we learn that not everyone deserves to love us or the idea of 
our skin disguised as a song. 
This week’s Midd Mouth poet is 
Nia Robinson. Nia is a sophomore 
from Chicago. She is co-president 
of the Black Student Union and a 
member of the Community Judi-
cial Board and Poor Form Poetry. 
Here are some of Nia’s reflections 
on poetry that she shared with me 
last week: 
Matthew Blake (MB): How 
would you describe your creative 
process? 
Nia Robinson (NR): I 
wouldn’t say I have a creative pro-
cess. I just write. As cheesy as it 
sounds, it’s true. Most days I force 
myself to write and what I produce 
is horrible. Even when I have inspi-
ration, it’s horrible. Editing makes 
it better, sometimes. What helps 
now is the creative writing class I 
am taking. 
MB: How would you describe 
your relationship to poetry? 
NR: I love poetry. I love other 
people’s poetry more than I do my 
own. While I wouldn’t say poetry is 
how I get my thoughts out and ex-
press myself, I would say poetry is 
how I make sense of the world.
By Matthew Blake
Featuring Nia Robinson
Nia Robinson
Nia Robinson ’19 wrote this week’s poem, “On How I Learned to Accept Love.”
   On How I Learned to Accept Love
       By Nia Robinson
You have probably heard of the 2015 sci-
ence-fiction film The Martian, or at least seen 
the posters plastered with close-ups of Matt 
Damon’s face and the jokes that his charac-
ter seems to need exceptionally expensive 
rescue missions rather often. But before The 
Martian was a box office hit, it was a book, 
and a book well worth reading whether or not 
you’ve seen the movie.
The author, Andy Weir, blends comedy 
and drama flawlessly in his fast-paced, clever 
novel. The premise is simple: the first manned 
mission on Mars is forced to abort because of 
an unexpected storm. However, one crew-
member, Mark Watney, is left behind when 
he is presumed dead. He must struggle to 
survive alone on Mars until another mission 
arrives that can take him home. Fighting to 
carve a living out of an unforgiving planet, 
Watney records a log of his experiences: his 
triumphs, his near-deadly failures, and how 
very tired he is of listening to disco music. 
Watney’s narrative voice is sarcastic, smart 
and brilliantly funny. He explains how the 
laws of international waters to Mars means 
travelling across its surface makes him a 
space pirate, crows over his accomplishment 
at being the best botanist on the planet and 
wonders why Aquaman can control whales. 
His laugh-out-loud storytelling provides the 
perfect counterpoint to the inherently high 
tension of the story.
 The book occasionally cuts to third-
person perspective, usually to the rest of Wat-
ney’s crew, on their way back to Earth, or to 
NASA, who eventually figure out that Watney 
is alive and scram-
ble to find a way 
to help him from 
millions of miles 
away. These sec-
tions, while rarely 
as funny as Wat-
ney’s logs, are still 
expertly written with a crisp, efficient style. 
Watney is never allowed to succeed for too 
long without making a mistake or running 
into an equipment malfunction, nor is he 
continuously bombarded with insurmount-
able problems. He has quite a number of 
brilliant moments and lucky triumphs. You 
happily rejoice with him in those moments 
because his personable, funny narration 
makes him an easy character to root for, and 
it makes his moments of failure all the more 
devastating for both him and the reader. The 
third person perspective chapters also open 
up a few opportunities for some good nail-
biting suspense. One such instance comes 
when NASA learns that Watney is about to 
hit a dust storm but has no way to tell him. 
The reader is then left to read Watney’s logs 
and hope against hope that he will figure it 
out in time.
While this book must technically be clas-
sified as science-
fiction, it is noth-
ing like the space 
operas or hyper-
futuristic worlds 
laden with unimag-
inable technology 
the mention of that 
genre usually evokes. The Martian is set in 
a not-too-distant future, and everything—or 
nearly everything—that happens in the nov-
el is at least theoretically possible with the 
knowledge we have today. 
The movie, although mostly a pretty 
faithful adaptation, occasionally caved to the 
Hollywood desire for spectacle and invented 
a few moments that were more outlandish or 
even impossible. The book has none of those. 
Weir goes into great detail about the specif-
ics of how Watney survives on Mars. He tells 
you about the technology being used, how it 
works and how it fails. He manages to do this 
without ever becoming boring, too dense for 
someone with limited to no background in 
science to understand or dissolving into tech-
nobabble. His explanations never seemed 
awkward or forced in, either. Watney simply 
states that he wants to explain everything as 
clearly as he can since he doesn’t know who 
might eventually find his logs, and then pro-
ceeds to give understandable summaries of 
how everything he does works, often spiced 
with his typical humor and wit. 
The Martian is a page-turner and a 
beach read. It will not give you complex lit-
erature or characters you need to deeply 
psychoanalyze in order to understand them. 
It’s light entertainment. But it is also a truly 
touching story. It is built upon one basic un-
derstanding of the world: that deep down, 
humans have an instinct and a desire to help 
one another. People will spend millions of 
dollars, risk their lives, cross and throw ev-
erything they have at a problem day and 
night, all to help one lonely botanist beat the 
odds and make it home. It is an encouraging 
and moving story to read, with a lot of clever 
and hysterical writing along the way.
Booking It
By Gabrielle Owens
Senior Columnist
The Martian
by Andy Weir
October 6, 2016 | 17arts & SCIENCES
By Ben Hawthorne
Staff Writer
Speaker on Preserving Marine Life
There are fish with eyes inside their 
skulls. The fish, called “look-up fish,” 
earn this name because they eat the ten-
tacles of jellyfish, and thus are always 
looking up to find prey. Since jellyfish 
stingers can damage their eyes, the fish 
evolved eyes that steadily retreated into 
their sockets until one day they were en-
tirely behind their transparent skulls. 
That was one of the many incredible 
stories of evolution told by Steve Palum-
bi, a marine biologist and molecular ge-
neticist at Stanford University, to Mid-
dlebury students, faculty and community 
members last week for the annual George 
B. Saul II Lecture Fund. 
Palumbi gave two lectures, one 
geared towards the public and another for 
biologists. In the first talk, he sought to 
communicate to students why the ocean 
is worth saving. The talk is based largely 
off his book, The Extreme Life of the Sea, 
and shares the central concept that “you 
don’t care about plot until you care about 
the characters.” That is, the best way to 
get people to care about protecting ma-
rine life is to explain what it is.  
Most of the presentation was intro-
ductions to a diverse array of marine life. 
There were the expected “charismatic 
megafauna” – whales, dolphins, manta 
rays and polar bears – that conservation-
ists, including some in the audience, criti-
cize as attracting undue attention because 
of their popular appeal at the expense of 
creatures that are more crucial to their 
ecosystems or in more danger of going 
extinct.
However, the bulk of the talk focused 
on the weird creatures that live in the 
ocean’s extremes: inch-long worms whose 
tails are 100 degrees cooler than their 
heads, deep sea predators that can only 
see red light, 5400 year old corals and 
many others. 
“There’s things in the ocean that we 
can learn from, things that we can be be-
mused about and just things that make 
us smile and make us say what a whacky 
world it is,” Palumbi said.
Though he focused mostly on how in-
teresting and bizarre marine life can be, 
he also talked about the lessons we can 
learn from some sea creatures. One exam-
ple was the icefish, a fish that lives in the 
exceptionally frigid Antarctic Ocean. The 
water is often below the freezing tempera-
ture of blood, making it a mystery how the 
fish is able to survive. 
Scientists eventually discovered that 
their blood contains an antifreeze protein. 
This adaptation helps these fish thrive in 
their environment, to the point where they 
make up 85 percent of the biomass in the 
Antarctic Ocean. The protein has been ex-
tracted, produced in yeast and added to 
ice cream. The protein helps prevent low-
fat ice cream from developing ice crystals 
when it is frozen and thawed repeatedly. 
Another example of something to be 
learned from the deep sea is WhalePow-
er: using the unique shapes of humpback 
whale fins, which use specially placed 
bumps to reduce drag, to make wind tur-
bine blades more efficient.
Like any speaker about the oceans, 
Palumbi could not avoid the subject of cli-
mate change. But he has a more optimistic 
take on the subject, unlike many similar 
writers, who paint a doom-and-gloom 
picture of the dying ocean (a picture that 
Palumbi says is not inaccurate).
“You can only do that once or twice 
before you lose your audience,” he said. 
“We wanted people to keep reading and 
keep understanding these creatures.”
Even with this optimism, he is blunt 
about the catastrophe that would come if 
warming continued unabated, because of 
the huge amount of resources we get from 
the ocean that would largely disappear 
or change if hotter and more acidic seas 
greatly changed the marine ecosystem.
“Right now what we’re talking about 
is what we get out of the ocean,” Palumbi 
said. “We get a hundred million tons of 
food a year out of the ocean. Half the air 
we breathe comes from the ocean. Right 
now the only thing keeping our global 
commerce alive is the fact that we can run 
a ship over the ocean without fearing to 
breathe the air that comes off the ocean’s 
surface, and all of that could be gone if the 
ocean gets out of whack.”
He called therefore for beginning 
to decrease emissions by 2020, arguing 
that with the amount of carbon dioxide 
we have already put into the atmosphere, 
even if we were to stop emitting today it 
would take 50 years for carbon dioxide 
levels in the atmosphere to begin to fall 
and thus close to 100 years for the effects 
of climate change in the ocean to start get-
ting undone. 
His second, more technical lecture 
discussed his research on using genomics 
to promote adaptation to climate change. 
His research was on how corals acclimate 
(change over time) and adapt (change over 
generations through natural selection) to 
warmer water. 
By doing a series of controlled experi-
ments, Palumbi and his team were able to 
isolate some of the genes that help a spe-
cies of coral survive in warmer waters, 
which paves the way for genetically modi-
fying corals to survive in hotter seas. He 
also spoke on experiments where his team 
transplanted corals that could survive in 
warmer water.
This research provides some lessons 
for conservationists. Palumbi argues that 
we can learn which corals would best sur-
vive climate change and then work harder 
to protect them from human activity. He 
also advocated for transplanting more 
heat-resistant species to areas where reefs 
have died in order to restore other reefs, 
though only over small areas to avoid is-
sues of invasive species taking over eco-
systems. 
Of course, Palumbi (and the audience) 
were not without their reservations about 
human intervention into natural selection. 
“[Genetic] selection for heat tolerance 
can’t be free,” Palumbi said. “If that trait 
were only selected for [by a gene], then 
everyone would have it. So we have to be 
careful.”
And he does not believe that acclima-
tion and adaptation are enough to save 
marine life, even if humans help them 
along. 
“Sea creatures are not going to be able 
to evolve and adapt fast enough to survive 
all of climate change,” Palumbi said. “But 
it might be able to get a few more decades. 
Personally I don’t think that there is any 
solution other than dropping emissions.”
Videos of both lectures will be posted 
on the Department of Biology’s website.
Blue Frontier
Marine biologist Steve Palumbi studies how coral reefs are adapting to warmer oceans.
For some, classical music may feel 
like a stagnant art. They see it as conser-
vative in its practices and void of innova-
tion. Modern interpretations, however, 
build on the traditions of previous cen-
turies to revolutionize the way we expe-
rience classical music. On Saturday, Oct. 
8, Professor of Music Su Lian Tan will 
challenge previous conceptions of con-
certos through her new piece Legends of 
Kintamani, to be presented at the Ma-
haney Center for the Arts Concert Hall.
Legends of Kintamani is a cello con-
certo inspired by  Tan’s trip to South-
east Asia, specifically Bali. The perfor-
mance will be complemented with large 
animated murals produced by students 
Hosain Ghassemi ’17, Ruben Gilbert ’15, 
James Graham ’16, Sofy Maia ’16 and 
Coumba Winfield ’17, as well as Middle-
bury Union High School student Justin 
Holmes. These murals were created with 
guidance from Arts Technology Special-
ist Daniel Houghton ’06 in the Digital 
Liberal Arts Initiative’s Animation Stu-
dio. Their work will be projected on a 
large screen during the concert, creat-
ing a multi-media performance for the 
eyes as well as the ears. The concert is 
the result of a unique collaboration be-
tween the College’s Digital Liberal Arts 
Initiative, the distinguished cellist Dar-
rett Adkins and the Burlington Chamber 
Orchestra with guest conductor Evan 
Bennett.
Members of the audience can learn 
more about the creative process behind 
the concert by engaging with the artists 
at the free pre-concert panel at 7 p.m. in 
Room 125 of the Mahaney Center for the 
Arts. 
The concert will also include the 
Burlington Chamber Orchestra perform-
ing Bela Bartók’s Romanian Folk Dances 
and César Franck’s Quatre Pieces Brèves 
under the baton of orchestra director 
Yutaka Kono.
Tickets are $6 for students; $15 for 
the faculty, staff, alumni, emeriti and 
other ID holders; and $20 for the gen-
eral public. To order tickets, visit go/
boxoffice or call 802-443-6433.
To follow up on other events at the 
Mahaney Center for the Arts, visit go/
arts, like the Arts at Middlebury Face-
book page or follow @arts.midd on In-
stagram.
Performing Arts Sp    TLight: Legends of Kintamani
 
By Hiruy Ephrem
Contributing Columnist
Legends of Kintamani, a cello concerto by Professor of Music Su Lian Tan, will be featured in the MCA on Saturday, Oct. 8 against the backdrop of large animated murals.
Middlebury College Performing Arts Series
Hell or High Water arrived in the-
aters this August with no fanfare. The 
cast is filled with recognizable and tal-
ented names, but for a movie being re-
leased on the cusp of Oscar season it had 
no expectations attached to it. I first saw 
the trailer in mid-June, and had heard 
nothing of it prior. Then it arrived, and in 
quite resounding fashion. Receiving al-
most immediate uni-
versal acclaim, Hell 
or High Water is a 
rare film that goes 
from relative un-
known to certified hit in a period of days 
as the first people discovered it. 
Directing Taylor Sheridan’s remark-
able script, the writer of last year’s equal-
ly brilliant Sicario, David Mackenzie, 
brings a tranquil style to the filming of a 
story that is remarkably far from tranquil 
itself. On the surface, Hell or High Water 
functions as an engrossing crime caper 
set in Texas, but to try and sum it up as 
simply a movie about cops and robbers 
would truly miss the point.
At its heart, the movie is about family 
and what we will do beyond all semblance 
of sense or reason for those that we love, 
even if we are not quite sure how to tell 
them what we do for them. This story of 
family is told through two sets of broth-
ers: Tanner and Toby Howard, actual 
brothers, and West Texas Marshals Ham-
ilton and Parker, who are a set of partners 
as close to dysfunctional brotherhood as 
you can get without actually sharing any 
blood.
Toby, played by Chris Pine in a perfor-
mance that should put to rest any claims 
that the man cannot act, is a straight-laced 
man who lost his marriage and is close to 
losing his ranch after caring for his termi-
nally ill mother while his brother Tanner 
was in prison. Ben Foster, in easily a ca-
reer best performance, brings Tanner to 
life with a charismatic laugh, but has eyes 
that show you he is as unhinged as they 
come. 
In the af-
termath of their 
mother’s death, 
the two brothers, 
whose lives have never run on the same 
track before, come together to go on a 
string of bank robberies. They effectively 
take back from the bank what the bank 
took from them in their mother’s last 
months. Toby’s righteous streak and ab-
horrence of violence and Tanner’s love for 
his little brother make them relatable and 
sympathetic. 
On the other side of the law, Marshal 
Marcus Hamilton, portrayed by an expect-
edly brilliant Jeff Bridges, is on his way 
out when he gets interested in this case 
of bank robbers. It is a clichéd setup that 
stops feeling clichéd the second we meet 
his partner Alberto Parker, played by the 
criminally underrated Gil Birmingham. 
Hamilton cannot speak with Parker for 
more than half a minute before he must 
find a way to insult him. Hamilton talks 
like a kid, trying to make friends by mak-
ing fun of them. 
While Toby and Tanner are brought 
together towards reconciliation by a lu-
dicrous scheme of vengeful justice, Ham-
ilton and Parker are only held together 
by the job, or so Mackenzie wants us to 
believe at first. As the film progresses, 
underneath the combative surface, we 
see a connection between these two men 
emerge as they narrow in on their targets.
With this set-
up, the brothers’ 
bank robberies 
and their pursuit 
by the partners 
becomes a vehicle 
with which the 
most interesting 
parts of the film 
can be expressed. 
In both pairings, 
the audience is 
shown a relation-
ship between two 
men who are not 
quite sure how to be intimate. 
Toby and Tanner are combative for 
much of the first act. Toby is angry at 
his brother for not being there with their 
mother, and his frustration comes out at 
every sign of stress. He is not built for 
bank-robbing like his brother. Yet, Tanner 
came when Toby asked him to. In an espe-
cially poignant moment, the two brothers 
sit in a diner, and Toby asks Tanner why 
he came to help him if he doesn’t think 
they will get away with it. Tanner replies 
simply, “Because you asked little brother.”
All of this is shot in a Texas that is 
portrayed differently than many classi-
cal westerns, with expansive shots of the 
physical landscape or sweeping plains that 
are aesthetically beautiful. Instead, Mack-
enzie shows us a nearly never-ending 
terrain of foreclosed houses, billboards 
promising financial support, and a string 
of characters who are simply trying to sur-
vive in a world that has been devastated by 
the recession and 
housing crash 
that wreaked 
such similar 
havoc across the 
country. 
It is a dismal 
world that these 
characters are liv-
ing in, one that 
promises little 
comfort with no 
conciliation float-
ing in the dust 
or the wind. The 
scenery is a character all its own, and 
Mackenzie uses it to have us sympathize 
even more strongly with the brothers. 
As the plot progresses, it becomes in-
creasingly obvious to the viewer that a cha-
otic crashing together of these two duos is 
inevitable. Yet, as we draw closer to that 
climax, there are no heroes, and there are 
no villains. There are instead four men do-
ing what they believe they must to settle 
what debts they have with themselves and 
the world. “Four brothers” trying to find 
some degree of peace in each other. 
By Devin McGrath-Conwell
Senior Columnist
THE REEL CRITIC
Directing Taylor Sheridan’s 
remarkable script, the writer of 
last year’s equally brilliant Si-
cario, David Mackenzie, brings 
a tranquil style to the filming of 
a story that is remarkably far 
from tranquil itself.
Hell or High Water
18 arts & SCIENCES   | October 6, 2016
JOIN OUR PACK
WRITE FOR THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS AND MORE.
SINCE YOU’RE INTERESTED, SEND AN EMAIL TO US AT
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
CARTOONS
Win homer
URIEL ULLOA ADAN
KAITLYND COLLINS
Nolan Ellsworth
EMILY COX
20 Advertisements
WANT TO WRITE FOR
THE CAMPUS?
The Middlebury Campus wants you to join our team 
for the fall semester. Writers and photographers are 
needed!
To express interest, please send an email to campus@middlebury.edu 
detailing the section(s) for which you’d like to write.
| october 6, 2016
October 6, 2016| SPORTS 21
Football
School   W-L
Amherst     2-0
Panthers    2-0
Trinity    2-0
Tufts    2-0
Colby     1-1
Wesleyan    1-1
Bates     0-2
Bowdoin     0-2
Hamilton    0-2
Williams    0-2
Field Hockey
School   Conf  Overall
Bowdoin   4-1  7-1
Middlebury  4-1  7-1
Trinity   4-1  8-1
Tufts   4-1  8-1
Amherst   3-2  7-2
Williams   3-2  7-3
Hamilton  3-3  5-4
Bates   2-5  4-5
Conn. College  1-4  1-7
Colby   1-5  3-6
Wesleyan  0-4  2-7
Men’s Soccer
School   Conf  Overall
Hamilton  4-1-1  5-3-1
Panthers   3-0-2  6-0-2
Amherst   3-1-1  7-1-1
Conn. College 3-2-0  7-2-0
Williams   3-2-0  6-2-1
Tufts   2-1-2  4-3-2
Trinity   2-4-0  4-4-0
Colby   1-2-2  2-4-2
Bowdoin   1-2-1  5-2-2
Bates   1-5-1  3-5-2
Wesleyan  1-4-0  4-4-1
Women’s soccer
School   Conf  Overall
Williams   5-0-1  8-0-1
Amherst   3-1-1  6-2-1
Tufts   3-1-1  4-2-3
Bowdoin   3-1-0  6-2-0
Conn. College  3-1-0  7-1-0
Trinity   3-1-0  5-1-2
Middlebury  3-2-0  8-2-0
Hamilton  1-5-1  2-5-2
Wesleyan  0-1-3  2-3-3
Bates   0-6-1  2-7-1
Colby   0-5-0  3-5-0
Volleyball
School   Conf  Overall
Tufts   5-0  12-1
Amherst   4-1  9-3
Middlebury  3-1  10-3
Wesleyan  3-2  8-3
Williams   3-2  7-7
Conn. College  2-2  7-6
Hamilton  2-2  6-4
Bowdoin   2-3  8-4
Bates   1-3  4-9
Colby   0-4  3-11
Trinity   0-5  5-8
The men’s tennis team competed in 
the ITA Regional 
Championship this 
weekend at Wil-
liams, where Lu-
bomir Cuba ’19, a 
transfer student 
from University of 
Michigan, captured 
the singles title 
with six straight 
victories.
Cuba claimed 
his title on Sunday 
with a victory over 
Brandeis’ Michael 
Arguello, 6-2, 6-2. 
His path to the fi-
nals included six 
matches, all of 
which he won in 
straight sets. Cuba 
defeated players 
from Colby-Saw-
yer, Bates, Wil-
liams and Amherst. 
He will play at the 
ITA Oracle Cup in Arizona this weekend 
along with winners from each Division 
III regional.
“I played some of my best tennis this 
year, managing to get past some of the 
toughest players in the region,” Cuba 
said. “My toughest match had to be 
against Williams first-year Alex Tay-
lor, who pushed me harder than anyone 
else. The match was about two and a half 
hours in windy conditions, so I am hap-
py I came out on top.”
Hamid Derbani ’17, William de Quant 
’18 and Timo van der Geest ’18 also had 
wins in the singles bracket. Derbani beat 
the bracket’s no. 1 seed overall, Steven 
Chen of Wesleyan, in the round of 32 (7-
5, 6-3).
De Quant went 6-0, 6-0 in his first 
two matches of the 
round of 64, but lost to 
Brandeis’ Arguello in 
three sets in the round 
of 16 (7-5 (5), 3-6, 6-4). 
Van der Geest fought 
for a three-set victory 
in his first match (4-
6, 6-0, 7-5), but lost 
in straight sets to the 
no. 2 overall seed from 
Amherst in his second.
Middlebury sent 
two pairs to the semi-
finals of the doubles 
bracket: Derbani and 
Kyle Schlanger ’18 lost 
in that round, while 
Cuba and de Quant 
advanced to the finals. 
Cuba and de Quant 
dropped the open-
ing set to a pair from 
Bowdoin, 6-3, won the 
second set by the same 
margin, and lost the 
tiebreaker 10-7.
A third pair, Weston Brach ’20 and 
Peter Martin ’19, won 8-5 victories 
against teams from Brandeis and the 
Coast Guard Academy. They lost to the 
eighth-seeded team from Williams in the 
round of 16.
“Overall, the team played great,” said 
Cuba. “We competed hard and support-
ed each other, and that’s why I think we 
had so much success.”
The Panthers will play at their final 
invitational of the fall season at MIT this 
weekend, Oct. 14 and 15.
Cuba wins singles at regionals
By Ethan Brady
News Editor
“I played some 
of my best ten-
nis this year, 
managing to 
get past some 
of the toughest 
players in the 
region.”
Lubomir Cuba ’18
paid advertisement 
NESCAC 
STandings
Last Saturday, Oct. 1, the men’s and 
women’s cross-country teams split up as 
half the squad travelled to Lehigh Univer-
sity in Bethlehem, PA for the 43rd annual 
Paul Short Invitational, while the other 
half stayed closer to home to compete in 
the Vermont State Meet at St. Michael’s 
College. The Paul Short, featuring a men’s 
8-kilometer race and a women’s 6-kilome-
ter race, is one of the largest meets in the 
nation with over 450 teams and 6,000 ath-
letes. Overall, the women placed 4th of 42 
teams in the Brown race, outranked only 
by Division I teams, and the men finished 
7th of 45 teams.
On the men’s side in Pennsylvania, the 
first panther to cross the finish was Brian 
Rich ’17 in 21st (25:10), followed by As-
cencion Aispuro ’18 in 33rd (25:21), Con-
nor Evans ’19 in 47th (25:29), and Kevin 
Serrao 18’ in 60th (25:35). The final scorer 
was Brendan Wood 17’, who placed 95th 
with a personal best of 25:51. 
Rich had a positive outlook on the 
weekend, saying, “I was really excited 
about our team’s performance on Satur-
day. A lot of the men ran personal best 
times by over a minute and really took 
advantage of the high-energy atmosphere. 
We took on some great competition from 
outside our region and showed that we can 
run with them. The season is off to a great 
start, but we’re really looking forward to 
a week off from racing when we can rest 
and recover before our next competition at 
Connecticut College.”
The women also had a successful week-
end at the Paul Short, with Abigail Nadler 
’19 finishing sixth out of 273 competitors 
completing the course with a time of 21:08. 
Behind her was Katherine MacCary ’19 in 
45th (22:10) and Sasha Whittle ’17 in 50th 
(22:16). In a tight spring to the finish, Er-
zsie Nagy ’17 and Meg Wilson ’20 crossed 
the finish line at almost the same time to 
place 51st and 53rd, respectively. Whittle 
was proud of the team’s performance.
“The team raced incredibly well against 
a ton of DI competition,” said Whittle. 
“We were 4th in the Brown Race (the only 
teams that beat us were DI teams). The gap 
between our first and fifth runner was only 
about a minute which is way better than 
last week. All of our 5 scorers averaged sub 
6 minutes per mile for the 6k course. The 
team had a ton of personal bests and we 
are incredibly pleased by our rebound af-
ter a disappointing finish at Williams.” 
Back in Vermont, the highlight of the 
weekend came from Read Allen ’18 who 
took home the Championship.
“We always love going to the state meet 
because the vibe is so positive and fun,” 
said an excited Katie Merrick ’17. “We 
were able to put in some solid work and 
practice going out more aggressively and 
working together within the race. Stand-
out performances included Read Allen ‘18 
who is now the Vermont State Champion. 
We were overall really happy with the race 
but our state championship title is fueling 
us to set our sights on to bigger goals as 
the season continues.”
Both teams have a two-week break 
from competition to recover and prepare 
for the Conn. College Invitational Satur-
day, Oct. 15.
Last weekend, Oct. 1-2, the men’s golf 
team hosted the NESCAC Qualifier at the 
Ralph Myhre Golf Course to determine the 
four teams that will play in the champion-
ships at the end of April. Home-course ad-
vantage was also on the line as the lowest-
scoring team at the qualifiers plays host in 
the spring. The Panthers finished fourth, 
two strokes behind Williams and Trinity 
and one behind Amherst. The tiebreaker 
went to the Ephs because their fifth golf 
beat the Bantams’ fifth by a single stroke.
Although they did not win the qualifier 
for the first time since the 2012-13 cam-
paign, all the Panthers needed to do was 
qualify. The team also won another small 
victory via the fact that the tiebreaker 
went to Williams. The Ephs’ home course, 
the Taconic Golf Course in Williamstown, 
Mass., is like the Panthers’ home-away-
from-home. Over the last year, the Pan-
thers have played more matches at Tacon-
ic (four) than at the Ralph (three).
“More than anything I’m pleased with 
the way we fought through it and played 
today,” Beaney said. “We had some new 
guys in the lineup that really stepped up 
and played extremely well. I think the fu-
ture of the program is great.”
While the three-year streak of spring 
NESCAC championships at the Ralph will 
end, Rodrigo Andrade ’17’s tendency to 
show up at the biggest tournaments con-
tinued last weekend.
The defending individual NESCAC 
champ finished with the third-lowest score 
of all competitors. He shot a 143 for the 
weekend and followed his impressive 72 in 
Saturday’s round with a 71 on Sunday.
“I think we played well,” Andrade said. 
“We always play well here at the Ralph. I 
mean we are bummed out we didn’t win. 
But everyone feels good about his golf 
game and I think we’re going to do well at 
Taconic.”
The qualifier was the best tournament 
of Andrade’s Panther career. Had he shot 
a 143 at NESCACs last spring, he would 
have bested his then-tournament winning 
performance by eight strokes.
“The greens were great and the ground-
skeepers kept the course [playing] pretty 
well,” Andrade said. “It was just fun out 
there.”
One of the new contributors was David 
McDaniel ’19, who shot a two-day total of 
150. McDaniel’s hard work since the end 
of last season and throughout this fall sea-
son has begun to pay off for his team.
“I worked really hard over the summer 
to get my game going in a good direction,” 
McDaniel said on Sunday. “You know to-
day was particularly tough for me because 
I was 33 on the front nine and 43 on the 
back nine, so I really had a tough back 
nine. Had I just had a 41 we would have 
won. I know people a lot of times say they 
could have done better. It’s tough so it will 
take a little while to get over. But I’m hap-
py. 150 for two days is a good score. It’s a 
lot better than where I used to be.”
Along with McDaniel, another new 
contributor for the Panthers was first-year 
Jeffrey Giguere ’20, who also shot a two-
day total of 150 which was highlighted by 
his one-over 73 performance on Sunday, 
his lowest round as a Panther.
“We lost some good players over the 
last couple years and for these guys to 
come in and fill in and play so well is re-
ally a compliment to the guys who have re-
turned,” said Beaney. “They’re great team-
mates. They spur each other on. We’ve got 
good captains with Matt [Marra ‘17] and 
Graham [Kenter ‘17] and so that makes it 
easy for new guys to come in and be confi-
dent and comfortable enough to play and 
to play at the level they are capable of.”
McDaniel’s fellow sophomores Reid 
Buzby ’19 and Phil Morin ’19 also played 
well for the Panthers. After shooting his 
highest round this fall on Saturday when 
he turned in a 77, Buzby recovered to 
shoot just below his season average with 
a 72 on Sunday.
Morin continued his terrific run that 
has stretched over the last year on Satur-
day as he matched Andrade’s low score 
when he turned a 72 into the clubhouse. 
Morin’s second round, in which he shot a 
76, was over three shots above his fall av-
erage. However, if it was not for a triple 
bogey on the fourth hole, Morin may have 
turned in a lower score.
“I know some of the guys [approached 
Sunday’s round] trying to just play match 
play because we were really playing with 
those top three teams [Williams, Trinity 
and Amherst],” Morin said. “Some players 
were just trying to play their best. It really 
just depends on the guy. But for me I just 
tried to play my best and do what I had to 
do and capitalize on my shots.”
Standing in front of the final scores 
posted outside the Ralph pro-shop, 
Beaney summed up the weekend when he 
addressed members of the four teams that 
qualified for NESCACs. 
“This is the best two days of golf that 
we’ve seen at the Ralph Myhre Golf 
Course,” he said. 
Later on Beaney and Andrade both said 
that the Panthers are well-positioned to 
extend their three-peat and dominance 
over the NESCAC.
“I like our chances down at Taconic,” 
Beaney said. “And it’s an exciting time for 
us. Disappointed that we didn’t win it on 
our home turf, but really pleased with the 
way the guys played and handled them-
selves.”
The qualifier puts a wrap on the fall 
portion of the men’s team’s schedule, ex-
cept for a one-day event Tuesday, Oct. 11, 
at the Ekwanok Country Club in Manches-
ter, VT.
This weekend, October 8-9, the wom-
en’s side takes center-stage for the main 
event at the Ralph, where they will host 
the NESCAC Championships. They spent 
last weekend in Williamstown at Taconic, 
placing fourth in a tune-up for Saturday. 
Tee time is set for Saturday at 1 p.m. and 
the action Sunday is scheduled to begin 
just after 9 a.m.
| october 6, 2016 22 sports
Men’s Golf Qualifies for NESCAC Championship
YES 
The team is really firing on 
all cylinders (and no one likes 
Amherst). 
YES 
Hoping to see them climb in the 
rankings after a big W in Pepin.
TEXAS OVER 
Send it Tom. 
editors’ picks
Remo Plunkett (78-60, .565)
Football: Will home-field advantage 
give the Panthers the edge to finally 
end Amherst’s 21-game win streak?
NFL over-under: Over or under 
3.5 touchdowns for Tom Brady 
in his return against the Browns 
(no evens, gents)?
Volleyball: Can they finally get the 
Panthers over the hump against 
Bowdoin in Pepin tomorrow 
night?
CFB pick’em: Red River 
Shootout: Who saves their 
season at the Texas State Fair, 
Oklahoma or Texas?
YES
Midd has been dominant on offense 
and defense. Amherst is a different 
beast, but the Panthers are too this 
year.
NO
I think the Polar Bears will win this 
one.
OKLAHOMA
Texas is a joke squad.
UNDER
He won’t need to throw more 
than three. This one is going to 
be ugly.
YES
The Panthers will finally end the 
streak that dates back to 2013.
YES
They have a great chance to climb 
into second-place.
OKLAHOMA
I always go with Boomer, and they 
always lose...
OVER
TB12 coming back, the Pats 
looking to bounce back a week 
after a loss and they play the 
Browns.
will case (33-27, .550)
Andrew Rigas (63-42, .600)
By Caroline Bartlett
Contributing Writer
143
Touchdown passes in two games 
for quarterback Jared Lebowitz ’17, 
on pace to smash McCallum Foote’s 
single season record of 31.
Two round total for Rodrigo Andrade 
’17 at the NESCAC Qualifiers, the 
lowest score of his Middlebury career. 
by the Numb3rs
21:08
Lubo Cuba ’19 won six matches in straight 
sets to become the 2016 ITA Men’s Tennis 
New England Regional Champion in singles.
Sixth-place finish time for Abigail 
Nadler ’19 at the Paul Short Run, 
for which she earned NESCAC Co-
Performer of the Week. 
Cross Country Teams Record Top-10 Finishes on the Road
10 
6
By Will Case
Sports Editor
The women’s soccer team is on an abso-
lute roll after beating Colby 3-0 on the road 
on Saturday, Oct. 1 for its third-straight shut-
out victory to improve to 3-1 in the NESCAC 
and 7-2 overall.
“We had great momentum coming for-
ward from our Wednesday win over Keene 
State and we were ready to make our mark 
on the NESCAC,” said Maddison Morgan ’18.
Within the first five minutes, Middlebury 
notched its first goal when Emma Shumway 
’18 passed to Katherine Hobbs ’17 at the top 
of Colby penalty area, who directed a shot 
into the lower-left corner for her fifth goal of 
the season.
In the 29th minute, Adrianna Gildner ’17, 
one of Middlebury’s leading scorers, volleyed 
a cross from the right side by Amy Martin ’17 
for her third goal of the 
season.
“We’ve been work-
ing hard to capitalize 
on our opportunities 
and get on the score 
board early, and that 
is exactly what we did,” 
Gildner said. “We con-
nected the ball from 
the back and found 
creative ways to get the 
ball into the final third 
[of the field].”
Middlebury main-
tained the two-goal 
difference until late in 
the second half when 
Amanda Dafonte ’19 
tallied her first goal of 
the season, lifting a rebound over the out-
stretched hands of the Colby goalkeeper. The 
Mules were unable to answer 
and the Panthers handed the 
Mules their fourth shutout loss 
this season.
With five NESCAC games 
left in the season, the Panthers 
look to solidify their spot in the 
conference and contend for a 
title.
“The win was huge for us 
because we are basically at the 
halfway point of our season,” 
said Gildner. “It means we’re on 
an upward trajectory.”
The Panthers won a non-
conference game on Tuesday, 
Oct. 4, defeating St. Lawrence 
3-0.
Middlebury will host Tufts, 
who is tied for second in the NE-
SCAC, on Saturday, Oct. 8.
october 6, 2016| 23SPORTS 
Field Hockey Picks Up NESCAC Win Over Colby
Lauren Schweppe ’18 led the Panthers to a 
4-1 road victory over Colby this past weekend 
with a hat trick.  Schweppe commented on 
the game stating, “the team had a great week-
end and we’re looking forward to another 
NESCAC matchup on Saturday.”
The opening minutes of the first half 
consisted of a back and forth game between 
Middlebury and Colby, with the ball staying 
in the middle of the field for much of that 
time. It was not until Schweppe converted 
on a breakaway from the midfield 15:07 into 
the game that the Panthers were able to take 
a 1-0 lead.  Annie Leonard ’18 kept the mo-
mentum going, scoring on a tip from Grace 
Jennings ’19 just 10 minutes later at the 25:21 
mark.  Colby didn’t back down, though, as 
they attempted to get back into the game with 
a goal just three minutes later bringing the 
score within one again. However, as the half 
was nearing a close, the Panthers once again 
found the net with a tally from Schweppe 
with 4:19 remaining in the half. 
After dominating the first half, the Pan-
thers entered the latter part of the game with 
a 3-1 lead over Colby.  The game remained 3-1 
for the majority of the second half with both 
teams fighting for scoring opportunities. De-
spite Colby’s effort, Middlebury maintained 
control of the ball for the majority of the half 
and saw several opportunities to score again. 
It was not until 25:28 left in the contest that 
the Panthers were able to convert their efforts 
into another goal. The goal came off a corner 
inserted by Audrey Quirk ’18 that was collect-
ed by Caroline Knapp ’18 who set Schweppe 
up for a hard shot on goal to make it her third 
tally of the game.
Goaltender Emily Miller ’18 recorded 
her 25th career win with three saves on the 
day. Megan Collins ’18 took the goal late in 
the game and recorded one save of her own. 
Middlebury dominated the majority of the 
game, finishing with a 22-13 advantage in 
shots and 10-5 advantage in penalty corners 
over Colby. 
“The team is focusing on working together 
as a unit, which we have done really well this 
season,” Schweppe said.
The Panthers defeated St. Lawrence on 
Tuesday, Oct. 4, 7-1. Leonard scored five 
goals to lead Middlebury.
The team returns to action on Saturday, 
Oct. 8 at 1:30pm against Tufts at home, fol-
lowed by a non-conference game on Sunday 
against New Paltz St. at home at noon. 
Lauren Berestecky ’17 nicely summarized 
this season, stating, “unlike previous seasons, 
all the teams in the NESCAC are a threat, so 
every game is up for grabs—no matter what 
team you are playing.  This has caused every 
game to be close and competitive, keeping us 
on our toes.”  Beretsky also commented on 
the addition of the new Assistant Coach Les-
lie saying, “we have loved having Leslie as our 
new assistant.  She played at Michigan and 
knows so much about the game.  [Leslie] also 
has a fun and energetic attitude which has 
made practices fun.”
By Christine Urquhart
Senior Writer
Women’s Soccer Rolls On With a Shutout
football
They’ve outscored their first 
two opponents 75-17. Bring it 
on Amherst.
volleyball
Don’t look now but they’ve 
won seven-straight and are in 
position to leapfrog Amherst 
behind Tufts.
By Sebastian Sanchez
Senior Writer
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKING TEAM
WHO WROTE THESE THIS WEEK?w
2
men’s tennis
A strong showing by the 
team at the ITA Regional 
Championships last weekend.
3
field hockey
They have a jam-packed 
weekend. They’ll try to break 
a first-place tie with Tufts on 
Saturday and then play New 
Paltz St. Sunday.
4
5
7
6
men’s golf
The team qualified for 
NESCACs this spring where 
they will look to defend their 
three-peat.
women’s soccer
They are coming up on the 
toughest part of their schedule.
men’s soccer
They remain undefeated, but 
they played a beatable Colby 
team to a draw last weekend.
tim tebow
Remo, you bumped him out of 
the rankings yet sent the first 
pitch he saw 430-feet over the 
opposite-field fence? 
The football team overwhelmed Colby 
in the second and third quarters on Sat-
urday, Oct. 1, outscoring the Mules 35-0 
in those quarters, and won 35-14 to move 
to 2-0 on the season. Jared Lebowitz ’18 
threw five touchdown passes for the sec-
ond straight game and won NESCAC Of-
fensive Player of the Week for the second 
straight week.
Neither team scored in the first quarter, 
but Middlebury mounted its first scoring 
drive late in the first fifteen minutes. On 
the second to last play of the quarter, Leb-
owitz found Conrado Banky ’19 for a 63-
yard gain down to the Colby 16-yard line. 
Five plays later, Lebowitz connected with 
Ryan Rizzo ’17 on second and goal to score 
the first touchdown of the game and give 
Middlebury a 7-0 lead.
After a Colby three-and-out, its third-
straight of the game, Banky beat the de-
fense again, this time for a 64-yard touch-
down reception from Lebowitz. Carter 
Massengill ’19, who took over kicking du-
ties this game after two failed extra points 
and one failed extra point last week, made 
the point-after-attempt for a 14-0 lead. 
Massengill made all five of his extra point 
attempts.
The Panthers scored once more in the 
first half to take a 21-point lead. From 
the Bowdoin 47, Lebowitz threw his third 
touchdown pass of the half to James Burke 
’17, for Burke’s third touchdown catch of 
the season.
Lebowitz also threw his first intercep-
tion of the season on Middlebury’s next 
possession at the Colby one-yard line, as 
the Panthers threatened once more.
Starting with the ball in the second 
half, Middlebury drove 77 yards in 11 plays 
and scored once more. Diego Meritus ’19 
ran six times for 36 yards, then Lebowitz 
found Frank Cosolito ’20 for his first ca-
reer catch and first career touchdown.
“Our passing game has been success-
ful because our running game has been 
setting it up well,” said team captain and 
starting offensive lineman Andy Klarman 
’17. “Defenses have to respect that we can 
gain yardage in a handful of different ways 
ranging from gritty runs to short screens 
to Lebowitz dropping dimes 40 yards 
downfield. Also, it helps that he’s got some 
big guys in front of him.”
Middlebury scored its last touchdown 
one possession later, when they went 80 
yards in nine plays, concluded by a 36-
yard touchdown from Lebowitz to Banky 
to put Middlebury ahead 35-0. The con-
nection was Lebowitz’s fifth touchdown 
pass and Banky’s second touchdown catch 
of the game.
Banky ended up with seven catches for 
198 yards and two touchdowns.
Colby scored twice in the fourth quar-
ter, but Middlebury secured the 35-14 vic-
tory to move to 2-0.
Lebowitz completed 17 of his 25 passes 
for the five touchdowns and 320 yards, as 
the Panthers outgained the Mules 429 to 
245.
Meritus carried the football 11 times for 
62 yards and Drew Jacobs ’18 tacked on 27 
yards on five carries.
Defensively, Wesley Becton ’18 and 
Justin Fahey ’19 both had eight tackles to 
lead the Panthers in that category, two of 
which for Fahey were in the backfield. Ad-
dison Pierce ’17 added seven tackles of his 
own and a sack, while John Jackson ’18 
got to the quarterback as well for his 2.5 
sack of the season. In the secondary, Nate 
Leedy ’17 broke up two passes and Kevin 
Hopsicker ’18 and Clay Hunt ’19 had inter-
ceptions.
Middlebury must prepare for its big-
gest game to date, when it hosts Amherst 
on Saturday, Oct. 8. Amherst comes into 
the matchup undefeated as well and rid-
ing a 21-game winning streak dating back 
to Oct. 19, 2013. The Purple & White have 
won the last three NESCAC Champion-
ships as well.
“I’m very confident that our success can 
carry over to this weekend,” said Klarman. 
“I think our team right now is the best it 
has been in my four years here, and we 
have guys that are capable of making plays 
at every position. We know what it’s going 
to take to win this weekend and we’re go-
ing to be very prepared.”
Amherst defeated Hamilton 34-0 and 
Bowdoin 31-10 in its first two games of the 
2016 season, and beat the Panthers 24-7 a 
season ago.
“That team [Amherst] brings good 
pressure and has proven that they can 
stop our run game before,” Klarman said. 
“I think the biggest challenge we face is 
up front with their defensive line, but I’m 
extremely confident in our ability to adapt 
to the changes they make on the fly and in 
our skill positions making plays.”
The matchup of undefeated teams will 
kick off at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday at Young-
man Field. 
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor
FoOTBALL Rolls as showdown with amherst looms
“We’ve been work-
ing hard to capitalize 
on our opportunities 
and get on the score-
board early, and that 
is exactly what we 
did.” 
adrianna Gildner ’17
Oct. 8Field Hockey  vs. Tufts  
Men’s soccer vs. Wesleyan
Women’s soccer vs. Tufts Women’s Golf NESCAC Championships
Scoreboard
football vs. Amherst Oct. 8
women’s volleyball vs. Bowdoin 
   vs. Tufts
Oct. 8 
Oct. 7
Oct. 8
Oct. 8
Oct. 8-9
The men’s soccer team, ranked 
16th in the nation, (5-0-2 overall, 
3-0-2 NESCAC) made the 5-hour 
drive to Colby (2-4-2, 1-2-2) to 
snag a 0-0 tie in double overtime 
on Saturday, Oct. 1. The draw 
leaves the Panthers undefeated 
heading into a matchup with un-
ranked Tufts (4-3-2, 2-1-2) this 
Saturday, Oct. 8.
During Saturday’s contest in 
Waterville, ME, Middlebury man-
aged three regulation shots on 
goal while Colby tallied only one 
in the same time. None of these 
shots would find the net, howev-
er, and the defensive battle would 
continue in overtime, with two 
ten-minute golden-goal halves.
In the 95th minute, a close-
range header from Tim Ogle ’17 
sparked hope for Middlebury, 
but a clutch save from Colby goal-
keeper Avery Gibson redirected 
the shot over the crossbar, leaving 
the score knotted at zero. It would 
serve as one of Gibson’s five saves 
during his shutout performance 
against a strong Middlebury of-
fense.
Panther goalie Greg Sydor ’17 
returned the favor, stuffing a shot 
from Colby early in the second 
overtime half. The shot was one 
of the only two shots on goal from 
the Mules, both of which Sydor 
saved. The game was Sydor’s 20th 
career shutout.
“It wasn’t our best perfor-
mance against Colby,” said Cap-
tain Greg Conrad ’17. “We showed 
glimpses here and there where we 
really exploited their pressure, 
but overall we didn’t have the 
control over the game that we are 
capable of. It seems like our best 
chances come when we keep the 
game simple and the ball moving. 
Moving forward, I think we have 
to do a better job of reading our 
opponents pressure and finding 
innovative ways to break teams 
down in the offensive third. Colby 
had a high [defensive] line that 
made us tempted to play the long 
ball, but we have to learn to stay 
composed and not bite at bananas 
thrown at the monkey cage.”
Conrad and the Panthers con-
tinue NESCAC play on Saturday, 
Oct. 8, when they host Tufts (4-
3-2, 2-1-2) at 1:00 p.m. While 
Middlebury was playing Colby, 
Tufts managed a 3-0 upset win 
over reigning National Champi-
ons and previously undefeated 
Amherst, whom Middlebury tied 
earlier in the season.
 “I imagine Tufts possessed 
well [against Amherst] and looked 
to keep the game on the floor,” 
Conrad said. “The boys are ready 
for some hard practices coming 
up and are looking forward to this 
week’s game [against Tufts].”
sports
FIELD HOCKEY 
REBOUNDS FROM ITS 
FIRST LOSS OF THE 
SEASON
PAGE 23
FOOTBALL 
MOVES TO 2-0 
WITH ANOTHER 
DOMINANT WIN
PAGE 23in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Men’s Soccer Ties Colby
Rodrigo Andrade ’17 and company 
drive their way to NESCAC 
Championships in the spring.
michael borenstein
The women’s volleyball team’s 
schedule took them to Connecti-
cut College on Friday, Sept. 30, 
and then to Boston to face off 
against Babson and UMass Bos-
ton (12-1), who was ranked first 
in the Northeast entering the 
weekend, on Saturday, Oct. 1. The 
Panthers rose to the challenge by 
defeating Conn. College 3-1, Bab-
son 3-1 and UMass Boston 3-2 
to extend their winning streak to 
seven games and improve their 
record to 10-3 overall and 3-1 in 
the NESCAC.
The first set of the game against 
Conn College would prove to be 
the low point of Middlebury’s 
weekend. However, the 25-16 set 
loss would prove to be an easy 
hurdle to jump for the visiting 
team in a crucial NESCAC game 
against a solid Camel team who 
entered 2-0 in conference. From 
the first set on the Panthers found 
themselves on top with the help of 
10 kills from Isabel Sessions ’19, 
nine kills and 13 digs from Becca 
Raffel ’18, seven kills from Sarah 
Staver ’19 and 16 digs from Gigi 
Alper ’20. The visitors proceeded 
to win the next three sets handily 
by scores of 25-19, 25-20 and 25-
21, leading to their third NESCAC 
win and sole possession of third 
place in the standings.
After Conn. College, the Pan-
thers took their bus down to Bos-
ton for two more games during the 
weekend at UMass’s Clark Athlet-
ic Gymnasium. The first game was 
against Babson, another strong 
team who entered Saturday with 
an 8-6 record. The match against 
the Beavers was a hard-fought 
back-and-forth affair at the be-
ginning, as each team took one of 
the first two sets. Middlebury took 
the opener 25-20 and Babson re-
sponded promptly with a 25-21 
win of its own. Emily Kolodka 
’18 led the defensive effort for 
the Panthers in the game with a 
season-best 22 digs that helped to 
take control of the game.
The third set was all 
Middlebury as the Panthers took 
it 25-18. The last, and ultimately 
deciding set, favored Midd as they 
pulled out the 26-24 win, giving 
them the match. Hannah Black-
burn ’17 had a huge day as she 
put together a double-double of 
22 assists and 11 digs, and team-
mate Chellsa Ferdinand ’20 had a 
double-double of her own with 16 
assists and 12 digs
While the first two games of 
the weekend were big for the 
Panthers, the final match had to 
be circled on their schedule as 
UMass Boston entered the game 
as the first-ranked team in New 
England, posing a road block in 
the Panthers’ six game winning 
streak.
After Middlebury took the 
opening set 25-22, UMass re-
sponded on its home court with 
two big set wins of their own at 
25-17 and 25-15, seemingly taking 
control of the match. Behind some 
of Sessions’ 18 kills, the Panthers 
were able to stage a comeback by 
evening up the score with a 25-19 
set win and taking the decisive 
set 15-9 to secure the upset win. 
Kolodka led the way on defense 
with another 22 digs, aided by 7 
blocks from Staver at the net.
“Knocking down the number 
one-ranked team in New England 
was a huge confidence boost for 
the team as we head into a tough 
NESCAC week,” Alper said. “Beat-
ing UMass Boston showed us that 
we can take down anyone in our 
way if we play together.”
Middlebury will host Bowdoin 
on Friday, Oct. 7, and Tufts on 
Saturday, Oct. 8, in Pepin Gymna-
sium. Bowdoin (8-4, 2-3) won the 
NESCAC a year ago, while Tufts 
(11-1, 5-0) currently stands atop 
the conference standings.
volleyball extends win streak to seven
By Colby Morris
Senior Writer 
By Riley Plant
Contributing Writer 
