Thursday, October 6, 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Vol. 110, No. 4 Since 1905
th
is
 w
ee
k The dog days of fall
Addison County hosts 
“Woofstock” dog festival,
page 6.
Opera at the College
Read about last week’s Chinese 
Opera, Lotus Lives,
page  16.
Study more, work less
The College caps work study 
hours at 20 per week,
page 15.
See Weybridge, page 4
Solar Decathlon 
takes fourth in D.C.
WeyFeast features all local food
The College team poses with Solar Decathlon Founder and Director Richard King (far left) and award announcer 
Ryan Park (second from left) after accepting first place in the communications competition in Washington, D.C.
Courtesy of Stefano Paltera/U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon
College to form 
alcohol task force
By Lea Calderon-Guthe
Senior Staff Writer
By Jess Berry 
News Editor 
By Kyle Finck 
News Editor 
Candidate 
Biographies
!e Campus’s 
Endorsement
See ‘Self-Reliance,’ page 2
See Task, page 5Students staff the College’s organic garden, which provides some of the food for the annual Weybridge Feast.
Courtesy of Caitlin Merley
On Sept. 26, a meeting was 
convened in the Axinn Center at 
Starr Library to discuss the forma-
tion of a task force to begin work 
on changing the alcohol policy at 
the College. 
The task force is being formed 
in response to concerns raised at an 
open forum last spring on alcohol 
use and social life on campus.
The task force will consist of 
approximately 13 people includ-
ing students, faculty and staff and 
is aimed to start work in mid-Oc-
tober.
The meeting was attended 
by Dean of the College and Chief 
Diversity Officer Shirley Collado, 
Dean of Students Katy Smith Ab-
bott, Associate Dean of the College 
and Director of Public Safety Lisa 
Burchard, Cook Commons Dean 
Ian Sutherland and 13 students. 
The attendees discussed the struc-
ture and the goals for the task force.
“The task force, which we will 
be looking to put together rather 
quickly, will be an opportunity 
post-forum to have students at the 
table with members of the faculty, 
staff and administration to criti-
cally look at what our policy should 
include,” said Collado.
Six students will be named to 
the task force by Collado, including 
a member of the SGA and a mem-
ber of Community Council. The 
rest of the students will be chosen 
at-large, based on students who 
indicate interest to Collado and 
Smith Abbott. 
Collado hopes to select a group 
of diverse individuals to participate 
in the working group.
“I want students to feel that 
they’re being represented by a 
group of students who really rep-
resent a broad range of interests 
around alcohol and social life,” said 
Collado.
Only a handful of students 
have expressed interest in joining 
the task force. Matthew Hedgpeth 
’12, president of Omega Alpha, is 
frustrated by the lack of student in-
volvement in the discussions on the 
alcohol policy.
“While I find it somewhat frus-
trating that limited engagement on 
the part of the student body has 
reinforced the idea that such large-
Over 250 people gathered at 
the Weybridge House for the an-
nual Fall Feast last Friday, Sept. 20 
for a menu of all-Vermont food. 
The Weybridge House has 
been serving all local, vegetarian 
meals open to the College com-
munity four nights a week for the 
past three years. Once a semes-
ter, the house opens their doors 
to over 200 people for fall and 
spring feasts. 
The menu featured margher-
ita and caramelized onion pizza, 
deviled eggs, Dominican cabbage 
stew, winter squash soup and 
pumpkin muffins.  
Weybridge resident Rae Mur-
phy ’14.5 called the feast a huge 
success. 
“This Fall Feast was par-
ticularly successful, as it was the 
first feast anyone could remem-
ber when we cooked more than 
enough food,” she said. 
Julia Sisson ’12 attended the 
feast and called the food “impres-
sive.” 
“The variety of foods — stew, 
salad, soup, pizza, challah and 
desserts — and sheer quantity 
was also admirable,” she said. 
For the first time this year, 
house members underwent food 
safety training with Associate 
Dean of Students for Residential 
Life and Student Life Policy Doug 
Adams. 
Co-Residential Assistant of 
Weybridge House Jesse Ebersole 
’12 met with Adams on Sept. 27.
“Together we went over food 
safety guidelines — washing 
hands, keeping things hot, label-
ing food,” she said. “At the end of 
the meeting, the feast was still on 
for that Friday.”  
Fears arose within the Wey-
bridge House that the feast may 
have been in jeopardy due to the 
fact that the food is prepared in a 
non-commercial kitchen by Wey-
bridge residents not all of whom 
are food safety certified.  
Page 9
Page 3
After two years, immeasurable 
student-led work and thousands of 
dollars of donated money and time, 
the Middlebury Solar Decathlon team 
has returned home from the U.S. De-
partment of Energy (DOE) 2011 Solar 
Decathlon in Washington, D.C. with a 
fourth place finish and a first-rate so-
lar house.
On Oct. 16, 2009, a small group 
of Middlebury students returned from 
the 2009 Solar Decathlon and report-
ed on their newly created blog, “The 
displays were impressive, but we felt 
we could definitely compete if we got 
in!” When Middlebury was chosen as 
a finalist, it became the first liberal arts 
college to participate in the competi-
tion on its own, and compete it did, 
beating out 16 other, larger universi-
ties from around the world. Maryland 
University took first place, followed by 
Purdue University and Victoria Uni-
versity of Wellington, New Zealand. 
The Contests
The rankings were decided 
based on a point system in 10 dif-
ferent contests, and Self-Reliance, 
Middlebury’s entry, took first 
place in three of them: Commu-
nications, Home Entertainment 
and Market Appeal. Middlebury 
also placed fourth in Architecture 
and fifth in Affordability, thereby 
receiving the most “juried” points, 
or points assigned by a panel of 
experts in the relevant fields.
“We got the most juried 
points, so we were subjectively 
the best house,” said Communi-
cations and Outreach Lead Katie 
Romanov ’11.5. “Everyone on the 
team is so proud. We’re a really 
small school and we still did so 
well.”
Middlebury lacks the gradu-
ate engineering and architecture 
programs many of the other com-
peting schools have, so Self-Reli-
ance was frequently portrayed as 
the underdog, at least in the more 
technical contests.
“Because we’re a liberal arts 
school, I felt pressured to really do 
well in the Communications con-
test,” said Romanov. “There was 
this joke that the whole reason we 
got in in the first place was because 
our proposal was well written.”
Middlebury did lose a vital 17 
points because Self-Reliance, like 
many of the other homes in the 
solar village, struggled to main-
tain a net-zero energy balance 
over the course of the 10 gener-
ally gloomy days on the National 
campusnews2 6 October 2011
by Melanie Haas
Staff Columnist 
For the first time in Saudi history, 
women will have the right to vote in elec-
tions and run for municipal council offices, 
marking progress in a growing women’s 
rights campaign in the country. The Sept. 
25 announcement by King Abdullah was 
met with worldwide shock and excitement, 
and will first apply in the 2015 municipal 
elections.
Hala Al-Dossari, a political activist in 
Saudi Arabia, believes that this announce-
ment will prove to be an important step to-
ward gender equality in a country known 
for its conservative views on women’s roles. 
She told National Public Radio (NPR) that 
now “you won’t see the old arguments 
against women’s participation in public 
life.”
Al-Dossari, along with many other 
women to whom NPR’s Ahmed Al Omran 
spoke, communicated a great deal of sur-
prise when talking about the announce-
ment. Many had expected Abdullah’s ad-
dress to discuss the topic of women’s right 
to drive, not vote, which has been legally 
banned since 1990. 
Last week, a woman named Shaima 
Jastaina faced charges for driving in Saudi 
Arabia. The court decreed that she receive 
10 lashes for her misconduct.  After pub-
lic outcry and global condemnation, King 
Abdullah pardoned Jastaina, reported 
Sharifa Ghanem of bikyamasr, an online 
independent news group.  Jastaina will 
not be lashed, but she, along with all other 
Saudi women, will still be forced to be pas-
sengers in their cars and, perhaps more im-
portantly, their lives.  
While some activists like Al-Dossari 
believe that the right to vote will prove a 
gateway to other important rights like that 
to drive, others are less confident. Moham-
med Al-Qahtani expressed the fear to NPR 
that the announcement is as of now merely 
symbolic, and believes that King Abdullah 
wants to be seen as progressive in the wake 
of the Arab Spring. 
Reactions to the movement for wom-
en’s rights in Saudia Arabia have not been 
wholly positive, though.  Rowhda Yousef, a 
Saudi divorcee and mother of three, began 
a campaign entitled “My Guardian Knows 
What’s Best for Me,” reported The New 
York Times.  Yousef claims that she exer-
cises freedom even as she respects Saudi 
laws and her older brother acts as her male 
guardian. Over the span of two months, 
Yousef and 15 other women gathered 
more than 5,400 signatures on a petition 
to “reject the ignorant requests for those 
inciting liberty.” They instead ask that the 
government carry out “punishments for 
those who call for equality between men 
and women, mingling between men and 
women in mixed environment, and other 
unacceptable behaviors.” 
Yousef represents a part of the Saudi 
population who believe that Western liber-
alism does not take into account cultural 
differences between countries like Saudi 
Arabia and the United States. She strongly 
believes that her cultural heritage and gov-
ernment serve to protect women.  
Noura Abdulrahman, a Saudi woman 
who runs a girls’ Islamic study program, 
shared her thoughts with the Times.
“The image in the West is that we are 
dominated by men, but they always forget 
the aspect of love,” she said. “People who 
aren’t familiar with Shariah  [law] often 
have the wrong idea. If you want stability 
and safety in your life, if you want a hus-
band who takes care of you, you won’t find 
it except in Islam.”
beyond
the bubble
‘Self-Reliance’ sweeps larger universities
Continued from page 1
SOURCE: U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY WEBSITE
Home Entertainment...1
Market Appeal.............1
Communications.........1
Appliances...................4
Architecture.................4
Energy Balance...........4
Hot Water...................5
A!ordability...............5
Comfort Zone.............7
Engineering................11
Mall. The house is designed to be net-ze-
ro over the course of a year in Vermont, 
however, and what Self-Reliance lacked in 
short-term solar efficiency, it made up in 
many other ways.
“The competition is based on energy 
efficiency, but it doesn’t require you to use 
environmentally conscious materials or 
products, and we, whenever possible, were 
trying to use local, sustainable materials 
from Vermont that were safe and healthy 
for both inhabitants of the home and the 
surrounding environment,” said Romanov.
Inspired by Vermont
Ultimately it was the small details, in-
spired by a small home state, that gave the 
College a competitive edge. The Home En-
tertainment contest required participants 
to host two dinner parties and a movie 
night, among other things, for their neigh-
bors in the solar village, and Middlebury 
kept everything Vermont-themed. Astrid 
Schanz-Garbassi ’12 and Team Manager 
Melissa Segil ’11.5 worked closely with 
Middlebury Executive Chef Bo Cleveland 
to plan meals that used local and seasonal 
foods in the most energy-efficient way pos-
sible, and Schanz-Garbassi said the stu-
dents from other teams were impressed.
“[The other teams] were really recep-
tive to sourcing things locally,” said Schanz-
Garbassi. “It became a running joke — ev-
erything nice in the house ‘must have come 
from Vermont.’ The idea of local, whether 
it’s in food or business or agriculture, is a 
really cool movement in Vermont that’s 
catching on, and this was a really cool op-
portunity to showcase that.”
Other teams and the jurors were not 
the only ones to notice the ways in which 
Self-Reliance stood out from the crowd. 
Over 15,000 members of the public 
toured Middlebury’s house on the Mall, 
and Foundations Fundraising Lead Pe-
ter DiPrinzio ’13, who helped to develop 
the tour, said the comments from visitors 
were some of the best moments of the 
competition.
“As students at Middlebury, we spend 
hours and hours on an assignment that is 
really stimulating intellectually, but at the 
end of the day is read by you and your pro-
fessor,” said DiPrinzio. “This was something 
that we worked on for a long, long time, but 
at the end of it we had the opportunity to 
share it with this enormous audience who 
really responded well to it. They picked up 
on the things that we put thought into, and 
in that sense it was really rewarding to get 
feedback from people — to see kids look 
up at the loft and smile, or to hear people 
say to themselves, ‘Wow, I could really live 
here.’”
Its livability quickly distinguished 
Self-Reliance from its peers. The houses 
had a size limit of 1,000 square feet, lead-
ing many designers to invent furniture that 
folded into the walls and most schools to 
bill their houses as space for two people. 
Middlebury’s team modeled its home on a 
classic New England farmhouse and it was 
designed to house a family of four. 
As a testament to the family-friend-
liness of Self-Reliance, the College’s ‘first 
family’ settled in right away during their 
visit. While tours continued to flow steadily 
through the house, President of the Col-
lege Ronald D. Liebowitz, his wife Jessica 
Liebowitz and Vice President for Adminis-
tration Tim Spears discussed the competi-
tion, and the Liebowitz children sat down 
at the kitchen table to a game of Clue with 
DiPrinzio.
What’s Next?
Self-Reliance will get the chance to fur-
ther prove its livability when it returns to 
Middlebury. Beginning in the spring, stu-
dents can apply to live in the house for a 
semester at a time at its new home near the 
Center for the Arts. Until then, the space 
will be used to host educational events fol-
lowing its re-
construction.
“There are 
a lot of educa-
tional opportu-
nities that can 
come from the 
home being on 
campus,” said 
Romanov. “It’s 
great that it will 
be used as a 
residence, but I 
really want it to 
continue to be 
used as an edu-
cational tool for 
years to come. 
I’m looking for-
ward to it.”
Fundraising 
Lead Kris Wil-
liams ’11.5 emphasized the importance of 
continued financial support for the project; 
the competition is over, but the team is still 
responsible for financing the transporta-
tion of the house, its reconstruction and its 
upkeep.
“This part of the project is going to 
rely a lot on alumni support, and maybe 
some foundation support,” said Williams. 
“The major exposure-generating event is 
now over, corporate sponsors have already 
helped us build the house and put their 
products in the house, so returning the 
house to the campus will largely be a cash 
goal. We’re going to try to raise as much 
money as we can, but regardless of our suc-
cess the College will be putting the house 
back on campus.”
The End of an Era
Self-Reliance will go on to embody the 
College’s commitment to environmental 
sustainability for years to come, but the 
team of students, faculty, staff and com-
munity members who designed and built 
it will go their own ways after working to-
gether for two years.
“We’re dispersing after this amazing 
two-year journey, and it is sad,” said Ro-
manov. “It’s been crazy dealing with 85 stu-
dents and all trying to get along and agree 
on things, but we have such a strong bond. 
It was so busy on the Mall at the end, and 
we didn’t necessarily have a calm time to 
just be together as the finale to this experi-
ence.”
The project is a unique one for stu-
dents at a liberal arts college where voca-
tional training is not a primary educational 
goal. All of them left with experiences they 
would not have had otherwise, and the 
physical house seems like it will not be the 
only educational opportunity coming back 
to campus. 
“It will be really cool to take what I 
have learned and what I’ve seen and apply 
it to my other pursuits at Middlebury,” said 
Schanz-Garbassi. “I’m actually really inter-
ested in education, and what I learned about 
the local foods movement, preparing a meal 
and sharing food with people in a space like 
Self-Reliance is that it’s something that af-
fects everybody. Food is something every-
body can get involved in and learn about, 
and that’s something I can help with.”
Romanov, DiPrinzio, Williams and 
Schanz-Garbassi all spoke to the amazing 
efforts of their peers on the team and vol-
unteers from the community, and Romanov 
credited their faculty advisers, Visiting Lec-
turer in Architecture Andrea Murray and 
Visiting Assistant Professor of Architecture 
Ashar Nelson, with facilitating a safe space 
for the students to truly develop their own 
project.
“They did a really good job of not tell-
ing us what to do and just being a patient 
resource whenever we had questions,” said 
Romanov. “[Nelson] said they ‘weren’t 
there to stop us from falling into a ditch, 
just from falling off of a cliff.’”
Middlebury’s Solar Decathlon team 
was specially recognized by the DOE for its 
student leadership when Project Manager 
and team founder Addison Godine ’11.5 
was given the Best Decathlete Award. As his 
teammates predicted, he denied any special 
merit, claiming the organizers picked him 
only because they “got to know [him] the 
best.”
“I just feel lucky and privileged to have 
been able to work on such an amazing proj-
ect at such a supportive school with such an 
amazing group of my peers,” said Godine. 
“All of those things are lucky, in a way.”
Godine also pointed out perhaps the 
biggest success of the Solar Decathlon, far 
beyond any team’s individual achievement. 
“It was a competition, but everybody 
understood we were trying to do the same 
thing,” said Godine. “That was maybe 
the most inspiring thing — just to see so 
many young people from other universities 
around the world getting off their butts and 
getting to work on what many are calling 
our generation’s biggest challenge. It filled 
me — it filled all of us — with hope for the 
future.”
That was maybe the most 
inspiring thing  — to see so 
many young people ... getting 
off their butts and getting to 
work on what many are calling 
our generation’s biggest 
challenge. It filled me — it 
filled all of us — with hope for 
the future.
— Addison Godine ’11.5
campusnews 6 October 2011 3
overseas
briefing
by Leah Pickett ’13
BUENOS AIRES — I came to South 
America to become fluent in Spanish. And 
at my three-month check-in … vocabulary, 
grammar, accent and conversation skills: 
much improved and thoroughly Argentine. 
But there is one gap on which I’ve become 
somewhat abnormally focused, probably be-
cause it’s proven to be one of the most chal-
lenging aspects yet — being funny in a second 
language. 
Full disclosure: I’m not too amusing in 
Spanish. 
So I’ve been thinking a lot about this co-
nundrum, and have, of course, realized that 
I’m not without options. There’s the ever-
popular, self-deprecating, make-fun-of-a-
gringo-mistake humor (“Yeah, I showed up 
to a party two hours early last night because 
military time still confuses me”), and that’s 
always sure to get some giggles if I figure out 
how to be snappy about it. But ideally, I would 
like to rely a little less on making myself look 
like a dumb American. And then there’s sar-
casm — which does convey a little more witti-
ness than the former — but given the number 
of miscommunications that already occur in 
my everyday interactions, I’m pretty hesitant 
to pursue a form of humor that expresses by 
definition the exact opposite of what I mean. 
Dangerous territory. 
So here’s what I want. I want to be able 
to think quickly enough to banter, and know 
enough about the language to use funny words 
to do so. Currently, I majorly lack comedic 
timing; it’s awkward for everyone involved 
when a “zinger” takes a full two minutes to 
express. Been there, not doing that again. And 
then there’s the fact that I don’t know what 
words are outdated or not typically used for 
certain things, which limits my ability to say 
normal things in a quirky way. (For instance, 
how would I call someone the equivalent of a 
“scrub” in Spanish? What expresses the senti-
ment of “delightful”?)
Within our program, we’ve quasi-adapt-
ed to our conflicting struggles of language 
pledge duties plus not having especially scintil-
lating personalities in a second language by at 
times expressing American slang literally, even 
though it doesn’t translate at all into Spanish. 
Thus, Argentines are likely to do double takes 
when they hear the direct translations of things 
like “word” and “hit me up” dropped into oth-
erwise (relatively) normal conversations. But 
even armed with these comfortingly-familiar 
phrases (though completely unhelpful/slightly 
alarming if slipped in when talking to locals), 
I don’t think I’m the only one homesick for a 
level of language mastery that allows one to 
sound more relaxed, goofy and unique than 
our Spanish training and skills allow. It’s fun to 
speak English. In English, we say what we want 
to say in the unique way that we’ve decided to 
express it. We make the language ours. And 
needless to say, I don’t think I’ve quite made 
Spanish mine yet.  
But I remain optimistic. Although I’ve yet 
to acquire this elusive set of language skills, I 
don’t think it’s impossible. It might take longer 
than this study abroad semester, but I am con-
fident that someday I will realize that my hav-
ing just made a joke in Spanish is not only not 
the highlight of my day, but feels completely 
natural. I’ve started moving in the right direc-
tion with my recent discovery of the fact that 
a fantastic way to combat this issue is to bring 
it up with locals I know, all of whom have 
proven quite eager to help me out by shar-
ing phrases I could use. I’m sure at least half 
of that is that it’s really funny to hear a gringa 
enthusiastically spouting super colloquial 
phrases they would rarely ever use themselves, 
but hey, I’ll take what I can get. And who ever 
said you couldn’t teach an old dog some new 
really, really funny tricks?
SGA Presidential Elections
...meet your candidates
Elections for president of the Student Government Association (SGA) will take place Monday,  Oct. 10 at noon until Tuesday, Oct. 11 at noon. 
The SGA presidents oversee a cabinet and a senate of students that seek to implement iniatives based on student input. We asked the candidates four 
questions, and here are their answers.
(1) Tell us about yourself. What are you involved with on campus?
(2) What is your experience with student government?  Why do you think you are a good candidate?
(3) If you are elected, what will be your primary goals? What issues do you feel need to be addressed?
(4) How do you plan to keep the student body informed on what is going on in the SGA?
Kevin Broussard ’12
Luke Brown ’13.5
Vin Recca ’12
(1) I am a senior political science ma-
jor from New York City. On campus, I am 
the current Treasurer of the SGA Finance 
Committee fall. I am also very active in the 
Newman Club, VACA and the Mill.
(2) I have been on the SGA Finance 
Committee since my first year. Addition-
ally, I served as a senator for the Class of 
2012 when I was a sophomore. I know how the SGA works, how it’s 
supposed to work and how to fix it. The SGA needs to be a stronger, 
more cohesive coordinating and lobbying body for the students.
(3) If elected, my primary goals will be to strengthen the presi-
dential cabinet by bringing in capable student leaders. These lead-
ers will help to implement important new policies such as pass/fail, 
new majors, the elimination of an arbitrary drop period and bu-
reaucratic reform, to name a few.
(4) I will keep the student body informed of the SGA by hold-
ing town hall meetings and filming each SGA meeting like those on 
CSPAN. Additionally, I will direct my press secretary to maintain an 
accurate SGA website.
Nathan LaBarba ’12
(1) Anything that furthers homework 
procrastination.
(2) I haven’t been a part of Middlebury’s 
SGA, but I have served two years on Com-
munity Council and one year on the Judicial 
Appeals Board.  I also worked in the Institu-
tional Planning and Diversity Office for two 
years, while I’m currently beginning my second year as the Queer 
Studies House Residential Advisor.  All of these experiences have 
made me realize that students deserve an effective and active ad-
vocate, and the SGA should fulfill that role. 
(3) Here are the main points of my platform:
Board of Trustees
(4) Our lives depend so much on computers, so I think medi-
ums like Facebook, Twitter and video podcasts are great.
(1) I am a Junior Feb from Amherst, Mass. 
currently serving as SGA Feb Senator. I am 
part of the College’s Sexual Assault Oversight 
Committee and have worked as Governor Jim 
Douglas's research assistant. This year, I will 
be working at the Middlebury Teen Center 
and as a Chellis House monitor.
(2) I have the time, energy and dedication to serve as SGA Pres-
ident. Trite, I know, but it's true. I recognize that the president must 
be open and accessible to all students, all the time. If elected, I will 
print my cell phone number on the SGA website, allowing students 
a simple line of communication. Have a concern? Just give me a 
call. Heck, you can even prank call me.
(3) Here are the main points of my platform:
1. Printers in dorms 2. Better use of student activity fee sur-
plus — at the beginning of the year, our reserve account stood at 
more than $400,000. Let’s discuss how to have fun with that money, 
making sure students don’t pay into the account for four years and 
graduate before it is spent. 3. Explore the possibility of a food truck 
that sells at parties, events and sports games. 4. Inexpensive STD 
testing — while not much fun to talk about, the cost of standard 
testing at Parton stands at roughly $70. Let’s subsidize this cost to a 
level that does not discourage knowledge of one’s status. 
(4) Social media … simplified. While we’ll have a frequently 
updated website with specifics, I plan to use Twitter and Facebook 
to keep students connected to the main points of conversation. Ev-
ery bill condensed to 140 characters … imagine.
(1) I am a second-year member of SGA, part 
of the Mock Trial team, a Juntos vecino and I dab-
ble in intramural tennis and ping pong. I spent 
some time last year writing for the Campus and 
playing club badminton. I like to try a bit of ev-
erything. I enjoy leisurely brunching on Proctor 
terrace.
(2) 2011-12 marks my ninth year as part of student govern-
ment. My 1.2 SGA senate years have taught me the ins and outs of 
the SGA's capabilities. There is a huge learning curve associated with 
understanding our constitution, bylaws, and restrictions, but I am 
already past it! I believe my ability to handle pressure, communicate 
openly, and build meaningful relationships will facilitate a healthy 
union with campus organizations and administrative offices.
(3) Students don’t understand SGA. This misunderstanding 
can and will be transformed into a thorough recognition of all that 
SGA can do to better student life. I will hold an open hour every 
week in the Atwater Library where students can come to me directly 
with any ideas and learn how to write legislation. I will expeditiously 
handle old business: Ross gym, ROTC program course credit, the 
flies in Proctor, redesigning OINK, etc.
(4) I will use MiddBlog or a column in the Campus to keep stu-
dents informed. Right now, go/sga will bring you to an antiquated 
webpage with old posts and the names of senators that have gradu-
ated. This is unacceptable! Real progress will come from direct, open 
conversation with students.
WHAT’S 
HAPPENING 
AT MIDD?
MCAB PRESENTS
TRIVIA NIGHT
Thursday //  9-11 p.m. // 
Crossroads Cafe
FFF: TRANSFORMERS
Friday //  7 p.m and 10 p.m. // Dana 
Auditorium
TAYLOR SMITH PERFORMANCE
Solo show // Crossroads Cafe // 
8 - 9:30 p.m.
MIDDLEBURY 
MUSICIANS UNION 
Saturday // 8:30 p.m. // Crossroads 
Cafe
ZUMBA
Sunday // 4 p.m. // McCullough 
Social Space
(1) My name is Kennedy Mutothori Mugo from Nairobi, Kenya. I am a senior this year majoring in Political Sci-
ence. At Middlebury I have been co-founder of the Social Justice Alliance (now Social Justice Coalition). I am also a 
member of the esteemed rugby team. 
(2) I consider my lack of experience at the SGA to be my strength. Having not worked at the SGA, I will not be 
plagued by the traditional lethargic complacency that student leaders acquire after being at the organization for too 
long. I will rejuvenate the SGA. My primary goals once elected will be: laundry machines in every residential building; 
printers in all residential buildings; pass/fail options for classes; expediting the proposed gym in Ross; “facelift” and 
new equipment for the fitness center; Atwater dining hall should open for three meals a day; and finally, more funding 
and College engagement in issues of diversity and social justice. If elected, I will also strive to foster more community 
projects between students of the College and citizens of the town of Middlebury.
(3) I will start dialogue with the administration so we can start taking steps to reinstate need blind admissions 
for the international students. The policy clearly “hurt” the standing of Middlebury nationally as seen in U.S. News 
rankings and the Princeton Review.
(4) Another main objective will be to improve communication between the SGA and the student body through 
open office hours, MiddBlog and a Campus column for all to read.
Kennedy Mugo 
’12
college
shorts
by Charlotte O’Herron, Staff Writer
UC Berkeley bake sale 
deemed racist 
UNH revokes energy 
drink ban 
Norwich student dies in 
drunk driving incident 
On Oct. 20, a controversial bake sale 
at the University of California at Berkeley 
that was intended to satirize affirmative 
action captured national media attention. 
In protest against an affirmative action-
like bill awaiting California Governor Jerry 
Brown’s approval, U.C. Berkeley College 
Republicans hosted an “Increase Diversity 
Bake Sale,” selling baked goods priced by 
race and gender. 
White males paid $2, black men paid 
75 cents and Native American men paid 
25 cents. Women received a 25 cent dis-
count. The protested bill, SB 185, would 
allow state universities to consider gender, 
race, ethnicity and national origin in their 
admission decisions. The bake sale was de-
nounced as racist by many members of the 
campus community and has drawn hun-
dreds of protesters. 
— The Chronicle of Higher Education
Only three days after University of 
New Hampshire president Mark Hud-
dleston announced the ban of energy 
drinks on campus, he issued a state-
ment on Oct. 29 saying that the school 
had abandoned its plan. In the initial 
press release on Monday, UNH officials 
mentioned the dangers of mixing ener-
gy drinks with alcohol and said that the 
ban would help achieve President Hud-
dleston’s goal of making the campus the 
nation’s healthiest by 2020. 
Students protested the ban and 
claimed that the policy would not reduce 
alcohol problems. Huddleston stated that 
there was no clear evidence that energy 
drinks contribute to alcohol abuse and 
that he wanted to respect the students’ 
ability to make informed choices about 
what they consume. 
— The Huffington Post
Two students from Norwich Univer-
sity pleaded not guilty on Monday, Oct. 
3, to charges related to a fatal car accident 
that took place shortly after 1 a.m. Sunday 
morning.
The driver of the vehicle involved, 
Derek Seber, 22, was charged with drunken 
driving with death resulting, negligent op-
eration of a vehicle with death resulting 
and leaving the scene of the crash. The host 
of the off-campus party Seber and others, 
Logan O’Neill, 20, was charged with fur-
nishing alcohol to a minor, violating condi-
tions of release and possession of alcohol 
as a minor.
According to police, Seber was driv-
ing with seven other students in the vehi-
cle when it crashed in Northfield, Vt. One 
student died, first-year Renee Robbins, 18. 
Three students were injured critically; ac-
cording to the prosecution, those students 
are expected to survive.
According to court documents, Seber’s 
blood alcohol content at the time of the 
crash was .212 percent.
— Burlington Free Press
4 6 October 2011 campusnews
Weybridge partners with 
College for food safety
Middlebury selected as 
Changemaker campus
By Danny Zhang
Staff Writer
On Sept. 20, the social entrepreneur as-
sociation Ashoka U selected the College as 
one of three schools across the country to 
join the consortium of Changemaker Cam-
puses, which is now comprised of 13 mem-
bers.
Changemaker Campuses are 
chosen based on a school’s com-
mitment to social entrepreneur-
ial opportunities. Ashoka started 
the initiative in 2008 as an exten-
sion of their vision of gathering 
the world’s social entrepreneurs 
to help solve social challenges.
According to the Ashoka website, “To-
gether, with our partners, we aim to co-cre-
ate a vision and plan of action to improve 
teaching, research and engagement opportu-
nities in social entrepreneurship — both on 
campus and in the local and global commu-
nities in which we work.”
Jon Isham, professor of economics and 
director of environmental studies, spear-
headed the effort and oversaw the process 
through which the College was named a 
Changemaker Campus.
Isham described the process as having 
begun three years ago. However, it initially 
fell through because the College “didn’t feel 
like the timing was right.” 
Last December, talks began for the es-
tablishment of an on-campus center for so-
cial entrepreneurship. 
It wasn’t until July that Isham connected 
with the founder of Ashoka U, after which 
the proposal to join Ashoka was put together 
for President of the College Ronald D. Li-
ebowitz. 
In early September, Ashoka U staff vis-
ited the campus and on Sept. 20 a press re-
lease was distributed from the organization 
adding Middlebury, the University of San 
Diego and the Technologico de Monter-
rey (in Mexico) to the list of Changemaker 
Campuses.
Isham said social entrepreneurship is 
key to attempting to tackle the large-scale 
challenges of the 21st century.  
“It is the process through which people 
identify problems and think of creative and 
innovative ways to solve them,” he said. 
Aaron Kelly ’13 described social entre-
preneurs as unique and critical members of 
society.  
“[A social entrepreneur] sees injustice, 
works to understand the root cause(s), then 
leverages the principles of entrepreneurship 
to create and test a formerly unimagined so-
lution,” he said. 
Kelly, who took Isham’s Winter Term 
course, 21st century global challenges, said 
the distinction will have a positive impact on 
future entrepreneurial projects.  
“I am ecstatic about Middlebury being 
named a Changemaker Campus,” he said. 
“Ashoka is a heavyweight in the realm of so-
cial entrepreneurship; ideas that receive its 
endorsement are quick to receive funding 
and other resources necessary to get off the 
ground.”
The status as a Changemaker Campus 
will have impacts on the student body. The 
new Center for Social Entrepreneurship will 
soon begin hiring students as interns and 
volunteers. Social entrepreneurship oppor-
tunities, currently offered by organizations 
such as MiddCorps and the Project on Inno-
vation in the Liberal Arts, will expand. Stu-
dents will have the chance to compete with 
their peers around the world to win project 
grants called Pathways to Peace, which Ish-
am described as being similar to the Davis 
Projects for Peace.
Elizabeth Robinson ’84, director of the 
project on Creativity and Innovation in the 
Liberal Arts, said she is excited for the op-
portunities the Changemaker distinction 
will give students. 
“This is a very exciting time to be a stu-
dent at Middlebury – this partnership is one 
of several ways we will be able to offer more 
opportunities for our Midd students.”
The College plans on hosting an an-
nual speaker series, a symposium on social 
entrepreneurship in January and a training 
program every summer where students will 
have the chance to be trainers and trainees. 
All these opportunities are designed to give 
students the chance to address challenges in 
the 21st century.
On a broader perspective, Isham de-
scribed this initiative as part of a greater 
change.  
“[The initiative is] part of the culture of 
rethinking what the liberal arts is all about 
in the 21st century and reinforcing the ideals 
of liberal arts.” 
He hopes that the resources will be 
made available to as many people as possible 
and that the College community, ranging 
from students to faculty to staff, will all feel 
ownership of the idea.
In the wake of the 2008 recession that 
decimated college endowments across the 
country, the College’s endowment has re-
covered to post returns higher than its peer 
group of other small colleges.
The College’s nearly one billion dol-
lar endowment has been managed by the 
investment firm Investure, LLC since 2005, 
which specializes in managing funds of me-
dium-sized non-profit organizations
While yearly gains vary widely, the Col-
lege has been at the median or even outper-
forming peer schools over three-, five- and 
10-year periods.
Spending of endowment earnings has 
also been perfected to reflect a three-year, 
rather than single-year, average, to take 
advantage of the endowments more stable 
long-term performance. In doing so, the 
College has been able to insulate itself from 
short-term market volatility.
Vice President for Finance and Treasur-
er Patrick Norton explained that the Col-
lege’s endowment returns cannot just be 
looked at — or spent — in the context of a 
single year or economic dip like the current 
market turmoil. 
The College’s three-year return rate was 
5.3 percent, the five-year return rate was 7.0 
percent and the 10-year return posted a 7.9 
percent gain.
Nevertheless, as of Aug. 31, 2011, the 
endowment was listed at $888 million, 
down from $908 million on June 30 of the 
same year as recent financial uncertainty 
dampened markets.
Like many other schools, Middlebury 
was hit hard by the economic downturn of 
2008. Before the recession, the school’s pro-
jected endowment was roughly $1.2 billion 
in 2011, $300 million more than what it is 
now. 
The loss has been taken into account in 
the budget model, and will continue to be 
an important factor in setting spending in 
the coming years, in spite of the more re-
cent rebound of the endowment.
The aforementioned losses and stock 
market volatility are taken into account 
when figuring the College’s spend rate, or 
the amount of the endowment which can 
be spent per year. 
Currently hovering at six percent, the 
College puts more of its endowment toward 
the school’s operating cost than its peer 
schools, most of whom have spend rates of 
five percent. The higher spend rate is due in 
part to servicing the College’s $277 million 
of long-term debt.
A more prudent budget has now been 
put in place that will allow the school’s 
spend rate to gradually return to the more 
widely-accepted five percent by 2015, and 
the College currently operates on a more 
conservative estimate of endowment per-
formance than pre-2008.
“We have in our financial model a five 
percent assumption for return, which is 
very conservative,” Norton said. 
“When we have years of 17 percent and 
18 percent returns, this helps to increase 
the endowment distribution to the College 
over time — over and above the distribu-
tion as budgeted in our long-term financial 
model.”
In spite of recent endowment gains and 
a prudent budget, Norton said that the Col-
lege’s comprehensive fee could still increase 
over three percent next year because the tu-
ition is set according to the formula of Con-
sumer Price Index (CPI) plus one percent, 
and CPI is currently higher than it has been 
in the recent years.
Endowment
performs 
well amid
recession
By Emily Singer
Staff Writer
Continued from page 1
are food safety certified.  
Adams called the fears only a “mis-
communication.” 
“We asked to meet with the house 
before the feast to talk over proper food 
safety for the public event,” he said. “The 
meeting was later than we hoped but it all 
worked out for the event.” 
Murphy maintains that the food is 
safe. 
“There are several factors that have 
convinced me, as well as my fellow Wey-
bridge residents, than no such risk is pres-
ent,” she said. The house does not serve 
meat, which is widely considered the most 
easily contaminated food. In addition, 
Weybridge food comes from local farms, 
which Murphy claims has a much lower 
rate of contamination than food raised in a 
typical industrial manner. 
She added that other student organi-
zations serve food cooked in non-commer-
cial kitchens.
“There are other organizations on 
campus who serve food that is not pre-
pared in a commercial kitchen who have 
not taken the flack that Weybridge has tak-
en this year regarding Fall Feast,” she said. 
Other members of the house em-
braced the chance to brush up on food 
safety practices and ease any concerns the 
College community may have. 
“Weybridge should continue to prac-
tice careful and safe preservation methods 
and the house should be updated in order 
to become certified and ease student and 
faculty concerns,” said Carly Shumaker ’13.
Ebersole praised Adams’ work with 
student organizations and said she looks 
forward to working with him in the future. 
“Adams works really hard for all stu-
dent organizations,” she said, “and we are 
looking forward to continuing to meet 
with him over the course of the semester to 
talk about ways we can make Weybridge’s 
kitchen facilities better accommodate the 
large number of people who are attending 
our feasts,” she said. 
Ashoka is a heavyweight 
in the realm of social 
entrepreneurship.
— Aaron Kelly ’13
6 October 2011 5campusnews
public safety log
DATE TIME INCIDENT CATEGORY LOCATION DISPOSITION
9/27/11 8:00 a.m. Theft Property Athletic Complex Property Recovered
9/30/11 9:48 p.m. Misc. Trespass McCullough Lawn Referred to DOC and Commons Deans 
9/30/11 11:35 p.m. Disturbance Noise Forest Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
9/30/11 12:47 a.m. Drug violation Paraphernalia Coffrin Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/1/11 2:14 a.m. Vandalism Property Laforce Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/1/11 3:30 p.m. Property confiscated Falsified ID Proctor Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/1/11 7:25 p.m. Drug violation Use Coffrin Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/1/11 12:55 p.m. Theft Property Axinn Case Closed
10/1/11 1:00 a.m. Vandalism College property Milliken Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/2/11 12:30 a.m. Vandalism Structure Prescott Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
September  27 - October 2, 2011
The Department of Public Safety reported giving 17 alcohol citations between September 27 and October 2, 2011.
Candidate forum
Oct. 7
4:30 p.m.
McCullough 
Social Space
Task forces considers implementing social honor code
Continued from page 1
scale, fundamental issues are best handled 
by bureaucratic subcommittees, I am hope-
ful that they can make some progress on the 
subjects of dorm damage and disrespect,” 
Hedgpeth wrote in an email.
The discussion over policy changes was 
initiated due to the data compiled from a 
campus-wide survey, which showed that a 
large percentage of first-years in particular 
were engaged in unhealthy drinking prac-
tices.
“The drinking of hard alcohol behind 
closed doors of first-year students is really 
disturbing,” said Collado. “I would certainly 
want feedback from the group about how 
they think we could address why that’s hap-
pening, how that’s happening and how could 
we create options broadly for all students, but 
in particular first-years, in terms of social life, 
that would deter that kind of behavior.”
In order to address issues surrounding 
drinking habits at the College, members of 
the task force will look at national and re-
gional data on alcohol use among college 
students. They will also read evidence-based 
recommendations on how to reduce prob-
lematic drinking and determine whether or 
not these practices will work for Middlebury.
The task force will be charged with vari-
ous responsibilities outside of suggesting 
changes for alcohol policies and enforcement. 
They will also develop ideas for enhancing so-
cial life on campus, assess a balance between 
fostering independence for students while 
maintaining a safe environment, try to find 
a solution for the relationship between exces-
sive drinking and vandalism on campus and 
discuss programs of wellness and prevention.
At the meeting, students mentioned 
instating a social honor code, similar to the 
academic honor code.
Smith Abbott discussed the benefits 
of a social honor code, a change which she 
believes could work at the College. She said 
that she was struck by students at the meet-
ing who addressed the issue of a divide be-
tween responsible and irresponsible students 
on campus.
“Students talked about what I would 
characterize as a division of cultures on cam-
pus between students who feel they have a 
right to party as hard as they want, no mat-
ter the impact on the community, and stu-
dents who feel like they don’t even go to the 
same school as those folks,” said Smith Ab-
bott. “So what does this mean? What kind of 
campus climate are we endorsing, or turning 
our backs on, or not attending to, where these 
kinds of divisions exist?”
Smith Abbott also said that she thinks 
the role of Public Safety will be directly ad-
dressed by the task force, and a member of 
Public Safety will also be on the task force.
Burchard felt the meeting “was very pos-
itive and engaging.”
“There was the comment raised about 
Public Safety shutting down parties,” she 
said. “Then there were some other comments 
about understanding that the role of Public 
Safety is also to help keep the community safe 
and that we can’t just walk away completely 
from things that are happening.”
While she noted that the task force can-
not change the Vermont state law, she said 
that changes can be made in regards to how 
Public Safety patrols the campus.
“I think [students] understand that part 
of what the task force is going to be look-
ing at is that role — students on campus at 
night, Public Safety on campus at night,” 
said Burchard. “What is the task? What is the 
approach going to be towards Public Safety 
dealing with students or students dealing 
with themselves?”
The task force aims to hand in sugges-
tions for changes to President of the College 
Ronald D. Liebowitz and Collado by April of 
2012.
local 6 October 2011
  The Middlebury Campus
6
The art of painting
Nicholas Clark recently moved to Middlebury, and he 
especially enjoys painting near Marbleworks,
page 6.
Steinbeck’s tale shines at the THT
Harry McEnerny and Steve Small starred  as George Mil-
ton and Lennie Small in the THT’S Of Mice and Men, 
page 7.
Woofstock:  Peace,  Love,  and  Puppies
Although it may have been raining cats and dogs on Sunday, Oct. 2, the dogs still came out 
to play. !is year’s annual Woofstock took place at the Middlebury Recreational Park between 
9:30 a.m. and 1 p.m., and despite the rain, the event was a success. Woofstock raises money for 
the Addison County Humane Society (ACHS).
!e event’s main activity is a two-mile walk through Middlebury, where dog owners and 
dog lovers alike can meander with their furry friends. Some walkers organized into teams that 
gained sponsorship from individuals or local businesses to raise even more money. While some 
participants simply walked and met other dogs, others dressed for the occasion. Dogs and own-
ers were spotted in tutus, Hawaiian shirts and other assorted costumes to make the day a festive 
one. 
Amy Welch, who lives in New York, drove across state lines speci"cally for the event. Her 
two Pomeranians were dressed in matching Hawaiian button-up shirts and looked as happy as 
could be as they played with other pups nearby.
“It was a nice walk through town and very fun,” said Welch. “It’s helpful to get ideas on food 
from the di#erent stands, and all the people are really friendly.”
She enjoyed surrounding herself with so many dog lovers for the day, but Welch feels she 
has a lot to learn about the care and nutrition of her pets.
A building on the Middlebury Recreation Park grounds housed all of the event’s booths. 
Although the space was small, it created a close and connected atmosphere with plenty of room 
for both two- and four-legged creatures. In the past, Woofstock was simply a walk through 
town. In recent years, however, vendors of dog-related products and other merchandise has 
been added. 
Canine Dimensions, a company o#ering dog-training advice, ran a stand this year. !is 
was its "rst time at Woofstock, but the company has worked closely with the ACHS in the past.
Leading lady for Canine Dimensions, Maryanne Wood, has run workshops with members 
of the ACHS sta#. She has taught owners about canine body language to help them manage 
their respective animals.
“It’s nice to support the Humane S =ociety,” said Wood. “On top of that, it’s a good way to 
network.”
!e booths at Woofstock o#ered advice, free products such as food, small Frisbees and even 
canine costumes for Halloween. It was the perfect chance for the dog owners to learn about the 
services Canine Dimensions provides and for the company to interact closely with the clientele. 
Woofstock also featured dog demonstrations by the Green Mountain Disc Dogs, police 
dogs and other animals that wished to share their talents. !ere was a costume contest and priz-
es for the event’s top fundraisers. !e local radio station, 92.1 WVTK, aired live at the event too. 
“!e top fundraising team now takes home a trophy,” said Liz Walker, the volunteer coordi-
nator for the ACHS. “It’s a ceramic dog that’s painted with the Woofstock colors.”
!e prize and the organization into teams has o#ered a big incentive for people to raise 
more money, as well as inspiring more local businesses to get involved. 
Although the inclement weather may have deterred some folks from attending, Wood said, 
“Once people make the commitment, they come out anyway.”
In fact, the Humane Society counted the same number of walking participants as last year, 
and in the end grossed about $20,000, which equaled last years pro"t. Walker explained, “We 
may have had less people just standing around because of the weather but the participation [in 
the walk] was the same.”
!e money raised at this event as well as the “Ru# Ride!” fundraiser in the spring each year 
are used for general upkeep at the shelter. 
“It feeds all the animals, pays for medical bills, operating the building, heating and cooling 
systems and more,” said Walker. 
!e annual animal event was a hit, complete with a community atmosphere and a common 
love for dogs. !e College’s students are encouraged to participate in the walk next year, but in 
the meantime, check out the next ACHS event, Ru# Ride!, coming up this spring.
by  Devin  MacDonald
Local  News  EditorCan  you  dig  it?
Photos courtesy of Mirjam Brett
!e rain did not shy dog owners and their pups from attending this year’s Woofstock. Some 
people even traveled from New York for the day of festivities. 
one in 8,700
 where the personalities of middlebury proper are celebrated
By Amy Scanes-Wolfe
Staff Writer
At the base of the Marbleworks footbridge, Nicholas Clark propped a palate against one arm 
and dabbed the churning waters of the Otter Creek Falls onto his canvas with the other hand. 
Clark is local artist who focuses on realism and enjoys depicting landmarks of Middlebury, such 
as the Otter Creek Bridge. 
“I’m pretty much here every day painting,” he said.
Clark was born in 1959 in Morristown, N.J., and lived there until he was six years old. 
“My father did well,” said Clark. “He had eight kids, four boys and four girls. !ere are three 
kids ahead of me — two sisters and a brother. For my mother, I’m the "rst kid [from her] second 
marriage. I’m right in the middle.”
Clark’s siblings are scattered across the United States, residing in Georgia, the Bronx, Wash-
ington, D.C. and Burlington. He met his ex-wife while he was head chef at the Sweet Waters 
Restaurant on Church Street. !e two had four sons, who now all live in Chicago.
Clark moved to the Middlebury area from Ripton last April.
“I love this place, it’s a great community,” he said. “!e landlord here, Jim Peabody, is very 
friendly. We’re playing poker tonight. Good friend of mine, good landlord.” 
Clark also met fellow painter Mary Krause since he has moved, and he has been impressed 
with her work. 
“I don’t like to judge people’s art,” he said. “But she was quite an artist, I’ll say.” 
Clark has several long-standing connections to Middlebury. 
“My mother was up at Middlebury College for 20 years,” he said. “A sorority mother, she’s 
been there for a long time.”
In fact, Clark’s mother, who lived until the age of 95, cared for Pearl S. Buck, who was the 
"rst American woman to win the Nobel Prize in literature. 
“She [my mother] was a great woman,” said Clark. “I miss her, since her death. It’s been 10 
years now.” 
However, it was Clark’s last girlfriend who actually inspired him to move to Middlebury. 
While his girlfriend su#ered problems with the law and later ended up in jail, Clark approached 
this tragedy with his usual optimistic stoicism.
!is was not the "rst of Clark’s unexpected life-turns. He once was in a car accident that le$ 
him with two broken legs. Clark was hospitalized for six weeks, the majority of which was spent 
in a comatose state. !e ordeal le$ him with minor disabilities, but these have not stopped him 
from pursuing his passion of painting. 
“It happens,” said Clark. “Life happens, you know? Roll with it. Deal with it.”
Now, he spends most of his days painting. 
“I love paint,” he said. “And I love art too. I love life.”
Clark owes his artistic touch to his heritage. At the age of 19, his mother interned as a car-
toon analyst with the producers of Tom and Jerry. She then relocated to the East Coast, where 
she continued to practice art. 
Clark began his own painting career during his senior year of high school. 
“Do you remember the moon landing?,” he said. “With Armstrong and the astronauts? I 
did a painting of that — "rst one I did.” 
An English major, Clark actually graduated from Jacksonville University with a degree in 
art marketing, but his array of interests made it hard for him to choose one profession.  
“I like to write,” he said. “I went to college as a journalist. I was going to be a teacher and 
coach baseball.”
Additionally, baseball was more than just a passing interest for Clark. He began playing at 
a young age in his backyard with his brother.
“My high school coach coached Jim Morris,” he said. “He’s [Morris] in the hall of fame. He 
coached for the Orioles and Dave Johnson, so I had good mentors.”
In fact, Clark was o#ered a full baseball scholarship to Jacksonville. 
“!ese guys dra$ed me, so I could pitch,” he said. “I threw a good curveball in college with 
good speed.”
Soon he was o#ered a position as a professional pitcher, but he turned down the job, so he 
could "nish college. Yet there may have been other reasons to stay in Florida. 
“!is girl with big brown eyes — I fell in love with her,” he said. “I didn’t want to leave her. 
I didn’t want to leave school.”
Clark took up another sport during his four years at college.
“Freshman year there was this surfer guy from Philadelphia,” he said. “He surfed a lot. We’d 
go out there, and he taught me how to surf.”
!ese interests come alive in Clark’s art. In the top le$-hand corner of his living room rests 
a painting of a wave breaking over a surfer’s head. While the majority of Clark’s pieces are of 
impressionistic natural landscapes, currently Clark is planning his next painting — a copy of 
Norman Rockwell’s “Game Called Because of Rain.” He paints in a style called pleine air artistry, 
which means the paintings highlight nature, and he especially enjoys working in Marbleworks. 
“I don’t know what it is about Marbleworks,” he said. “I love the serenity and the beauty. I’ve 
seen otters down there, two of them actually. I’ve seen a king"sher. I love nature. I’m a hunter. 
I’m a woods person.”
Clark has completed two portraits of the Otter Creek Bridge. In one of the pieces, he brings 
out the phosphorous yellow-green color of the water, as he always strives for realism.
In the future, Clark hopes to experiment more with portraits. 
“I did a portrait once of my ex-girlfriend actually, which looked really good,” he said. “But 
faces are hard to do.”
For Clark, though, the challenge is all a part of the experience. 
“I like to be motivated and enthralled by stu#,” he said. “I look for challenge. !is stu# 
challenges me.” 
According to Clark, the key is to have patience. He knows master artists like Van Gogh 
o$en spent 40 years on their work, and this is why Van Gogh is the artist Clark emulates most. 
His living room is spotted with Van Gogh pieces. 
“I want to be the next Van Gogh, to be a master,” he said. “And I will.” 
Right now, Clark is working towards his goal of a 40-piece portfolio. Currently he has 11.
“I’ll do 40 paintings, and then I’ll sell,” he said. “I’ll put it out there and hopefully it’ll take 
o#, and you know what happens, happens.” 
In the meantime, Clark will be displaying his art at the Flynn !eater in Burlington in Feb-
ruary and at the town’s Ilsley Public Library in March. 
A man of many passions, Clark is determined to live life to the fullest. 
“You know I have an illness, a disability,” he said. “But then I’m doing this, you know? !at’s 
huge for me — the con"dence. It’s been a really interesting life.”
O
ct
ob
er
This month at the THT...
!e MET: Don Giovanni
1 p.m.
6 7 8
9 14 15
21 29
Come experience the production of 'e Kitchen, 
performed in London at the National !eatre and 
screened live in Middlebury through simul-
cast technology. !e landmark play from 1957 
includes a multi-national cast and is yet another 
tour de force production from the National !e-
atre. Tickets are $10.
!e Kitchen
7 p.m. - 10 p.m.
Tomorrow Never Knows
8 p.m. - 10 p.m.
A fan of the Beatles? Head over to the THT on Friday 
night to hear the Gri$ and other local musicians recreate 
three legendary Beatles’ albums: Revolver, Rubber Soul 
and Abbey Road. Guaranteed to be an amazing night, full 
of music you know and love. Tickets are $12 in advance. 
Come to dance or sit back and enjoy the talents of 
BandAnna. Lead by young lead vocalist Anna Lienau, 
this Lincoln-based band rocks Patsy Cline and rock ‘n’ 
roll. !e perfect way to start o# a Saturday night and 
meet new people in the community. Tickets are $10. 
BandAnna
8 p.m. - 10 p.m.
!e Champlain Philharmonic begins its eighth 
season featuring cellist Diewke Davydov. !e 
concert will feature Saint Saens Cello Concerto 
No. 1 and Beethoven’s Fi$h Symphony. Come 
enjoy the beauty of these pieces for a unique and 
exciting a$ernoon. Tickets are $12.
!e Champlain Philharmonic
4:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m.
!is Academy Award-nominated "lm will star Robynn 
Murray and director Sara Nesson will be present for 
discussion a$erwards. A bene"t for the Gailer School 
with a reception following the screening. Tickets are 
$10.
Poster Girl
7 p.m. - 10 p.m.
!e Metropolitan Opera begins its new season of live 
screenings to the Town Hall !eater this Saturday 
a$ernoon with Donizetti’s masterpiece. A fan of opera or 
just looking for a great way to spend the day? Come watch 
soprano Anna Netrebko, who plays the title role in the 
opera. Tickets are $15.
!e Met: Anna Bolena        
1 p.m. 
!e THT Cabaret presents the Vermont-raised 
and Nashville-bred Toni Catlin. !is talented 
singer will play the intimate cabaret in the Byers 
Studio on !ursday evening. Catlin is a uniquely 
talented vocalist, one that you won’t want to miss. 
Tickets are $10.
Toni Catlin
7 p.m.
!e THT is bringing back the romance, music, melodra-
ma and dance of the Bollywood musical. !is over-the-
top "lm is guaranteed to provide a hugely enjoyable night 
at the theater. !e screening will also include live dancing 
by the Hadippa Dancers, adding a fun, real time twist. 
Tickets are $6.
!e Return of Bollywood
7 p.m. - 10 p.m.
A new production for the Met features Mariusz Kwiecien’s 
sensual interpretation of Mozart’s timeless anti-hero. 
Directed by the Tony Award-winning Michael Grandage, 
this screening is guaranteed to please. !ere will also be a 
featured encore on Oct. 30 at 3 p.m. Tickets are $15.
20
weigh in submit a letter to the editor or an op-ed to 
campus@middlebury.edu 
and make sure your 
voice gets heard.
localnews 6 October 2011 7
8 6 October 2011  localnews 
local
lowdownBy Becca Coleman
Staff Writer
Of Mice and Men, starring Harry McEnerny and Steve Small, was performed at the THT over this past weekend. 
Wildlife walk
Oct. 8, 8 a.m. - 10 a.m.
Join the community for a walk through 
Middlebury. Beginning at the Otter View 
Park, Gary Starr will lead the group to 
survey birds and other wildlife. !e walk 
will stroll down Weybridge Street and 
across Pulp Mill Bridge Road. !is is a 
monthly OCAS-MALT event with shorter 
and longer routes available. Bring bin-
oculars and an enthusiasm for nature. For 
more information call (802) 388-1007 or 
(802) 388-6829.
BandAnna dance party
Oct. 8, 8 p.m. - 10 p.m.
Start your Saturday night o" right with 
a rocking dance party at the Town Hall 
!eater. BandAnna, with talented lead 
vocals Anna Lienau, will be performing 
everything from Patsy Cline to rock cov-
ers. !ere will be a cash bar and snacks 
available for your enjoyment. Tickets are 
$10, available at the Town Hall !eater 
box o#ce. Call (802) 382-9222 or visit 
http//:www.townhalltheater.org.
Vermont Ukulele Society 
Meeting
Oct. 10, 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Head on down to neighboring town 
Bristol this Monday to experience the 
Ukulele Society $rst hand. Being held in 
Howden Hall, the meeting will include 
helpful hints for beginners at 6:30 p.m. 
and a strum along for the duration of the 
meeting. A fantastic way to meet fellow 
ukulele players and have a chance to 
collaborate. For more information please 
visit http://www.vtukes.webs.com or call 
(802) 453-6411.
Of Mice and Men hits the THT stage
Courtesty of Doug Anderson
Hike into history
Oct. 8, 1 p.m. - 3 p.m.
Come enjoy the beauty of autumn at the 
Mt. Independence State Historic Site this 
Saturday morning. Site interpreter and 
historian Paul Adriscin will lead a lei-
surely tour to learn about the mountain’s 
history and the changing of the seasons in 
Vermont. Bring binoculars for bird watch-
ing, wear sturdy shoes and as always, dress 
for the weather. Call (802) 948-2000 for 
more information.
Vergennes flea market and 
bake sale
Oct. 8, 8 a.m. - 2 p.m.
Hurry on over to Vergennes this weekend 
for the %ea market at St. Peter’s parish hall 
if you’ve got a weakness for odd knick-
knacks, vintage clothing and mystery 
$nds. Buy a treat from the bake sale when 
you get hungry from all your perusing 
and purchasing. Call (802) 343-5464 for 
details.
Elisabeth von Trapp sings
Oct. 9, 4 p.m. - 6 p.m.
What’s better than watching 'e Sound of 
Music on a Sunday a&ernoon? How about 
listening to Elisabeth von Trapp, grand-
daughter of the real von Trapp parents 
Marie and Baron, give a concert at the 
Middlebury United Methodist Church. 
10 percent of the
donations go the outreach work. For more 
information, call (802) 388 -2510.  
Middlebury’s Town Hall !eater (THT) was treated to several pro-
ductions of the play Of Mice and Men from Friday, Sept. 30 to Sunday, 
Oct. 2. !e play was organized by the Middlebury Actors Workshop 
(M.A.W.) and was based on John Steinbeck’s original adaptation. It was 
a faithful production that captured the spirit of the book. 
Director Melissa Lourie, who also serves as the creative director of 
the M.A.W., was excited to choose Of Mice and Men as one of the three 
productions the group selected for the year.
“I wanted to do something that $t into the high school curricu-
lum,” she said.  
Indeed, the Advanced Placement English classes of Middlebury 
Union High School (MUHS) went to see the production. Lourie was 
“proud [to be] involving younger actors” in the production as well. 
!is was a departure for the M.A.W. because Lourie said it usually 
does productions that are more “edgy, o'eat and modern.” Of Mice 
and Men was not only a good $t for the high school curriculum, but it 
was also a great “vehicle for [stars] Harry McEnerny and Steve Small,” 
who played the lead roles of George Milton and Lennie Small. Lourie is 
also looking to $nd new talent within the workshop. 
McEnerny and Small have been working together for years in vari-
ous M.A.W. and Community !eater productions. Both are members 
of Middlebury acting groups. 
“!ey’ve done shows together as the two main characters many 
times before,” said Middlebury resident Margaret Young, who attended 
the production.
Fellow Middlebury resident Susan Arnold said the two actors did 
“such an amazing job” and the fact that many in the audience knew 
them was not a problem. Only a few minutes into the show, the audi-
ence was absorbed in the action onstage.
Of Mice and Men begins during the Great Depression in Califor-
nia. George and Lennie are displaced migrant workers heading north 
to $nd employment. !ey want to “work up a stake” to buy their own 
shared piece of land. Lennie wants to have “so& rabbits” on this land, 
and he loves to hear George talk about their dream. However, Lennie’s 
large stature and unintentional strength lead him into trouble. George 
acts as a protector and stern father $gure to mentally slow Lennie, who 
needs constant supervision. Lennis serves as comic relief, but also con-
nects with the audience due to his engaging and heartfelt mannerisms. 
!ere were audible gasps from the crowd at several points in the 
play, especially palpable tension when Lennie does a “bad thing” lead-
ing to the tragic conclusion. 
Chela Sprigg, a former Spanish professor at the College, said she 
read the book and “$nds it very current, what with the high unemploy-
ment and economic recession going on right now.” 
M.A.W. and the Community !eater each put on several plays a 
year at the THT, and all see the experience as one for the community 
to share. 
 “Sometimes you $nd yourself onstage, sometimes backstage and 
sometimes you’re in the audience,” said Young. “It’s a wonderful thing 
to sit back and enjoy the play.” 
Her son, Zach, a student at MUHS, has worked as a crew member 
for various M.A.W. productions, and has now developed a knack for 
the lighting. His next job is for M.A.W.’s production of Funny Girl. !is 
play was once Barbra Streisand’s breakout role and is coming at a $tting 
time, as a revival has been buzzed about for many years. 
Of Mice and Men will next be performed on Oct. 13 and 14 in the 
Grand Paramount !eater in Rutland. 
!e THT is featuring several other productions from the Commu-
nity !eater later this year. Vermont author Chris Bohjalian, a member 
of  the Vermont Book Shop Author Series, will host the HD broadcast 
of the play 'e Kitchen by Arnold Wesker. It will be streamed live from 
the National !eatre of Great Britain on !ursday, Oct. 6 at 7 p.m. To-
morrow Never Knows, a musical recreation of three celebrated Beatles 
albums by !e Gri& and other local musicians, will be performed the 
following day, Oct. 7. Tickets can be reserved at http://www.townhall-
theater.org. 
As Arnold can attest, she used to go to Burlington to see such 
plays, but now she can $nd that “all in [her] backyard.”
go/thecampus
Just one week ago I decided that I was going to use 
this opportunity to write about Ross Watta, and while 
it is the best thing to ever happen to that dining hall, I 
feel that it would be a waste of an opportunity.
Instead I want to talk about something that hap-
pens to me whenever I return home to Phoenix, Ari-
zona: collegiate elitism. Being from Arizona, a lot of 
my high school friends decided to not leave the intense 
warmth of the Sun state, and attend Arizona State Uni-
versity. I decided to brave the cold North and venture 
into Middlebury, Vermont. Here I am almost con-
stantly surrounded by men and women who have ac-
complished so much, who know so much, who are tal-
ented in so many ways and at first, it was intimidating. 
But then, after spending time 
in such an environment, I em-
braced it and later I became ac-
customed to it. So accustomed 
in fact, that it warped my world 
view a bit.
When I interact with peo-
ple here, I find myself having 
certain expectations of them: 
some level of competence, in-
telligence and work ethic. I 
would say that any Midd Kid 
pulled from a crowd randomly 
would be able to portray these 
abilities with little to no trouble 
at all. As this summer proved 
to me, I encountered some 
trouble when I placed these expectations outside the 
Middlebury bubble.
This past summer I was fortunate enough to study 
abroad in Salamanca, Spain, on a program that my 
mother was directing where the students were a grab 
bag of ASU students and community college students. 
While everything was fine at first, my hidden elitism 
started coming out bit by bit.
It started with my frustration with my classmates 
outside the classroom environment. As the resident 
fluent Spanish speaker, I was often asked to translate 
written messages for them. This was not the source of 
my frustration; it came when my peers began asking 
me questions such as, “Why does Spain use the Euro?” 
or, “What was the name of Cervantes’s famous piece 
of literature?” Obviously, not everyone knows this, but 
I think I was annoyed because these individuals were 
in my Spanish history and Spanish literature course, 
respectively. These had been topics we had covered in 
class.
They didn’t work as hard as I did, they did not 
care as much as I did and for some reason this got 
under my skin. This only got worse when, as soon as 
I told them one of my majors was psychology, they 
started going off on how easy it was. “Easy?” I thought. 
“All those hours researching, writing and studying and 
they’re patronizing me?”
This mockery was only compounded when I told 
them that Middlebury was a liberal arts school. I don’t 
know what went through their heads, but they imme-
diately labeled me as a slacker when they learned this 
and treated me as such.
But hearing these individuals, some of whom ad-
mitted that typing two pages was difficult for them, I 
somehow felt above this kind of baseless criticism and 
brought up what a “joke” their schools were.
I accomplished nothing 
except successfully alienat-
ing myself from the rest of the 
group for the remainder of the 
trip, a mistake I sincerely re-
gret.  
However, when it comes 
to my ASU friends, the situa-
tion is much different because 
they acknowledge the same 
thing, but they are not wor-
ried about it. In fact, they enjoy 
it as it gives them extra time 
for socializing and road trips 
and the like, excursions I wish 
I could join in on (as most of 
them take place in New York) 
but cannot make the time for, much to the annoyance 
of my friends. My friends often tell me how they think 
that I must be exaggerating my workload or I’m try-
ing to avoid them when I am clearly not. And I think 
that’s the worst part of it all – I accidentally come off 
as an elitist to them, because they cannot understand 
how much work I have. This then creates unnecessary 
strains to my friendship. This only happens because I 
find that the friends I’m closest to aren’t the ones that 
stayed at ASU, but the ones who left to go to out-of-
state universities.
It is true what they say: college is what you make 
of it. Everyone’s experience is going to be as different 
as the individuals that reside in its environment. But 
most importantly, if I’m going to be able to properly 
function outside a little soap-made-sphere, I need 
to learn to get off my high horse. After all, it is just 
Middlebury. (Right?)
campus policies and information
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus provide a forum for constructive and respectful dialogue on substantive issues. With 
this in mind, The Campus reserves the right to deny publication of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This includes, but is not 
limited to: the making of assertions based on hearsay; the relation of private conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable events; 
the use of vulgar language or personal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article that contains any of the aforementioned will be re-
moved before publication. Contributors will be allowed to reference prior articles published in the Opinions section or announcements 
for the public record. If a reference is made to prior articles, the submission will be considered a letter to the editor.  The Campus will 
not accept or print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, 
editorial comics and other commentary, are views of the individual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Submit works 
directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To 
be considered for publications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all submissions.
opinions 9
The Middlebury Campus
The Middlebury Campus
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the student newspaper of Middlebury 
College, is published by The Middlebury Campus Publications. Publication is 
every Thursday of the academic year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and business offices are located in Hep-
burn Hall Annex, Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is produced 
on Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by 
the Press Republican in New York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middlebury, 
Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribution con-
cerns to the Business Director. First class postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753. 
6 October 2011
Editorial
The staff editorial represents the official opinion of 
The Middlebury Campus as decided by the editorial board.
 Santiago Azpurua-Boras ’13 is an Arts and 
Science Editor from Caracas, Venezuela.
Notes from the desk: Santiago Azpurua-Boras
Hi, Ho Silver. Away! 
he iddleb ry a p s
Managing Editor
Dana Walters
Editor-in-Chief
Kara Shurmantine
Business Manager
Ethan Schmertzler
  News Editors
Jess Berry
Kyle Finck
Adam Schaffer
  Local News Editors
Kaylen Baker
Charlotte Gardiner
Devin McDonald
  Opinions Editors
Kevin Carpenter
Isabel Shaw
Ian Trombulak
  
Features Editors
Cedar Attanasio
Shannon Fiedler
Allison Forrest
  Arts Editors
Santiago Azpurua-Boras
Deirdre Sackett
Emily Scarisbrick
  Sports Editors
Alex Edel
Dillon Hupp
Katie Siegner
Damon Hatheway
Photo Editors   
Anna Clements
Paul Gerard
Andrew Podrygula
Jiayi Shu
  Online Editors
Hannah Bristol
Kaireth Kim
Sarah Pfander
Ian Thomas
Design Editor   
Ian Stewart
Social Media Editor
Emily Pinto
This coming Monday we, as a student body, are once again charged with 
electing new leadership for this year. Although we technically decided our SGA 
president for the coming year last spring, when we re-elected Riley O’Rourke 
’12 to his second term, circumstances have led to an emergency election to take 
place next week. The coming election features five candidates, all of whom have 
unique goals and ambitions for their potential presidency. Each candidate — 
Vin Recca ’12, Kevin Broussard ’12, Mugo Kennedy ’12, Luke Brown ’13.5 and 
Nathan LaBarba ’14 — spoke with the editorial board on Sunday night about 
their plans for if they are elected. 
After much discussion and debate we, the editorial board of the Campus, 
endorse Vin Recca ’12 for the position of Student Government Association 
President. 
One of the most appealing aspects of Recca’s campaign is his clearly de-
lineated balance of concrete goals and more overarching reform. He divides his 
election platform into three clearly distinct pillars. In his first section, “reframe,” 
he hopes to respond to the question, ”What can the SGA do for me?” Recca’s an-
swer: work to become a more effective advocacy and coordinating apparatus for 
the student body — one capable of generating innovative solutions to fill sig-
nificant gaps in student services. Concretely, Recca sees the SGA as fighting for 
three academic initiatives — the introduction of a pass/fail option for courses 
outside of one’s major, the elimination of the seemingly arbitrary add/drop pe-
riod restrictions and the creation of new academic programs in Africana Stud-
ies, Swahili and Hindi. Outside the realm of academia, Recca believes that the 
SGA should lead the charge both in recommitting the campus to our 2016 car-
bon neutrality pledge and in fostering an environment of diverse social outlets. 
His second pillar, “reform,” urges a thorough evaluation of SGA’s internal 
operations. Recca’s main goal here would be the streamlining of SGA’s extensive 
and, many times, excessive, bureaucracy. He calls for the shedding of regula-
tion and a push “to facilitate rather than punish student organizations.” Under 
this umbrella, Recca includes more flexible student spending and voting and 
electoral reforms in the hopes of renewing student confidence in their personal 
impact within a one-student, one-vote system.   
The third and final piece to his platform is the “re-imagining” of solutions 
to long-standing campus, and especially budgetary, problems. To this end, Rec-
ca suggests the creation of an investment vehicle to manage SGA reserves and 
possibly eliminate the burden of student activities fees in the future. Similarly, 
he champions the establishment of a student-run and SGA-chartered corpora-
tion that would “provide students a greater range of services, while boosting 
on-campus jobs and offering unique hands-on academic experiences.” He has 
made it clear that he intends on making our money work for us.  
But despite its ambitious and well-balanced nature, it certainly was not 
Recca’s campaign platform alone that won our support. Those possessing famil-
iarity with the SGA understand how incredibly important experience is to any 
elected member, especially given this election’s special circumstances. This new 
president will not have the summer to orient himself — almost two months 
into the semester, the learning curve is incredibly steep. The most successful 
president will be one that is able to jump right in, understanding both the influ-
ence and the limitations of the SGA’s reach. Recca’s lengthy career in the Senate 
and the Finance Committee makes him the most established and experienced 
candidate. He would arrive to office with a comprehensive understanding of 
previous policy suggestions and, even more importantly considering the SGA’s 
true source of power, of the organization’s purse strings.   
But what really makes him stand out is the fact that Recca brings with 
him a network of established relationships in the administration, Community 
Council and within the SGA itself — the importance of which cannot be over-
stated. He is not only in the position to facilitate open dialogue and bridge the 
gap between decision-making councils, but he also comes with a driven student 
cabinet, eager to rally behind him for actual, visible change. 
  Online Manager
Lea Calderon-Guthe
They didn’t work 
as hard as I did, 
they did not care 
as much as I did 
and for some 
reason this got 
under my skin.
R
ac
he
l D
ic
ke
r
Let’s begin with a little background on 
the early ’70s — what a strange and crazy 
time! (At least according to my good friend 
Wiki Pedia.) By 1973, U.S. troops were still 
stuck in Vietnam, George Steinbrenner had 
just bought the Yankees and Schoolhouse 
Rock was premiering on ABC. (Also, the U.S. 
royally screwed Chile in a CIA-backed coup, 
but we don’t really remember that thingie 
anymore.) 
And at Middlebury? In September of ’73, 
Charles A. Dana Professor of Political Science 
Murray Dry began his fifth year of teaching 
on campus, black students had their own ori-
entation and hundreds of students unpacked 
their flannel shirts feeling very, very pissed 
off — obviously not about Chile, or even Viet-
nam, but about the state of Middlebury’s fra-
ternities. 
I know the existence of frats at 
Middlebury is a hard concept. We are not 
Dartmouth, damnit! But in 1973, the frats 
were, according to the people in them, super 
awesome. They hosted stellar parties, provid-
ed off-campus housing 
and hired private chefs 
to cook meals far supe-
rior to the “cardboard 
bagels” and “indiscern-
ible stews” of Proctor. 
(Of course, the admin-
istration did not think 
frats were so awesome. 
They argued that frats 
were trouble-makers in 
deep financial poop.) 
Middlebury even 
boasted its own frat 
row — Meeker was Sig 
Ep, Munford was Kai 
Sai, DKE was DKE and 
the Health Center — 
yes, that place you got 
an STD test after going 
abroad last semester 
— was DU, the most 
infamously rowdy frat 
of them all.  
We’re used to 
the idea that in 1989 
Middlebury snapped 
its wise Old Chapel fingers and poof! he frats 
were gone. But the deterioration of the frats 
started long before. In fact, 15 percent of 
Middlebury males belonged to fraternities in 
1973, down from 90 percent ten years earlier. 
The next punch-to-fraternity-beer-belly-gut 
came in the summer of ’73, when the ad-
ministration told students that the College 
would soon buy all fraternity property (the 
frat houses were then owned by the national 
fraternities). Specifically, the administration 
wrote: “Fraternities, as selective organiza-
tions controlling major living and eating fa-
cilities, will not continue to exist.” To which 
the president of DU probably called his frat 
friends from a now-destroyed pay phone and 
said, “Are you sh*tting me?!” 
The number one supporter of adminis-
trative control over the frats was Dennis O’ 
Brien, the dean of students. Dean O’Brien got 
so much flack in 1973 that Middlebury never 
even named anything after him (co-Dean Er-
ika Wonnacott must have had some redeem-
ing qualities).  That fall, students formed the 
“Fraternity Fact Finding Committee,” which 
was basically a lobby to protect the frats. The 
Administration vs. Fact Finding Committee/
general frat-loving populace began to engage 
in public battle. They fought over confusing 
questions like: who had the right to own the 
fraternity homes and the land around them? 
Were the frats dwindling (The administration 
claimed absolutely!) or were they strong as 
ever? (The frat presidents insisted they were.) 
All year long, the war over frats raged 
on. The Campus op-ed section flourished 
(be jealous, current staff) with pointed fin-
gers, snarky rebuttals and a generally melo-
dramatic sense of good vs. evil, perfect for a 
rural liberal arts school’s weekly publication. 
Middlebury students, in the spirit of that era’s 
rebellion, wrote sentences that even included 
the words “Middlebury radicals.” Yes — that’s 
right! Even getting blackout at a raging kegger 
took on a whole new meaning: justice for all. 
(In fact, I say we have 
a 1970’s-themed party 
at ADP this weekend. 
We can all dress up as 
radicals fighting the ad-
ministration for on be-
half of truth and justice 
… who’s down?)
Of course, many 
Middlebury radicals 
(like Eve Ensler ’75) 
probably opposed the 
frats. They were selec-
tive institutions that 
discriminated against 
loads of people on 
campus. But it’s hard 
not be swayed by an-
gry students (many of 
whom didn’t belong 
to any frat) that sup-
ported the autonomy 
of frats because it rep-
resented something 
greater: autonomy 
from the administra-
tion as a whole. These 
students argued that by taking control of 
the fraternities, Old Chapel really wanted to 
spread administrative control (interesting), 
destroy the frats (well, that eventually hap-
pened) and force all students to live on cam-
pus and eat in Proctor (wait — this sounds 
really familiar!).
So I guess we all know how this story 
ends: a world filled with Commons Olympics, 
Proctor crushes and the panini machines as 
stand-in private chefs. But what came before 
the rise of the all-on-campus Universe? How 
did the Fact Finding Committee vs. Admin-
istration war end? Was there a chapter titled 
The Battle of Hogwarts?! Ah, you must wait 
another two weeks to answer those questions, 
young Albus Severus. (And I’m very sorry that 
they gave you such a dumb name.)
Scientific American is reporting this week 
that lithium — a rare earth metal crucial to the 
production of advanced batteries (like the ones 
used in electric cars) — can be extracted from 
the hot brine that flows just below the Earth’s 
surface; the very fluid used to generate geother-
mal heat and electricity. Geothermal power is 
extremely expensive in relation to power from 
coal, gas or even other renewables, but the 
return is huge: once wells are drilled into the 
Earth’ crust and water pumped into them to 
generate steam for heat 
and electricity produc-
tion, the technology 
is long lasting and the 
source, renewable (be-
cause nuclear reactions 
within the planet’s core 
are constantly emitting 
heat).  
And while geother-
mal remains relatively 
inaccessible (Bucking-
ham Palace is one of few 
locations that can cur-
rently afford it at scale), 
the fact that the brine 
contains lithium, and 
also “half of the periodic 
table,” according to Sci-
entific American, is a game changer. Currently, 
one salt flat in southeastern Bolivia contains 
50-70 percent of the world’s lithium reserves. 
In accordance with their constitutional com-
mitment to preservation and nationalization of 
natural resources, Bolivia is currently leverag-
ing the beauty and unique geology of the Salar 
de Uyuni (the salt flat) as a tourist hot spot; rev-
enue from hikers, campers and photographers 
undermines the necessity to exploit the flats. 
The current calculus is a common one: that the 
value of tourism is far greater than that of re-
source exploitation. 
But one day that may not be true. One day, 
demand for electric vehicles in light of dwin-
dling oil supplies may drive the price of lithium 
through roof. Bolivia may no longer be able to 
defend its belief in the sovereignty of the natu-
ral world; exploitation of domestic lithium 
supplies may be deemed necessary in the name 
of progress. In a narrow sense, it is for this rea-
son that we must further explore findings like 
those written up in this week’s Scientific Ameri-
can; that we seek truly renewable sources of 
economic inputs. 
But we must also take this as an oppor-
tunity to question the neo-liberal capitalist 
model, the foundations of our very economic 
system. Because it is the current emphasis on 
profit maximization that leads to the com-
modification of the world’s precious natural 
and human diversity, that leads countries like 
Bolivia to value natural habitats, ecosystem 
services, multiculturalism and the continued 
existence of particular species with a single, 
economic dimension. It is worth admitting that 
in some cases, for some time, this reduction 
of the world’s beauty allows preservation and 
conservation to occur; in some cases, the safe-
guarding of indigenous 
culture or protection of 
charismatic megafauna 
is of greater value than 
the exploitation and 
degradation of those 
resources. 
But in a world 
of rapid population 
growth and dispropor-
tionate increases in the 
consumption of finite 
natural resources, a 
day may come where 
the survival of the full 
complexity and com-
plement of human and 
natural potential that 
lives all around us is not 
more quantifiably valuable than rare earth met-
als, fossil fuels or timber harvesting made pos-
sible by displacement and destruction. A day 
may come where the continued existence of the 
polar bear or coral reefs does not trump the val-
ue of fishery exploitation, palm oil production 
or the unfettered dumping of global warming 
greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. 
To frame all the world’s richness in the 
context of economic value is to disrespect that 
which is valued by the heart and soul and to 
suggest an incompatibility between our cur-
rent economic system and the noble missions 
of environmental preservation and social jus-
tice. Few would argue that we are solely utili-
tarian beings; that individually, we only strive 
to maximize economic profit. Why then, do we 
tolerate a system that treats all that we value 
with such reductionist contempt? Why do we 
continue to support methods of valuation that 
only ephemerally protect that which makes us 
human? Thoreau argues that instead of “hack-
ing at the branches of evil,” we must “strike at 
the root.” I’m starting to agree. What about 
you?  
9 campusopinions10   6 October 2011
To frame all the 
world’s richness 
in the context of 
economic value 
is to disrespect 
that which is 
valued by the 
heart and soul.
heardoncampus
”
“If the faculty, staff and senior administration sees all drinking as 
problematic ... then it’s crushing it for 
students who want to have a moderate 
experience.
 — Katy Smith Abbot, Dean of Students
The Id and the Eco: Rhiya Trivedi
The roots of our humanity
Back to the Future: Maya Goldberg-Safir
1973 — 1974: Battle for the frats
Rhiya Trivedi ’12.5 is from 
Ontario, Canada.
Maya Goldberg-Safir ’12.5 is from 
Oakland, Calif.
my community friend needs to stop talking about 
how fun her last partner was
pregaming the zumba workshop in the hopes of get-
ting some this afternoon
reading every youtube comment on the middkid video 
#procrastinationprobs
#superseniorgirlstruggles
it’s kinda chilly but refraining from wearing my leather 
jacket to the weybridge feast
didn’t realize frank was gunning for an epi role on an 
abc soap @MTVFrankSweeney
am i actually reading an entire article from last thurs-
Trending this week:
#atwaterFOMO
#succulentchicken
#ilovemylibfam
#solardsuspense   
#carrotcakewithdrawal  
All year long, 
the war over 
frats raged on. 
The Campus 
op-ed section 
flourished (be 
jealous, current 
staff), with 
pointed fingers 
[and] snarky 
rebuttals.
week in tweets
              campusopinions       6 October 2011  11
While I find it strange that people are already complain-
ing about the Middlebury social scene only three weeks after 
the start of classes, it is comforting to know that the social 
spirit continues to thrive from year to year. I am pleased that, 
for many students, Middlebury’s academic expectations do 
not exclude a complementary party-going disposition. In that 
regard, I couldn’t agree more with the sentiment behind Shan-
non Fiedler’s Sept. 29 Notes from the Desk on the necessity 
for the student body to “fight for the right to party.” As the 
president of a social house and the IHC (Inter-House Coun-
cil), that privilege is something I take very seriously and, with 
the help of my fellow members and those of the other houses, 
work diligently both during the week and on the weekends to 
preserve. 
On that note, I feel it important to clarify that, contrary 
to Fiedler’s belief that the social houses (which are, for the re-
cord: Delta, KDR, the Mill, Omega Alpha and Xenia) are sub-
ject to a new set of rules is simply not true. There have been 
slight modifications to the College’s party hosting policies 
–– in conjunction with Vermont state law –– but the social 
houses are not the only organizations that are able to register 
parties at Middlebury, not by a long shot. The only thing that 
is unique about the social houses is the fact that, for the most 
part, their buildings have higher capacities than many of the 
other public spaces found on campus. 
High capacity obviously has its benefits, and not just for 
the partygoers. There is some degree of comfort for the ad-
ministration in knowing that the social houses and some of 
the Super Blocks have been both more able and more willing 
to attend to issues of fire safety, crowd control and reckless 
intoxication than smaller venues. Furthermore, based on the 
parties the IHC has assessed in our weekly meetings thus far, 
Public Safety’s approach has not shifted from “damage con-
trol” to “nip it in the bud” but rather, the other way around. 
Not only does the administration like and support registered 
parties on campus, but there has also been some discussion 
and agreement between concerned students and college of-
ficials that Public Safety should enforce a policy of priori-
tization. That is to say, if there’s not a visible problem, then 
parties/informal gatherings should be left alone and “damage 
control” efforts should be focused elsewhere. 
Nevertheless, I can understand why Fiedler feels that the 
number of weekend options has dwindled; it’s a trend that 
I’m sure most students wouldn’t hesitate to confirm. From my 
perspective, by working together to put an end to the inci-
dents of disrespect and vandalism that have accumulated in 
years past, we can reverse this trend. I find it appalling that 
there are students at this college who think that it is acceptable 
to take advantage of hospitality and deface property for which 
they are not responsible or do not own. It is important that 
everyone keeps in mind that when a social house or similar 
organization throws a party in a public space, that group is 
going out of pocket to provide refreshments, entertainment 
and a good time for any and all who might show up. If you’re 
upset about having to wait in line to get into a party or get a 
drink, be thankful that your patience won’t cost you a thing 
and that you aren’t held accountable for cleaning up after 
yourself. Showing respect for your party hosts and for Public 
Safety, who are charged with fulfilling very demanding tasks, 
will go a long way. By doing so, the community stays strong, 
and everyone wins. But the onus is on the individual to find a 
way to embrace the weekend and observe proper etiquette si-
multaneously. If not, we can expect the party scene on campus 
to plunge further into obsolescence. 
At the end of the day, one can lament the non-existence 
of Middlebury nightlife, but to do so would be an exercise in 
folly. If more students come forth and voice their concern as 
Fiedler has done, then I see no reason why we can’t collec-
tively find a solution to the party issue. It goes without saying 
that students want the place where they spend their formative 
years to remain a fun and stimulating environment. So rather 
than tacitly accept the reduction of social options, why not 
take the steps to expand and develop them? Why not illus-
trate the necessity of party venues by actively working to jus-
tify the desire to unwind from curricular obligations by giving 
evidence of responsibility and regard for the policies that are 
there to assure the safety of the community at large? 
If you agree with Fiedler and think that the party has yet 
to start, then I encourage you to “raise your glass” and start do-
ing something about it. After all, the choice is yours to make. 
Op-Ed: Matthew Hedgpeth
Raise your glass
Matt Hedgpeth ’12 is from Framingham, Mass.
At the end of the day, 
one can lament the non-
existence of Middlebury 
nightlife, but to do so 
would be an exercise in 
folly.
Op-Ed: Will Mackey
Why America needs a draft
After the September 11th attacks, Bush argued that the 
U.S. needed to invade Afghanistan and Iraq to prevent another 
such attack, and most politicians, both Democratic and Repub-
lican, agreed with him. But 10 years after 9/11, U.S. troops are 
still in both countries, and now many politicians have begun to 
question whether the continued U.S. troop presence in Iraq and 
Afghanistan is making America safer. The Obama Administra-
tion seems to agree with these doubters, and has begun with-
drawing American troops from Iraq, even though a spate of 
recent attacks has demonstrated that security improvements in 
that country are tenuous at best. Obama has also been pulling 
U.S. troops out of Afghanistan, while he and his policy advisers 
try to figure out what the future U.S. mission actually should be 
over there. But for most of– us, including me, it really doesn’t 
matter how long U.S. troops remain in Afghanistan and Iraq or 
how long it takes Obama to figure out a complete withdrawal 
plan, since those wars are far away and have little immediate 
effect on our everyday lives. That is why America needs a draft. 
If the U.S. had a draft, Americans would not accept half-
baked justifications for war, as they did with Iraq. They would 
demand proof that war was absolutely necessary, and that it 
was the last and only option remaining to policymakers. Apathy 
would no longer be an option, since everyone’s kid would face 
the risk of being shipped over to fight and die in a foreign coun-
try. The lead-up to the Iraq invasion, for instance, would have 
been very different if America had a draft. People would have 
actually looked at the evidence presented by the Bush admin-
istration, putatively showing that Saddam was working with Al 
Qaeda and was building WMDs, and questioned it. They would 
have demanded more information and proof, rather than the 
statements of a few Iraqi expats, describing Saddam’s threaten-
ing deeds, if they were going to allow their children to be sent 
off. Unfortunately, as we all know, that is not how things turned 
out. People were content to sit back and let the Administration 
have its war. Their families would not bear the costs, it would be 
those other people — those military people who would suffer 
the consequences. 
Today the U.S. population, 308 million people, relies on 
around 1.5 million active-duty soldiers to fight our wars. These 
soldiers have served multiple tours of duty, putting their lives 
on the line for months on end and leaving their families and 
loved ones behind for even longer periods of time. They come 
home, many suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, and 
find it difficult to reintegrate into civilian life. Some draft op-
ponents may say that is what the soldiers signed up for. It is, 
after all, an all-volunteer army. But when those soldiers signed 
their contracts, they did not expect to be sent back to Iraq and 
Afghanistan again and again and again. Some soldiers, like 
Sgt. Thomas Riordan, are even sent back to battle, despite the 
fact that they are already suffering from post-traumatic stress 
disorder. The Army’s justification: fighting with their broth-
ers in arms helps them get over their problems. An interesting 
argument, particularly considering that near-constant fighting 
caused their problems in the first place. Maybe that explains 
why more soldiers committed suicide last year than died in 
combat.  
Many military officers are skeptical of the draft. They say 
that it would be counter-productive, since the military would 
have to train and discipline millions of soldiers who did not 
want to be there. But this argument sounds, at least to me, more 
than a little self-serving. Sure, their point about unwilling draft-
ees causing a ruckus seems legitimate. But a draft would cause 
other, more threatening problems for military officers — main-
ly that they would be held accountable for whether or not their 
strategies succeed and, more importantly, whether or not the 
human toll associated with achieving those strategies would be 
worth it. Bad generals, like Ricardo Sanchez and George Casey, 
both of whom oversaw Iraq’s nose-dive into sectarian civil war 
and an ensuing uptick in U.S. causalities, would not be allowed 
to pursue failed policies for months. People at home, knowing 
that their family members were bearing the hardships, would 
demand a change in strategy and leadership. Perhaps they 
would even demand that their soldiers come home.
Military officers and civilian officials also point out that 
it would be incredibly expensive to train and equip all the new 
soldiers if the U.S. instituted a draft. OK, that seems like a good 
counter-argument too. But contractors are not exactly cheap, 
and in many cases, they are amazingly expensive, even when 
they are not bilking the government out of billions of dol-
lars. Also, the American people would be much less resistant 
to the idea of a war tax, if they knew that it was going to help 
their fighting family members get the best equipment possible. 
(Unarmored Humvees, which American soldiers got, would 
not have been an option.) Indeed, if we had a universal draft, 
Rumsfeld would never have been able to say, “You go to war 
with the Army you have. They’re not the Army you might want 
or wish to have at a later time.” For if he had said it, let alone al-
lowed it to happen (as he did), the resulting outcry would have 
forced him to resign or, knowing my mom and many others, he 
would have been dragged out of the White House, rather than 
being allowed to remain as Secretary of Defense.
On the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, it was amazing 
to see how little discussion there was about the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Instead, there were hours of TV specials, repeat-
edly showing the planes crashing into the towers. Pieces of the 
World Trade Center were even shipped around the country, so 
people could gather around the hunks of metal and bow their 
heads and remember that terrible day. 30 minutes or so later, 
most of those people climbed back into their cars and drove 
off, consciences assuaged, knowing that they had shown their 
patriotism. In Afghanistan and Iraq, though, American troops 
don’t have the luxury of simply driving off. They are stuck 
there, while the Beltway crowd tries to figure out what to do 
with them. 
Do I expect the U.S. government to institute a draft? Cer-
tainly not; it would be political suicide for anyone to even voice 
the idea. But just because it is not politically viable now, does 
not mean the draft issue should be ignored, and maybe, just 
maybe, in the course of a public debate about its relative mer-
its and downsides, we would remember that American troops 
are still in Iraq and Afghanistan and are still facing hardships 
that most of us know nothing about. That, I think, is a great 
way to honor not only the victims of 9/11, but also the spirit of 
solidarity that swept through the country immediately follow-
ing the attacks, a phenomenon that many Americans now talk 
about like it occurred a very long, long time ago. 
If the U.S. had a draft, 
Americans would not 
accept half-baked 
justifications for war, as 
they did with Iraq. They 
would demand proof 
that ... it was the last and 
only option remaining to 
policymakers.
Will Mackey ’11.5 is from Newfields, N.H. 
Work for us. Write for us. Photograph for us. Blog 
for us. Email campus@middlebury.edu.
campusopinions            12 6 October 2011
To the Editors:
Last week’s Notes from the Desk, “Fight 
for the right to party,” raised questions about 
College policy, parties and capacity, and I 
wanted to respond and hopefully clear up 
some misconceptions. Simply put, College 
alcohol policies and patrol practices have not 
changed this year. The Handbook, which is 
located on the College’s web page, may look 
different, but this is a result of content re-
organization and consolidation of informa-
tion. Students are certainly allowed to gather 
in rooms, socialize with friends, play music, 
laugh and share good times. 
The College does expect that students 
have familiarized themselves with the rules 
in the Handbook, have a general knowledge 
of Vermont laws and will conduct themselves 
appropriately and safely. It is Public Safety’s 
job to be present on campus day and night 
in order to respond to unsafe situations and 
enforce College policy. To this end, officers 
check on particular areas and activities and 
intervene in advance when they anticipate 
that a situation could get out of hand.  
The College wants to work with students 
to discuss issues of personal responsibility 
and appropriate intervention among friends 
and for party hosts. Large unregistered par-
ties are problematic and against College pol-
icy, which leads to a high percentage of these 
events getting closed down. The College al-
lows for and supports registered parties and 
small informal gatherings. Party registration 
rules and procedures are straightforward and 
clearly defined. It is our hope and expecta-
tion that students will work together to find 
a healthy and happy social life within these 
regulations.
Public Safety is out there, but we rely on 
students and other members of the commu-
nity to take a role in maintaining a safe and 
respectful environment.   
To the Editors:
I write with appreciation and concern. 
This week, I was interviewed by news edi-
tor Jess Berry. Her article in this issue of the 
Campus explains the formation and initial 
goals of the Task Force on Alcohol and Social 
Life, for which I will be serving as co-chair. I 
am grateful to Jess and the Campus for tak-
ing such an interest in the early stages of this 
work. Reading opinion pieces in the Campus 
these first weeks of the semester and talking 
with students in formal and informal settings 
has offered additional evidence for the broad 
interest in reassessing our collective response 
to student drinking, partying (with or with-
out alcohol) and policy enforcement. I am 
listening, and I am eager to begin work with 
the Task Force.  
As many are already aware, a tragedy oc-
curred just this past weekend at Norwich Uni-
versity, our neighbor institution to the east. 
Heavy drinking at an off-campus party led 
to a drunk driving incident in which a young 
woman — a first-year student from Michigan 
— was killed, and seven other students were 
injured. The driver of the vehicle faces up to 
forty-five years in prison; the party host is also 
facing criminal charges and time in prison. 
Does a fatal accident at another school mean 
that we will immediately intensify our poli-
cies and enforcement? No, not automatically. 
But in our small state, to say “this hits home” 
would be putting it mildly.  
Caring for students’ safety and well-being 
is a personal and professional commitment 
for many on this campus, from senior ad-
ministrators to student life professionals, fac-
ulty, staff and members of the residential life 
teams. It is impossible for us to read about the 
Norwich students without sorrow, deep con-
cern and a long list of questions.  How do we 
find a balance between fostering students’ in-
dependence, trusting in their sense of respon-
sibility to self and others, while consistently 
holding them accountable? What can we do to 
allow student social life to flourish on campus 
so that dangerous drinking both on and off-
campus ceases to pose an enormous threat? 
How do we instill or repair trust between 
students and members of the administration 
who are responsible for articulating and en-
forcing College policy, so that we can see a safe 
and socially satisfying campus experience as a 
common goal?  
I am well aware of the strong student 
sentiment around these and other questions. 
As the Task Force forms and begins its work, 
my sincere hope is that we can all find ways to 
share insights and opinions in ways that are 
civil and productive.  
 
Letter to the Editor: Lisa Burchard
Clarifying the party rules 
Elizabeth J. Burchard is the Director 
of Public Safety and Associate Dean 
of the College.
Letter to the Editor: Katy Smith Abbott
Clarifying the party rules 
Katy Smith Abbot is the Dean of Stu-
dents and an assistant professor of 
History of Art and Architecture.
You’re invited...
to stop by and check out the finest slice 
case in Vermont, and pickup our new 
menu featuring 39 delicious chicken, 
vegetarian, and classic meat pies.
Sicilian Pizza & Jumbo Wings
In-Town Delivery
Daily from 5 pm–Closing
We suggest you call early  
to reserve “prime times”  
(min. $3 delivery charge)
Carryout Service
Mon–Thurs: 11am–8 pm
Fri & Sat: 11am–9 pm
Sun: 3 pm–8 pm
  21 MacIntyre Lane, Middlebury, Vermont
Located next to Middlebury Discount Beverage
Open Daily for Carryout and In-Town Delivery
388-7755
2005 FORESTER – One 
owner, automatic, gold, 
129,000 miles. Diligently 
maintained (records 
available). Includes 4 studded 
snows. $8,500. 802-425-
2854; mhuff@gmavt.net.
news.
local news.
opinions.
features.
arts&science.
sports.
it’s all online.
visit
middleburycampus.com
or go/thecampus
“Your brain loves faces. Faces are a canvas 
and you paint stories on the canvas.”
!ese were the words of the Psychol-
ogy and Neuroscience guest lecturer, Paul J. 
Whalen, professor of psychological and brain 
sciences at Dartmouth College. On Friday, 
Sept. 30, Whalen came to Middlebury to de-
liver a talk on his favorite part of the brain, 
the amygdala, entitled “Face to Face with the 
Emotional Brain.” 
Whalen received a Ph.D. from the Uni-
versity of Vermont and then went on to Har-
vard Medical School. Currently, he runs his 
own research lab at Dartmouth. He is known 
for his work in animal and human research 
regarding the role of the amygdala in process-
ing emotion. 
Whalen’s talk centered on how the brain 
interprets and organizes facial expressions 
and emotions. He started o" his presentation 
with a witty diagram of the brain that had only 
two categories of labels: “the amygdala” and 
“not the amygdala.” 
Whalen has dedicated his life to studying 
the amygdala, or the almond-shaped part of 
the brain in the temporal lobe that controls 
gut instinct on reading facial expressions. In 
his talk, he explained that for basic human 
emotions, there are no cultural di"erences in 
how people express feelings. We all recognize 
fear, neutrality and happiness in basically the 
same way. !e amygdala is always monitoring 
the environment, and it interprets emotion 
and recognizes facial expressions in order to 
help organisms predict and anticipate events 
in the surrounding environment. 
 Whalen set the audience at ease with 
his scienti#c-like sense of humor and casual 
manner as he explained the amygdala’s func-
tions. He spoke more conversationally than 
didactically, with mentions of Scooby Doo 
closets, a George Bush image slide and Botox 
experiments; he even mentioned that he al-
ways kisses to the le$.
“He was so impressive in the way that 
he spoke,” said Daniel Sundali ’15. “He’s a ge-
nius!”  
!e talk was interesting for students be-
cause it was something that we could all relate 
to: communicating with others and having 
emotions. One emotion that assists with sur-
vival by means of anticipation is fear. !rough 
a series of experiments, Whalen described 
how that in order to detect signs of fear, the 
amygdala responds to even the slightest of 
facial cues such as pupil dilation, amount of 
white present in the eyes and the positions 
of di"erent facial muscles. !e amygdala is 
largely receptive to fear because of its antici-
pation property and its use to help detect dan-
ger before it occurs. 
“!e experiments were really helpful and 
interesting,” said Chris Frost ’15.
Closely related to the emotion of fear is 
anger. However, as Whalen discovered and 
discussed in his presentation, anger is largely 
self-explanatory and does not elicit any form 
of learning about the environment as fear 
does. 
“!e amygdala is what signals the brain 
that it’s time to learn,” he said. “A fearful face 
suggests that there is something provoking 
the fear that could be of danger to the indi-
vidual observing this facial expression.” 
He also focused on the condition of anxi-
ety in relation to the amygdala. Why are some 
people more anxious than others? According 
to Whalen, the amygdala also serves another 
purpose: “Its job is to false alarm.” 
!e amygdala is the danger detector. 
Whalen’s work focuses on people su"ering 
from anxiety disorders, or what he calls an 
“intrusive amygdala.” He discovered that in 
the brains of highly anxious people, the pre-
frontal cortex is not communicating with the 
amygdala and the pathway is thinner than 
those without anxiety, leading to heightened 
bouts of fear. In non-scienti#c jargon, the 
amygdala is “calling wolf,” interpreting situ-
ations as fearful, but the rational part of the 
brain doesn’t know how to shush the anxious 
amygdala. 
Whalen has been working with a func-
tional MRI scanner at Dartmouth to conduct 
his own research with his students and lab as-
sistants. 
“He’s using equipment that allows him to 
do things that are di%cult to do and that not a 
lot of people are doing,” said Associate Profes-
sor of Psychology Carlos Velez-Blasini. “Paul’s 
research is very cutting-edge, and what’s par-
ticularly impressive about him is how he has a 
complete picture of what the di"erent areas of 
the brain are doing. It’s [. . .] very sophisticat-
ed. He’s able to make some very sophisticated 
predictions as to how that’s [the research] go-
ing to show itself in particular behaviors — 
and that’s what’s most impressive.”
13
Psychology lecture explains emotion
A slide in Whalen’s lecture, showing how the amygdala communicates with the rest of the brain.
Courtesy of Middlebury College
Last semester, I found 
out that “I like to bite myself until I bleed 
. . . to pour my blood all over [my] lov-
er’s throat” and then “lick it clean;” but 
of course, only a$er I’ve become an “ant 
queen,” to be wooed by some lowly work-
er, whom I inevitably “devour . . . whole.”
A$er this enlightening episode of 
over-reading, I stopped killing time on 
Midd Confessional.  It wasn’t that I was dis-
gusted at the misattributions, or that I felt 
my name had been slandered — indeed, I 
found it quite creatively done —  but it was 
obvious that my sexual reputation no lon-
ger had anything to do with me, existing 
in some anonymous head throbbing full of 
#ction and fantastic insects I could never 
hope to see.
I won’t pretend that reputation is a 
novel fascination we should all be moved 
to re'ect on. It’s not. It’s old news. 
But sexual reputation is quite another 
issue. I would hazard a guess that most 
Midd students discuss sexuality — o$en 
furtively, 'oridly or steeped in sterility. 
Sex is the fuchsia on our gossip pallet, the 
o$en focal point to the pictures we paint of 
each other which will doubtless prove di-
sastrous if used incautiously. And it’s these 
conversations which bring into being sex-
ual reputations, in all their intangible glo-
ry . . . because of course we never just talk 
about sex.  Sex isn’t interesting at all — it’s 
the engagees who fascinate us, the names 
we stick to the act to make it newsworthy. 
To me, this isn’t odd at all. Why would 
it be strange to talk about sex when most 
everyone (of consenting age, precluding 
trauma, etc.) is biologically predisposed to 
enjoy the thing? But considered in context, 
there is a strangeness to the fact that we are 
so #xated on stories of other people’s sexu-
al encounters.  For example, I’m sure you’d 
be fascinated to know who your room-
mate’s been sleeping with, but waking up 
at two in the morning and #nding him or 
her going at it with said person three feet 
away from your nose probably leaves you 
pretty cold.  !en again, it’s not watching 
people have sex that grosses us out. !ere 
is, a$er all, a reason that the porn industry 
makes as much money as it does. 
It seems that where intimacy is con-
cerned, there is a delicate balance to be 
struck between privacy and titillation — 
and not just your own privacy.  While 
you may feel like you know Miss Jenna 
Jameson very well, you’ll never acciden-
tally sit next to her in your psych lecture, 
or have to reach over her chest in Proctor 
to get some beets for your salad. !is does 
not hold true for your roommate, or their 
paramour. Similarly, if I were able to con-
front that anonymous Midd-fesh poster 
with an opportunity to observe the testing 
of his or her hypothesis, I doubt my o"er 
would be accepted. 
I don’t think it’s a stretch to venture 
that we all have some sort of investment 
in sex. We are, a$er all, programmed for 
it. But we also feel compelled to keep it at 
arm’s length, except with that person — or 
persons, if you will; but I believe that’s a 
topic for another time — with whom the 
experience becomes shared.
As a sex columnist, this reality is a dif-
#cult one. Obviously I’m not about to of-
fer a Who’s-Who in oral sex this week, nor 
do I wish to bore you with dry, storyless 
statistics. But I do think that in our com-
munity there is a desire for a discussion 
somewhere between the uncomfortably 
intimate and the sterile abstract: a way to 
talk about sex so that — ideally — we can 
all relate, but no one in particular need 
strip naked and roll about in the anthill 
with the nearest available vampire.
Lust, 
at 
Least 
Claire Sibley ’13 is from Dover, Delaware.
By Isabella Stallworthy
Staff Writer
Club Spotlight: Middlebury Music United
!e dance 'oor is crowded with 
students bouncing, swaying, twisting, 
their laughter lost in the tumult of music 
and emotion. At #rst glance, it looks like a 
typical Saturday night. 
A closer look, however, shows that 
something radically di"erent is going on 
here. !e dance 'oor of 51 Main is clean 
and brightly lit. !e music is not some 
indistinct thudding beat throbbing from 
an iPod, but rather an exuberant rendition 
of “Roll Over Beethoven” blasting from the 
four students jamming out not #ve feet from 
the dancing crowd. !e band is !e Casual 
Ales. And while their  prodigious talent and 
enthusiasm are all their own, another party 
must also be thanked for making this event 
possible: Middlebury Music United. 
Middlebury Music United’s mission is 
to link musicians, venues and audiences, in 
what might be called a 'at music scene on 
campus. 
As MMU co-founder and president 
Mike Gadomski ’13.5 states, “everyone 
knows that talent is not the issue.” 
!e issue, explains co-founder and vice 
president Parker Woodworth ’13.5, is that 
that the many organizations for music on 
campus have “dri$ed in their own directions,” 
leading to a state of confusion and lack of 
support that causes many potential student 
musicians to simply, as Woodworth puts it, 
“stick their guitars under their beds” for their 
time at Middlebury. A$er all, who can bother 
booking a gig when they’ve got to #nish 
their physics lab? !is lack of coordination 
a"ects not only the potential musicians but 
also the campus at large. Seeing live music, 
especially when it’s being performed by that 
kid from your environmental studies class, 
is an inspiring, unifying and, well, cool 
experience. 
MMU aims to make it easier to 
attain that experience. One key tool is a 
wonderfully intuitive website, designed by 
Woodworth and built by Will Potter ’14.5. 
!e website (go/mmu), integrates a host 
of search features for musicians with a 
calendar displaying upcoming MMU gigs. 
!e calendar is #lling up quickly, thanks to 
standing deals with Crossroads Café and 51 
Main. 
MMU is also working hard to make 
it easier for musicians to reach the point 
at which they feel comfortable accepting 
such performances. !eir e"orts include 
revamping the on-campus recording 
studio and providing practice spaces 
and equipment. A generous budget and 
the approval of Old Chapel support 
MMU hopes for being “full-service,” as 
Woodworth jokes.
 For example, MMU has already 
provided !e Casual Ales with “a place to 
practice in the service building… and a 
drum set and bass amp,” recounts Casual 
Ales member Cli" Bueno de Mesquita ’14.
As the year goes on, MMU hopes to 
further integrate music into the Middlebury 
social scene. Although Crossroads and 51 
Main are stalwart, invaluable resources, 
MMU hopes that the music scene can, as 
Gadomski explains “expand beyond that…
into really cool spaces that aren’t being 
used,” such as Lo-Fo, Johnson, and the social 
houses. !ere is even talk of organizing a 
Ridgeline crawl, with live music in every 
social house. 
Woodworth adds that MMU has “an 
iPhone app coming soon” that would allow 
students “out on a Friday night to see where 
the live music is.” 
To students such as Sam Finkelman 
’14.5, such changes could have a profound 
impact on the Middlebury social scene at 
large. 
“Music,” he emphasizes, “is all about 
community.” 
Currently, music at Middlebury seems 
all too o$en to function as an alternative 
to other social events, or, to borrow 
Finkelman’s less 'attering phrasing, “as an 
obligation to your friend who plays guitar” 
Middlebury Music United presents a vision 
of the future in which, as Finkleman hopes, 
“music is the party.”
By Anna Flinchbaugh 
Staff Writer
features 6 October 2011
You probably noticed the pastel-colored, 
patchwork van outside of Proctor last Friday, 
Sept 30. And you probably didn’t even realize 
that this super-prep addition was anything out 
of the ordinary here at Middlebury.
Last weekend, for the !rst home football 
game, the New England clothing designer 
travelled to Vermont to sponsor a tailgate. Or, 
as they like to call it, a “Whalegate.” 
Whalegates are not exclusive to Midd; 
Vineyard Vines has been sponsoring tailgates 
all over the country to support their brand. 
Brian Ayers ’14 was the Middlebury spokes-
person for the event.
 “I got involved because I’m friends with 
one of the Vineyard Vines representatives who 
promotes merchandise up and down the east 
coast, and I told him I’d help out,” said Ayers.
Vineyard Vines’ Middlebury clothing line 
is already sold in the College Bookstore. On 
Friday, Vineyard Vines gave students free plas-
tic sunglasses, adorned with logo-emblazoned 
Croakies, with any bookstore purchase. 
"e rough rain on Saturday was less 
than ideal for a populated and high-spirited 
tailgate. Regardless, many Middlebury stu-
dents donned their North Face raincoats and 
trekked to the stadium parking lot to rough 
the rain and the cold (rocking their new 
Croakies, of course).
“Despite the inclimate conditions, I would 
say that the Whalegate was an overwhelming 
success,” said Dan Waldman ’13.
"e Vineyard Vines tent provided not 
only shelter from the harsh weather, but also 
a command center for product placement. "e 
company handed out various college-oriented 
paraphernalia: bumper stickers, cups, koozies 
and giant pink foam whale hats — clearly a 
college necessity.
“I think the event went well,” said Ayers. 
“"e tailgate was a lot of fun even in the awful 
weather, plus everyone got a whole lot of free 
gear.”
“"e free stu# made standing out in the 
cold worth it,” said Connor Ross ’14.
"e designer also provided a form of en-
tertainment: a bean-bag toss game painted 
in the same patch-work pattern as the truck. 
Even mud-stained from rain, the crowd ex-
uded an immaculate preppiness.
A$er the tailgate, students with foam hats 
and frozen hands walked into Alumni Sta-
dium to support the varsity football team in 
their win against Colby. 
At the Whalegate, Vineyard Vines 
brought “the good life” (their catchphrase) 
to Middlebury, packaged in plastic and card-
board. Even through the dreary day, the pat-
terned, preppy pinks and periwinkles bright-
ened the grey and green landscape and fall’s 
!rst home football game.
Want it to happen again?
“I was trying to convince the rep to come 
back in the spring and do it even bigger,” said 
Ayers, “so if you want to make it happen go 
buy Vineyard Vines stu# in the bookstore.”
So if you missed the event and would still 
like a pink foam whale hat, you can still head 
down to the bookstore and buy a pair of Vine-
yard Vines Middlebury %ip-%ops.
14 6 October 2011 campusfeatures
Work cap shakes up employment
Vineyard Vines does Middlebury
By Shannon Fiedler
Features Editor
!e brand Vineyard Vines brought their “Whalegate” to Middlebury on Saturday, Oct. 1.
Courtesy of Vineyard Vines
By Cedar Attanasio
Features Editor
Jiayi Zhu ’14 is an environmental studies major.
"e other day I went with 
my western friends to the 
%ooded remnants of an un-
named quarry up Route 7. I 
try not to diferentiate myself from my western 
friends, but I douldn’t help it. I was the only 
Asian there. By Asian I mean born and raised 
in Asia, with a mother tongue other than Eng-
lish, who didn’t go to an international school. 
A sign at the entrance to the quarry said 
“entry prohibited.” My !rst thought was “Is 
there going to be any radiation in the quarry?” 
We stepped right past it, on to the rock over-
looking the water in this quiet and secret place. 
"ey each jumped into the water without any 
hesitation, from about !ve feet above the wa-
ter. I looked around and saw that everyone had 
jumped in but me. I remained on the rock. I 
had never swum in the ocean or in a lake, only 
in the pool. I knew how to swim, but only the 
breaststroke. "en again, the lake seemed to be 
pretty deep, deep enough to cushion my fall. 
My friends said they would be there waiting for 
me and protecting me, but still I didn’t have the 
courage. "en, one of my friends climbed up 
on top of the rock again, and o#ered to hold 
my hand and jump in together. He comforted 
me, promising that I wouldn’t lose an arm or 
a leg.
PLOP! We jumped, hands clasped, and I 
hit the water. I was alive. "e moment I could 
breath again was so refreshing that the sky was 
brighter and the sun was shiner. 
But when my friends went to conquer a 
30 foot cli#, I absolutely could not do it. Most 
of them said them stood there and said, “I can’t 
do this!” as many times as I did, but they all 
eventually jumped. I was the only one who 
didn’t jump o#. How can I explain this? 
Maybe it’s because I hadn’t purchased my 
insurance yet? Nope. In fact, one of my friends 
didn’t have insurance either. Maybe because I 
was the only one who lacked extreme sports 
experience? Nope — A bunch of them told me 
a$erwards that this was also their !rst time cli# 
diving. I think it had less to do with circum-
stances, and more to do with the way that me 
and my western friends  view dangerous ac-
tions in general.
"e English proverb goes, “Look before 
you leap.” "e equivalence in Chinese is 
 (San Si Er Hou Xing),  which liter-
ally means, “"ink thrice before you act.” But 
“thrice” is a Chinese idiomatic expression for 
“many,” just like how in English you say “a mil-
lion” or “a ton.” My friends think, but they al-
ways want me to “go for it.” Instead, I usually 
think three times.
Firstly, I thought about how I was the 
most inexperienced swimmer here. Secondly, 
I remembered the “entry prohibited,” which 
proclaimed that no one could ensure my safety 
in the quarry. "irdly, one friend kissed her 
boyfriend before she jumped, and it made 
me ask myself, “What if I die before !nding 
the one? My list of worries kept growing until 
the point I !nally gave up, saying, “What’s the 
point of jumping o#?” My friends might have 
seen this as “over thinking.” "ey certainly 
weren’t sitting around with their chins on their 
!sts. It’s just two di#erent ways of approaching 
a situation I’m not saying that there is a right 
or a wrong or good or bad here, just two di#er-
ent ways of thinking. In the U.S., you try when 
you are facing something new; but in China, 
you think. "inking about all the possibilities 
and contingencies, counting the pros and cons, 
and you probably will end up like me, standing 
on the edge of the cli#, staring into the water. 
"at’s helpful sometimes. You can avoid a lot of 
troubles and you may even save your life. But 
you may attain the joy and excitement of com-
ing out of the water feeling reborn. Surprises 
always come along when you try.
"e best way to combine trying and think-
ing, in my opinion, is to be prepared. If I knew 
how to swim better, and if that quarry was a 
certi!ed place to do the sport, I would loved to 
have a try. It is good to try new things, but only 
when you’ve considered the situation as safe. 
For now, I’ll improve my swimming skills. 
Next time when you see me doing cli# diving, 
please wish me good luck. 
Tas t e   Cheese 
W it h Chops t icks
"is semester, the Student Employment 
O&ce (SEO) issued a cap on working hours: 
students can no longer work more than 20 
hours a week at on-campus jobs. According 
to the SEO, the primary goal of this change 
was to redistribute hours from students who 
work many hours to students who can’t !nd 
a job at all. 
Only an average of 14 to 16 students per 
pay period worked over 20 hours during the 
2010-2011 academic year. But the e#ects of 
this new policy extend past the few workahol-
ics. 
Some sta# supervisors have yet to adapt 
their hiring policies and are still employing 
students for over 20 hours. Others are strug-
gling to cope with the new rules within the 
bounds of the red tape.
"e most a#ected students are those in 
management positions or those who work 
on short-term projects. While most students 
work a constant schedule, others have all their 
work lumped into a particular week. 
“"e policy is incredibly di&cult for 
students who don’t work o# a shi$ schedule, 
but who instead work on an ‘as-needed’ ba-
sis,” said David Doli'a ’13, manager of the 
student-run Crossroads Café. “Sometimes 
we have busy weeks. Sometimes things break 
or employees get sick. With a 20 hour limit, 
working around the unpredictable will be 
very challenging [for the managers].” 
Not even sta# employers have been able 
to redistribute hours completely, especially in 
cases where student employees have a large 
amount of responsibility or work intermittent 
hours. At least one student in a management 
position ’12 (who wished to remain anony-
mous to avoid disciplinary action) told the 
Campus that she planned to sidestep the 20-
hour limit by reporting her hours during later 
weeks when she did not actually work. 
In this particular case, according to the 
student, it was impossible in practical terms 
for the position to be !lled by more than one 
student. Our source con!rmed that the sta# 
employer uno&cially approved this misre-
porting. In the end, students who have to 
fudge their hours into di#erent time periods 
work just as hard as they did before the new 
policy was enacted, they just get paid at a later 
date. 
It is possible that extreme measures, like 
misreporting hours, are unnecessary. Accord-
ing to the SEO, the punishment is not severe, 
and they are trying to work with students and 
employers during the transition. 
“If a student works over the limit, [the 
student and his or her supervisor] will get a 
reminder from Student Employment about 
the new policy,” said Dee Gilbert, the Em-
ployment Specialist at SEO, in an email to the 
Campus. “SEO will work closely with super-
visors to monitor and implement the policy.”
Gilbert is optimistic about this year’s 
changes. “Limiting the number of hours to 20 
per week does not a#ect many students based 
on last year’s numbers,” she said.
Gilbert also pointed out that the 20-hour 
cap is common at peer institutions, and that 
it was enacted a$er consultation with Student 
Financial Services and other administrative 
bodies. 
“"ose additional hours (350 total last 
year) could be worked by other students, 
thereby creating more opportunities for stu-
dents who are searching for an on-campus 
job,” said Gilbert.
"is silver lining may be a beacon of hope 
in a competitive job climate in which some 
students cannot !nd work. First-years and 
!rst-year Febs face particularly tough chances 
at securing employment. 
“Last year I tried to !nd work, but I 
couldn’t get anything,” said Lander Karath 
’14, a student employee and bene!ciary of the 
work study program.
For Karath, though, it all came down to 
connections. 
“"is year I got a job [at the library] and 
making granola [in Ross],” he said. “I knew 
people in both places, and they told me who to 
email and what to say. I never would have got-
ten these jobs if I had continued to go through 
the job postings [on the SEO website].”
Many arriving students don’t know that 
the federal work study program extends be-
yond campus, and there may be potential to 
employ more !rst-year !nancial aid recipi-
ents.
"e Federal Work Study program o#ers 
subsidies to colleges and universities. "e pro-
gram reimburses Middlebury for 75 percent 
of the wages it gives to student employees, 
with a limit to how many hours can be paid 
total for a given institution. 
“"e cap varies by year,” explained Scott 
Manley, the compliance and scholarship di-
rector at Student Financial Services. “"e 
College usually has to match 25 percent of the 
wages. If we overspend, we match 100 per-
cent.”
"ere may be more opportunities avail-
able than students realize. According to Man-
ley, the federal work study program expanded 
its scope a few years ago, deciding to subsidize 
the wages for students who work o# campus 
at non-pro!t organizations. For example, 
Middlebury student wages at the Vermont 
Folk Life Center are federally subsidized, and 
the organizations are refunded 75 percent, 
just as at the College. 
“It’s a win-win for both the students and 
organizations like ours,” said Joan White, the 
Development Director at the Vermont Folk 
Life Center. “We don’t have the people to do a 
lot of the projects we want to do, and we don’t 
have the budget to hire new people. Having 
a work study student lets us take on projects 
that we never could have done otherwise, be-
cause we’re just swamped. And the students 
get to branch out into the community and get 
real experience at a real salary.”
International students do not receive fed-
eral work study as part of their aid package, 
and are not a#ected by the new cap on hours. 
“We [international students] have al-
ways had that [20 hours per week limit],” said 
Dristy Shrestha ’11.5.
If you were to meet Andy Collins ‘12 
this week, like I did, at !rst glance you might 
guess him to be slightly rough-and-tumble 
thanks to the black eye he’s currently sport-
ing. 
“We were up in Ottawa this weekend for 
a water polo tournament,” said Collins, “and 
this massive Canadian water polo player de-
cided he wanted a solid object on which to 
break his hand.” 
And whom did this player choose for his 
victim? You guessed it. Our very own Andy 
Collins. Yet, despite the inconvenience, he 
seems to be taking the whole situation quite 
well. 
“It accentuates my rugged good looks,” 
said Collins. Good one, Andy. 
But behind the purple swollenness, 
Andy Collins is a whole lot more than a guy 
who knows how to take a punch. Some may 
know him as the self-proclaimed “culprit be-
hind the annual dining hall bagpipings,” a 
title that he wears proudly. 
Collins is known for his random acts 
of bagpiping throughout the year, as well as 
for his annual performances at the Francois 
Clemmons St. Patrick’s Day Concerts. 
“We had a pipe corps that was part of 
our band in high school,” said Collins as he 
explained how he got into the bagpipes in 
the !rst place. “So I started playing because 
of that, and I had a knack for it.”
Since his high school days, Collins has 
had some impressive accomplishments in the 
bagpiping realm. He has learned to play the 
Highland pipes, the “big, loud Scottish ones 
that you see all the time,” the Uilleann pipes 
“that you play sitting down,” and the Scottish 
smallpipes. His talent has even allowed him 
to join the North Texas Caledonian Pipes 
and Drums, a professional band based near 
his hometown of Dallas, Texas. "is squad 
travels around the world, and performing 
with them has given Collins many unforget-
table experiences. He’s performed in states 
along the east coast as well as in Nova Scotia, 
Ireland and Scotland.
"ink that’s not enough? Well, he’s also 
opened up for Rod Stewart with his band. 
Yes, you heard me. Rod Stewart. 
“It was awesome because we were open-
ing for Rod Stewart,” said Collins, putting it 
simply.
"ink being part of an internationally 
known band and Middlebury’s water polo 
team is enough for this Midd kid? "ink 
again. Not only does Collins play the bag-
pipes (and play them well), he also plays the 
tin whistle, trombone and bodhran, an Irish 
round drum, on the side. 
Oh yeah, and he has his pilot’s license. 
“I started #ying with my dad when I was 
four. I soloed when I was 16 and got my li-
cense when I was 17,” said Collins. “We #ew 
up here once just for fun. Wasn’t very practi-
cal, but nothing about actually #ying is prac-
tical.”
Touché. Still, it’s not every day that you 
meet a water-polo-playing bagpiper who can 
#y himself to school on a whim. 
So far, this has all been who Andy Col-
lins is outside of the classroom. And while he 
does admit that he was disappointed when he 
“got to Midd and found out you have to take 
classes in addition to all the other stu$ there 
is to do,” he de!nitely has not let that blun-
der get him down. Andy Collins is a Classics 
major interested in archaeology who has also 
taken pre-med classes throughout his years 
at the college. And, like good Middlebury 
students always do, he’s taken his studies 
abroad, and more than once. 
Last fall, Collins independently took a 
semester abroad at Trinity College in Dub-
lin, Ireland. Here, he continued to study 
the classics as well as Irish history and Irish 
language. Also, not to linger on the fact that 
Collins is a sick bagpiper, but he did join Na 
Píobairí Uilleann, the Uillean piping society 
in Ireland based in Dublin, during his stay. 
It’s hard to get to the practices, he says, but he 
is still an active member of the group. 
In addition to traveling to Ireland, Col-
lins has also been to Stabia, Italy, to pursue 
his interest in archaeology. "rough the Uni-
versity of Maryland, Collins was able to stay 
at the Vesuvian Institute where he worked on 
excavating Roman villas. He also surveyed 
and observed Pompey and other surround-
ing areas. Still, while archaeology is some-
thing Collins is certainly interested in, he’s 
not sure he wants to pursue it whole-heart-
edly a%er college. 
“I toyed with it for a while,” said Collins. 
“I think my plan is to go to medical school 
and go into pediatrics.” 
So far, Collins has applied to Columbia 
University and the University of Vermont 
for graduate school, so he will have a better 
idea of where his future will lead him come 
springtime. 
So who does a guy like Andy Collins, a 
water polo playing, bagpiping musician, air-
plane #ying, archaeology enthused, pre-med 
student, look up to the most?
“Marc Antony. Among other things, he 
set such a high bar for drunken debauchery 
and large living that in the over 2000 years 
since his death, it has yet to be surpassed,” 
said Collins, very matter-of-factly. 
So, there you have it, Andy Collins in a 
nutshell. 
Speaking of nuts, that reminds me of 
something Collins said during our interview. 
“I’m pretty sure people have described 
me as nuts,” said Collins.
Is this true? He, personally, would like 
to think of himself as jolly, classic, and anti-
quated. So is Andy Collins really nuts? "at’s 
one I’ll let you decide for yourself. 
6 October 2011 15campusfeatures
By Alexandra Strott
Staff Writer
Campus Character: Andy Collins
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
Collins rocks it on the bagpipes, one of his many unique and interesting talents.
&
Flying houses all the way to 
D.C.? At least they didn’t land 
on anyone in ruby slippers.
losers
October
Family Weekend, fall break, 
Halloween and Homecoming
Great for a note-to-self, reminder 
or birthday decoration.
A whopping 45 degrees to start 
your day.
Solar D
. . . And the undergrads take 
fourth!
Proctor jelly
A sticky situation that no one really 
likes: jelly on the raisin tongs.
Sticky notes
Gas to fly a house Oct. temps
winners
ww
w.
m
id
dl
eb
ur
yc
am
pu
s.c
om
th
e b
es
t h
om
e p
ag
e e
ve
r. 
do
 it
.
e-mail campus@middlebury.edu
do you have a story idea?
email campus@middlebury.edu
arts&science16
The Middlebury Campus
6 October 2011
 
10
Middlebury College’s Sound Invest-
ment Jazz Ensemble will present a 
joint concert with the Amherst Col-
lege Jazz Ensemble to celebrate the 
50th anniversary of a history jazz 
event.
editors’ 08
!is year’s "rst-year show explores 
love’s powers by presenting a journey 
through reality and fantasy.  !e Oct. 
14 peformance will be at 8 p.m. and 
10:30 p.m., and the Oct. 15 perfor-
mance will be at 8 p.m. Tickets $4. 
British director Mike Leigh’s newest "lm 
takes a look at the di#erent seasons in 
the lives of a happily married couple and 
their relationships with their family and 
friends. Sponsored by the Hirsch"eld 
International Film Series. Free. 
13picks
Jazz@
Amherst 
Meets 
MiddJazz
Concert Hall
8 p.m. 
Love Song
Hepburn Zoo
8 p.m 
Through Oct. 
15
07
!is exhibition of student artwork 
from Professor of Studio Art Jim 
Butler’s spring course “Sculptural 
Portraiture” explores human emo-
tion and physicality with its unique 
use of materials and processes.  Free.
Portraiture in 
Sculpture
Johnson 
Memorial 
Building
Through Oct. 17
Another Year
Dana 
Auditorium
3 p.m & 8 p.m
!e original chamber opera Lotus Lives, 
composed by Professor of Music Su Lian Tan, 
premiered and returned for a second perfor-
mance at the Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 Center for 
the Arts concert hall on Friday, Sept. 30, and 
Sunday, Oct. 2. 
!e concert hall, brimming with both 
students and Middlebury residents, waited 
and whispered casual conversations while 
the Meridian Arts Ensemble — a leading 
band of "ve brass players and a percussion-
ist — tuned their instruments on stage, alone. 
!e lights dimmed, and while the sur-
roundings screens showed subtly-colored 
oriental fans, the ensemble of brass and per-
cussion began the instrumental prelude of 
the opera. Regrettably, the resulting sound 
was, at best, cacophonous and seemed un"t-
ting for an opera of such a euphonic name as 
Lotus Lives. 
But as the audience began wondering 
whether the ensemble was still tuning their 
instruments, the mezzo-soprano lead singer 
— Juilliard graduate Brenda Patterson — en-
tered the stage in ceremonial Chinese silk 
and explained that she was her own grand-
mother.
 It all made sense then: the opera told 
not only of the apparent clash but also of the 
hidden unity between the traditional and the 
modern, between the constraining chains of 
the past and impetus of the present. 
As if cued by this realization, the singer 
disrobed and a$er clothing herself in “mod-
ern” attire, narrated into an aria of techno 
music. !e whole stage exploded in neon 
colors and scenes of London %ashed across 
the eight vertical screens and the main center 
screen. 
Patterson began, “Okay, so my girlfriend 
screamed, ‘Oh my God! I’ve got it! You can go 
as a pineapple!’” 
!e libretto, written by the modern poet 
Anne Babson, was overwhelmingly con%ict-
ed with the “classical” sense of operas, not to 
mention being rather confusing and random; 
some of the lines were a bit too modern, espe-
cially when she likens two passionate tango 
dancers to “horses in heat.” Lotus Lives re-
peatedly emphasized this combination of the 
traditional and the modern throughout the 
night. 
At times, however, the connections be-
tween di#erent elements of this multifaceted 
opera were frustratingly unclear and the lead 
singer’s strong vibrato did nothing to help 
relieve the constant confusion of unaccus-
tomed listeners.
!e opera progressed later into a duet set 
in the 1930s, “My Granddaughters,” that es-
sentially captured the whole of the show. Rep-
resenting the traditional side, Miriam Stewart 
beautifully sang against change as her articu-
late expressions voiced creased concerns of 
the “big sister.” In response, Patterson — the 
“little sister” and the visionary “grandmoth-
er” of the protagonist — belted pointedly to 
champion modern, feminist ideals. 
!is section of the opera was well-com-
posed and the voices of Miriam Stewart and 
Brenda Patterson were perfectly woven to-
gether. But then, the granddaughter, who is 
also the grandmother, shook the audience 
back (or rather, forward) into the relative fu-
ture — 1985. 
Hilarity ensued as members of the Me-
ridian Ensemble stood and were in turn 
slapped for racist comments like: “Hey, Chi-
na girl, I bet you taste better than sushi!” and 
“Let me show you my chopstick!”
!en quite suddenly, the visual and the 
auditory components of the opera combined 
with each other seamlessly for the “Folktale,” 
which highlighted the laudable visual de-
signs, especially the shadow puppetry. 
!e saddening folktale tells of a girl ab-
ducted by the Moon, stolen from her mother. 
Years later, the mother and daughter no lon-
ger understand one another. It is a story of 
the di&culty of "nding and staying on the 
middle path between who we were and who 
we are forced to be. 
At the end of the tale, the mother buried 
the clothes of her daughter, crying, “I have 
just met my daughter again and I see she died 
years ago.”
!e opera subse-
quently ended with an aria 
in which Patterson spoke 
for all women: “I won’t be 
a slave, nor a shadow of 
my self. I’m going to live. 
!is is an opera where the 
heroine lives!” 
From the prologue to 
the "nale, the opera was 
not without evident seams 
in not only its transitions 
but also in the relationship 
between the auditory and 
visual components. 
At one of the three 
weekend lectures about 
Lotus Lives on Saturday, 
Oct. 1, Tan explained 
that the conception of the 
show began as “all sorts of 
gimmicks” with the need 
to “"nd a way to make the 
pieces come to live [by 
making] them adhere with 
each other intimately.” 
!e resulting product is 
certainly not perfect but most parts of Lotus 
Lives manage to weave the elements and the 
ideas together.
Also, one unique aspect of Lotus Lives is 
its visual element; Tan said at the lecture, “It 
was never an opera with a video as a set. It 
was an opera with the video as one of its main 
voices.” 
Tim Bartlett ’98, who designed and con-
trolled the visual, creatively brings out the 
voice of the visual in a bold yet subtle man-
ner. 
!e College graduate explained that the 
visual of the opening piece of “Arti"cial Flow-
er” outlined the already apparent con"nes of 
the screens, the boundaries of which then 
were broken sometime during the “Folktale” 
as the visuals of the water were projected 
onto the whole surface of the stage and the 
back walls — this shattering of the con"nes 
coincides with the protagonist’s growth as a 
woman, who blooms from an arti"cial %ower 
into a heroine.
!e opera, which took years of develop-
ment from idea to its "nal art form, is in a 
way a biography of Tan and her grandmother. 
It voices the struggles that many of us experi-
ence with our mosaic identities; some of us 
who have migrated into a completely di#er-
ent culture hesitantly linger between the cul-
ture of our past and the culture of our pres-
ent. 
Lotus Lives is an opera that "nds unity in 
di#erences: between the traditional and the 
modern, and between Western and Eastern 
values. With its praiseworthy performance, 
composition and visual design but incoherent 
combination of elements, the opera le$ most 
inspired and touched ... but some puzzled. Lotus Lives explored the polarity of East and West, past and future in an innovative performance last week.
Courtesy
Courtesy
Professor of Music Su Lian Tan’s new bold opera, Lotus Lives, premiered at the Kevin P. Mah-
aney ’84 Center for the Arts concert hall, combining modern and classical themes. 
by Jamie Lee
Staff  Writer
LivesLotus
campusarts&science          6 October 2011 17
THE REEL 
CRITIC
Contagion
by Chris Johnson
!e "lm Contagion is about the quick, 
vicious spread of an epidemic. Let’s be 
honest with ourselves: that sounds pretty 
boring. Watch out, people — here comes 
disease! Somehow, it does not quite have 
the same connotations that “lion,” “tiger” 
or “bear” tend to bring to the table. At the 
same time, disease, a silent predator that 
strikes without warning, can genuinely be 
terrifying and deadly. In Contagion, the 
latest "lm from Steven Soderbergh, disease 
comes across as much more frightening 
than any carnivorous animal.
Soderbergh is a director who has been 
all over the place in terms of both cinematic 
style and subject. Try comparing Ocean’s 
Eleven, Solaris, Che and !e Girlfriend Expe-
rience and see where that gets you. !e man 
enjoys working all over the place, much to 
the bene"t of myself and many others. With 
Contagion, he tackles the disaster movie. 
In the past, the disaster movie has focused 
on such subjects as an asteroid impact, a 
damaged airliner, a large storm etc.  !e 
nice thing about all of these is that they are 
inherently dramatic. A director does not 
lack for drama when, for example, a tornado 
is ripping up houses le# and right.  !e larg-
est issue is not making everything melodra-
matic, especially to the point of parody.
In Contagion, Soderbergh had an extra 
obstacle due to the nature of his subject. !e 
spreading of an epidemic does not easily 
lend itself to drama. If that is what is putting 
you o$ from seeing this "lm, let me remind 
you that the story of a website’s creation 
is not inherently dramatic either, but !e 
Social Network nailed it. In a similar way, 
so does Contagion. Soderbergh "nely walks 
the line between melodrama and boredom, 
working hard to keep tension high without 
going overboard. He directs this "lm rather 
coolly, and the epidemic and the humans’ 
work to stop it unfolds in the manner of a 
chess game among professionals.
As a result, in some ways the cast is the 
most important part of the "lm. Soder-
bergh’s style here would almost seem heart-
less if they had not e$ectively brought the 
“human side” to the story. In what de"nitely 
quali"es as a star ensemble, Matt Damon, 
Laurence Fishburne, Jude Law, Gwyneth 
Paltrow, Kate Winslet and Marion Cotillard 
all have major roles in the story. Matt Da-
mon, as a father and husband dealing with 
the true cost of an epidemic, is so#ly heart-
breaking. With others, such as Gwyneth 
Paltrow and Laurence Fishburne, it was en-
joyable to see people who are (in my humble 
opinion) generally mediocre actors "ll their 
roles nicely. !e only problematic actor was 
Marion Cotillard. Her accent was inconsis-
tent to the point of distraction. At times she 
appeared to be playing a French character, 
other times an American character and at 
weird times some alien "gure attempting to 
communicate via human speech.  However, 
it was a minor point and did not detract 
from the "lm as a whole.
I have attempted to not really spoil 
anything. Film reviews should be spoiler-
free (and preferably fat-free as well), but the 
ending of Contagion is a perfect, unexpected 
one-two punch. When the "lm opens with 
the red letters stating “Day 2,” you will be 
intrigued. But by the time the credits roll, 
you will be scared, and suddenly, the people 
sitting around you in the movie theater will 
seem too close for comfort.
Although her press release lists her 
title as “Artistic Director,” College Artist 
in Residence in Dance Tiffany Rhynard 
could also easily be called a funambulist. 
In her program, Disposable Goods, 
she deftly manages the tightropes 
between formality and casualness, 
between performance and conver-
sation and between choreography 
and chaos. Fully aware of the ten-
sion embodied in such contradic-
tions, Rhynard exploits them to 
create a program that is, as pro-
posed by her mission statement, 
“daring, provocative and curious.”
Disposable Goods, an often-
humorous program with a “dark 
underlying commentary,” is com-
posed of four movements — Spill, 
Away (from here), Trash and Ne-
cessity. Although assembled sepa-
rately and composed at different 
times, the movements overlap and 
collide, much like its performers — 
Rhynard, Yina Ng ’09, Ellen Smith 
Ahern ’05 and Hanna Satterlee. The 
program does feature several solos, 
but its most dynamic moments 
occur with its “rigorous partner-
ing.” Working against cacophonous 
“sonic compositions,” the dancers 
frequently descend into combative 
sequences. These sequences, and 
their preceding entropic spirals, set 
the rhythm for the show. The danc-
ers seem to be compelled by some 
great centrifugal force, whirling and 
stomping into chaos before being returned 
to the order of choreography. As the show 
proceeds, you get the idea that they are 
fleeing the reality before them, one in 
which we are confronted by all the refuse 
we have turned our backs on. Of course, 
these ideas are not conveyed quite so seri-
ously as those words would suggest. With 
a refreshing absence of self-consciousness, 
the performers in Disposable Goods throw 
themselves into their roles with abandon, 
shifting from harlot to combatant to robot 
with ease. 
Early in the program, Smith Ahern 
writhes and gyrates to the laughter of 
the audience. Wearing a rabbit mask and 
impossibly angular hot pink heels, she is 
some bizarre caricature of a sex symbol. 
The audience is made suddenly uncom-
fortable, however, when she removes the 
mask and becomes human once again. Our 
role as voyeurs and the ease with which we 
are able to objectify Ahern, writing her off 
as “one of those women,” is suddenly re-
flected back at us. Later, a mirror is again 
held to the audience as Ahern and Satter-
lee read back our responses to the prompts 
“I need … ” and “I don’t need … ” The im-
provised lyrical rendition of our answers 
— some satirical, most earnest — 
binds the audience inexorably to 
the performance. At the end of the 
show, when entreated by the danc-
ers to “help us clean up this mess,” 
few of us doubted our culpability 
in also having helped to create it.
Picking up the “trash” (almost 
all of it recyclable) spread across 
the stage provided yet another in-
stance of the finesse with which 
Disposable Goods warps the tradi-
tional boundaries between artist 
and audience, performance and 
reality. By coming down from our 
seats, we did not profane the stage, 
the sanctified space of the per-
former, but rather became actors 
on it. Similarly, in sifting through 
the refuse, we were reminded once 
again that the performers, as Rhy-
nard asserts, are “not just a group 
of flexible, athletic and trained 
dancers,” but rather whole people. 
One of the women that we had 
just been watching whirl and leap 
drank Simply Lemonade. Another 
used gluten-free baking mixes. 
Such moments made Dispos-
able Goods an incredibly personal 
performance. Rhynard has crafted 
an engaging, engrossing program 
challenging the ambivalence that 
she sees as the crux of “the obsessive cycle 
of waste in our culture,” as her press re-
lease describes it. Even if “we don’t really 
want to know” what is created when we 
thoughtlessly discard objects and people, 
Disposable Goods compels us to look, then 
turn that glance inward to our own behav-
ior and beliefs.  
Disposable Goods cleans up wastes
By Anna Flinchbaugh
Staff Writer
Courtesy
Ellen Smith Ahern ’05 dances as a warped sex symbol in 
Disposable Goods,  opening at SUNY Potsdam on Oct. 15. 
“You ole’ lizard!” yelled Anne Babson, her affected yet con-
vincing Southern twang filling the dining room of the Chellis 
House on Thursday, Sept. 29. Despite residual laughter, she con-
tinued to read her poem, written from the perspective of Penelope 
and directed at Ulysses.  
But this isn’t a bread-and-butter interpretation of the the Od-
yssey, and neither is Babson’s Penelope the docile wife who faith-
fully waited for her husband, Ulysses, to return:  near the end of 
the poem, Babson’s voice accelerates as Penelope angrily accuses 
Ulysses of messing around on that “hoochie” (i.e. Calypso’s) is-
land. 
As an award-winning poet, feminist and professor of classics 
at the University of Mississippi, Babson has many motivations for 
writing poems about famous Greek myths in the guise of quotid-
ian Southern experiences. As a Ph.D. Student at Ole Miss, Bab-
son achieved success in a number of her poetic works; she was 
anthologized by Caparison Books (UK) in a collection entitled 
Emergency Verse, and her other poetry has reached a global au-
dience by appearing in Perilous Adventures in Australia, and in 
Moon Milk Review and Red Dirt Review. In her own words, she 
wants to “humanize” the Greek gods and get rid of the “Alexan-
der Pope snootiness” that idolized Greek mythological figures and 
reserved the classics for the upper echelons of society during the 
18th century. 
To Babson, the Greek gods and heroes are like “all-powerful 
Jerry Spring guests,” and that’s the lens through which she teaches 
her students works such as Antigone and Oedipus Rex. Her poem 
“Oedipus Shows Up in Family Court” presents Oedipus as a mod-
ern Southern man pleading to a jury about a case of family incest 
without any mention of the role of “Fate.” 
Babson, originally from Brooklyn, moved to Mississippi 
when she married her husband. Babson tells the audience in a 
Q&A session after the reading how difficult the move to Vicks-
burg — which happens to be the seat of the annual Miss Missis-
sippi beauty pageant — proved to be. 
As a feminist, she takes issue with many of the conventions 
and traditional attitudes Southerners have concerning women; 
yet, on the other hand, she found that Southern life and dialect 
“evoke the ancient myths.” She adamantly repeated, “My desire is 
not to belittle Southern culture.” Rather, by using Southern phras-
es like “bless her little heart,” and “you ole’ lizard,” in her poems, 
she wants to prove that like the ancient Greeks, the “Old South” 
lacks the language to talk about feminist ideas. 
Others have picked up on the humorous and pertinent nature 
of Babson’s original concept, and many of her poems have been 
published, such as “Eurydice Writes a Postcard from the Under-
world,” featured in the Cider Press Review. 
One of my favorites of Babson’s poems, “Ariadne Explains 
How She Got Mixed Up with a Boy like Theseus,” was recently 
accepted into the extremely prestigious Iowa Review. 
The poem casts Ariadne as a young Southern lady who falls 
in love with “Scooter,” (a.k.a. Theseus) a frat boy who wins a bull-
riding contest in the local rodeo. The poem is rife with the humor 
and sassy defiance that Babson wants to bring to these ancient 
stories while also imparting a message about gender relations and 
societal norms that Babson wants to share with anyone willing to 
listen.
The audience seemed to enjoy Babson’s poems in White Trash 
Pantheon, both those that involved an infusion of Southern hu-
mor into ancient myths (think Medusa with a bottle of tequila 
and Artemis with a rack of hunting guns), as well as more serious 
poems such as “On Cotton” about William Faulkner and “Amazon 
Dig” about feminist archeology. 
The Q&A session following the reading illuminated Babson’s 
ideology behind her poems but also stirred up some regional 
stereotypes: one woman asked Babson if she ever worried about 
“getting shot” in Mississippi because of her feminist beliefs. This 
provoked a good-humored reproach from the Southerners in the 
crowd who pointed out that Vermont also has an open gun law. 
Things heated up later when Babson and an audience member 
discussed the similar nature in which Greek goddesses and South-
ern women compete over men. 
Despite the disagreements fueled during the Q&A, which 
were thankfully much less violent than the conflicts Babson re-
counted in her poems, the reading was a success; the fact that 
characters in ancient Greek myths have the power to elicit such 
intense emotions is a testament to their eternal humanity and 
Babson’s well-crafted adaptations. 
Ancient Greece meets the South in Pantheon
by Kate Miley
Staff Writer
18 6 October 2011 campusarts&science
It is not o!en that I truly enjoy a novel 
I am required to read for class. "ere is 
a preemptory disdain for the inevitable 
picking apart of the written word that is 
sure to follow any assigned book. Yes, I 
have read wonderful literature because 
I have been told to, but not necessarily 
something I would willingly curl up with 
on a Sunday a!ernoon when the mountain 
of homework we all have had diminished 
just a bit. However, I have found that 
magical book, the assigned novel that I 
actually enjoyed tremendously, in Salman 
Rushdie’s Midnight’s Children. With its 
sweeping plot and exquisite language, 
Rushdie’s novel was the well-deserved 
winner of the Booker Fiction Prize in 1981 
and subsequently named the “Booker of 
Bookers” 25 years later. But enough about 
the novel’s accolades. Let’s move onto the 
actual point of reading a book — because 
it is good.
Set in India, Midnight’s Children is the 
account of Saleem Sinai, whose birth at the 
stroke of midnight on the night of India’s 
independence ties his life to his country 
in magical and haunting ways. Mentally 
connected with the other children born at 
midnight, but forever alone in the great-
ness of his own intuition and connection 
to the country’s well-being, Saleem’s life 
provides a fascinating read, even for some-
one (like myself) who doesn’t quite catch 
every one of the overwhelming histori-
cal allusions to India’s volatile early years 
of independence. Rushdie has achieved 
a truly sweeping narrative, following 
Saleem’s family drama across three genera-
tions while simultaneously managing to 
include a story of the vast and painful 
history between India and Pakistan. Oc-
casionally this sweeping nature overtakes 
itself, leaving the reader adri! in a sea of 
detail and narrative tangents. We don’t 
even get to Saleem’s birth until about 100 
pages in, although that historical lead-
up is warranted. Towards the end of the 
novel, details again hinder the progress of 
plot, and Rushdie, in his desire to make is 
point clear, trends towards repetition and 
verbosity. 
Midnight’s Children is the story of the 
past, told by a present day Saleem. He is 
writing his history, retelling his life to his 
companion Padma, thus maintaining two 
separate narrative tones. Rushdie also oc-
casionally switches perspectives, leaving 
Saleem to the world for a while in order 
to investigate the inner struggles of other 
characters. "is structure adds interest 
for the reader, pulling you out just as you 
become comfortable within India’s tumul-
tuous past. And what a past it is! Saleem 
takes on a Forrest Gump quality, in#uenc-
ing moments in history in impossible 
ways, lending the entire novel a cinematic 
air. 
Adding to the movie-like quality of 
the novel is the absolute beauty of the 
language. Never before have I encoun-
tered someone who can cra! a sentence 
with such skill and grace, and even still 
manage to tuck some humor in as well. 
His descriptions of people are spot-on, 
pinpointing the features that we are always 
drawn to in the real world but never dare 
acknowledge. Saleem, for instance, has 
a nose that generally is compared with a 
cucumber. We’d never actually describe 
someone like that in real life, but de$nitely 
would think it. Rushdie takes that very 
human tendency to the pages of Midnight’s 
Children. It is a novel driven by its charac-
ters, and the believability of these people 
— despite their sometimes-grandiose 
lives and problems — is Rushdie’s greatest 
achievement. You care about these people’s 
stories.
I must only fault Rushdie once more 
before telling you emphatically to go out 
and read this book. "ere is elitism in the 
novel that will not appeal to everyone. 
O!en I found myself thinking, “"is book 
is smarter than me!” during particularly 
deep historical and political plot turns. 
However, there is enough plot available 
to move through these moments, and you 
will come out on the other end with the 
con$dence that you have not been mocked 
by a novel and its celebrated author, but 
instead have experienced an epic story of 
fate and feeling against a backdrop of stag-
gering scope and beauty. 
Author | Salman Rushdie
Book | Midnight’s Children
by Hallie Woods
THIS WEEK ON
91.1
FM
Have an awesome 
research project? 
      
Know a professor 
doing something cool?  
 
Want to share your 
opinion on science at 
Midd? 
Let us know! 
campus@middlebury.
edu
Booking It
On "ursday, Sept. 29, poet Eduardo Espina joined members of the College community 
to discuss his poetry and other musings. Espina is a professor of Spanish at Texas A&M Uni-
versity and is also a visiting member of the Spanish School faculty. In 2011 he won the pres-
tigious Guggenheim fellowship and in the past he has won the Premio Nacional de Ensayo of 
Uruguay (1996, 2000), and the 1998 Premio Municipal de Poesía, the most important award 
in poetry in Uruguay. His poems have been translated into a multitude of languages and are 
featured in over 30 di%erent anthologies of Latin American poetry. 
More than a poet, Espina enjoys success in the $eld of literary criticism also, having re-
ceived his Ph.D. from Washington University in St. Louis and been named Distinguished 
Professor by Sigma Delta Pi, the National Hispanic Honor Society. "e award recognizes his 
“dedicated e%orts, leadership and inspiration to the students.”
In the beginning of his lecture, Espina wove a tale of his upbringing in Uruguay, where 
poetry was once nationally sco%ed at, as well as what it means to be a poet for him. He dis-
cussed his love for his work, and brie#y described the importance of his work to him: “If you 
write poetry you don’t need chemical things.” 
Sodium is not his catalyst, but rather language; his central philosophy derives from this 
notion of language as an organic  whole.
Espina also said, “Writing poetry is like working in a lab of language … I have all the ele-
ments and I wonder what I can do with this.” 
 A!er a brief introduction, Espina did a reading in Spanish of his poem, “Objects without 
Consequences,” followed by “Next in Line.” “Objects Without Consequences” stenciled a psy-
chological landscape for the audience; it plunged listeners into a world of painfully intimate 
detail, enhanced by the so! vowels of the original Spanish and an apt translation. "e poem’s 
internal logic seemed to crumble upon itself by the end of the reading. 
Indeed, Espina’s poem describes itself (in translation) as “Something so simple, like bring-
ing God to fate, like telling 
silence what is happening.” 
"is sentiment of redis-
covery and of language’s 
ine%able power to heal 
above political distinction 
is central to Espina. 
“"e cause serves lit-
tle use,” he writes, “because 
the Occident does not 
depend upon an in$nite 
method.” A!er both read-
ings, a student enrolled in 
Professor of Spanish Patri-
cia Saldarriaga’s $rst year 
seminar “Poetry in Exile” 
read the English transla-
tion of the poems. 
A!er reading his po-
ems, Espina shared a little 
more about his life with the 
crowd. As it turns out, Espi-
na is a fan of the works of author F. Scott Fitzgerald and is also the founder of an organization 
that helps Hispanic children in poor economic conditions. "e depth of Espina’s poetry, as 
well as supple rendering by both poet and student, made the event a success. 
Courtesy
artsbrief GuGGenheim fellowship- 
winninG poet visits middby Santiago Azpurua-Borras
Arts & Science Editor
Award-winning poet and Texas A&M professor Eduardo 
Espina read to an engaged audience last week.
Synchronic 
Thursday 
8-10 p.m.
Hosted by Lynn Noble 
’12 and John Diebold ’11.5, 
this show is about live im-
provisational music from 
bluegrass to jam band. "is 
is achieved  through explora-
tion of jazz, fusion and even 
electronica. Every knows that 
live music is better than dead 
music, any day. 
Bitter Gourd
Saturday 
10-11 a.m.
Anjali Merchant ’12 and 
Carly Shumaker ’13 host 
a botanical talk show that 
consists of a plant of focus 
each week, readings from 
the Farmers Almanac, what’s 
fresh at the farmer’s market, 
and interviews with extreme-
ly knowledgeable plant lovers 
of all kinds.
Ebony and Ivory
Wednesday 
3-5 a.m.
Ebony and Ivory is a col-
laborative radio show straight 
out of the minds of Sean Ear-
ley ’15 and Firas Omer ’15. 
Together, they challenge you 
to classify their music taste as 
they take your ears on a ride 
through a labyrinth of musi-
cal selections. You’ll hear it 
all: pop, soul, rap and country.
WRMC
 6 October 2011 19advertisements
Searching here 
is like searching here. 
The new search.  Powered by Google. 
GO/Search 260 Court StreetMiddlebury 
802-388-5400
M-F 9-7 | Sat 9-6 | Sun 9-5
GET IN  
GET CONFIDENT
1-800-SUPERCUTS | www.supercuts.com 
WELCOME MIDDLEBURY
COLLEGE STUDENTS
OPEN NIGHTS & WEEKENDS
SEVEN DAYS A WEEK 
ASK ABOUT OUR COLOR SPECIALS!
Call or visit us TODAY 
and switch your account 
to NBM hassle-free!
1-877-508-8455
We understand that sometimes it feels  
like everywhere you turn, life’s full of  
risks. That’s why we make banking easy.  
We offer a completely paperless account, 
Debit card, and more! You can access  
2 ATMs right on campus, come in to one  
of our 2 offices right in Middlebury, use 
our anytime/anywhere mobile banking, 
or visit us online. We’re where you are, 
when you need us. We’re your neighbors.
We’re National Bank of Middlebury.
…banking shouldn’t be.
life’s
risksfull of
7803_NBM_LifesFULLRISKS_5x7.75MC_BW_02ak.indd   1 9/28/11   2:19 PM
Don’t just read 
all about it! 
Work for the 
Campus and 
write all about 
it too!
!is past weekend, the varsity women’s 
tennis team travelled to Bates College in 
Lewiston, Me., to compete in the Intercol-
legiate Tennis Association’s (ITA) Fall Re-
gional Tournament. In this Division III New 
England competition, Middlebury faced o" 
against a number of schools, including tra-
ditional rivals Williams, Amherst, Bowdoin 
and Colby, as well as more distant schools like 
Wellesley, Smith and MIT.
!e tournament took place over the 
course of three days, featuring a singles draw 
of 64 players and a doubles draw of 32 pair-
ings. !e Panthers entered six singles athletes 
and three doubles teams.
In the singles tournament, rookie Pan-
ther Lok-Sze Leung ’15 was seeded fourth, 
followed by Tori Aiello ’12 as the  #$h seed, 
while Leah Kepping ’13 was placed in the 
9-16 range. All three earned a berth in the 
quarter#nals, with Kepping and Leung facing 
o" against one another in the semis.
Notably, Kepping pulled an upset victory 
over the number one seed in the tournament, 
Jordan Brewer of Amherst, with a straight 
sets victory in the third round, 7-6 (2), 6-1. 
!is match was described as the “standout 
performance” of the day in the tournament’s 
daily updates. However, Kepping succumbed 
to her teammate Leung two rounds later, the 
latter prevailing  with a score of 6-4, 6-1.
Leung would eventually capture the 
singles title, dominating her opponent, third 
-seeded player Nancy Worley of Williams, in 
straight sets, 6-0, 6-1. Worley had defeated 
Middlebury’s Aiello in the quarter#nals in a 
three-set match with a score of 6-7 (3), 6-3, 
6-1, as well as Dorrie Paradies ‘14 in the sec-
ond round.
Dorrie’s sister Katie Paradies ’15 exited 
in the #rst round, losing a three-setter to a 
seeded player from Bowdoin. Sally Wilkey 
’12 was also defeated in her opening match 
against a seeded Williams athlete.
In the doubles draw, the tournament 
used a winner-take-all superset format. 
Middlebury had two seeded pairings in Ai-
ello/Kepping and Leung/Wilkey, who were 
ranked third and #$h, respectively.
Aiello and Kepping opened their tour-
nament at a torrid pace, disposing  of their 
opponents from Mount Holyoke in the #rst 
round with a score of 8-0, followed by the 
pairing from Nichols with a score of 8-3. 
!eir run was then stopped by one of the 
three pairings from Amherst.
Leung and Wilkey advanced to the semi-
#nals with relatively easy victories over Trin-
ity, Brandeis and Williams. !ey were also 
stopped in their tracks by a pairing from 
Amherst, who squeezed out a tight victory 
with a score of 9-7. !at Amherst team, seed-
ed second in the tournament, would go on to 
take home the championship.
!e last Middlebury pairing, Anna 
Burke ’12 and DeeDee Myers ’13, succumbed 
to Bates with a score of 8-3 in the opening 
round.
When asked what his thoughts were on 
the weekend’s tournament, coach Mike Mor-
gan said, “It was a great weekend. I was really 
proud of them. !ey competed very well, up 
and down. !e team knows a lot of work is 
ahead of us since it’s a very competitive re-
gion.”
Morgan commented on how he is espe-
cially proud of the team for “their e"ort and 
their support of each other.”
Aiello shared her coach’s optimism, say-
ing, “!e whole team is really excited to move 
forward with new and old talent and our 
strong performance this weekend has de#-
nitely set some high expectations.”
Up next on the team’s schedule will be 
the Gail Smith Doubles Tournament on Oct. 
8 and 9, hosted here at Middlebury.
campussports20 6 October 2011
First-year tennis star Leung takes ITA regional title
By Danny Zhang
Staff Writer
Athletes Anonymous
1. If you could have one other talent, what would it be?
I have always wanted to master the Madinda, an musical instrument from east Uganda.
2. Favorite place in the world?
No doubt ADP LNDP with ma gurlzz!! Leggggooo!!
3. Favorite male sports team?
Football — Euro and Americano.
4. Disney movie character you most identify with?
Nala!! I love the lion king.
5. What is the most unexpected thing you’ve ever done?
I turned in a paper early once & I wrote a memoir.
'e women’s soccer team may be too bonded for “mys-
tery athlete” trivia. Despite initial uncertainty regard-
ing the identity of last week’s anonymous interview-
ee, by the time the team was polled, everybody had 
reached a consensus on (rst-year player Ali Omsberg, 
a.k.a. Luna Lovegood. Was it the Harry Potter refer-
ence in regards to her preferred mythical creature that 
gave this quirky newbie away? Or her blatant and un-
common partiality towards Ross over Proctor, the haven of various “foodies” on 
the team? Certainly, some of Ali’s answers threw the team o) her scent, such as 
her claim to “get crunk” numerous times per week and her ballsy move in calling 
out captain Amy Schlueter ’13 for dressing like a grandpa. (Clearly this (rst-year 
has no fear of hazing to hold her back.) Despite the unpredictability and o*eat 
sense of humor characteristic of Ali O., the team pieced together the riddle of her 
answers with the alacrity of a Scarlett Kirk ’14 breakaway.
WHO AM I? WHO I AM.
?
THIS WEEK: VARSITY FIELD HOCKEY
advertise with
The Middlebury 
Campus Publications
e-mail campus@middlebury.edu
for rates and information
5
Number of games in a row won by women’s soccer. !e Panthers 
have scored 14 goals during this hot streak, of which Scarlett 
Kirk ’14 has contributed eight.
139 Number of yards that Panthers tight end Billy Chapman ’13 totaled for the Panthers in just his second start.
24
De"cit erased by the Detroit Lions in their game Sunday against 
the Dallas Cowboys. !e comeback matched the largest road 
comeback in NFL history for the undefeated Lions.
29 Number of points "eld hockey’s Lauren Greer ’13 has racked up on the season, leading both her team and the league.
290
Consecutive minutes of shutout play posted by men’s soccer 
goalie Tim Cahill ’12, who has kept opponents scoreless in 
the Panthers’ past three games.
6 October 2011 21campussports 
Date Sport Vs. Results Comments
10/01 Football Colby 41-15 W
Despite torrential rain and cold conditions, 
the Panthers were able to take down Colby in 
this convincing win.
10/01
10/02
Women’s 
Soccer
Wesleyan
Conn. Coll. 
2-1 W 
(2OT)
2-1 W
Scarlet Kirk ’14 was named NESCAC 
Player of the Week for the second straight 
week, a rare but deserved honor.
10/01
10/02 Men’s Soccer
Wesleyan
Conn. Coll. 
1-1 T (OT)
2-0 W
A#er another tie on Saturday, men’s soccer 
came out with their "rst NESCAC win of 
the season on Sunday.
10/01
10/02 Field Hockey
Wesleyan
Conn. Coll. 
6-1 W
3-1 W
Lauren Greer ’13 was named NESCAC 
Player of the Week a#er scoring six goals 
over the course of the week.
10/01
10/02 Men’s Golf NESCAC Quali"er 3rd place
Although the Panthers shot a strong 594, 
Williams won the tournament and will host 
the NESCAC Championships in the spring. 
Men’s, women’s cross country sweep State Meet
Cross country’s strong start to the fall season gained 
more momentum this past weekend, as both the men and 
women swept the Vermont State Meet at St. Michael’s College 
on Oct. 2 and 3. Battling stormy conditions, the Panthers 
proved their depth, as these victories came with many of the 
team’s top runners not competing. With both the men and 
women putting !ve runners in the top seven positions of the 
race, Middlebury a"rmed a team motto that “Panthers hunt 
in the rain.”
On the women’s side, in the race that su#ered the brunt 
of the weather’s wrath, Katie Carlson ’15 led a young Panther 
squad, placing second by a mere 1.6 seconds, with a time 
of 19:15. On Carlson’s heels were Katie Rominger ’14, Cate 
Costley ’15, Summer Spillane ’15 and Lottie Hedden ’14, who 
!nished third, !$h, sixth and seventh respectively. 
With 23 points, Middlebury comfortably bested runners-
up St. Michael’s College and Castleton State College, who 
scored 41 points and 88 points, respectively. In another 
noteworthy statistic, the Panthers won the team’s 23 total 
points with a spread between their !rst and !$h runners of 
only 20 seconds.    
  “Our greatest strength, especially in tough conditions 
like [Saturday] is our tight running pack and the motivation it 
creates during the race,” said Rominger. “Hearing a teammate 
nearby gasp ‘Go Midd!’ will always give you that extra burst 
of energy.”
%e men’s team toed the line without their top !ve 
runners, including Outdoor Track All-Americans Michael 
Schmidt ’12 and Jack Davies ’13. Despite this, the Panthers did 
not miss a stride. Patrick Hebble ’13 led the charge, winning 
the race by nearly 10 seconds with a time of 26:47, outpacing 
over 100 competitors. 
Hebble’s victory was the !rst cross country win of his 
college career and provided an exclamation point on a long 
comeback journey from an injury that sidelined him for most 
of his !rst year. 
%e rest of the men’s pack !nished closely behind, as 
Hebble was followed by Greg Krathwohl ’14, Anthony Lee 
’13, Je# Colt ’14 and Mac Stormont ’13, who !nished second, 
fourth, !$h and seventh, respectively. With a mere 19 points 
the Panthers beat runners-up Lyndon State College and St. 
Michael’s College with ease, who scored 65 and 72 points, 
respectively.
“%e race went really well for us [on Saturday],” said Lee. 
“Our goal beforehand was just to work together like we have 
in practice and in our previous meets.  We rested our top !ve 
runners to keep them fresh for the season, but everyone else 
was able to step up and make sure that we secured the win.” 
 As the women remain ranked !rst in the nation and 
the men have climbed to 13th, the Panthers have four weeks 
to build momentum going forward. On Oct. 7, Middlebury 
will travel to Franklin Park in Boston to compete in their most 
di"cult challenge yet, as they face many of the top teams in 
the country at the Open New England Championships.      
!e cross country teams swept away the competition 
this weekend at the State meet, securing the women’s 
"rst place rank and boosting the men to 13th.
File Photo
Questions Katie Siegner Damon Hatheway Dillon Hupp Alex Edel
Will the football team score 
more or less than 25 points this 
weekend at Amherst?
LESS
I forsee a defensive battle.
MORE
Mac Foote ’14 is the real deal. 
MORE
Whoever wins is gonna have to 
do it in a shootout with these two 
o$enses.
LESS
But the Panthers defense will shut 
down the Lord Je$s. 
Which NCAA FBS football team 
will be ranked #1 in the country 
at the beginning of next week?
LSU
My high school math teacher was 
a fan.
LSU
!e Tigers will hold Florida to 
fewer points than Katie has correct 
picks.
LSU
But they can still go f*ck 
themselves.
ALABAMA
!e Crimson Tide will for sure out 
play the Commadores of Vanderbilt 
in a battle of weird mascots. 
Will Kobe Bryant agree to a 
contract to play in Italy this 
season?
NO
Who cares about basketball in 
Europe?
YES
!e NBA season isn’t happening. 
And you wonder why I’m studying 
abroad in Rome this spring.
NO
He’s just blu%ng. God I hope he’s 
just blu%ng.
NO
Kobe is to LA what Dillon Hupp is 
to Middlebury. 
How many Middlebury atheletes 
will win NESCAC honors this 
week?
TWO
Scar’s goin for the hat trick.
TWO
Scarlett Kirk ’14 may break the 
record for consecutive NESCAC 
Player of the Week Awards.
THREE
Seems like we clean up on these 
every single week.
TWO
Lauren Greer ’12 just scored twice 
and had three assists in a 5-0 win 
against Castleton State.
Who will win by a wider margin 
at Hamilton this weekend — 
men’s soccer or "eld hockey?
FIELD HOCKEY
!ese girls are "erce!!!
FIELD HOCKEY
!e women have scored 17 goals 
in their last 4 games. 
FIELD HOCKEY
Because everyone knows there’s no 
such thing as scoring in soccer.
FIELD HOCKEY
!e team is on "re! 
Career Record 53-72 (.424) 6-9 (.400) 68-59 (.535) 31-33 (.484)
Editors’
Picks
By Brandt Silver-Korn
Staff Writer
campussports22 6 October 2011
loss and a half sack, and Chris Dola ’12, who 
added a sack and four tackles. 
Zach Roeder ’12 !nished second on the 
team with eight total tackles and a sparkling 
interception early in the second quarter. 
"e senior linebacker ended a promising 
Mules drive by jumping the route of Mules 
quarterback Nick Kmetz to make an athletic 
interception. 
“It was a key turnover and a big 
momentum change,” said Ritter. “It was a really 
impressive play by Zach to get to the spot and 
make the play.”
On the o#ensive side of the ball, the 
Panthers thrived, moving the ball at will 
against the Mules defense. "e Panthers went 
to a no-huddle o#ense early in the game that 
kept the Mules o# balance and didn’t allow the 
defense to adapt.
“It makes the defense simpler and allows 
you to run your plays without necessarily 
having to pick the perfect play every time,” 
explained Ritter. 
With great protection from his o#ensive 
line, Foote had plenty of time to !nd open 
receivers down!eld. While he completed 
passes to seven di#erent receivers, he kept 
looking to his tight end Billy Chapman ’13. 
In just his second start Chapman caught 10 
passes for 139 yards and a touchdown. 
“[Chapman] is a great athlete and once 
he gets going he’s really fast,” said coach Ritter. 
“He’s a big target with big hands and his 
blocking has come on immensely this year. 
He’s the full package at tight end in all phases 
of the game.”
Zach Driscoll ’13, meanwhile, led all wide 
receivers with seven catches for 99 yards and 
two touchdowns, including a beautiful 33-yard 
over the shoulder catch from a rolling Foote. 
"e Panthers put the game out of reach 
with back-to-back scoring drives early in the 
third quarter. First-year kicker Mike Dola ’15 
connected on a 27-yard !eld goal to give the 
Panthers a 27-9 lead with 9:43 remaining in 
the third quarter. Dola hit two of three !eld 
goal attempts and converted all !ve of his extra 
points.
Trailing by 18 and facing a fourth and 
seven from his own 35 yard-line, Mules head 
coach Ed Mestieri rolled the dice, calling a fake 
punt to spark his team. Instead Jared Onouye 
’14 made a great heads-up play, knocking the 
Mules’ desperation attempt.
"e Panthers struck back immediately 
with a 25-yard pass from Foote to Driscoll for 
a 34-9 Panthers lead at the end of the third 
quarter.
"e Panthers rode Ashkar in the !nal 
period as the junior back ran for 41 of his 104 
yards on a 15-play 80-yard drive that !nished 
with a 10-yard touchdown pass from Foote to 
Chapman with 9:38 remaining.
"e Panthers, who improved to 1-1 on the 
season with the win, travel to Amherst on Oct. 
8 to face the 2-0 Lord Je#s.
Panthers roll over Mules
Men’s golf tees o! for 
NESCAC championship
Billy Prince ’13 chips onto the green during the NESCAC Quali!er in Middle!eld, Conn.
Courtesy of  Je# Patterson
Continued from page 24
Rugby falls to Northeastern
"e men’s rugby team su#ered a tough 
loss this past weekend as they faced o# 
against an unbeaten Northeastern squad 
that had shut out both of its previous 
opponents. Middlebury was coming o# a 
big win over Southern Connecticut, where 
they showcased their improved defense, but 
it was Northeastern’s defense that proved to 
be overwhelming in this match-up, as the 
MCRC fell 34-3. 
“"ey were pretty big,” said club 
president Nat Kelner ’12. “"ey were one of 
the bigger sides we have played in a while.” 
"e great size disparity between the 
Northeastern bruisers and the MCRC side 
might have something to do with the fact that 
the hosts had recently cut their D-I football 
program, thus inciting many displaced 
football players to swell the rugby ranks. 
To help level the playing !eld, Kelner 
was forced to move up and play in the front 
line in the scrum a3er the loss of front line 
players Vincent Mariano ’14 early in the 
game and Jeremy Kallan ’14 later on. Injuries 
compounded Middlebury’s troubles, making 
it di4cult to match up with the opposing 
pack. "is led to trouble winning the scrums 
and countering the Northeastern rucks. 
"e battle for !eld position also went 
the other way, as some smart kicks by 
Northeastern repeatedly 5ipped the !eld and 
pinned Middlebury back on its own side of 
the !eld. Backs captain Brian Sirkia ’12.5 put 
some points on the board with a penalty kick 
early in the !rst half, but Middlebury was 
unable to !nd its way over the try line all 
game. Nevertheless, the team played well and 
there were a number of positives to take away 
from the game. 
“Obviously the result wasn’t what we 
wanted,” said Kelner, “we didn’t win, but I was 
impressed with what I saw out there. Everyone 
played with a lot of heart. Everybody gave it 
their all for the entire game.” 
Middlebury also showed some good 
work in the lineouts, snatching several 
Northeastern balls during these plays, but it 
is hard to score while playing defense, and the 
bigger Northeastern pack kept the pressure 
on throughout the game. 
A3erwards, the Northeastern 
coach acknowledged the hard work that 
Middlebury put in throughout the match, 
noting that the score did not re5ect how close 
the game actually was. "is Saturday, the 
MCRC heads o# to the University of Albany 
to face yet another unbeaten squad. "e boys 
are looking to win their !rst Division I road 
game before they head home for Fall Family 
Weekend and a bye week within the league.
By Sam Hathaway
Staff Writer
Men’s soccer rebounds from 
scoreless draw to shutout
“"e game was totally dictated by 
the wind and rain. Any ball in the air was 
tough to anticipate. Any ball on the ground 
skipped twice as fast as normal,” said Smith, 
commenting on the di4culty of the match. 
At the end of regulation, neither team 
managed to score and both had to settle 
for a 0-0 tie, the most frustrating of soccer 
scores. Middlebury did, however, continue 
a season-long trend of outshooting its op-
ponents, with 14 shots to Wesleyan’s six.
"e Panthers had 24 hours to warm up 
before they were back on the !eld in slightly 
more favorable conditions against the Con-
necticut College Camels. Middlebury capi-
talized on the warmer weather and came 
out aggressively in the !rst half.
"e !rst opportunity for the Panthers 
came o# a free kick from Robbie Redmond 
’12, which headed towards the goal be-
fore being cleared by a Camel defender. A 
minute later, tri-captain Tyler Macnee ’12 
missed just wide o# a perfect pass from 
Brett Brazier ’13. Macnee was nearly there 
again though, when he and Martin Drolet 
’12 failed to convert a give and go later in 
the half.
Middlebury resilience proved worth-
while, however, as the Panthers !nally 
scored in the 51st minute. Tri-captain Otis 
Pitney ’12 !red a shot into the back of the 
net during a scramble in front of the goal 
for his team-leading third goal of the sea-
son. Pitney continued to lead his team just 
two minutes later when he made a spec-
tacular cross to Drolet who capitalized on 
the opportunity and scored a second goal 
for the Panthers.
On the other end, the Panthers defense 
proved too much for the Camels, and Cahill 
earned his fourth shutout of the season with 
the 2-0 win. "e Panthers increased their 
overall record to 3-2-3, while their NES-
CAC total stands at 1-2-3. 
“We proved to ourselves [this week-
end] that we can de!nitely compete with 
top teams in the NESCAC,” said Smith. 
"e men travel to Hamilton next weekend, 
where a sunny forecast will hopefully help 
the team to further success. 
Continued from page 24
"e Middlebury men’s golf team played 
exceptionally well this weekend at a NESCAC 
Quali!er tournament in Middle!eld, Conn. 
at Lyman Orchards Golf Club. "e Panthers 
!nished third overall and thus quali!ed for 
the 2012 NESCAC Championship.  
Ten teams played in the event, hosted 
by Wesleyan, on Oct. 2-3. Only the top four 
teams a3er 36 holes of play would qualify 
for the Championship. Williams won the 
tournament with a total combined score 
of 586, just two strokes ahead of runner-up 
Trinity. "e win earned the Ephs the right to 
host the championship round, which will take 
place April 28-29. Middlebury !nished third 
with a score of 594, followed by Hamilton 
with 600.
A3er day one of the tournament, 
Middlebury was in fourth place with a score 
of 303, hanging on to the !nal qualifying spot 
by a single stroke over Hamilton. However, on 
Sunday the Panthers turned in an incredible 
291 to cruise into third place. Four of the !ve 
Middlebury golfers improved their scores 
from Saturday to Sunday.
“We knew a3er Saturday’s round that we 
had to make up quite a few strokes on Sunday 
if we were going to win,” said Chris Atwood 
’14. “Although we didn’t end up winning, we 
managed to post our best team score of the 
year and can hopefully build o# that moving 
into the spring.”
Leading the Panthers was William 
Prince ’13 with a three-over-par 147, 
good for a tie for sixth place overall in the 
tournament. Robbie Donahoe ’14 was not 
far behind with a 148, tied for 10th overall. 
Prince and Donahoe each birdied the 17th 
and 18th holes under tremendous pressure 
down the stretch.  
Atwood shot a team best two-under-par 
70 on Sunday to !nish with a score of 150. 
Charlie Garcia ’15 was right behind him with 
a score of 151, followed by Max Alley ’14 with 
a 156.  
"e women’s team ended up with the 
weekend o# a3er a somewhat crazy series 
of events. "eir tournament was planned 
for a 1 p.m. start at Middlebury’s own Ralph 
Myre Golf Course, but the rain and wind 
were so strong the coaches agreed the course 
was not playable. "ey decided to make 
the tournament a one-day event at nearby 
Neshobe Golf Club, but a3er six holes of play 
the coaches again decided the conditions 
were too poor and the tournament was 
cancelled altogether.  
"e women will travel to Williams on 
Oct. 8 and the men will play in the Hamilton 
Fall Invitational at Yahnundasis Golf Club. 
By Kevin Yochim
Staff Writer
Otis Pitney ’12 passes the ball as a Wesleyan defender rushes for the steal. "e team ended 
the scoreless match in double overtime, but were able to rebound for the win Sunday.  
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
!e women’s volleyball team set the stage 
for another successful season a"er a 3-0 week 
of play. During the past two weeks, the Panthers 
have embarked on a four-game winning streak, 
highlighted by their defeat of NESCAC rivals 
Amherst on Friday night in their only home 
NESCAC game of the season. 
!e team started out their undefeated 
stretch last Wednesday, Sept. 28, when they 
swept Colby-Sawyer 3-0. Middlebury came out 
dominant right from the beginning, beating 
out Colby-Sawyer in the #rst game 25-11. !ey 
continued on the same track, and didn’t let them 
back into the match for a second, winning the 
second game 25-18 and the third 25-10.  Sarah 
Studwell ’13 led the team in kills, with 13 for the 
match. Julia Gibbs ’13 also had an impressive 
match with three aces. 
On Friday night, the Panthers played their 
home opener in front of a packed house, which 
included 12 Middlebury fans who had each 
painted letters across their chests spelling out 
“Middlebury!” !e enthusiasm of the fans was 
duly rewarded, as the host Panthers beat out the 
Lord Je$s in an easy three-set victory. 2010 NE-
SCAC rookie of the year Megan Jarcow ’14 came 
out of the match with 11 kills, followed closely 
by Studwell and Hart who had eight and six re-
spectively. 
!e impressive play by the entire team con-
tributed to a dominant 25-19 win in the #rst 
game, setting the mood for the rest of the match. 
!ey continued on to win the next two games 
handily with scores of 25-18 and 25-9.  Many 
members of the team made signi#cant contribu-
tions, including libero Caitlin Barrett ’13, who 
had 20 digs and anchored the team on defense, 
and Gibbs, who racked up 30 assists. Middlebury 
ended the night with 20 block assists, led by co-
captain Elissa Goeke ’12, who contributed seven.
Although Saturday’s match-up with the 
Keene St. Owls proved more challenging for the 
Panthers, who fell 0-2 in the #rst two games, 
Middlebury held on to maintain a perfect record 
in their home week. !is weekend also marked 
the long-anticipated return of co-captain Jane 
Handel ’12, who came o$ an injury and came up 
huge in helping the Panthers to pull out a win. 
Amy Hart ’14 stood out for Middlebury, with an 
impressive stat line of 15 kills, 17 digs and two 
service aces. Elissa Goeke ’12 also had a standout 
game with 13 kills and six blocks. 
“Every game we play is important since our 
record is considered when deciding whether we 
make the NCAA tournament,” Meg Anderson 
’14 said. “We are playing Tu"s and Connecticut 
College, two very formidable NESCAC oppo-
nents. Hopefully with the extra day of practice, 
we will be more than ready to go at them this 
weekend and boost our record to 4-1 in NES-
CAC and 11-4 overall.”
A"er a tough nail-biter of an overtime 
loss to Bowdoin, Middlebury #eld hockey 
bounced back last Tuesday to regain their 
form against a tough third-ranked Skidmore 
College. !e !oroughbreds came into the 
game with a perfect 8-0 record against the 
2-2 Panthers. However, the Panthers took 
advantage of their #rst game under the 
lights on the new #eld to prove that they 
were capable of beating some of the best in 
D-III #eld hockey. !e team quickly shook 
o$ the defeat by fourth-ranked Bowdoin 
and showed their dominance by handing the 
higher-seeded Skidmore team its #rst loss 
of the season. Hannah Clarke ’12, Charlotte 
Gardiner ’13 and Lauren Greer’14 each tallied 
a point for Middlebury to end the game 3-1.
!e following Saturday, the Panthers 
began the home double-header weekend 
against the unimpressive Wesleyan Cardinals. 
Middlebury’s o$ense scored with surgical 
precision throughout the game. Leading 
scorer Greer contributed a hat trick in the 
game –– one from a penalty stroke to the top 
right corner in the fourth minute, another 
from a Gardiner assist in the sixty-fourth 
minute and #nally a rocket to the bottom 
corner via a Clara St. Germain ’13 assist 
with 11 seconds le" in the game. In addition, 
Gardiner, Catherine Fowler ’15 and Heather 
Karpas ’12 all tallied a goal to end the match 
6-1. 
!e next day, the Panthers carried on the 
winning momentum to defeat Connecticut 
College 3-1. !e Panther o$ense remained 
poised, but with much di%culty. Camels 
goalie Becca Napolitano was a force to be 
reckoned with, tallying 18 saves for the day. 
Nevertheless, the Middlebury forwards 
somehow found gaps between her pads to 
win 3-1 and take home their third straight 
win, preserving an undefeated record on the 
new turf. Clarke scored one while Greer shot 
a pair to bring her season total up to 11.
“We’ve been working really well together 
in practice and we have #nally gotten a 
formula on the #eld,” said tri-captain Liz 
Garry ’12 when asked what has changed 
since the overtime loss against Bowdoin. “We 
have a really good lineup where people are 
getting comfortable with the positions they 
are playing. It’s really been helpful now that 
people have a cemented position and they 
are connecting with the people around them. 
Now we’re really getting into that mold and 
trust you get when working with people for 
so long.”
Greer was named NESCAC player of the 
week for her numerous contributions in the 
three matches. She now leads the team and 
the conference in goals (11), assists (7) and 
points (29).
campussports 6 October 2011 23
Rank Team9/29 Siggy’s Sidebars
The Middlebury Great Eight
A!er a scoreless match 
against Wesleyan, the Pan-
thers men’s soccer rallied for 
the win over Colby, Sunday. 
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
3
6
8
7
1
—
5
4
Field hockey
Volleyball
Football
Cross country
Men’s golf
Men’s soccer
Men’s rugby
All we do is win, win, win no matter what.
!ese girls are taking down top-tier teams and tak-
ing names. Speci"cally, Lauren Greer’s ’12 name is 
on the tip of every tongue in D-III "eld hockey.
With the return of Jane Handel ’12, there’s no 
stopping these girls now.
!ey trounced those hapless Mules.
Continuing their tradition of dominance . . . no 
surprise there.
Qualifying for the NESCAC Championships gets 
the team some Campus love.
Now that they have that elusive "rst conference win 
under their belts, there’s no telling where the season 
will take them. Never write them o#.
Women’s soccer
Points for heart, and for putting up a good "ght. 
Even though they lost, it’s comforting to know that 
WNB will still go on.
12th-ranked Panthers rack up three wins
Volleyball defends home court with two wins
What the NFL lockout 
can teach us about the 
SGA elections
Even with a summer to prepare for the 
start of the year in September the position 
carries enormous responsibility for someone 
undertaking it for the #rst time. But without 
months of preparation it’s almost impos-
sible to fully comprehend the intricacies of a 
position that has such staggering expectations 
attached to it.  People who have worked in 
close proximity cite a “steep learning curve” 
resulting from a lack of knowledge of the 
speci#c system as the biggest obstacle for a 
rookie signal-caller. !is, coupled with a lost 
summer, which normally would have allowed 
the newcomer to adapt to the rigors of the 
job at a measured pace, means that whoever 
is ultimately chosen will have to step into the 
position learning on the &y. All this while fac-
ing unyielding expectations from his result-
oriented superiors and the looming possibility 
that his supporters — who have such high 
hopes at the outset — could turn on him if 
things don’t go well.
You think I’m talking about the NFL 
lockout? Try the elections for SGA president. 
But as the two do share quite a few things 
in common let’s #nd out what we can learn 
about the future of our yet unelected SGA 
president by applying some of the things we 
learned from the a"ermath of the lockout.
When the NFL lockout ended, one of the 
main concerns for teams across the league 
was that rookies — and quarterbacks in 
particular — weren’t going to be able to adapt 
to the speed of the game without months of 
preparation, a staple of every rookie’s o$sea-
son each year.
Take the #rst pick of the dra", Cam 
Newton, for example. !e Heisman Trophy 
winner from Auburn University was the con-
sensus number one pick in the 2011 dra". But 
despite his otherworldly athleticism and total 
dominance of college football, many analysts 
felt he would struggle to win the starting job 
a"er a full o$season and preseason, let alone a 
truncated o$season that gave him just enough 
time to meet his coaches and fellow team-
mates before being thrown into action. But 
that he would not only win the starting job, 
but show an almost immediate understanding 
of the game while compiling some of the best 
stats at his position? No one was buying that.
As it stands, Newton has passed for the 
third most yards in the NFL, trailing only 
Tom Brady and Drew Brees — two guys who 
achieved nothing close to what Newton has 
in their #rst years as starters, not to mention 
their rookie seasons. 
While Newton has lit up stat sheets in 
Carolina, another rookie quarterback, against 
all odds, has been more quietly successful. 
Andy Dalton hasn’t set the NFL on #re like 
Newton — though his bright red hair may 
give that appearance — but he has managed 
the Cincinnati Bengals, one of the worst in 
the NFL last year, to a 2-2 start and a win over 
the previously undefeated Bills on Sunday.
So what do the successes of Newton and 
Dalton tell us about our SGA nominees? Sim-
ilar to teams who preached that experience at 
the quarterback position was mandatory for 
post lock-out success, many Middlebury stu-
dents and Campus sta$ members alike believe 
that experience is, above all, the principal 
quality for a successful nominee. 
And though I won’t discount the impor-
tance of our future president having prior 
SGA experience in a turbulent time for the 
student government, when quick, direct deci-
sions are at a premium, we shouldn’t ignore a 
more talented candidate solely on the basis of 
lack of experience. 
As Dalton, and Newton in particular, 
have shown, talent trumps even experience 
in the post-lockout NFL. So before you #ll in 
your ballots, or however it is that we actually 
vote for our SGA President, remember the 
lesson of the NFL lockout:
If the nominee has enough talent, he can 
call the shots for even the complex system of 
the SGA.
Damon Hatheway ’13.5 is a sports editor from 
London, England.
Lauren Greer ’13 scored six goals and assisted "ve for "eld hockey in their three matches.
Hannah King
By Alex Edel
Sports Editor
By Vincent Mariano
Staff Writer
Middlebury blocked each of its opponents.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
Middlebury women’s soccer swept a pair of 
NESCAC rivals at home last weekend, defeating both 
Wesleyan and Connecticut College by the score of 2-1. 
!at tally, however, represented two very di"erent results 
for the Panthers — one game turned out to be a double-
OT nail biter, the other more of a dominant a"air where 
the result was never really in question.
On Saturday, Oct. 2, the Panthers took the pitch 
against a scrappy Wesleyan squad, who proved to be 
almost as much of an annoyance to Middlebury as the 
dismal and dreary Vermont weather. !e Cardinals 
jumped out to a 1-0 lead 11 minutes into the match 
a#er some good execution following a corner kick. 
Middlebury was able to apply some serious pressure in 
the Wesleyan half of the $eld, but the combination of 
some inaccurate shooting and some ni#y goaltending by 
the Cardinal net-minder kept the Panthers o" the board 
through the end of the $rst half and into the early stages 
of the second period.
Middlebury $nally broke through 54 minutes 
into the match, when Scarlett Kirk ’14 continued her 
sensational scoring streak by netting a goal a#er taking 
a Rachel Madding ’13 assist. Kirk’s goal tied the score at 
one and gave the Panthers new life in the match. 
For the remainder of the game, Middlebury settled 
into the possession-oriented game that has become 
their trademark under the new 4-3-2-1 formation, and 
dictated the pace of play. Kirk again had a chance with 
just under 10 minutes le#, but another timely save by the 
Wesleyan goaltender kept the score knotted and sent the 
game into overtime.
A#er a scoreless $rst overtime, it was Kirk again 
in the second extra frame, this time taking a cross from 
Julia Favorito ’14, who battled for the ball deep in the 
Wesleyan box before $nding her favorite forward target 
waiting in the goal mouth. Kirk’s shot found the back of 
the net just over a minute into the period, sending the 
bench running onto the $eld and the rest of the fans 
running for the shelter of the athletics complex. !e 
sudden-death win gave Middlebury the victory, their 
fourth straight and $#h overall on the season.
Middlebury’s next game against Conn College on 
Oct. 2 saw slightly better weather and a highly improved 
Panthers start. Amy Schleuter ’13 opened the scoring in 
the seventh minute of the match, blasting a goal from 
over 20 yards out a#er beating her defender. !e score 
was Schleuter’s third on the season. Middlebury added a 
second goal early in the second half, when Kirk headed 
in a crossing pass from $rst-year Moriah Sloan ’15, 
giving her three on the weekend. !e Panthers missed 
some chances later in the second half, or the score might 
have been even higher than it was.
!e Camels got on the board in the 81st minute, 
but it was too little, too late for the visitors, as they were 
unable to equalize the score. Jocelyn Remmert ’13 had 
three saves in the win, and the Panthers improved to 6-1-
1 on the year.
“!is weekend we had to contend with the weather as 
well as our opponents, and I think we battled both well,” 
said captain Amy Schlueter ’13. “We are really happy to 
go 3-0 on the week and move up in the standings.”
Middlebury travels to Hamilton this Saturday, Oct. 
8, looking to continue their three-game conference 
winning streak. In their $rst NESCAC season, Hamilton 
is 3-3-0. 
!e $rst word that came to 
mind for head coach Bob Ritter on 
his team’s performance Saturday? 
“Complete.” 
!e Panthers stormed by the 
Colby Mules 41-15 in the team’s 
home-opener on Oct. 2 in front of a 
drenched crowd at Youngman Field. 
!e Panthers took an early lead on 
the game’s $rst possession when 
Remi Ashkar ’13 ran the ball into 
the end zone from two yards out just 
2:01 into the game. !e drive was 
kept alive by a 52-yard pass from 
Mac Foote ’14 to Josh Amster ’13 on 
third and eight from the Panthers 44 
yard-line. !e completion marked 
the $rst of a number of big plays 
by Foote, who threw for 391 yards 
and four touchdowns, earning the 
sophomore NESCAC O"ensive 
Player of the Week Award. 
“[Foote] is very similar to 
[former quarterback] Donnie 
McKillop ’11 in his knowledge of the 
game and his decision-making,” said 
head coach Bob Ritter. “!at really 
separates the good quarterbacks 
from the great ones. What he’s 
demonstrated in two short games is 
a great knowledge of our o"ense and 
the game in general.”
A#er threatening to score on 
their $rst drive, the Mules coughed 
the ball up on the $ve-yard line. !e 
Panthers gave the ball right back as 
Ashkar fumbled the ball two plays 
later on the Panthers 13-yard line. 
Once again, however, the Panthers 
defense was steadfast, holding the 
Mules to just a $eld goal in two red 
zone appearances. 
!e defensive unit for the 
Panthers was disruptive all 
game, compiling three sacks, 
an interception, and a fumble 
recovery, while limiting the Mules 
to just 15 points. !e Mules senior 
quarterback Nick Kmetz was held 
to just 170 yards passing on 19 
completions in 34 attempts.
Linebacker John Wiet ’13 
headlined the defensive e"ort with 
13 tackles and a sack. Wiet spent 
the a#ernoon in the Mules back$eld 
alongside defensive lineman Keegan 
Ashley ’13, who had one tackle for a 
games to watch
Women’s tennis Gail Smith doubles
Oct. 8 & 9.
Field hockey vs. Babson
Oct. 9, 1 p.m.
Men’s golf
Did the men qualify for the 
NESCAC championship? Find 
out on page 22.
Field hockey
Turn inside to discover the 
keys to the Panthers’ winning 
ways, page 23.
sports 246 October 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Football puts up 41 
points in !rst win
By Damon Hatheway
Sports Editor
Women’s soccer winning streak 
extended to !ve with three wins
Fall hit Middlebury just in 
time for the men’s soccer home 
double-header last weekend, Oct. 
2 and 3. Saturday and Sunday 
o"ered some of the most miser-
able weather possible for the $rst 
soccer games of October. While 
most Middlebury students were 
shu%ing from building to build-
ing under umbrellas and jackets, 
the Middlebury men’s soccer team 
battled through the freezing rain 
against two NESCAC opponents.
!e Panthers began their 
battle in the cold against the 
Wesleyan Cardinals. !e Cardi-
nals came into the match ranked 
10th in the nation and second in 
the Northeast, while the Panthers 
have struggled to gain momentum 
this season.
Frustrating play accompanied 
frustrating conditions, as nei-
ther team could seem to $nd the 
right shot. Both teams had various 
chances to score in the $rst half, 
but neither could get the ball to 
the back of the net.
Middlebury had a great op-
portunity in the 53rd minute with 
a cross from Tyler Smith ’14 to 
Graham Knisley ’14, but Cardinal 
goalkeeper Adam Purdy made a 
spectacular sliding save to keep 
the game scoreless. Both Purdy 
and Middlebury goalkeeper Tim 
Cahill ’12 ended the game with 
three saves.
Despite Knisley’s good look at goal, the Panthers ended Saturday 0-0.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
By Mike Oster
Staff Writer
Men’s soccer ends 
week on a high note
!e Panthers held o" a late charge from the Cardinals to secure the 24-21 victory in front of a large home crowd.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
See Men’s soccer, page 22
See Panthers, page 22
Panthers win #rst NESCAC match
By Dillon Hupp
Sports Editor
Amy Schlueter ’13 gave the Panthers a 1-0 lead over 
Wesleyan, scoring her third goal of the season.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
