October 9, 2014 | Vol. 113 no. 5 | middleburycampus.com
CONTROVERSY AT 
GODDARD 
COLLEGE IN VT 
PAGE 4
POOR FORM POETRY 
BACK IN ACTION 
PAGE 13
FIRST YEAR 
SHOW CONSIDERS 
TECHNOLOGY
PAGE 14
in
sid
e
Report Shows That Sexual Assault Numbers Tripled
By Claire Abbadi and
Ellie Reinhardt 
College Still Set to 
Be Carbon Neutral
Public Safety released its an-
nual Security and Fire Safety Re-
port on Wednesday Oct. 1, which 
indicated several variances from 
the 2013 report, most notably, an 
increase in the number of forcible 
seventeen in 2013.  
sexual offenses as “[a] sexual act 
directed against another person, 
forcibly and/or against that per-
son’s will; or not forcibly  or against 
the person’s will where the victim 
is incapable of giving consent. This 
includes forcible rape, forcible 
sodomy, sexual assault with an ob-
ject, and forcible fondling.” 
In the all school email from Di-
rector of Public Safety Elizabeth 
Burchard, the increase of forcible 
sexual offenses was outlined, as 
was the possibility that this in-
crease may have emerged from an 
increased effort to encourage vic-
tims to report incidents of sexual 
misconduct.
“While the increase in reports 
of sexual violence is an area of par-
ticular concern, it may be a conse-
quence of our efforts to encourage 
individuals to report violations. 
Middlebury will continue to en-
gage in education and prevention 
efforts related to sexual assault,” 
Burchard wrote.
However, the increasing num-
ber of reported assaults does not 
seem to be a trend that only the 
College has been dealing with. Ac-
cording to the Boston Globe, which 
released an article, “Sexual assault 
reports climb at area Colleges,” on 
Oct. 6, “forcible sexual offenses” 
rose nearly 40 percent between 
2012 and 2013 at two-dozen of 
New England’s largest colleges. 
The article also noted that the 
increase, according to safety spe-
national awareness of the prob-
lem of sexual assault, which has 
encouraged more victims to come 
forward. The Clery Act, in particu-
lar, requires colleges to issue a re-
port on Oct. 1st of each year with 
all the statistics of alleged crimes. 
Despite the notion that the in-
crease stems from more victims 
coming forward and reporting, the 
-
ertheless concerning. However, 
-
crease in reporting. 
“The message of zero tolerance 
for sexual violence is being heard 
on local and national levels,” said 
Dean of the College Shirley Col-
lado. “We are cautiously optimis-
tic that these numbers mean our 
efforts to increase awareness and 
make reporting more acceptable to 
victims of sexual assault are work-
ing.” 
“Middlebury has actively en-
couraged the reporting of sexual 
violence in all of its forms and has 
established policies and systems to 
make the process easier and more 
supportive,” she continued. 
However, not all students are 
as optimistic that the College has 
done anything to make reporting 
that. 
“I am concerned and troubled 
by this increase,” said Lily Saw-
yer ’16. “If the increase in reports 
of sexual violence is, as the email 
suggests, a consequence of the ad-
ministration’s efforts to encourage 
individuals to report these viola-
By Ben Hawthorne 
Middlebury is on track to be-
come carbon neutral by 2016, al-
though it will have to rely heavily 
on the controversial Addison-Rut-
land natural gas pipeline to do so.
According to Director of Sus-
tainability Integration Jack Byrne, 
the College has reduced its carbon 
footprint by 55 percent since 2008. 
Most of this reduction in carbon 
footprint has come from the use of 
plant for electricity and heating.
“The reduction in carbon comes 
primarily from our switch to using 
wood chips as a fuel in the biomass 
 Byrne expects most of the 
rest of the reduction in carbon 
emissions by 2016 to come from 
switching from burning petroleum 
fuel oil to burning methane in the 
biomass plant. The replacement 
of the fuel oil used in the biomass 
plant with methane (i.e. renewable 
natural gas) captured from cattle 
manure is planned to reduce the 
College’s carbon footprint not only 
by eliminating the need to burn fuel 
oil in the biomass plant but also by 
preventing the captured methane, 
which is a greenhouse gas that is 20 
times as effective as carbon dioxide 
at trapping heat from escaping into 
the atmosphere.
SEE CARBON, PAGE 2
After the addition of a green roof on the new squash complex, the 
College has been awarded a sustainable building award. See page 2.
Courtesy College Communications
LEED CERTIFIED SQUASH COURTS 
Endowment Structure Changing
By Viviana Altimirano 
President of the College Ronald 
D. Liebowitz updated the College on 
the development of Environment, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) prog-
ress outlined in a mass email sent 
Sept. 23.
The development of stronger 
ESG principles for the investment 
portfolio, the creation of ESG guide-
lines to help monitor operations on 
campus and the pledge to increase 
the amount of the endowment di-
rected toward ESG investments, 
including those focused on clean 
energy, green building projects, and 
other efforts to reduce greenhouse 
-
ronment were the steps outlined fol-
lowed by the actions taken.
Jeannie Bartlett ’15, an advisory 
committee member of the Socially 
Responsible Investment Club (SRI) 
was “glad to see that Pres. Liebow-
itz felt the pressure of the accelerat-
ing national fossil fuel divestment 
movement. His statement was 
clearly a reaction to the preceding 
day’s incredible press coverage of 
fossil fuel divestment by Rockefeller 
Brothers and 50 other endowments, 
amounting to $4.2 billion, and the 
People’s Climate March in NYC.”
Sharing similar sentiments, Ted-
dy Smyth ’15, a staunch advocate of 
divestment and a member of SRI 
and SNG (the Sunday Night Group) 
said, “President Liebowitz’s an-
nouncement was in direct response 
to the Rockefeller Brothers Fund 
ditching Investure to divest from 
fossil fuels. Middlebury could have 
joined with the Rockefellers and di-
vested, but instead we got placating 
partial measures.” 
Allie Cohen ’16.5, co-president of 
SRI, is pleased with the work the ad-
ministration is doing to implement 
ESG factors. “Research and Invest-
ment in Sustainable Equity (RISE) 
has completely taken off, with a 
large group of students pitching 
sustainable and socially responsible 
companies to each other and voting 
on which ones they’d like to invest in 
with the portion of the endowment 
we manage. I think it’s great that 
the school has given students a tool 
to engage with the endowment in a 
meaningful way, and I know I have 
learned so much about investing 
and ESG from RISE.”
Nate Cleveland ’16.5 was excited 
to see the creation of RISE, a group 
that he helped form that now man-
ages and invests $150,000 of the 
college’s endowment by consider-
ing ESG in the investment process. 
“I think that this group has been 
extremely successful in teaching 
people about ESG and how it can 
be implemented in real world situ-
ations.”
Cleveland was, however, sur-
prised that there 
was almost no 
mention of di-
vestment in 
the email from 
President Li-
ebowitz. “In the 
statement from 
over a year ago, 
he said that di-
vestment would 
continue to be 
considered, and 
I’m not sure that 
that has actually 
been the case,” he said.
Cohen shared Cleveland’s sen-
timents, because while acknowl-
edging that the administration is 
felt important factors were left out. 
that I think should be continually 
addressed, but there are others that 
need consideration as well. One of 
these factors is transparency,” she 
said.
Cohen cited the new tailgate 
policy as an example. “Middlebury 
students are not always clear about 
how decision-making works in the 
administration and why certain de-
cisions are made. It’s wonderful that 
the administration is taking strides 
to incorporate ESG principles into 
how the school is run, but shouldn’t 
students be able to know more de-
tails about this process than a sum-
mary in an email once a year?” 
She added, “I think students 
would be much more conscientious 
in their dealings with the adminis-
tration (and would have even more 
respect for the administration) if 
they were informed about how im-
portant decisions that directly affect 
them are made. SRI hopes to make 
this push for transparency a key part 
of our agenda this year, along with 
our desire to see divestment be con-
tinuously considered.”
Bartlett continued, “One great 
thing about the President’s email is 
that it introduced new students to 
some of what students and admin-
istrators have achieved in socially 
responsible invest-
ing in the past few 
years. Students on 
the Advisory Com-
mittee for Socially 
Responsible In-
vesting continue to 
meet with admin-
istrators, and are 
advocating for fos-
sil fuel divestment, 
transparency, and 
enhanced student 
involvement.”
Virginia Wilt-
shire-Gordon ’16, co-president of 
SRI, said “We see this statement 
as a very positive one. It not only 
shows how Middlebury is commit-
ted to aligning its investments and 
investment practices with the col-
lege’s stated values and mission but 
also shows that the administration 
is open to changes and an evolution 
-
are offered based on factors that 
have not traditionally been included 
in analysis, such as ESG factors. 
Looking forward, we are excited to 
improve the rigor and depth of ESG 
principles in our endowment, and to 
look at our investments not simply 
to bring “attention those companies 
that are practicing good ESG princi-
ples” but to look objectively for ESG 
risks in our portfolio as well as the 
opportunities.”
55
17
Reported  instances of forcible 
sex offenses on the College 
campus included in the data 
listed in the 2014 Annual 
Security and Fire Safety Report
2011 2012 2013SEE ASSAULT, PAGE 3
NEW DATA ON CAMPUS SAFETY
“I think it’s great 
that the school has 
given students a 
tool to engage with 
the endowment in a 
meaningful way.”
  
Allie Cohen ’16.5
co-president of SRI
With the newly installed squash center 
green roof, the second one at the College 
after the 2004 installation at Atwater Din-
ing Hall, the nine-court, 18,000-square-
foot Squash Center has been awarded by 
the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) 
its highest level of certification, LEED 
(Leadership in Energy and Environmen-
tal Design) Platinum last month. This is 
the second time the College has won the 
platinum certification. The other LEED-
certified building is the Franklin Envi-
ronmental Center at Hillcrest.
The Squash Center has nine courts ar-
ranged around a central corridor covered 
with a skylight. Connected to the south-
east end of the Peterson Family Com-
plex, the $7.8 million building replaces 
the now-defunct Bubble, which had five 
squash courts inside.
The Squash Center opened last Octo-
ber without the green roof, but with nu-
merous other sustainable features aimed 
to boost its energy efficiency and lower 
its impact on the environment. The sky-
light design allows filtered, natural light 
into the building, providing enough light 
during the day to make electric lighting 
unnecessary. 
“LEED Platinum certification says two 
things about the college,” said Director 
of the Office of Sustainability Integra-
tion Jack Byrne. “One is that we hold 
ourselves to a high standard of excellence 
in the way we design and construct our 
buildings. Second is that we value trans-
parency and the opportunity that having 
a third party evaluation of the project af-
fords us to learn from out efforts to make 
our buildings reflect our sustainability 
ethos.”
The building materials, from the green 
roof to the high-efficiency LED lights in 
the building point to a focus on low im-
pact materials. Likewise, the project 
manager tried to extract materials from 
the local community, whenever possible.
“We try to stay local within reason,” 
said College Project Manager Mark Glea-
son last year before the opening of the 
Squash Center. “But in general that’s 
what we are trying to do: meet the 500-
mile radius. For concrete and steel that’s 
easy to do. For siding, sometimes not as 
easy to do,” he continued. 
One obstacle to the local commitment 
is the Athletics department’s demand of 
the use of ASB squash courts – a product 
only manufactured in Germany. 
 “The courts come from Germany and 
there’s no way around it,” Gleason ex-
plained. However, the reuse of five of the 
original squash courts from the Bubble 
seemed to help alleviate the issue.
Some other key sustainable features 
of the Squash Center excel in include its 
efficient ventilation and mechanical sys-
tems, which can monitor equipment use 
and functionality, its insulated building 
envelope and the use of low-emitting 
and environmentally friendly materials, 
which helps ensure the high quality of the 
indoor air. 
The building also contains wood from 
forests certified as responsibly managed 
and the green covers the roof with thou-
sands of living sedum plants. 
In the Squash Center project’s LEED 
application, the project also received 
points for using renewable energy from 
its solar array and biomass plant, and for 
diverting away from landfills 97 percent 
of all construction waste and reusing the 
five original squash courts. Other small 
features, like high efficiency pumps, LED 
lighting and low VOC materials, reflect 
the College’s long-standing commitment 
to sustainability.
The green roof, which is the newest 
feature of the building, has more of a 
practical function than what its appear-
ance first indicates, providing insulation 
and protecting the roof’s membrane. In 
a storm, the water percolates and satu-
rates in the layer of the sedum-growing 
soil, preventing peak water run-off from 
possibly damaging the roof. The greenery 
and soil also naturally cool the building 
by absorbing sunlight, potentially reduc-
ing the cost of the air-conditioning of the 
building, while saving energy.
“Because it’s visible and tangible, it 
prompts conversations,” said Director of 
Athletics Erin Quinn in his response to 
the Campus last October.  “Now we have 
a very prominently visual feature which 
prompts conversations that might not 
have been started otherwise.”
However, creating a building with 
extremely sustainable and innovative 
features does not come without a cost, a 
reality that is aggravated by the decision 
by the Board of Trustees to only construct 
buildings that are bankrolled by financial 
gifts.
“The upfront costs for designing and 
building a building of LEED platinum are 
certainly higher than had we not gone this 
way, but over the long term those added 
costs begin to pay off with less energy 
use, less maintenance and replacement 
of equipment and materials, and greater 
satisfaction in the use of the building,” 
Gleason said.
“At the start of any building project, 
the question needs to be asked if the 
college resources are being used for the 
best long-term goals of the college. In the 
squash building, given the needs of the 
squash program, the answer to that ques-
tion is absolutely yes,” he added.
Byrne and other sustainability leaders 
on campus seem to emphasize that this 
certification is an indication of momen-
tum that we are looking forward to con-
tinue with a commitment to sustainable 
building. 
“Middlebury has a well-earned reputa-
tion as a leader in environmental stew-
ardship and sustainability. But we can’t 
rest on that reputation. We need to keep 
thinking ahead about how to do better in 
our design and construction of buildings, 
the way we use and conserve energy, how 
we can use the vast intellectual power 
we have via students, faculty and staff to 
identify the causes of our sustainability 
dilemmas and to solve them,”  Byrne con-
cluded. 
The Student Government Associa-
tion held its first weekly meeting of the 
academic year on Sunday, Sept. 28 in 
the Crest Room of McCullough Student 
Center.
The meeting opened with an intro-
duction of the new Director of Publicity 
Commission, Robin Loewald ’16. Con-
firmed the week prior, Loewald’s tasks in 
her new post include raising awareness 
about SGA, promoting SGA sponsored 
programs such as MIDDCOURSES and 
publicizing SGA events.
Next, the Student Liaison to the 
Trustees on Endowment Affairs, Ian 
Rhee ’15, gave a presentation and asked 
for suggestions on getting student input 
for allocating funds. SGA President Tay-
lor Custer ’15 reminded senators to listen 
to constituents, then act as middlemen 
to bring those suggestions to Rhee.
Next, three Student Council Com-
mittees were ratified. The SGA voted 
on ratifying the Environmental Affairs 
Committee, the Athletic Affairs Commit-
tee and the Constitutional Committee. 
A motion was made, and passed 13-4-0, 
to vote in all three committees together. 
The SGA voted in everyone on all three 
committees 11-4-2.
Most significantly, a new bill was 
passed at the meeting that requires all 
senators to have two scheduled office 
hours a week. The Office Hours Bill was 
proposed by Custer and aims to bridge 
the disconnect between the SGA and the 
student body at large. While there was 
support for the bill by many senators, it 
was met with significant resistance.
Community Council Co-Chair, Ben 
Bogin ’15 argued that the bill represents 
more bureaucracy and Ross Senator Zak 
Fisher ’16 contested that this would be 
mandating just another thing senators 
are required to do. Bogin proposed an 
amendment to the bill, “If no student 
shows up at designated office hours for 
two consecutive weeks, senators, presi-
dent and SCOCC have the discretion of 
canceling those hours for the remainder 
of the academic semester.” The motion 
was not seconded.
Custer asserted that “even if nobody 
comes to these office hours for the entire 
year, the fact of having them is a good 
symbol for the student body that the SGA 
is actually concerned with their opinion 
and wants to hear what they have to say.”
A motion to vote was made and the 
bill narrowly passed as it stands with a 
9-7-1 vote.
The meeting ended with a short dis-
cussion on We the Middkids protocol. In 
the past, it was quasi-standard that with 
100 votes a petition was brought up at 
SGA meetings to discuss and with 300 
votes the president issued a response. 
Custer recommended making these 
numbers more official and setting more 
of a specific standard. 
Chief of Staff Danny Zhang ’15 also 
suggested limiting the number of votes 
students can have on a single petition. 
There was a strong consensus that these 
suggestions were all valid and should be 
put into place in the coming year.
On Sunday, Oct. 5 the SGA held their 
second meeting. No bills were passed 
but a variety of issues were discussed 
that will likely be revisited in the future. 
Some of these included a change in the 
bilaws of how the Liaison to the Invest-
ment Committee on Endowment Affairs 
is elected, the implementation of Laun-
dryView on campus, and the overlap be-
tween financial aid and external scholar-
ships. 
BY CLAIRE TREESH
SGA
Update
| october 9, 20142 NEWS
“If you look at our current footprint, about 
three-quarters of it comes from the oil we 
still burn [in the biomass plant], since on the 
coldest days the wood chips are not capable 
of providing enough steam so we have to 
burn oil,” Byrne said.  
“We’re anticipating in about a year that 
we’ll begin receiving renewable natural gas 
from a manure digester in about a year. The 
manure digester project will be the key way in 
which we achieve carbon neutrality.”
  The reason why the pipeline is so critical 
for the carbon neutrality effort is because it 
provides a storage space for unused methane, 
which Byrne estimates would be too expen-
sive for the College to consider building.
“One of the options we looked at before 
was a pipeline coming directly to the Col-
lege,” Byrne said. “One of the problems with 
that is that we wouldn’t be burning all the gas 
as it came in, so we would need someplace 
-
cient for what we need. The only option for 
storage before the pipeline became possible 
was to build an underground storage facility, 
which was economically unfeasible. The gas 
pipeline that’s coming down to Middlebury 
provided a way to solve that problem.”
The pipeline, which will carry natural gas 
obtained through fracking, in addition to the 
natural methane that the college will use, has 
been controversial, including on the College 
campus. Despite this, the decision to support 
the natural gas pipeline was made after con-
sulting with a number of students.
 “The administration has been listening, 
but they’re not producing the response 
that all students want with the pipeline,” 
said Lindsay Warne ’15, a member of the 
SGA’s Environmental Committee. “The 
administration asks for student input, 
and there’s a lot of ways for students to get 
involved.”
If the gas pipeline falls through, the col-
lege plans to replace the oil used in the bio-
mass plant with renewable diesel fuel.
“We can burn renewable diesel oil, which 
is our backup plan if the manure digester 
project plan failed: we would switch from the 
fuel oil to the renewable diesel, which is car-
bon neutral,” Byrne said. “That would pres-
ent some other problems, since we wouldn’t 
get credits from the avoided methane emis-
sions, but it would still get us very close to our 
goal.”
The biggest challenge in the future is ex-
pected to be staying carbon neutral after 
2016, especially in the face of growth in the 
size of the college. Byrne expects this chal-
lenge to be addressed through promoting en-
ergy conservation and making college build-
ings carbon neutral.
“I think that for us the challenge will be 
once we achieve carbon neutrality, how do we 
stay there, because we will probably grow, we 
will probably add another dormitory at some 
point down the road, so we will have to pay 
buildings.”
Because of the importance of energy 
carbon neutrality, the College has commis-
sioned several studies on how to best pro-
mote environmentally friendly behavior and 
reduce energy usage, including a senior the-
sis by Abigail Karp ’14, which tested to see 
whether posting energy conservation tips 
and installing iPads that displayed a hall’s 
electricity usage in some halls in Hadley led 
to lower electricity consumption. 
-
tion in electricity usage in the halls that had 
the iPads relative to other similar halls in the 
same building that did not.  
“All participants increased their pro-en-
vironmental behavior over the course of the 
project and that the iPad feedback/reminder 
had no meaningful effect on this increase,” 
Karp wrote. “The iPads did, however, lead to 
group’s energy consumption compared to the 
control group that did not have the iPad feed-
back/reminders.”
College Wins Sustainability Award
By Jason Zhang
The nine-court squash center is scheduled to open in October 2014. The courts 
along with the Athletic complex are fully funded by donations to the College.
courtesy college  communications 
College on target for neutrality
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
october 9, 2014 |  3        News
Sexual Assault Survivor Speaks OutNew School 
of Korean -tions, then I think that’s fabulous. But I have to say that I haven’t personally noticed 
any difference over the last two years in 
terms of encouraging victims to speak out. 
Not that I think Middlebury encourages vic-
tims of sexual assault to stay silent, I’m not 
saying that at all. But I’m not sure that there 
have been big policy changes or administra-
tive shifts that we can pinpoint as the rea-
son victims feel more comfortable coming 
forward. I hope that there have been and 
maybe I just haven’t noticed them.”
One student who was sexually assaulted 
reached out to the Campus to share her 
story. The student, who wished to remain 
anonymous, expressed particular concern 
not so much with the College’s commitment 
to having victims report and helping them 
do so, but with everything after that—from 
continued support and sensitivity. 
“When I realized my academics were re-
ally struggling I spoke with my dean and 
was made aware of more resources that are 
available,” she said.
“[He] made it clear that the College wants 
to do everything they can to support me, but 
then we quickly shifted to speaking about 
the judicial process. My dean expressed the 
administration strongly encourages stu-
dents to take that route. However, I felt that 
there was a tremendous pressure to take 
that route.”
“There were multiple points my dean 
made when trying to encourage me [to re-
campus community and for other potential 
victims, so I eventually did. However, I felt 
that the focus on my recovery and healing 
was more about the case than on my health, 
which is a weakness in the system,” she con-
tinued.
She also pointed out that there did not 
seem to be much follow-through after the 
initial reporting took place. 
“People in the administration were very 
helpful, but at the end of the day it always 
was me that had to go back and follow-up 
if things weren’t getting better for me,” she 
said.
-
tim, because you are the one that has to 
reach out to someone and summon up the 
courage to tell them your story. That takes 
a lot of effort and it is exhausting. I felt like 
yes, they wanted to help me and they were 
concerned and would think about me, but at 
the same time it wasn’t personal. It often felt 
scripted, like this is what I was trained to say 
or ask you about.”
She continued, “One thing that is unfor-
tunate is that I don’t feel like Middlebury 
plays a role in my healing process. In fact I 
don’t want to seek help from the Middlebury 
college professional community. There are 
negative associations with working with the 
administration of the campus where it hap-
pened. I need to handle this independently 
of them, because ultimately I was fearful 
of the power of the administration. Part of 
coping with a sexual assault is taking back 
your own control and when you are dealing 
with people who are in positions of power, 
however subtle that can be, it is challenging 
for a victim. It brings back negative memo-
ries. This isn’t necessarily their fault, but just 
came about because of the circumstances 
from which I was working with them.” 
“I want to re-create this home for myself. 
This whole situation took a toll on my feel-
ings toward the College, but I want to re-
create it,” she said.
“There are three players you are dealing 
with after a assault: the campus community, 
the assailant and the victim. It seems that 
Middlebury is doing a good job handling 
the assailant and the community, but not as 
great of a job as caring for the victim,” she 
concluded.
The College, however, continued to try 
and make progress in this area. Although 
the Department of Public Safety issued the 
report, many of the efforts to address the 
increase in reported “Forcible Sexual Of-
fenses” and to raise awareness about sexual 
misconduct and sexual identity on campus 
are made by the administration with the 
support of the Department of Public Safety. 
According to an email sent by Liebow-
itz on Sept. 8, all alleged violations of the 
“Policy against Sexual Misconduct, Domes-
tic Violence, Dating Violence, and Stalking” 
will be reviewed by the the Human Relations 
-
view Panel. 
In the email Liebowitz asserted, “This 
academic year, we will emphasize preven-
tion strategies and programs to educate 
students, faculty, and staff with the goal of 
preventing sexual violence of all kinds.”
In another all-campus email sent on 
Thursday, Oct. 2, the administration an-
nounced another new program. This is the 
new preferred name and gender pronoun 
and subsequently, on all internal College 
data systems. According to the email, the 
initiative was prompted by a proposal pre-
sented in 2011.
Questions about how to use the new pro-
gram can be directed to Assistant Director of 
Student Activities Jennifer Herrera. Howev-
er, when asked about the importance of the 
new system, Herrera failed to respond be-
yond what was said in the all campus email. 
According to the email, “The implemen-
tation of the preferred name and gender pro-
noun procedure in BannerWeb puts Middle-
bury at the forefront of gender identity and 
expression initiatives nationwide, and is in 
keeping with our institutional commitment 
to creating a diverse, welcoming community 
with full and equal participation for all indi-
viduals and groups.”
Burchard said of the increase in the num-
bers, “We take these numbers seriously and 
we fully support Middlebury’s efforts to 
actively encourage the reporting of sexual 
violence. Public Safety will continue to par-
ticipate in the college’s education and pre-
vention efforts, and to work with others in 
the college and local communities.”
Burchard referenced the grant that the 
College received last year “to enhance the 
college’s efforts to prevent and respond to 
sexual violence on campus.” She said that 
as a result of the grant, which allows the 
College to work closely with outside orga-
nizations, the Department of Public Safety 
“will have the opportunity to collaborate on 
sexual violence training programs, sharing 
protocols and best practices.”
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
The Middlebury Language Schools, in 
celebration of the centennial anniversary 
of their founding, will launch the School of 
Korean for the summer of 2015. The school 
Mills College in Oakland, California, where 
the Arabic and Italian Schools are already 
housed.
Unlike the population of people study-
ing Romance languages, many of those who 
choose to learn Korean are heritage learn-
ers—people who have cultural or ancestral 
ties to Korea yet who have some or perhaps 
no experience in the language. Most of these 
heritage populations are concentrated on 
the west coast, not the east.
“As such, there seems to be a consensus 
among the Korean language teaching com-
munity that a school would be more success-
ful on the west coast,” said Dean of Language 
Schools Stephen Snyder in an interview with 
The Campus.
During the 2012 Winter Term, Korean 
was offered to undergraduate students as 
a workshop given by the Korean American 
Student Association. Neither undergradu-
ate nor graduate students at Middlebury’s 
academic course in Korean.
“We feel responsible for providing as 
many of the most important world languag-
es as we can on a regular basis to anyone 
who needs them,” said Michael Geisler, vice 
president of the Language Schools. “And 
between economic and security concerns 
and the fact that more and more students 
nationally and internationally seem to be in-
terested in studying Korean, we felt that for 
our centennial career Korean would be the 
next logical language to launch.”
Middlebury’s intensive immersion pro-
grams guarantee improvement to some de-
technical and human level.
“That is where somebody speaking the 
language can make a tremendous differ-
ence,” Geisler said. “Because with the lan-
guage comes the culture, and with the cul-
ture one can interact with people in ways 
that people who speak only English can’t.”
Unlike a lot of programs that start with 
Language Schools house a complete com-
munity of learners. Each language school 
comprises four levels of language teaching, 
and all levels must be rolled out at once.
“One challenge, therefore, is attracting 
enough students in one summer to populate 
the four levels and co-curricular activities, 
and having enough students to create a criti-
cal enough mass that the same six people 
aren’t talking to each other the whole time,” 
Snyder said. “This was one of the reasons 
for students to learn it.”
In logistically preparing for the school’s 
opening, director Sahie Kang has sought the 
help of academic colleagues and native Ko-
reans. Kang oversaw the development of an 
online “hybrid” program for novice learners 
to use before they arrive at the eight-week 
intensive, teaching Korean characters and 
simple syntax structures. She is still in the 
process of recruiting teachers from a pool of 
applicants. Kang’s teaching staff, when se-
lected and assigned to each of the four levels, 
will then devise curricula for each level. 
Fittingly with the Middlebury’s initiative 
to solidify its identity, Mr. Geisler has begun 
to unify the College’s various language pro-
grams, which include the famous Bread Loaf 
Conference and the newly-launched Bread 
Loaf Orion Environmental Writers’ Confer-
ence. Michael Collier, director of the Writ-
ers’ Conference, joined Geisler in devising 
the new Bread Loaf Translators’ Conference, 
which will be held at Middlebury’s campus 
in Ripton, Vermont, this June and will mod-
el the original Bread Loaf Conference.
Likewise, the Language Schools have 
sought and will continue to seek to expand 
their offerings. “Politically critical languages 
like Turkish, Vietnamese, Persian, and Swa-
hili stood out in the formative phases of this 
process,” Geisler said. “We had a long dis-
cussion about Swahili; we would still like to 
start that soon, if we can.”
By Ethan Brady
Where do you want to go? 
Applying is now faster and more personal.
peacecorps.gov    -     855.855.1961  
PEACE CORPS 
RECRUITER IN RESIDENCE
Tuesday, October 21
Information Table
12 to 2 p.m.
McCullough Grille Foyer
Information Session
6 to 7 p.m.
Hillcrest 103
Middlebury College
Goddard Commencement Speech Sparks Debate
By Harry Cramer
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
The New 
York Times de-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Courtesy Lisa Terry
Courtesy Wikipedia
local
“Despite the fact that 33 
years ago, he loaded his gun 
with special high-velocity 
ammunition designed to 
kill in the most devastat-
ing fashion, today, Mumia 
Abu-Jamal will be lauded 
Maureen Faulkner
Widow of Officer Daniel Faulkner
“Goddard reawakened 
In my mind, I left death 
Mumia Abu-Jamal
Goddard College Commencement Speaker
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
By Jason Zhang
Courtesy AP
Riverside Natural Health Center had 
its grand opening at the Star Mill Build-
ing in downtown Middlebury last Friday. 
The Center houses the offices of four 
health practitioners dedicated to using 
only natural remedies to help patients. 
Services include acupuncture, massage 
therapy, naturopathic medicine, and 
midwifery.
Three of the partners, massage ther-
apist Stephanie Powers, acupuncturist 
Nieve Shere and midwife Chenoa Ham-
ilton, had been working together under 
the same roof for the past year and a half 
above the Middlebury shop, Clementine. 
They were eager to find a bigger space 
and ended up at Star Mill with doc-
tor of naturopathic medicine Matthew 
Perchemlides, who was also looking for 
a new space.
Powers is Riverside’s certified mas-
sage therapist. She has been doing mas-
sage for about 15 years and has adopted 
and devel-
oped numer-
ous types of 
massage over 
the years. 
“My work 
is primarily 
a combina-
tion of cre-
ations based 
on tradi-
tional Swed-
ish, deep 
tissue, neuromuscular massage; I com-
bine them all,” Powers said. She lived 
in Hawaii and incorporates elements of 
Hawaiian culture into her practice. Mas-
sage patients include people with anxi-
ety who need relaxation, people with 
chronic neck and lower back problems, 
and pregnant women. 
“I see a lot of the same occurrences 
in people,” Powers said.
Nieve Shere, another practitioner in 
the practice, is a licensed acupuncturist, 
meaning she has undergone more than 
3,000 hours of hands-on training. Acu-
puncture can be used to help ease a large 
variety of different ailments. It can help 
treat disease, reduce pain, slow aging, 
enhance athletic performance, and in-
crease general well-being. Acupuncture 
is a Chinese medicine that is thousands 
of years old and involves the insertion 
of hair-thin needles into the body to en-
hance the flow of qi, the body’s energy 
force. 
The needles are inserted along the 
body’s meridian points, where qi is be-
lieved to flow. Different meridian points 
have direct connections to different 
organs, and when the qi is not flowing 
properly through the meridians, illness 
and pain can result. Acupuncture re-
stores the smooth flow of qi. One should 
typically be able to feel relief from their 
pain or disease after just three to five 
sessions. Nieve is certi-
fied by the National Cer-
tification Commission for 
Acupuncture and Orien-
tal Medicine (NCCAOM) 
and is licensed by New 
York and Vermont state. 
Initial consultations with 
Nieve normally last about 
90 minutes and follow-
up sessions last an hour. 
Acupuncture is covered 
by certain insurance plans as well. 
Dr. Matthew Perchemlides, a natu-
ropath, is another member of the Cen-
ter. At the cornerstone of naturopathic 
care is the belief that the body is able to 
heal itself when given comprehensive 
and individualized care. Naturopathic 
care includes tra-
ditional and life-
style recommen-
dations, differing 
from traditional 
medicine by focus-
ing on the body’s 
i n t e r c o n n e c t e d 
and interdepen-
dent system. Natu-
ropathic medicine 
aims to treat the 
root of a patient’s 
issue rather than 
mask the symp-
toms. To become 
a naturopath, one 
must undergo a four year program at an 
accredited naturopathic medical school. 
Upon graduation, students must pass 
the Naturopathic Physicians Licensing 
Examination. 
A first-time visit with Dr. Perchem-
lides usually lasts an hour, during which 
he performs a comprehensive examina-
tion to create a customized treatment 
plan for the patient. Follow-up visits are 
usually 30 minutes long.  
“Naturopathic medical care involves 
more than just the identification of dis-
ease and the management of symptoms; 
it involves locating and targeting the 
source of an ailment through a compre-
hensive and evidence-based integrative 
approach so the patient has the best 
chance of making a full recovery with-
out harmful and toxic treatments,” Dr. 
Perchemlides said.  Before becoming a 
naturopath, Dr. Perchemlides was a reg-
istered nurse and worked in a traditional 
hospital setting. He felt that convention-
al medicine placed “too many limits on 
[his] ability to truly help [his] patients 
heal permanently” and decided to pur-
sue alternative means of healing. 
Chenoa Hamilton, Nieve’s twin 
sister, is a mid-
wife who offers 
homebirth services 
through the Center. 
She has been prac-
ticing as a doula 
for about eight and 
a half years. Her 
approach accom-
modates those who 
wish to give birth 
with less interven-
tion and in the com-
fort of their own 
homes.
The partners 
are excited to be 
working together. “The whole idea is 
that we’re trying to be everything under 
one roof, in-house care. One patient can 
see all of us and get everything they need 
in one place, that’s what we’re working 
toward,” Powers said.
09Ribbon Cut for Natural Medicine Center 
By Sophie Kapica 
and Sarah Koenigsberg
Political Cartoons Presentation in 
Orwell
If you think political cartoons are wacky, 
wait until you see how American journal-
ists lampooned King George. Head over 
to Mount Independence State Historic 
Site this Saturday to see Paul Andriscin 
give an ‘illustrated lecture’ on political 
cartoons of the American Revolution. For 
more information call 802-948-2000. 
OCT. 11, 1 - 2:15 P.M.
Vermont Virtuosi Concert in Brandon
Vermont Virtuosi, a chamber music series 
-
day, at Brandon Music. Come see Ver-
-
is reccomended, which are 15 dollars.  For 
more information call 802-465-4071 or 
log on to info@brandon-music.net.
OCT. 9, 10 A.M. - 4 P.M.
Local 
lowdown
 | October 9, 2014 Local 5
Philharmonic Orchestra Concert in 
Middlebury
Classical music connoissuers: still hungry 
Head over to the Town Hall Theatre to see 
Katherine Winterstein perform with the 
Champlain Philharmonic Orchestra. The 
program will include Espana and Ber-
lioz’s Roman Carnival Overture, among 
other concertos. Tickets are just 5 dollars 
for students, and are available at the box 
-
ging onto their website at www.townhall-
theater.org.
OCT. 12, 4 - 6 P.M.
Pancake Breakfast at the Snow Bowl
What’s “batter”
over to Hancock this Sunday for some 
maple syrup, in addition to sausage, 
bacon, fruit, juice and coffee for just 7 
dollars. Lift rides are 5 dollars a pop (or 
free for season pass holders). To top it off, 
Club Junior Racing Program. If you’re 
not already sold, rumor has it that John 
OCT. 12, 9 A.M. - 1 P.M. 
Aspiring Writers Workshop
Bixby Memorial Library will be host-
coming playwrights, novelists, poets, and 
everything in between next Monday. All 
experience levels are welcome at the free 
event, which is hosted by Jay Dubberly. 
To pre-register, call 802-877-2211, or 
RSVP to muir.haman@bixbylibrary.org.
OCT.  13, 6 - 8 P.M.
Toddler Play Group
over to the Memorial Baptist Church in 
Middlebury for a “fun and challenging en-
vironment” where you’ll meet playmates 
your age. Playgroups are free for those 
is occuring this week, please call the 
Addison County Parent/Child Center at 
OCT.  14, 9:30 P.M.
Courtesy  The Eagle
The founders of the Riverside Natural Health Center cut the ribbon at the open house.
 “One patient can see 
all of us and get everything 
they need in one place. 
That’s what we’re working 
toward.”
 
Stephanie Powers
Massage Therapist
 “Naturopathic medi-
cal care involves more 
of disease and the man-
agement of symptoms. It 
involves locating and tar-
geting the source of an ail-
ment.”
Dr. Matthew Perchemlides
Doctor of Naturopathic Medicine
introducing...
[802] 388-3164
The   new official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
mouthwatering>
GREEN PEPPERS
LOCAL | HANDCRAFTED | FRESHLY PREPARED | AT YOUR CONVENIENCE
Editor’s Note: The following text con-
tains vulgarity.
It’s seems innocuous. An app where you 
can post something witty, watch it get up-
voted and monitor your 
karma score change as 
people respond. But this 
seemingly harmless “fun” 
often comes at the expense 
of members of our com-
munity.  
When Jordan Seman 
’16 submitted her op-ed 
about her experience be-
ing targeted on Yik Yak, found on page sev-
en, it hit close to home for many of us on the 
Editorial Board. As a news organization, we 
grapple with anonymity constantly between 
our policies on anonymous op-eds and 
sources and the steady stream of sometimes 
hurtful and often unproductive anonymous 
comments posted on our website. We also 
grapple with issues of censorship, and, in our 
staunch shared belief in freedom of speech, 
we are hesitant to endorse any policies that 
threaten it. But Jordan sent us a powerful re-
minder that there are real people behind the 
screen in these situations, and that anonym-
ity can devastate individuals and communi-
ties.
Jordan is not alone. There are many stu-
dents on this campus who have been victims 
of anonymous personal attacks or of attacks 
on the groups with which they identify. For 
example, one of the most popular threads 
on Middlebury Confessional at the time of 
writing this editorial is “Bitchiest Bitches 
On Campus,” on which students are actively 
naming people and discussing who among 
them is “the bitchiest.” Just a few weeks ago 
we ran a piece entitled “What Middlebury 
Should Never Forget,” reminding students of 
the sexually explicit, threatening and homo-
phobic note that was left on a student’s door 
last fall. And last spring, Dean Shirley Col-
lado sent the student body an email in which 
she expressed concern over numerous ex-
amples of misogynistic behavior on Yik Yak 
and one particularly abominable instance of 
homophobia on another mobile app, Grindr, 
in which a posted message read, “None are 
safe, none are free,” and included a photo-
graph of a lynching. 
These disturbing comments are not 
unique to the Middlebury community. A few 
weeks ago, Norwich University became the 
-
rying high symbolic weight but little actual 
import. Though they blocked Yik Yak from 
their wireless network, students can still ac-
cess it with a data plan, as many already do, 
making it nearly impossible to block this app. 
Oberlin faced the same dilemmas with Ober-
lin Confessional, the original Confessional 
site, which crashed in 2009 and was prompt-
ly replaced by ObieTalks, which was equally 
popular and equally nasty. These two case 
studies show that an outright ban of these 
forums do not solve the problem. Moreover, 
there are still myriad ways to anonymously 
engage outside of these forums — be it on our 
website, on Middbeat or even in person as 
seen with last fall’s note — meaning that ban-
ning these sites would be merely a bandaid 
on a larger problem.
Dean Collado echoed this sentiment in 
her email last spring, writing that “blocking 
these sites is not the ultimate answer for our 
larger community.” But just because we do 
not believe banning these sites will solve the 
problem does not mean we can sweep them 
under the rug. 
Particularly as mental wellness becomes 
a topic of conversation, in part due to brave 
honesty and openness found both in Jor-
dan’s op-ed and in Hannah Quinn ’16’s wide-
ly read blog post about depression, we must 
think critically about the way our online ac-
tions affect this community. When posting, 
we must imagine the person sitting at their 
computer in the dorm room next to ours the 
same way we would if we were having a con-
versation in the hallway. Even when no face 
is attached, cyberbullying leaves lingering 
damage, though the veil of anonymity often 
makes that easy to forget.
The question then remains, how do we 
maintain a community where people feel safe 
and supported while also acknowledging that 
anonymous forums are inevitable in the digi-
tal age? The answers are not easy.
Both 
t h e 
Cam-
p u s 
a n d 
Middbeat are 
m o d e r a t e d 
websites, 
and both 
Yik Yak and 
Middlebury 
C o n f e s -
sional of-
fer tools 
to self-
moderate, 
be it through 
downvoting or 
through report-
ing a comment. We must take responsibility 
for the hateful words that pervade our com-
munity and report these comments rather 
than scroll past after 10 seconds of outrage. 
It is up to each of us to make these digital 
spaces safe for all members of our commu-
nity and to encourage online accountability 
— there is no one else who is going to do it. 
To clamp down on damaging online dia-
logue, we must provide resources and educa-
tion to incoming students. In the same way 
that we promote sexual assault awareness 
and prevention, we should educate the com-
munity about the dangers of online harass-
ment. Bystander intervention means looking 
out for each other, both online and off. Tech-
nological literacy extends beyond clicking 
“I agree” on the terms of use whenever we 
update our password. We must reintroduce 
the term cyberbullying into our vocabularies, 
because it is not an issue that magically dis-
appears when we graduate from high school. 
Being attacked online has direct con-
sequences that result in serious harm. We 
have all seen news stories of people who hurt 
themselves or others because of online ha-
rassment. We have had countless examples 
for hateful online comments on this campus 
— we should not have to wait for Middlebury 
to become the public face of this problem for 
us to take it seriously.
Why Not Ban Yik Yak?
From time to time, the editorial board 
simply cannot come to a consensus around 
an issue — banning anonymous posting on 
forums like 
Yik Yak is 
one of them. 
We as two 
members of 
the edito-
rial board 
would like 
to present a 
dissenting 
recommen-
dation for 
the Admin-
istration as the College thinks about how to 
combat hate-speech, threats and pointless 
cruelty on platforms like Yik-Yak and Mid-
dfesh: why not ban them? 
The most compelling reason not to ban 
these platforms is that doing so would im-
pinge on free speech, which is certainly not 
something to do lightly. The Supreme Court 
has repeatedly defended anonymous speech 
in protecting whistleblowers, members of of 
religious minorities, and others. That’s real. 
Where it gets a little blurrier is with things 
like libel, posting inappropriate photos or 
directly threatening to harm someone else. 
It’s not always clear where the line is, but it 
is clear that you can’t actually just say or do 
whatever you want in online forums without 
consequence. 
Here’s an example: recently, police ar-
rested two students from the University of 
Mississippi for making seriously violent 
threats using Yik Yak. These are not iso-
lated incidents. In fact, people are getting 
arrested all over the country for posting il-
legal yaks and the app has been disabled, 
or geo-fenced, within the vicinity of thou-
sands of grade schools across the country 
to prevent teens from digitally tearing each 
other apart. Platforms like Middfesh or Yik 
people to be able to say terrible things about 
each other with a complete lack of account-
ability (sort of). 
We say sort of because our freedom on 
the internet is actually rather dubious. Com-
menters can often be traced through their IP 
address, which is a digital signature almost 
to which our actions on the internet can be 
tracked and controlled is scary, and it’s not 
at all a stretch to say that the U.S. govern-
ment has many qualities resembling a police 
state. 
Here’s one place, on the other hand, 
where we certainly don’t live under a po-
lice state — Middlebury College. The next 
time you get a citation as an 18-year-old for 
smoking and drinking to your heart’s con-
tent, you should think, “wow, I can’t believe 
how lucky I am to not be in cuffs, doing jail 
time, or community service. I am clearly 
more privileged in this respect than 99 per-
cent of American citizens.” 
This is a private institution and we are 
afforded incredible latitude to experiment 
and make mistakes (which we believe is a 
good thing — something that should be ex-
tended to all young people). What we give 
up by signing the handbook is the right to 
be awful to whomever we want whenever 
we want — a necessary and completely rea-
sonable request to make of “adults” living, 
eating and learning together. Part of the rea-
son many of us came to Middlebury is to be 
part of a tight-knit community, and part of 
what we give up to be here is absolute free 
speech. For those who say that to ban Yik 
Yak would be to set a precedent of censor-
ing free speech, we argue that not to ban it 
is to set a precedent of allowing students not 
to be accountable for our actions. If anyone 
were to say some of the homophobic, mi-
sogynistic things said on Yik Yak they would 
probably be suspended if not expelled. Why, 
then, would we permit this speech to take 
place online?
Jordan Seman’s brave personal account 
on the following page of this week’s Campus 
calls direct attention to the cruelty present 
on forums like Yik Yak — behavior that goes 
directly against a laundry list of items from 
the Honor Code and the student handbook. 
This anonymous attack on a member of our 
community came in the form of an anony-
mous comment that was childish, idiotic 
and extremely hurtful — something that can 
be said of many postings on Yik Yak and 
Middfesh, which seem to be our forums of 
choice. 
Most would hope that “adults” — having 
mostly developed brains who attend College 
— would be better than this. As it turns out 
we, as a group, are not. Apparently, if you 
didn’t get it by age 18, you probably won’t 
get it by 22. The challenge regarding anony-
mous posting is pervasive and is tearing 
holes in the communities across the coun-
try, as law enforcement works to keep up 
with the violent stream of threats and hate-
speech popping up in seemingly innocuous 
forums and comments sections. 
We as members of the Middlebury com-
engage in this kind of behavior. There is 
a precedent for colleges banning Yik Yak 
and there’s no reason Middlebury cannot, 
in light of pervasive misuse, restrict access 
to the app over our wireless network. With 
data plans, students can still use Yik Yak, but 
it will be that much harder and few students 
will commit time to it. Moreover, even if the 
ban is symbolic, it still carries an important 
message of solidarity to students who have 
been victimized. Why would the Adminis-
tration not side with victims of abuse when 
presented with the opportunity? These fo-
rums do not promote dialogue; they allow 
students to air thoughts they should never 
have been thinking and at the very least 
should have kept to themselves. 
If comments like these continue to color 
the use of platforms like Yik Yak or Mid-
dfesh, it is the College’s obligation to step in. 
Doing nothing, especially when a relatively 
simple ban is possible, represents implicit 
support for these spaces. If you want to re-
serve the right to say horrible things about 
your fellow students, you should have to put 
your name on it, hashtag your room num-
ber or better yet, do it in person. Chances are 
you’ll probably think of something better to 
do with your time.
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor.  The 
Campus will not accept or print anonymous let-
ters. The opinions expressed by contributors to the 
Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, edi-
torial comics and other commentary, are views of 
the individual contributors and do not necessarily 
reflect the opinions of the newspaper. The Campus 
welcomes letters to the editor at 250 words or less, 
or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Sub-
mit works directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 
30, campus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web 
site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To be consid-
ered for publications, submissions must be received 
by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
Changing the Way We Yak
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Joe Flaherty
MANAGING EDITOR
Conor Grant
BUSINESS MANAGER
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Ellie Reinhardt, Claire Abbadi, 
Christian Jambora
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Lawrence Dolan, 
Edward O’Brien, Isaac Baker
SPORTS EDITORS 
Fritz Parker, Remo Plunkett, Emily Bustard
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Isabelle Dietz,
Alessandria Schumacher
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Ben Anderson, 
Annie Grayer
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio, Leah Lavigne 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Michael O’Hara, Anahi Naranjo
DESIGN EDITORS
Evan Gallagher, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITOR
Maggie Cochrane, Jerrica Davy
Alex Herdman
COPY EDITORS
Sarah Sicular, Hannah Blackburn
STANDARDS EDITOR
Kate Hamilton
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Jessica Cheung, Michelle Irei
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Notes from 
the Desk
Isaac Baker ’14.5 is 
an Opinions Editor from 
Shelborne Falls, Mass.
Edward O’Brien ’17 is 
an Opinions Editor from 
Lincoln, Mass.
NOLAN ELLSWORTH
| october 9, 2014 7opinions
Choose Not To Party
This year, I have not gone to a single par-
ty. I have not been involved in any of the par-
ty culture, I have only once even seen alco-
hol, and I go to 
sleep early on 
the weekends. 
Small gather-
ings of friends 
have supplant-
ed loud, raucous parties. Video games, read-
ing for fun and playing cards occupy my time 
instead of drinking, dancing, and yelling. 
I have never felt more liberated.
The debate will never end: is it, or is it 
not, socially acceptable to party and drink? 
Should we discourage alcohol consumption 
and partying? Or should we allow individuals 
to choose what they want to do, to consume 
what they wish, to make their own choices?
At such a bastion of liberalism like Mid-
dlebury, general social attitude weighs heav-
ily on individual choice, generally dissuad-
ing any attempt to moderate the choices of 
students in how to spend their time. Look 
relatively unobtrusive rule has had an incen-
diary and widespread response because the 
administration dares to try and regulate the 
actions of the students. 
But maybe it is time to shift our focus. 
Maybe it is time to ask the hard questions, to 
take a long, introspective look at our commu-
nity and wonder if such hardcore individual-
ism is healthy for our community. Perhaps 
we should ask why we defend our supposed 
“right” to consume alcohol and to party so 
stubbornly. Perhaps we should wonder why, 
even with all that Middlebury does, the pre-
dominant social activity is still drinking and 
going out. 
week of freshman orientation. Most people 
want to meet people and make friends, and 
most are very afraid of being caught alone 
and without a friend group. Partying is a 
quick, easy and ubiquitous way of meeting 
people. It allows students to bond where oth-
erwise they would never have met. It’s an ef-
contacts.
What this does, however, is eliminate oth-
er avenues of forging connections. Although 
students make friends with their hallmates 
the hall seems to have been left up to parties. 
Instead of creating deep connec-
tions, parties encourage shallow 
acquaintances.
But this is a common argu-
ment against partying, one that 
most people have heard of. But 
once you’re past your freshman 
year, when you do have a group of 
good friends, what is the harm in 
going out every once and 
a while? I argue that the 
harm is that people become 
dependent on it. It becomes 
the only method of social in-
teraction, the only entertain-
ment, the only occupation on 
the weekends. Fridays, Sat-
urdays and Sundays become cycles of going 
out, recovering, going out, then recovering 
again. That dramatically reduces the value 
of weekends. Go outside on a Saturday at 
become subordinate in favor of the nights. 
Since I have quit going out, I’ve found 
weekend mornings to be valuable and re-
warding. I’ve walked into town and enjoyed 
coffee at the café. I’ve taken trips to Burling-
ton with my friends. I have read books for 
fun because the full days give me time to en-
joy other activities. Hikes, games and trips 
are all open to me because my days aren’t 
spent recovering. I wake up at nine o’clock 
instead of one, clear-headed and awake in-
stead of weary and in pain. 
I don’t think that my choice is to supe-
rior to partying. Partying is certainly enter-
taining and fun, and I have many hilarious 
stories from parties I’ve attended. What I’m 
challenging is not partying itself, but the 
consistent and almost single-minded dedi-
cation to going out every weekend. People 
say that there is nothing to do at Middle-
bury, and that’s why people drink and party 
so much. While there are few college-spon-
sored events, this accusation of a lack of 
things to do is just wrong. There might be 
nothing to do at night — but a full day opens 
up a wealth of opportunities.
I challenge the students of Middlebury 
not to go out for a weekend. Wake up early, 
walk outside and breathe in the fresh air. Go 
get some food in town. Play a pickup game 
of football with your friends. Read a novel, 
write a poem or pick up a hobby. Get some 
friends together and cook dinner for your-
selves and then play a board game. 
Find the opportunities to forge truer, 
deeper connections with people. Take a risk 
and don’t party one weekend. Drinking and 
partying are not the only things to do here. 
Choosing not to party has made me happier 
at this school. 
It is time to ask ourselves if partying is 
something we want to steadfastly protect. It 
is time to challenge our-
meaningfully and dif-
ferently.
Echoes
Alex Newhouse ’17 is 
from Stonington, Colo.
reader op-ed
Jordan Seman ’16 is from 
Denver, Colo.
A Letter on Yik Yak Harassment
Dear Middlebury community,
Last spring, a friend encouraged me to download the app 
Yik Yak. “It’s like an anonymous twitter for Midd people, it’s 
hilarious,” she said. 
I hadn’t spent much time 
reading it, until one day at 
lunch when I scrolled through 
the message board and saw:
“If I could bang a hippo for 
My heart was pounding 
as I looked around the dining 
hall. A million things crossed 
my mind: Is someone watch-
ing me? Should I have worn 
this dress? Did someone see 
me eat that second cookie? 
Should I put on my jacket? 
In that moment, all of my 
-
ly embarrassed. Without tell-
ing my friends, I got up from 
the table and ran back to my room where I hid out for most 
Whoever posted that message couldn’t have known that 
I have struggled with body image issues for most of my life. 
He/she probably wasn’t aware that I have gone through 
therapy to combat those issues. He/she likely didn’t think 
that clicking “submit” would cause me to restart with over-
The person couldn’t have known these things because he/
she clearly doesn’t know me. I guess you don’t have to know 
someone to say something hurtful about her. 
I’m not one to generally care what others think about 
me. Since going to therapy I have woken up most mornings 
-
ercise, I don’t really think I should 
have to be concerned. I am more 
than my physical body. I am NOT 
my weight, and I know that.
So why is it that one nasty mes-
sage sends me spiraling into self-
doubt? 
Why is it that this person — 
who, by the way, didn’t even spell 
my name right — felt it was neces-
sary to publicly criticize me?
Is this what we want our social 
media use to be capable of?  
or the last girl who will be posted about on Yik Yak or oth-
er similar pages. I’m sure that other messages directed at 
other girls will be no less hurtful. But I am not comfortable 
with the fact that people on this campus are hiding behind 
anonymous apps to post character-assassinating messages 
Even more than that, I am disappointed that someone in 
our community would think to post something so distaste-
ful about a fellow student. 
To whoever “yakked” about me last spring, if you are 
reading this, I hope you know that contrary to that child-
hood rhyme, words CAN hurt me. And yours did. But I hope 
that coming forward — non-anonymously, for that matter 
— will inspire other social media users out there to rethink 
what they post. 
community we want Middlebury to be. 
I know I want to be able to sit down at lunchtime and 
not worry about what other people are saying — or writing 
— about me. I want to feel comfortable on our campus, and 
I don’t think I’m alone. 
So, to those of you reading this message, I’m asking you 
to help me make our school a safe space. I’m asking you to 
think about your words and how they can sting. I’m asking 
you to encourage positivity through your actions. 
Let’s start now. 
Love,
Class of 2016
“I am not comfortable with the 
fact that people on this campus 
are hiding behind anonymous 
app to post character-
assasinating messages that 
serve no usefor purpose except to 
bring people down.”
As of 2012, the estimated population of 
Americans belonging to the so-called “mil-
lennial” or Generation Y numbered around 
80 million, making those born between the 
mid-1980’s and late 1990’s approach one-
third of the total population. Of these 80 mil-
lion, only 41.2 percent that were of voting age 
bothered to cast a ballot in the 2012 national 
elections, according to the Census Bureau’s 
2012 Voting Report. As a member of this 
generation and a friend or colleague of many 
who abstained, I can hardly blame them. 
my age could view a Congress comprised al-
most entirely of rich old white men (and one 
that is seemingly incapable of functioning 
as a legitimate governmental organ, no less) 
and genuinely believe that they understand 
our interests, let alone have them at mind. 
bankrolled octoge-
narians will not for 
long continue to 
inhabit the nation 
that they are cur-
rently (mis)shap-
ing — sometimes 
I wonder if Dick 
Cheney was even 
place. However, 
while our deceased lawmakers sip celestial 
piña coladas and gaze down at us from that 
Great Big Corporate Consulting Agency in 
the Sky, we millennials will be frantically at-
tempting to pick up the pieces of the Repub-
lic for which they supposedly stood. 
Or at least we would, if any of us could 
be bothered to do anything beyond the oc-
casional agitated Facebook post or impas-
sioned student newspaper article. No one 
should care more about the precarious state 
of the Earth’s environmental, political and 
economic systems, yet most of us are content 
to conveniently ignore all of them. And why 
not? Unmitigated consumer capitalism, a 
gargantuan national security apparatus and 
climate change are all terrifyingly large and 
-
one else. 
in our voting patterns mentioned above. 
Although polarization between Democrats 
and Republicans has never been higher, 
they are far from representing the entirety 
of political opinion in America; other than 
a few new pieces of large legislation (e.g the 
Affordable Care Act and 2009 stimulus), 
Democrats spend much of their time at-
tempting to protect what’s left of govern-
ment regulatory systems and the social safe-
ty net while Republicans try to eviscerate 
them in a bloody, Randian fervor. What’s 
more, both parties are nearly unanimous in 
their support for hundreds of billions of dol-
lars in annual military spending, fossil fuel 
subsidies and other means of corporate wel-
fare. Coupled with district gerrymandering, 
suppressive voter ID laws and continuous 
wars under both Republican and Demo-
cratic administrations, it’s really no wonder 
that so many have become jaded. 
All this being said, I remain quite hope-
ful. Generation 
Y was not born 
with an inherent 
sense of political 
apathy; rather, 
the main channels through which we can 
There has been a pervasive sense of small-
ness that causes many (including myself) to 
believe that even if we did attempt to mitigate 
our nation’s ills, it would be to little or no ef-
fect. However consider this: only 126 million 
out of nearly 206 million eligible Americans 
voted in the last national election, meaning 
a block of 80 million millennials carries in-
-
toral weight. 
Mil lennials 
have an energetic 
and better-suited 
approach to a 
world that is now 
considerably dif-
ferent from when 
our parents came 
of age — in only 
two decades, our 
tastes, habits and innovations have largely 
reshaped how the world communicates. 
and beliefs through global connectivity has 
produced one of the least insular and open-
-
gardless of the myriad complaints and analy-
ses written by most news/culture outlets, I 
remain truly inspired by what I’ve witnessed 
my peers being capable of. We have been un-
making, but have the opportunity to change 
it, through both national and local actions. 
Consider the impact of 80 million voters 
on progressive third parties — 60 percent 
of my generation didn’t vote because they 
believed the act futile, their views unrepre-
sented. 2,500 ballots from the Middlebury 
student body may seem like a pittance na-
tionally, but oftentimes local election mar-
gins are in the hundreds of votes. Research 
your state’s elections; request an absentee 
ballot; attend meetings or contact campaigns. 
The aforementioned establishment politi-
cians continue to win because they count on 
our disillusionment. Yet however cynical we 
may be about the seemingly rigged nature of 
US politics, it is still a democracy and can be 
shaped by the actions of voters. The Populist 
and Progressive movements of the early 20th 
century began as largely a localized move-
ment, one that came about from a similarly 
disenchanted base yet went on to completely 
revolutionize the country. We are now over-
due for a new wave of organized change, one 
our society faces and led by those with the 
unique mindset and emotional investment 
necessary to see it out. 
Politics and Generation y
Reader OP-ED
Tevan Goldberg ’18 is 
from Astoria, Ore.
“We have been unfairly 
not of our making, but have 
the opportunity to change it, 
through both national and 
local actions.”
sarah lake
I had the remarkable experience of grow-
ing up as an ex-patriot. Yes, I grew up in the 
strange and foreign land of Canada, our 
friendly neigh-
bor to the 
North. While 
my citizen-
ship remained 
-
can, an inter-
esting thing 
happens when you live abroad. You sud-
denly become the spokesperson for your en-
place and after a few years I found myself 
highly critical, yet highly patriotic. I knew 
ask me about them almost every day, and I 
You can imagine my surprise when I came 
to Middlebury.
Yes, Middlebury, we are not the most pa-
elite, liberal arts college in New England? 
socialist degenerates! I digress. No, it wasn’t 
-
one else). It was a deep discontent with our 
republic. Something that went beyond the 
mere cynicism often associated with stu-
dents. 
I couldn’t and can’t understand it. I’m 
not exactly a red-blooded, Bible thumping 
its foreign policies, its social policies, the 
people in it, but when push came to shove 
the United States was and is my home. My 
family has no real military tradition and 
has only been in this country since around 
the Second World War. There were stories 
though. Not necessarily how great it was, but 
how much worse the alternative was. 
S u r e , grappa was drunk at family 
o c c a - sions and the toast “Next 
year in the homeland” was an in-
grained tradition. These were empty 
words however. When 
asked directly whether 
my great-grandmother 
would want 
to ever go 
v i s i t 
Sicily, 
her reply 
was simply, 
“Why the hell 
would I ever want 
to go back there?”
her genera-
tion, was a 
d r e a m , 
not be-
cause it 
p r o m -
ised anything, but because here they had 
the right to simply be left alone. Free from 
the horrors of endemic unemployment and 
Cosa Nostra, my grandparents and their 
parents had few positive thoughts about 
-
can names and they were happier for it. 
They were happy to be free of a situation 
that was so hopeless they decided to get on 
a boat and sail for some unknown destina-
tion simply because it could not get any 
worse.
Of course things are not so black and 
work at least once in New York. Their cul-
ture and language were effectively snuffed 
out, and for a long time, along with Jews 
and Blacks, Catholics were not welcome 
at institutions like Middlebury. But things 
were better. Imperfect, yes, but better. 
So why have I walked you through this 
fairly typical immigrant odyssey? Because 
we lack something that generation had. It 
is the classic problem of the next genera-
We take things like Democracy, our Con-
stitution, the wonders of the Bill of Rights, 
and accept them as merely for granted. Not 
many of us have had the experience of liv-
ing in a place that did not have these things. 
So we are comfortable being opinionated, 
cynical, and unpatriotic. 
True patriotism isn’t agreeing with ev-
erything your country does or says or lik-
ing the people in charge. I’m sure we can all 
think of true patriots who shook the status 
quo to its very core because they believed in 
The elephant in the room (no party 
-
rogance, Middlebury. Isn’t it convenient 
to become saturated in like opinion to the 
point where any idea outside our cozy bub-
ble seems alien and wrong? Here we sit in 
our little ivory tower of liberal learning, in 
one of the most liberal of states, happy to 
yet unwilling to participate in even the 
simplest of patriotic activities, voting for 
instance. 
Have we ever paused to consider how 
incredible it is that we can do the things 
we do, simply without being bothered? 
We are allowed to protest tailgating bans, 
protest the protest of tailgating bans and 
-
about it). What’s more, in perhaps the most 
deeply patriotic gesture, some of us even to 
spend our days critiquing, debating and 
questioning our government and then get a 
degree. Yes, our country is not perfect, yes, 
it could use some work. But it’s a lot better 
than most of the alternatives. So I make my 
is willing to plug the holes in what might be 
  8 October 9, 2014 | opinions
Shortly after the administration an-
nounced its controversial change to the 
tailgating policy, many students asked me 
knowledge of the impending change. Their 
concern highlights a question I imagine 
many of you have pondered at one point or 
fact that most students do not have a clear 
compelled to offer you an answer to at least 
roles on campus. First, it is responsible for 
-
academic lives here a 
little better. Second, 
it oversees all of the 
student organiza-
tions on campus. 
Third, it is supposed 
to be, in the words 
of the College Hand-
book, “the vehicle 
through which stu-
dents can participate in the formulation of 
institutional policy.”
-
-
tions are funded well and run effectively, but 
of course there is always room for improve-
ment. Ensuring that this continues to hap-
-
-
of services for which it rarely receives credit. 
These include the free daily newspapers in 
the dining halls, the break bus program, and 
MiddCourses. 
It is on the third count, I believe, where 
needs to serve as a better conduit between 
the student body and the administration. 
-
ciently with both parties. First, let’s tackle 
body. Only a handful of students know what 
way to “participate in the formulation of in-
students primarily interested in changing 
-
nizations tend to attract those interested in 
as a group often fail to adequately commu-
nicate what it is we are doing. Having been 
-
ally guilty of not communicating my work 
well enough. Given recent events, though, it 
is clear we need to better publicize our work. 
To that end, we have taken a number of 
steps this year to better communicate with 
you. These initiatives include creating a new 
in McCullough, establishing a Director of 
Publicity position in my Cabinet, and setting 
hours for each 
of our elected 
members. Hope-
fully, these small 
initial steps will 
serve as a solid 
foundation for 
a better level of 
communication 
In terms of our relationship with the 
-
rently takes the form of me and other elected 
to express students’ 
ideas and concerns. 
fosters trust, it lacks 
transparency and 
-
approach would be 
greater student rep-
resentation on administrative and faculty 
committees. In this manner, we can more 
consistently convey our ideas during the 
early stages of the policy-making process. 
We may not get a vote, but we should get a 
voice. Progress in this area would increase 
the amount and transparency of commu-
nication between students, administrators, 
and faculty.
You may still be asking, why should 
leave individual groups of students to push 
for change? We are, after all, a fairly small 
campus with easy access to administrators. I 
would respond that much of the value of the 
The question is not one of existence, but one 
of strength. It is in the best interest of the 
student body to have a consistent advocate 
voicing the student body’s ideas to adminis-
slowly than we would like and perhaps not 
could, at the very least, secure us a consistent 
voice at the table.
From reforming the trustees’ governance 
structure to hiring a new president, change is 
in the air at Middlebury. I have tried to ar-
as the ways in which it can enhance student 
life on campus. Regardless of whether you 
that you make your voice heard on this is-
sue. I look forward to hearing your ideas, and 
would be happy to discuss them with you in 
person or over e-mail. You can reach me at 
sga@middlebury.edu.
swing Vote
Phil Hoxie ’17.5 is from 
Orinda, Calif.
Looking Beyond 2014
environment and global warming would 
election cycle. That 
is simply not go-
ing to be the case. 
To quote President 
Clinton, “it’s the 
economy, stupid.” 
More importantly, 
that hurts Democrats and their overall stand-
ing with midterm voters. Unfortunately for 
Erin and Harry Reid (D-NV), in a ranking of 
issues and their importance to voters, a 2014 
Gallup poll found that voters consistently 
rank economic issues and healthcare as top 
priorities. Gallup also found voters consis-
tently placed social issues and global warm-
ing in second to last and last, respectively. To 
make matters worse for Democrats, Gallup 
-
licans more with the economy. 
To make matters even worse, the Obama 
recovery from the 2008 recessions has been 
dismal. Sure, unemployment went down, 
but, as William Galston aptly points out, the 
labor force participation rate is still as bad as 
it was in 2009, with very little change over 
to an aging workforce, but most of it is due 
to discouraged workers dropping out of the 
labor force. Median household income has 
-
der Obama’s watch. So the voters are in need 
of some change this November. 
Take a minute to let that all soak in. 
The likelihood that Obama will use the 
word “shellacking” this November is slim, 
but that doesn’t mean that he will be happy. 
Most polls show Republicans will gain con-
the House. On its face, this looks really bad 
for Democrats. However, if the GOP drops 
the ball and wastes this opportunity by 
grandstanding and partying (pun very much 
intended), the Democrats will gain it all back 
and more in 2016. 
The goal of my columns, when I am not 
responding to Erin, will be to propose ways 
in which I feel the GOP needs to move for-
than simply the loyal opposition. We need to 
is the party of reform and economic growth. 
This entails that when the GOP controls 
both houses of Congress, they sponsor and 
pass bipartisan legislation that the President 
would be hard pressed to veto. The good 
news is that these don’t need to be new bills. 
The “Shaheen-Portman Energy Bill” that got 
be a great start. More good news is that there 
are plenty of bills (that would need to be re-
submitted next Congress) that the House 
has passed and that Harry Reid (D-NV) has 
refused to put to a vote in the Senate. The 
GOP simply cannot afford to allow for there 
to be two more years of stalled government. 
Republicans need to do some re-branding 
before the Presidential race gets underway, 
or else we will get crushed. 
This lofty goal will not be easy, and right-
ing the economic ship going into 2016 is 
Obamacare (happy birthday by the way, 
you’re still awful; but that will be a topic 
for another week), the solution is putting 
education system. Jobs and education are 
the best ways to combat inequality and right 
the ship. In my home state of California, 
Neel Kashkari is providing a model 
for what I hope the GOP will 
become. 
Mr. Kashkari is 
taking up the noble 
task of unseating 
Gov. Jerry Brown 
on a platform of 
“Jobs. Education. 
That’s it.” This is exactly 
the direction the GOP needs to be going. 
it once was, Brown 
and the Democratic 
still man-
aged to 
and 46th in education. But wait, we also 
have the highest poverty levels in the union 
of the world’s largest economies (if Califor-
nia were its own country), but the Democrats 
aren’t doing it any favors. California gets low 
marks in business friendliness as well, says a 
2014 Thumbtack report, scoring an “F.” Tex-
as, by contrast, received the highest marks. It 
should also be no secret as to why Texas has 
been almost recession proof. Just ask Toyota 
-
nia. Toyota is moving its US headquarters 
to Texas and Tesla is building its new fac-
tory in Nevada. Elon Musk (Tesla’s owner) 
is also moving his space company to Texas. 
This trend is not contained to California, it’s 
a pandemic among “Blue States” across the 
country. 
With all this said, between now and 2016, 
Republicans have a choice to make. 
They can either simply oppose Obama 
-
fer through an ailing economy, or they 
can put bills on the President’s desk, 
daring him to veto them. The GOP 
issues facing our coun-
try in 2015, or we may 
be looking at eight more 
years of economic 
turmoil. 
the Buck 
Stops Here
Taylor Custer ’15 is the 
SGA President and is from 
Love of Country
The Unpopular 
Opinion
Andrew DeFalco ’15.5 is 
Vaasu Taneja
“It is in the best interest 
of the student body to 
have a consistent advocate 
voicing the student body’s 
ideas to administrators.” 
GLORIA BRECK
| october 9, 2014 9opinions
The A-List
Luke Smith-Stevens ’14.5 
is from New York, N.Y.
Hit ‘Em Where It Hurts
Over the last few weeks, a portion of the student body 
here has been upset about something.  Not the kind of upset 
a friend pulls them aside 
and says, “Hey, Chase, do 
you want to talk about any-
thing? I’m here for you, 
man.”  Rather, the kind of 
upset where every page of 
befuddlement, and threats of withheld donations that 
weren’t going to be made anyways.
Discontent regarding the issue in question has dominat-
ed campus (and Campus) discussion, and both the amount 
and vociferousness of opinions have been shocking.  Alumni 
again, columns were written.  And the outcome of all that: 
Nothing!  The policy is not changing in any way, and the 
who was so unfamiliar to large portions of the student body 
that people were unclear as to whether the individual was 
male or female, essentially laughed off requests for greater 
transparency.  At this point, people are so tired of the story 
that the new most popular opinion has become, enough of 
this, let’s go shotgun a beer.
Don’t worry, this is not a column about that policy.  Feel 
free to shotgun regardless.
The question that occurred to me during all of this, espe-
cially as it became obvious that no changes would be made, 
was the following: if there were a policy implemented that 
actually mattered, one that was, say, intolerably discrimina-
tive in a way that this past one did not even approach, how 
could students force a change?
As the recent nouveau-activists will tell you, there are 
basically zero avenues to create change if the college really 
cares about the issue.  That is because students have abso-
lutely no leverage against the school.  When the administra-
tion institutes a policy they know will be unpopular, they are 
banking, literally, on the reality that the only thing we can 
do to hurt them is transfer and take our business elsewhere. 
They realize that this would mean, for any individual stu-
dent, a sizable time investment as well as leaving a familiar 
setting.  And if you happened to see the acceptance rates 
this past year, you know that there is no end of checkbooks 
out there waiting to take our places.  We are what is called, 
I believe, a captive market.
As a result, we are left with few options for student pro-
test.  Although mass gatherings can be symbolically power-
the protestors have no political voice.  In this light, I would 
like to suggest to future outraged students a path that has 
-
ployee strike.
The college employs 885 students, most of whom work 
between 10-20 hours a week.  If we say the average is 12 
hours a week, a campus wide strike by student workers 
would amount to a total of 3,450 lost hours of work over 
three days.  How would the circu-
lation desk, Midd Rides, Wilson 
Café, Admissions, or the CFA 
function without student employ-
ees?  Who would grade all those 
Econ assignments??  When you con-
sider all the jobs performed 
by students, it is clear that 
the college would seriously 
struggle to operate in the 
event of a strike.
idea, the most obvi-
ous of which is the 
lost income it would 
mean for student work-
ers.  However, it is not implau-
sible to think that other students could contribute to a com-
pensatory fund of some kind as a means of distributing the 
burden. Another possible unwanted side effect would be the 
enormous demand placed on non-student college employ-
ees.  They would certainly be called to make up for some of 
the lost labor, which would be pretty unfair.  But the point of 
the strike would be to force the college into that kind of un-
comfortable situation, and while any inconvenience to third 
parties would be regrettable, it would hopefully be minimal.
Again, this would have to be in response to a truly un-
acceptable administrative policy, the likes of which we 
haven’t recently seen.  It would have to be to instigate the 
coordination and determination necessary to pull of a stu-
dent employee strike.  Ideally, a measure as drastic as this 
will never be necessary.  In the meantime, it is useful, and 
perhaps empowering, to remember that we aren’t merely 
consumers of the product Middlebury offers: we are also 
vital elements of the machine that al-
lows it to run.
The Lipper Awards are based on a review 
of 36 companies’ 2012 and 48 companies’ 
2013 risk-adjusted performance.
BEST OVERALL LARGE FUND COMPANY2
1Restrictions apply. Must be enrolled in a TIAA-CREF retirement plan to be eligible. 2The Lipper Award is given to the group with the 
lowest average decile ranking of three years’ Consistent Return for eligible funds over the three-year period ended 11/30/12 and 
11/30/13, respectively. TIAA-CREF was ranked against 36 fund companies in 2012 and 48 fund companies in 2013 with at least 
fi ve equity, fi ve bond, or three mixed-asset portfolios. TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services, LLC, and Teachers Personal 
Investors Services Inc. C17743B ©2014 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America – College Retirement Equities Fund 
(TIAA-CREF), 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY, 10017.
Consider investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses carefully before 
investing. Go to tiaa-cref.org for product and fund prospectuses that contain 
this and other information. Read carefully before investing. TIAA-CREF funds 
are subject to market and other risk factors. Past performance does not 
guarantee future results.
AND THAT’S JUST FINE.
 YOU MAY BE A TERRIBLE 
INVESTOR.
Thankfully not everyone has to be an investing genius. 
At TIAA-CREF, we specialize in helping clients reach their 
long-term goals with personalized advice.1 In person, online 
and on the phone. All at no extra charge. See what our 
professional advice and award-winning performance can 
do for your fi nancial health. The sooner you act, the better. 
Learn more in one click at TIAA.org 
or call 855 200-7244.
5021A0002 C17743B INVESTOR 10x10 NWS Various_BW_1.indd
Black
73092
Zarau zaragoza
The Middlebury Campus| OCTOBER 9, 201410 11features
ACHIEVING THE COLLEGE’S 2016 CARBON NEUTRALITY GOAL
mapping out the road to 
carbon neutrality,
in 2016 and beyond
As the College nears its goal to become carbon neu-
tral by 2016, what are the mechanics behind such a 
monumental shift?
The process, which has been years in the making, 
natural gas pipeline. Previously, the largest drop in 
the College’s emissions was due to the construction 
of the biomass plant.
This series of charts shows how the biomass plant 
has functioned thus far and what the next steps are 
line.
Finally, the College faces hurdles in the future as 
campus construction down the road may impact how 
successful the current processes are in meeting the 
campus’ energy needs. STORY BY: BEN HAWTHORNE DESIGN BY: EVAN GALLAGHER and JULIA HATHEWAY
BIOMASS BY THE NUMB3RS:
of what comes out 
of the plant’s 
smokestack is pure 
water vapor
12,500
METRIC TONS OF 
CO2 SAVED 
ANNUALLY
1 MILLION
gallons of number 
6 fuel oil saved 
annually
VERSUS THE 
MINIMUM 3,554 MILES 
OIL MUST TRAVEL TO 
REACH CAMPUS 
(PRE-BIOMASS PLANT
THE COLLEGE 
 USED 2 MILLION GALLONS OF 
NO. 6 FUEL OIL ANNUALLY)
55%
HOW MUCH THE
COLLEGE HAS CUT
EMISSIONS SINCE 2008. 
MOST OF THE REDUCTION 
IS FROM THE BIOMASS 
PLANT 
OPTION A
The pipeline runs
through the town
OPTION B
The pipeline runs 
to the school
A PIPELINE
DIRECTLY TO THE 
COLLEGE WAS 
PREVIOUSLY 
ON THE TABLE 
BUT THERE WAS 
INSUFFICIENT 
STORAGE FOR 
THE GAS WHEN 
IT ARRIVED ON 
CAMPUS =PETROLEUM 
3/4 OF THE CURRENT CARBON FOOTPRINT 
COMES FROM BURNING OIL ON THE COLDEST 
DAYS OF THE YEAR WHEN THE WOOD CHIPS DO 
NOT PROVIDE ENOUGH STEAM
MORE DORMS 
= GREATER 
ENERGY USE
ENERGY CONSERVATION
AND MAKING
COLLEGE BUILDINGS
CARBON NEUTRAL IS IN-
TENDED THE KEEP THE 
COLLEGE CARBON NEUTRAL 
WITH GROWTH ON CAMPUS
CH4
90 tons of woodchips 
delivered daily
wood travels 
maximum
75 miles 
before reach-
ing the plantPIPELINE TO
NEUTRALITY
FUTURE REDUCTIONS IN 
CO2 TO COME FROM 
BURNING METHANE 
CAPTURED FROM MANURE 
IN THE BIOMASS PLANT 
INSTEAD OF 
 USING PETROLEUM FUEL 
OIL
Over the past couple of years, the grow-
ing use of gay dating apps such as Grindr 
and form romantic relationships in the tech-
nological world. While many make the argu-
ment that the use of these apps helps con-
nect and strengthen the gay community, the 
are worth considering.
Launched in 2009, Grindr quickly be-
came the most sensational app for the gay 
male community. It’s orange glow design, 
with seemingly endless amounts of headless 
torsos from ages “twink” to “daddy” won the 
Grindr adequately addresses some of the 
gay men in a heteronormative society, such 
as location and guessing whether or not the 
doors and closets of gay men in need of af-
consumers to each other. The app’s simple 
the way gay men see relationships within the 
gay community.
Realistically speaking, most people who 
have Grindr or other similar dating apps use 
would like to make it clear that some people 
on Grindr aren’t just there for the potential 
emotions that come along with friendly cy-
ber relationships. 
But for the sake of highlighting some 
these types of apps, we will assume that the 
vast majority of Grindr users are looking 
for hook-ups. The purpose of acknowledg-
ing this fact is not to “slut-shame” or decide 
whether the use of Grindr is bad or good for 
the gay community, but rather to comment 
on the implications at hand. It is simply im-
portant to look at the issues with the com-
sounds like the best thing on earth (and it 
can be), it would be ludicrous to ignore the 
the way we value or devalue intimacy.
One of the more unfortunate things 
Grindr does is play into the stereotypes and 
labeling of queer men as a way to promote 
them to one another. The app even has a 
“tribe” system that encourages users to label 
themselves under one of the twelve names 
such as Bear and Discreet. In an attempt to 
-
lect each other, this aspect of Grindr hinders 
and puts consumption of other gay bodies 
as the central motivation for interaction. 
This method also allows gay men to carry 
through with their own guilt and blindly 
engage in discrimination against other body 
types and even races. It is not very rare to 
fatties or femmes” or, our personal favorite, 
“Masc for Masc.” We understand that ev-
at what point does the labeling used to help 
to discriminate against other gays? 
What we have noticed is that those 
that are being shamed for their race body, 
type and fabulous femme personalities are 
the ones that don’t typically fall within the 
margins of how the “ideal” gay man should 
look like or act. Consequently, the behaviors 
used in Grindr give in to the creation of a 
-
nity that is counter to the whole overarch-
ing purpose of creating some basic level of 
solidarity.
To end, we pose this question “Is Grindr 
society wishes to see gay people or is Grindr 
enabling gay men to lead their lives clouded 
by labels and blind discrimination?”
12 features
By Hye-Jin Kim
When she went apple picking last week-
apple orchard just two miles from cam-
pus, she ended up eating more apples 
than she actually picked. 
“The only downside of apple picking this 
weekend was the stomachache I got,” 
students on campus who don’t have time 
for daily visits to the farm, all the campus 
dining halls are currently stocked with 
both apples and fresh pressed cider from 
Happy Valley Orchards. The local apples 
are also featured in favorite dining hall 
desserts, such as apple crisp.
Middlebury residents Stan and Mary 
acre farm. Shortly after purchasing Hap-
to contact Middlebury College food ser-
vices for a possible supply contract.
“They were very positive and re-
ally wanted to do this,” Mary Pratt said. 
“They were already doing local produce 
with some other farms at the time, so they 
took us on, and we’ve been with them 
ever since.”
“I don’t think we would’ve even made 
it without the College,” she said. “It’s a big 
part of our business. I mean we’ve spread 
out now, and obviously we have the stand 
and we sell to the co-op but without the 
College, I think we’d be hurting. I really 
do.”
“It’s fun having a lot of students vis-
it the farm. This fall, a lot of the sports 
teams came here and picked apples. Dur-
ing the winter, my husband is one of the 
[ice rink] Zamboni drivers at the College,” 
Pratt said. “I think we have a personal re-
lationship with the College. And I like it 
because it keeps us young because we’re 
dealing with a lot of young kids.”
In addition to providing students 
with a fun weekend activity and the din-
ing halls with crates of apples and jugs 
of apple cider, Happy Valley has started 
a new joint venture with the College this 
year. Small pints of the cider are now sold 
as concessions during football games.
“We’ve also paired with a hard cider 
-
lington. We sell fresh cider to them and 
then they ferment it,” Pratt said.
In addition to cider, the farmstand at 
Happy Valley Orchards also sells home-
baked goods, such as apple pies, cakes, 
muffins, and classic cider doughnuts. Un-
fortunately, none of these will be making 
an appearance on campus plates anytime 
soon.
“The donuts are a big hit, we usual-
ly run out everyday [at the farmstand],” 
Mary Pratt said. “My husband and his 
sister make the donuts and we’re not set 
up to do large numbers. Just doing the 
production.”
“The doughnuts are incredible. Some 
of the best donuts I’ve ever had,” said 
Honeycrisp.
Honeycrisps are specially priced at 
-
of demand.
“Honeycrisps are kind of new,” she 
When you plant trees, it takes a while 
to get an apple. To get to production, it 
probably takes nine or ten years. In this 
country, there aren’t enough Honeycrisps 
[to meet demand].”
On the popular apple, Mary Pratt 
added. “It’s a little difficult to grow, but 
“Honeycrisp likes kind of a ‘coolness’. 
They do well here.”
However, the orchard’s best-selling 
apple isn’t Honeycrisp, but a Vermont 
classic, the McIntosh.
“Most people grew up with the Mc-
Intosh,” she said. “That used to be what 
mainly was grown in Vermont. Vermont 
used to sell a lot of apples to the United 
Kingdom. That was a big outlet [back 
then]. Macs are probably still the number 
one, but right behind are Honeycrisps.”
“Honeycrisp’s popularity is really 
helping us because McIntosh was begin-
ning to lose its favor with a lot of people, 
Honeycrisp is, in some ways, replacing 
it.”
Mary Pratt’s favorite apple is neither 
of these and probably one you haven’t 
seen in either Proctor or Ross.
“You know, it changes, but right now, 
and you’ll have to try one,” she said, as 
she handed me a small golden apple with 
a faint cherry blush, “I’d have to say it’s 
Vermont Gold. We only have a couple 
trees [in the orchard]. It was an apple that 
was started at UVM by a professor who’s 
since passed away. It’s a good apple.”
The smooth skin was thinner than 
a Honeycrisp, but the juicy crunch was 
pleasantly familiar. The flesh, though not 
as sweet, was refreshingly mellow and 
balanced. This was one good apple.
Happy Valley, the Apple of my Eye
No Fats, No Femmes, No Love
By Lee Michael Garcia Jimenez and 
Rubby Valentin Paulino
 | october 9, 2014
The Umbrella Revolution is a grassroots 
movement of Hong Kong people in protest 
of increasing control by the Chinese govern-
by the Student Federation of Hong Kong and 
-
tive would assent to demands to talks about 
Hong Kong’s democratic reform, which was 
promises.
Hong Kong people never took a huge in-
terest in politics, despite the availability of free 
speech. Moreover, as Hong Kong history oc-
cupies a miniscule part within the compulso-
ry subject of Chinese history in public schools 
relate to and evaluate Hong Kong’s political 
problem, in fact, has always been incipient. In 
the past few years, there has been increasing 
antagonism towards ‘mainlanders’ who im-
migrate to Hong Kong because of its better 
welfare. Because many mothers come to give 
birth here, local pregnant mothers could not 
fear of ‘poisonous milk powder’ produced in 
mainland, mainlanders also empty the stocks 
of milk power in Hong Kong. The antagonism 
-
dependent media outlet, was shut down due 
to political reasons, the editor of a local news-
paper was assassinated, and the broadcasting 
license of a new TV channel was refused, de-
spite the poorly regarded local TV channels in 
Hong Kong. Linking these events to interfer-
ence from mainland China, our people came 
mainland can be to our basic freedoms.
As the Umbrella Revolution unfolded, 
were and how fast momentum built; I got 
-
the streets; I was on the verge of tears when 
-
saulted as well as beaten up. There are of 
course those who are against the movement, 
such as my family. Endorsing pro-China 
stances, they are convinced that such a pro-
test, which endangers social stability, would 
been attacked by triads, and the police have 
came down upon the students with tear gas. 
Moreover, they have also occupied major 
roads. Apart from arguments from liveli-
the communists against British colonial rule, 
as well as the cultural revolution, have also 
triggered their objections.
It doesn’t seem likely that China will con-
cede to the protester’s demands in the near 
future, despite the scale of the movement. 
For one, Hong Kong’s main purpose is eco-
nomic. Because it has the rule of law, as well 
-
ocratic elections, people are likely to demand 
better social welfare, which is likely to entail 
to foreign investment. 
Yet, it is unlikely that grievances will die 
down in the near future. The fact that China 
is not prepared to compromise for greater 
reform will intensify grievances among 
Hongkongers, especially since their political 
awareness is heightened through the Um-
brella Revolution. Moreover, since they are 
not going to step down in terms of economic 
control, people’s livelihood is likely to suf-
fer, which would sustain the social tension 
caused by the Umbrella revolution. In fact, a 
deepened economic inequality is one of the 
poorer livelihood than it did during the colo-
nial era, after it has been incorporated, after 
the handover, into China’s economic sphere.
The Umbrella Revolution may not di-
rectly bring change to the system, nor may 
civil disobedience, as originally proposed as 
one of the ways to achieve democracy, work. 
showed the best attributes of Hongkongers. 
Our qualities as the Pearl of the Orient shined 
through. We were peaceful, we were orderly, 
we were polite, we were responsible, we were 
the Lion Rock’ - that we would stand up for 
we want. So people, keep your eyes out. This 
is only the beginning.
By Joy Zhu
’Murica!
Hye -Jin Kim
Having depression can add to an already-
stressful life, especially for college students. 
Oftentimes people experiencing depression 
feel exhausted and cannot bring themselves 
to do much at all. Most students at the Col-
lege barely have enough time to get all their 
work done when they are at their most ener-
getic, so when depression is added into the 
mix, it is almost impossible to accomplish 
what you need to to be a successful student. 
Depression is a “common but serious ill-
ness typically marked by sad or anxious feel-
ings,” according to the National Institute of 
Mental Health.
When untreated, depression lasts for 
a lengthy period of time and interferes with 
daily life. In their 2011 report, the American 
College Health Association’s National College 
Health Assessment found that 30 percent of 
college students said they felt “so depressed 
in the past year.
There are multiple types of depression. 
Major depressive disorder involves disabling 
symptoms interfering with daily activity, 
perhaps occurring only once in a person’s 
lifetime, but more likely coming back repeat-
edly. Dysthymic disorder is a kind of mild but 
chronic depression spanning at least a two-
year period. People with dysthymic disorder 
can also experience  an episode of major 
depressive disorder. Minor depression is a 
more mild and short-term form of depres-
sion that can develop into major depressive 
disorder without treatment.
Several factors, including genetics and 
environment, can lead to depression. For 
many, going to college can be a source of 
stress that can increase your risk for depres-
sion. Being far away from home, bombarded 
with schoolwork and trying to manage your 
-
with antidepressants and/or psychotherapy.
-
ters in the brain, such as serotonin and nor-
epinephrine. These neurotransmitters are 
involved in the regulation of mood, but re-
search is inconclusive in showing exactly how 
they work.
Researchers originally thought that an-
tidepressants worked by raising serotonin 
levels in the brain, though this theory was 
never fully substantiated. Though research 
functions, it remains a mystery how exactly 
seems not to be a causal one, but something 
more subtle.
Some research shows that antidepres-
depression, but do little more than a placebo 
for minor depression. Other more alarming 
suicidal thoughts and behaviors among chil-
dren and young adults, leading to antidepres-
sants receiving a black-box warning because 
of their increased risk for these groups.
in treating depression. Therapy can involve 
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), a type 
of psychotherapy that works to change nega-
tive patterns of thinking that can contribute 
to depression. Interpersonal Therapy (IPT) 
can also be helpful — this type of therapy 
helps people work through their personal 
relationships that may contribute to depres-
sion. Therapy can be both short-term and 
long-term, depending on the individual.
There are many other resources and 
strategies to manage and treat depression. 
Going to counseling at Parton is a great way 
to start the treatment process — the sooner 
treatment begins the better. Breaking up as-
signments and tasks into smaller tasks can 
coping with depression. Exercise and healthy 
eating can help boost mood: exercise releases 
endorphins in the brain and certain vitamins 
and minerals, such as Vitamin D and magne-
sium, can help boost and stabilize mood, es-
pecially during the winter months — almost 
every month here in Vermont!
If an episode of depression is brought on 
-
tionship — short-term therapy, engagement 
with activities and spending time with friends 
may be the best ways to make it through that 
tough time. Depression stemming from an 
emotional event — say, a breakup — can of-
ten improve over time. Depression unrelated 
require more long-term treatment and more 
Depression is extremely common among 
college students — almost 50 percent of col-
lege students report having felt the symp-
toms of depression at some point. For some, 
maintaining healthy habits can help you al-
leviate or avoid the symptoms of depression. 
For others, psychotherapy and medication 
may be needed. It is important to be con-
scious of your mental state and your outlook: 
if you’ve been feeling more negative, sad, 
tired or hopeless than usual, it may be time 
to visit the counseling center and reevalu-
ate your habits. Depression is nothing to be 
ashamed of, but it should not be taken lightly 
either. With proper attention and treatment, 
and go back to enjoying life! 
Do you have something you’d like to 
contribute to the mental health conversation 
at Midd? Visit go/unspokenstigmas to make 
your voice heard.
13featuresoctober 9, 2014   
Treating Depression in College
By Emma McDonald
Imagine you’re driving through the 
quaint little town of East Middlebury, fairly 
lost, but telling yourself that you’re totally go-
ing the right way. It doesn’t matter though, 
because you’re the only person in the car, 
“Beverly Hills” is on the radio, you’re singing 
along and are crushing it. “Damn, I should 
sing a cappella,” you think, before realizing 
that you were one of only two kids to be given 
a non-singing role in your middle school op-
eretta. Also, your car happens to break down 
just as you pass East Middlebury’s own Pub 
All right, clearly that whole scenario is 
probably too weird for it to involve you. I’m 
the weirdo who had this exact experience 
happen to me and I guess I should probably 
give a brief introduction to my column. Basi-
cally, I really like cars. I have a passion for all 
things four-wheeled and have been known to 
actually enjoy reading about, writing on, and 
lusting over resource-wasting, non-sustain-
able, liquid dinosaur burning devil machines 
(or whatever environmentalists are calling 
cars these days – I swear I actually care about 
the environment, too).  Despite our decidedly 
eco image, a lot of students own cars. Cars 
this column to discuss cars as they relate to 
Middlebury.
Back to East Middlebury and some fur-
ther context: This drive just happens to be 
car is a navy blue 1999 Volvo V70. The Volvo 
is a performance beast that comes complete 
with such speed necessities as an engine, four 
wheels, and a steering wheel. The Swagon 
(short for Swagger Wagon) has even been 
proven through extensive and rigorous test-
ing to be able to win a one-mile race against 
a Porsche going 50 miles an hour by going 
60 miles per hour nine times out of 10 (how 
it lost the tenth race I don’t even know). The 
Volvo was my grandparent’s old ride and I 
-
tered chick magnet complete with a sparkling 
wax and shine. I even had it checked over at 
a local service station to guarantee that it was 
at least not going to combust at any point in 
time. Unfortunately — despite my extensive 
preparations that went so far as sprinkling 
water from the back of the glove compart-
ment onto the hood of the car, making my 
Volvo a blessed transport of college students 
to McDonald’s at one in the morning — the 
car still broke down. Crap.
The whole car just shut down. No en-
gine response, no power steering, no elec-
tricity, nothing. This is something all drivers 
should be prepared for. Cars aren’t perfect 
and there’s a good chance that, at some point 
in your life, you’re going to have a car break 
down on you. When you do break down, do 
whatever you can to get over to the side of 
the road while your car is still rolling. Don’t 
be that driver that panics and then ends up 
blocking the entire lane and don’t panic (un-
from your engine compartment, in which 
case, yes, panic and get the hell out of your 
car). Once you’ve pulled over, put your haz-
ards on and try to start your car again. If it 
doesn’t start right away, try turning the en-
gine over a bit longer than you would normal-
ly, even feathering the gas a little bit. If you’re 
still not getting it started, pop the hood and 
make sure everything major is connected (the 
foremost). If nothing seems to be working, 
call for help. If you’re somewhere in the Mid-
dlebury area, there’s a relatively good chance 
that there will be someone around willing to 
help (thanks Greg and Fran!) If worst comes 
to worst, you’ll have to arrange for a tow and 
have it sent to a garage that comes recom-
mended. It sucks, I know, but just do it.
My car turned out to have a failed fuel 
pump, which is actually pretty tricky to re-
place on my particular Volvo. I got it towed by 
Mike’s Auto Towing and repaired by Randy’s 
Service Center, who were both reasonable 
and knowledgeable. The Swagger Wagon is 
good to go now. Realize, however, that the 
possibility of a breakdown is part of the cost 
of taking your car to college. Try to keep your 
car in as good a condition as you can and 
make sure you have a game plan in case it 
does die on you. You’ve got this.
By Charlie Ascher
In a letter written in 1819 by Roman-
tic poet John Keats to his brother George 
and sister-in-law Georgiana, Keats said that 
“nothing ever becomes real till it is experi-
enced — Even a Proverb is no proverb to you 
till your Life hast illustrated it.’
The College’s community of poet-per-
formers, Poor Form Poetry, captures this “re-
alness” of poetic experience in their spoken 
word presentations. They bring to poetry a 
fourth aspect: performance. Designed to con-
nect with the audience, Poor Form’s poetry is 
written, work-shopped and then performed 
in the spoken word style during their on-
campus events or, as it has been in the past, 
national poetry slam competitions. As op-
posed to spoken word, which involves more 
storytelling, slam poetry has a much more 
theatrical element.
Last year, Poor Form Poetry was not as 
active due to the group’s graduated seniors 
and the number of juniors studying abroad, 
but now they are back and already preparing 
for their upcoming show in November. They 
are focusing more on the spoken word ele-
ment but depending on the group’s interests 
may compete in slam competitions later on.
Meagan Neal ’15 is a senior in the group 
and, having been involved with the group 
since her sophomore year, is one of the lead-
of Poor Form the group focused largely on 
participating in the wider slam poetry col-
lege community, Neal said, “we’re making 
community. We want to have a solid group 
of poets that really care about each other and 
each other’s work and then share that with 
the campus.”
-
selves into the campus can be seen in the 
auditions held last month for new members. 
Out of the nearly twenty people who audi-
tioned, seven were accepted. One of these 
new members is Andrew Snow ’15, who is 
also a prominent member of Middlebury’s 
open mic group Verbal Onslaught.
“As a freshman I was blown away by 
their skill,” Snow said. “You get to workshop 
with some amazing poets and I really wanted 
that atmosphere.”
Emily Luan ’15, another leading senior 
in the group, was impressed both by the 
amount of people who showed up and by the 
poetic skill that she saw.
“There were a lot of really great people, 
which was a really pleasant surprise,” she 
said. “We looked for a certain quality of po-
etry but we also wanted a wide range of voices 
and styles.”
Now, with more new members than old, 
Poor Form has done just this: drawing from 
the student population to create a myriad of 
talented voices and capping the group at elev-
en members. Having more poets allows for a 
more extensive workshop, one of the integral 
elements of Poor Form.
Workshop, a process practiced in many 
of the College’s creative writing classes, in-
volves sharing one’s personal, written work 
-
tions, praises and critiques. Having a consis-
tent group of people to workshop with twice 
a week allows for much personal growth as 
a writer as well as an opportunity to connect 
within the group and build relationships 
outside of the College’s traditional academic 
writing classes.
Poor Form’s members thus develop 
their writing into spoken word presentations, 
bringing in the element of performance to 
create a much wider poetic experience for 
the audience and, by John Keats’ standards, 
making it very real for everyone who listens.
It is not easy to perform a personal col-
lection of words in front of an audience. “You 
don’t know how people will react to your 
words, especially if it’s personal,” Snow said.
But the upside? “Having that constant 
inspiration to write is so helpful,” Neal said. 
“Learning when to raise and lower your voice, 
when to preserve those sacred, quiet mo-
ments in the poem and to transmit feeling 
and emotion in a way that for me personally 
isn’t always possible when it’s just words on 
a page.”
Without campus organizations such as 
Verbal Onslaught or Poor Form Poetry, there 
is no available environment to hear what oth-
er writers are working on across campus and 
to hear their sentiments expressed out loud. 
“It’s absolutely mind blowing to me how good 
they are,” Snow said. Writing poetry is often a 
personal experience but poetry itself is an art 
happen right at Middlebury.
Poor Form Poetry: Back on the Block
By Erin Winseman
Poor Form Poetry, poorly forming a trapezoid at Yale University’s Poetry Invitational.
Courtesy
THE PREMIER CAR COLUMN
From Oct. 2 to 4, the Theatre Program 
sponsored the 19th Annual First Years Pro-
duction: A Cautionary Tale and Others. 
Directed by alum Bill Army ’07 and com-
and sophomore Febs. A Cautionary Tale 
and Others was staged in The Hepburn 
Zoo to a sold out crowd.
A Cautionary Tale and Others un-
folded as a set of interconnected scenes 
from various recently produced plays, each 
taking a glimpse at the social and techno-
logical changes that have developed over 
our lifetimes and the new challenges they 
may pose.  A monologue on the deceptive 
performance, prompting the audience to 
question the very premise of the show it-
self. This opener left the audience with the 
and leads us to create damaging expecta-
tions for ourselves, what are the merits of 
This ambiguity carries through the 
bulk of the play.  As we observe how dat-
all changed through the proliferation of 
new digital media, the audience laughed 
and cringed in equal measure.  While at 
times serious and certainly tackling seri-
ous topics, the play was frequently comic 
and lighthearted.  Ben Borgmann-Winter 
’18, who played the role of Derek, touched 
on the binary nature of the show.
“Personally, I felt like it stretched me 
a little bit in the comedic sense,” he said. 
“I’ve done more of the dramatic things, but 
this gave me a couple of different tones to 
play with.”
Being something of a medley produc-
tion, the ultimate form of the show was not 
-
duction cycle.
-
ing it until after it had been cast,” Borg-
mann-Winter said.  “For example, he add-
ed the ending scene partway through our 
rehearsals.  In general, it was a very mal-
leable production, so we had a lot of room 
to work.”
show was aimed at students unable to au-
dition for the fall faculty productions, since 
auditions for such shows are in the spring 
of the preceding year.  This means that the 
-
duction cycle, with three weeks between 
and it also draws in students with highly 
disparate experience levels.
“Some people hadn’t been in shows be-
fore, while some had been in professional 
productions, so there was a really wide 
range of experience,” Borgmann-Winter 
said.  “Overall, it was a friendly, well-
rounded group of folks.”
Jesusdaniel Barba ’18 was the Assis-
tant to the Director for the production. 
Prior to his involvement in A Cautionary 
Tale and Others, Barba had never partici-
pated in theatre.
-
thing theatre-related, so it was really cool 
to work with Bill, who has done such a great 
amount of acting and theatre,” Barba said. 
“It was really interesting to get to know the 
theatre world and be a part of that niche.”
The production also managed to give 
more substantial roles to actors who, in the 
future, may face more competition from 
upperclassmen.
“It gives us an opportunity to get our 
feet wet in a lower-key setting with a little 
less competition,” Borgmann-Winter said. 
“It has been set up to give everyone a fair 
amount to work with.”
Tucked away above the Hepburn 
lounge, the Zoo was an ideal site for the 
staging of A Cautionary Tale and Oth-
ers.  The sparse set design and digital ef-
fects were enhanced by the modest setting, 
while the scenes themselves were strength-
ened by the intimacy of the venue.  Charac-
ters who existed onstage for only minutes 
at a time could more easily connect with an 
audience that sat only a few feet away.
The play’s preoccupations with tech-
nology manifested physically in the use of 
innovative digital effects.  In a memorable 
scene, the text-message exchange between 
a couple was projected visually to the au-
dience while the characters sat in their re-
spective rooms.  Some scenes used digital 
projections to act as backdrops, such as the 
skyline of a city.  Other scenes eschewed 
the use of digital effects altogether and 
could almost exist in any sitcom or the-
atre production of the last twenty or thirty 
years.
One scene in particular stood out as a 
powerful contrast to many of the more pro-
nounced references to technology and so-
cial media.  Coming in somewhere towards 
the middle of the play, Derek (Borgmann-
Winter) and his girlfriend, Vivienne (Isa-
-
ing the water in New York City, discussing 
future plans and the potential challenges 
they may face as a long-distance couple 
attending schools on opposite ends of the 
country.
Both Borgmann-Winter and Barba felt 
this scene paralleled the experiences of 
many of the college-aged members of the 
audience and incorporated an added di-
mension to the play, making it less about 
technology in a strict sense and more about 
where we have been and where we are 
headed.
“I’ve been there,” Borgmann-Winter 
said.  “It’s quite a conversation. I think a 
lot of people have probably been there, and 
recently.”
The production frequently forced the 
audience to confront their own relation-
ship with technology through a biting and 
frequently comical satire of modern social 
behaviors.  Yet beneath this farce lay em-
pathetic and complex characters, involved 
in situations that seemed to be deeply 
rooted in traditional storytelling.  Despite 
social media and new technologies, we still 
obsess over the minutiae of budding rela-
with siblings and roommates and struggle 
to come to terms with death and mortal-
ity.  The ways in which we communicate 
may have changed, but have we as people 
The play’s message is ultimately am-
biguous, leaving individual audience mem-
bers to parse out its deeper implications. 
“More than anything it’s a warning to 
be conscious of how you present yourself,” 
Borgmann-Winter said.  “Like they say in 
the last scene, it’ll follow you forever.  It’s 
not so much saying that technology is ter-
rible, it’s more suggesting we be smart, 
sensible, responsible, respectful.”
answers and questions we are left with.
“The ending is ambiguous, but I feel 
what the play is really suggesting is that 
we change our habits,” Barba said.  “I 
don’t think it was saying we should get rid 
of [technology] completely because it is a 
part of who we are and what we do now. 
priority.”
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Master Class with Keanu Forrest Brady
Explore a hybrid hip hop style that is a combination of 
breaking, house, hip hop, modern dance, tutting, and 
-
10/15, 10 A.M., MCA DANCE THEATER
Belcea String Quartet
Renowned around the globe for unique, elegant, and 
-
samunde quartet. 
10/15, 7:30 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
Illustrated Lecture: The Arts of Tibet
To celebrate the centennial of the Newark Mu-
seum’s renowned Tibet collection in 2011, Dr. 
Katherine Anne Paul re-installed six permanent 
galleries of Tibetan art and created three tempo-
rary exhibitions of Tibetan art. Free lecture.
10/9, 4:30 P.M. MCA CONCERT HALL
First-Year Show Considers Technology
Courtesy David Holloway
By Luke Linden
Sebastian LaPointe ’18 and Shannon Gibbs ’18 potray technology’s complicated effects on relationships in the First-Year Show.
Annie ulrich 
On Oct. 3 and 5, the Opera Company 
of Middlebury (OCM) presented a concert 
staging of Guiseppe Verdi’s La Traviata 
at the Town Hall Theater. The produc-
tion, directed by OCM Artistic Director 
and Executive Director of the Town Hall 
Theater Doug Anderson and joined by the 
College Choir under the direction of Asso-
ciate Professor of Music Jeffrey Buettner, 
wowed sold-out crowds with big-city tal-
ent on a small town stage.
This staging is remarkable in many 
ways. The orchestra, College Choir and 
members of the principal ensemble prac-
ticed together for only three days, or about 
six hours, before opening night. It is a tes-
tament to the professionalism, dedication 
and preparatory rehearsal time of each of 
those groups that La Traviata appeared 
as a polished, seamless performance after 
so little combined rehearsal time.
Guiseppe Verdi’s 1853 opera La Tra-
viata follows Violetta, a character based 
on real-life Parisian high-priced prostitute 
Marie Duplessis, who arrived in the city 
penniless and slept her way to a position 
as one of the richest women in Paris. Criti-
cal of decadence, aristocratic privilege and 
19th century gender roles, La Traviata is 
scenes and extravagant behavior that is 
also a tragedy, following Violetta’s journey 
from loose woman to doting wife to dy-
ing patient. Her ornate lifestyle is literally 
killing her, most likely from tuberculosis, 
and tragic forces separate her from the 
man she loves. 
The songs of La Traviata are extreme-
ly recognizable, including the rousing 
drinking song “Libiamo,” which includes 
full ensemble and choir, and Violetta’s 
aria, “Sempre Libera.”
Soprano Rochelle Bard demonstrated 
an impressive vocal range and control as 
Violetta, appearing in most of the acts with 
her consistently rich vocals. She portrayed 
a woman of extravagance well, displaying 
ecstasy and agony in equal measure as Vi-
oletta traveled an emotional roller coaster. 
Bard has performed as a soloist at Carn-
egie Hall in New York City and with opera 
companies around the country. 
Joining her were the equally impres-
sive tenor James Flora as her doomed lov-
er, Alfredo, who has previously performed 
with OCM and will be performing with 
the Metropolitan Opera in 2014, mezzo-
soprano Olga Perez Flora and decadent 
baritone Brian Major as Alfredo’s father, 
Giorgio.
There is an athletic dedication to the 
craft of vocalization present in opera that 
requires not just exquisite knowledge and 
care of the vocal chords, but practiced 
control of breath, diaphragm, posture, 
emotion and foreign diction. It is not sing-
ing that makes one a diva. It is the per-
-
lously crafted trills, controlled vibrato and 
mastery of dynamic phrasing that allows a 
singer to even consider themselves a diva. 
-
fessionals did it with an ease that made it 
seem as natural as carrying on a conversa-
tion.
The fact that the Town Hall Theater 
and Opera Company of Middlebury are 
consistently able to draw world-renowned 
opera stars to participate in their produc-
tions is astounding. And the cost for this 
professional quality performance, $40 to 
$50 per ticket, is a fraction of the expense 
of a large-venue production, making an 
art form stereotypically labeled as elitist 
or snobbish accessible to an entirely dif-
ferent audience. 
Tickets to the Metropolitan Opera’s 
production of La Traviata, running this 
December and January, are selling for 
upwards of $400 each. This is due to the 
sheer number of people, in addition to the 
principal singers, required to stage such a 
lavish performance, including up to 80 or-
chestra members and equally large choirs, 
depending on the piece. On a stage as 
prestigious as the Met, opera stars charge 
large fees, and some production compa-
of $500,000 on each production. Operas 
cannot be staged eight times a week in the 
same manner as a play or musical because 
of the physical demands on the singers, 
who have required days of rest when they 
occasionally don’t speak at all to save their 
instruments. 
Ticket fees cover only about 50 per-
cent of the Opera Company of Middle-
bury’s production costs, with sponsors, 
The College Choir, fresh off of their 
summer tour to Berlin, Prague, Liepzig 
and Vienna, participated as the opera’s 
chorus. This community and collegiate 
collaboration provides students a unique 
opportunity to work with experienced op-
era singers and appear in a professional 
production. 
Leo DesBois ’15 participated with the 
Choir in  two years ago, 
and he is thrilled by the opportunity the 
musical collaboration provides.
“It’s incredible to kind of be so close 
physically to these amazing soloists to ex-
perience that level of musicianship, and 
also to work with a professional conductor 
of the caliber of Emmanuel Plasson, who 
has conducted at the Met, and all over the 
place,” DesBois said. “He brings an inten-
sity and a precision to his conducting that 
you don’t get to experience very often. It’s 
also amazing that it’s such a big ensemble 
with the orchestra right there, the conduc-
tor, the soloists in this intimate setting, it 
makes you feel like it’s the real deal, be-
cause it is.”
Since the semester began, the Choir’s 
four-hour a week rehearsals have consist-
ed primarily of Verdi’s La Traviata choral 
repertoire. Their only additional rehears-
als were a sitzprobe, or seated rehearsal, 
on Tuesday, Sept. 30 and a ticketed dress 
rehearsal on Wednesday, Oct. 1. These 
rehearsals paid off, as the Choir was phe-
nomenal throughout the opera, easily per-
forming at the professional level.
OCM came in the Fall 2012 production 
of Puccini’s  after An-
derson approached Buettner in the spring 
of 2012 about the possibility of work-
ing together. Due to the huge success of 
that teamwork, Anderson approached 
Buettner again about La Traviata, which 
has a critically important choral compo-
nent. 
“We had to learn the music very, very 
quickly, and with an opera, the challenge 
is not just learning the music but the Ital-
ian text and also the timing of the en-
trances, because the chorus is sort of like 
a minor character who has to pop in every 
now and then and say things, and it’s hard 
to get that timing right when you’re not 
with the soloists and with the orchestra,” 
DesBois said.
Orchestra, chorus and OCM members 
alike brought a thrilling combination of 
professionalism and musical excellence 
that made the three and a half hour opera 
seem much shorter. The audience buzzed 
with excitement at each intermission and, 
after the show, thrilled at the rare experi-
ence OCM and the Town Hall Theater cre-
ates twice a year.
OCM’s Spring 2015 production is Gia-
como Puccini’s Turandot, which will be 
staged May 30 to June 7.
The Town Hall Theater also broad-
casts Live Metropolitan Opera produc-
tions on its big screen for a $24 admission 
fee, giving the community an opportunity 
to view the Met’s productions for a frac-
tion of the in-person cost. The Met’s sea-
son opener is Le Nozze de Figaro on Oct. 
18. Tickets are available for a discounted 
$10 for students at the Town Hall Theater 
By Cullen Coleman
Birgitta cheng 
POLITICS OF
P    WER
The College Choir poses outside of the Town Hall Theater after the Opera Company of Middlebury’s production of La Traviata.
Choir Brings Passion to Opera
By Leah Lavigne
october 9, 2014 | 15arts SCIENCES
In a shocking – though not unfore-
seen – development, China has recently 
surpassed the European Union in green-
house gas emissions per capita. This 
means that on average, each person in 
China in 2013 produced 7.2 tons of car-
bon dioxide compared with 6.8 tons in 
Europe, 16.4 tons in the U.S. and 1.9 
tons in India . Though the U.S still leads 
the world on a per capita emissions ba-
sis, China surpassed the U.S. in terms 
of overall carbon discharge seven years 
ago and still remains by far the largest 
producer. However, there seems to be a 
growing paradigm shift within Beijing. 
The politburo has realized that the envi-
ronmental price China has paid for sus-
tained growth has been too large. 
The most visible and advertised en-
vironmental problem has been poor air 
quality. International and domestic news 
agencies have been reporting relentless-
ly on the sometimes apocalyptic condi-
tions within Beijing, Handan and Jinan, 
to name a few of the most polluted cit-
ies. In 2013, only three of the 74 Chinese 
cities monitored by the central govern-
ment met the national standard for “fine 
(healthy) air.” As is Beijing’s style, there 
has coalesced a top down plan dubbed 
in the western media – “China’s War on 
Pollution.” 
Enemy combatant number one for 
the Chinese government is coal-fired 
power plants. This seems to be fantas-
tic news as coal is the major source of 
China’s greenhouse gas emissions and 
is responsible for at least 67% of China’s 
seemingly insatiable appetite for energy. 
However, China does not have enough 
natural gas to meet its energy needs, its 
nuclear sector is also relatively small and 
clean technologies such as wind and so-
lar are still immature and infinitesimal 
in relation to demand. In response, the 
Chinese government is set to begin a 
rapid buildup of coal to gas power plants. 
CoalToGas — also known as syn-
thetic natural gas — is created by synthe-
sizing natural gas from the gasification 
of mined coal. The short term benefits 
from China’s perspective are obvious. In 
facilities located far from China’s popu-
lation centers, Beijing can convert mil-
lions of tons a year of dirtier coal into 
cleaner-burning natural gas, ship this 
gas cross-country and power local gas 
plants. In most cases the smog reduc-
tion gains are enormous, with gas-fired 
plants emitting up to 99% fewer local or 
“criteria” pollutants than coal plants in 
situ. However, from coal-seam to power 
generation, synthetic natural gas emits 
seven times more greenhouse gas emis-
sions than natural gas and the total car-
bon discharged is up to 82% greater than 
a regular coal-fired power plant. 
Though it may appear to Beijing that 
shoring up its energy security is priority 
number one, this undertaking has the 
potential to become an environmental 
catastrophe. If China builds the nine ap-
proved SNG plants — over the estimat-
ed 40-year life — their carbon-dioxide 
emissions will hit 21 billion tons (China’s 
total CO2 emissions in 2011 was 7.7 bil-
lion tons). There are currently an addi-
tional thirty CTG plants up for approval 
in the coming years. China has clearly 
prioritized smog reduction over emis-
sion reduction targets and fears of global 
warming. This may be one of the most 
detrimental and transformative shifts in 
the energy and environmental world.   
Greenhouse Gas:
China
go/obo
Body Fit with nina vila
Tuesdays/thursdays 
12:30 p.m.
mca 109, $10
Belcea string quartet
10/15
mca concert hall
$6 for students
cocoon
10/24
mca concert hall
$5 for students
Why do we tell stories? How do we tell 
stories? How do the stories we tell shape 
our identity? These are the questions at the 
Sto-
ries We Tell
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
we actually see 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
ticular way.
-
-
Stories We Tell
-
presents and futures coherent. Each char-
-
-
-
-
-
By Josh Swartz
the reel critic
stories we tell
16arts SCIENCES OCTOBER 9, 2014 | 
october 9, 2014| SPORTS17
the Panthers ten minutes later, taking a feed 
from Cat Fowler ’15 and burying it in the cage 
the scoring for Middlebury with an unassisted 
goal in the 64th minute to give the Panthers 
The Panther defense was particularly stout 
against Williams, allowing just two shots over 
the entirety of the game to help Knapp record 
her third shutout of the season.
Underclassmen have accounted for 25 of 
Middlebury’s 49 goals this season. Similarly, 
four of the Panthers’ six top point scorers are 
members of the classes of 2017 or 2018.
While the Panthers were beating Tufts on 
Saturday afternoon, Bowdoin was upset at 
home by Trinity in an overtime thriller, creat-
-
ference between Middlebury, Bowdoin and 
Trinity.
The upset of Bowdoin sets up a showdown 
between Trinity and Middlebury on Saturday, 
Oct. 11. The winner of that game will remain 
alongside Bowdoin as the only one-loss teams 
in the NESCAC, with a relatively easy sched-
ule remaining before the conference tourna-
ment tips off in late October.
CONTINUED FROM 20
On Saturday, Oct. 4, the Middlebury cross 
country teams visited Vermont Technical 
College to race in the Vermont State Meet. 
The men won their sixth consecutive state 
championship while the women continued 
their streak of victories that has lasted longer 
than anyone currently associated with the 
program can remember.
The women secured their victory by 
scoring 21 points, topping second-place St. 
Michael’s by 20 points. Olivia Artaiz ’16 was 
in 20:27, less than 10 seconds off of Saint 
Michael’s Chloe Boutelle’s winning time. 
Behind Artaiz came the usual Middlebury 
pack: Sarah Guth ’15, Robin Vincent ’18 
seconds of one another, less than 20 seconds 
Robbins ’18 was the last scoring Panther, 
taking seventh place in 20:50. Nagy, the 
NESCAC’s top returning runner, made her 
season debut after battling some early season 
injuries. 
Assistant coach Jack Davies commented 
on Nagy’s return. 
“It was exciting because she is an extremely 
talented athlete who is going to be key to our 
success in November,” Davies said.
general lack of competition did not lend 
themselves to fast times, but cross country is 
about place, not time. 
 “While the atmosphere of the state meet 
is certainly more relaxed than some of our 
other meets, we take a lot of pride in being 
the best Vermont team across all three 
NCAA Divisions, and we certainly raced to 
win,” Davies said. “It was a really tough, hilly 
veterans graveyard, and an apple orchard, 
and it was cold, with driving rain, which 
think our training in Middlebury prepares us 
for anything.”
On the men’s side, Sam Klockenkemper 
to the team victory. The Panthers – whose 24 
points put them 28 points ahead of second-
contributions from Charlie Jones ’15, Peter 
’16.
“It was great to get the win,” 
race back after dealing with a knee injury, and 
it was a perfectly low-key environment to do 
it. Also, I won a quart of maple syrup, so that’s 
pretty neat.”
Overall Middlebury runners took six of 
the top 10 places in the race, including four 
of the top six.
Both the men’s and women’s teams were 
able to rest several of their top runners at 
the State Championship meet in hopes of 
Open New England Championship. That 
meet – which will pit the Panthers against 
top Division-I, II and III competitors from 
around the region – will be held on Saturday, 
Oct. 11 in Franklin Park in Boston.
“We are feeling very strong and are excited 
to race against a bigger and more competitive 
“We haven’t really got the chance to go all out 
in a race and we are all are ready to.”
At last year’s meet, both the men’s and 
Cross Country Teams Win State Titles
By Bryan Holtzman
Schulman, Panthers Run 
Past Jumbos at Home the numbers in no way reflect the talent 
the Panthers have on the field. Held 
back by rain, Middlebury simply could 
not go about business in the manner of 
which it is accustomed, from the line to 
the wide receivers.
All things considered, on a day that 
featured better weather, the Panthers 
very well could have won this game. 
If there is a silver lining to all the 
clouds (pun intended) the Panthers 
encountered on Saturday, it is the 
continued high-level play of the defense, 
especially in the secondary. With two 
picks from Pierce, and Matt Benedict ’15 
winning NESCAC Defensive Player of 
the Week with his 20-tackle effort from 
the free safety position, the defensive 
unit has continued to be one of the 
league’s very best.
The Panthers should be able to 
rebound nicely this coming weekend 
when they travel to Williams on Oct. 11, 
so long as they steer clear of rain.
The Ephs, whose record also sits at 
1-2 after three conference games, are 
another team who is looking to get back 
into the NESCAC fray in the second 
half of the season. After falling 19-12 
to Bates on Saturday, Oct. 4, however, 
Williams’ prospects of reaching the top 
of the league appear bleak.
Tough Weekend for Football
CONTINUED FROM 18
…
…
Some of the greatest games in football 
history have come in inclement weather 
– earning titles like the Ice Bowl, the 
Sneakers Game and most recently, the 
“Tuck Rule” game. 
The Panthers’ game on Oct. 4 
against Amherst, however, did not 
rank in greatness alongside these other 
legendary games. The persistent, driving 
rain that fell over Youngman Field last 
Saturday interfered with both teams’ 
offenses, and the Panthers ended up 
falling 7-0 to the Lord Jeffs despite 
their confidence coming off of a great 
performance against Colby on Sept. 27. 
With the loss to Amherst, Middlebury 
football now has a 1-2 record on the 
season. With two losses in a relatively 
short eight-game season, the team now 
faces long odds in their goal of repeating 
as NESCAC co-champions this season. 
While their position is not optimal going 
forward, the Panthers need to win each 
of their final five games in order to keep 
their title hopes alive.
After a quick three and out from the 
Middlebury offense to start the game, the 
Lord Jeffs went on to record their longest 
drive of the day, advancing 66 yards in 
11 plays. This ended prematurely when 
Amherst’s kicker sailed a 23-yard field 
goal attempt wide left. Middlebury did 
not capitalize on the momentum, with an 
ugly sequence on offense that included 
a false start and a sack, resulting in yet 
another three and out.
Both offenses would trade possessions 
until Dan Pierce ’16 intercepted a 
promising play by Amherst and gave 
Middlebury the ball on it own 34 yard 
line. Despite a nice completion on 
third and long from Matt Milano ’16 to 
Drew Jacobs ’18 on a day when passing 
yardage came on a premium, Middlebury 
did not gain enough yards to keep the 
drive going and use Pierce’s turnover to 
full effect. So the Panthers were forced 
to punt as the first quarter of play came 
to an end.
In the second quarter, both teams 
struggled to do much of anything. Neither 
team advanced into its opponent’s side of 
the field on offense, and a flurry of three 
and outs along with fair catches brought 
the game into the half. 
Amherst, having won the coin toss at 
the start of the game, elected to start with 
the ball in the second half. Following a 
decent kick return, Amherst opened up 
the half with a 59-yard scamper from 
running back Nick Kelly, which put them 
up 7-0 over Middlebury. On the ensuing 
series, Middlebury, aided by multiple 
personal fouls by Amherst, advanced the 
ball deep into Amherst territory. Within 
sight of the red-zone at Amherst’s 27, 
the rain again proved to be a massive 
hindrance to Middlebury’s pass-heavy 
offense, and the Panthers turned the ball 
over on downs.
While opportunity presented itself 
again in the form of Pierce’s second 
interception of the day, the Panthers 
offense sputtered to another 3 and out. 
Following this trend, Michael Dola ’15 
recorded 13 punts in this game alone. 
With the clock running out on this 
dreary Saturday, the Panthers left the 
field disheartened to say the least.
It really is hard to take positives out 
of a game like this- two for 17 on third 
down conversions, 129 yards of total 
offense, and less than two yards per carry 
running the ball. Objectively speaking, 
these statistics are far from optimal. 
H o w e v e r , 
This past weekend the Middlebury 
volleyball team took a Massachusetts 
road trip to battle NESCAC foes  Amherst 
and Williams on Friday and Saturday, 
Oct. 3 and 4, falling 3-1 in both matches.
On Friday night, the Panthers went 
into Amherst’s LeFrak Gymnasium to 
take on the formidable Lord Jeffs, owners 
of a 9-2 record overall including a 2-1 
mark within the conference.
In the first set, the Panthers got off 
to a slow start, falling behind 7-0 before 
Hannah Blackburn ’17 assisted Olivia 
Kolodka ’15 for a kill that began a 25-9 
Middlebury run. Another kill from 
Olivia Kolodka capped off the run for the 
Panthers with a win in the first set.
Amherst rallied in the next three sets, 
however, winning 25-20, 25-16 and 25-
22, each of which was toughly contested.  
A late Panther rally fell short at the 
end of the second set, and although they 
were able to pull within four points of the 
Jeffs, Amherst’s Asha Walker sealed it 
with a kill. 
In game three the Panthers started 
hot, mustering a 5-1 lead before the hosts 
went on a fierce 18-7 run to put the set 
out of reach.  The Panthers jumped out 
to a 4-1 lead in what would be the final 
set, and led by as many as six points at 16-
10 before the momentum changed after a 
Panther service error. 
Amherst also benefited from a key 
substitution in the set, putting junior 
Samantha Newby and sophomore Kate 
Bres in the game.
On the night, Olivia Kolodka led 
Panther attack with 13 kills and also had 
nine assists and 16 digs.  Fellow senior 
Piper Underbrink ’15 contributed 11 
kills, while Becca Raffel ’18 logged 10. 
Blackburn led all players with 41 assists 
to go along with her 15 digs, and Lizzy 
Reed ’15 had a team-high 20 digs.
The Panthers then made the 60-mile 
trek to Williamstown to take on the 
defending NESCAC champion Ephs of 
Williams, who entered the matchup in 
Chandler Gym with an impressive 12-1 
record and with an eight-game winning 
streak.  
Williams took the first set 25-17, but 
the second set belonged to the Panthers, 
who needed an extra point to close it out 
26-24.  
The third and fourth sets would go 
to the Ephs.  A service ace by Williams 
junior setter Ryan Farley began a 15-1 run 
to open the third set.  
The Panthers managed only a few 
side-outs before Williams broke twenty 
points, getting the score 20-6 en route 
to taking the third set by a score of 25-
10.  The fourth set would feature much of 
the same, with the Ephs charging ahead 
4-0 on the heels of Raea Rasmussen’s 
outside kill and a serving streak provided 
by Amanda Schott.  The Ephs won the last 
set handily, 25-12.
Raffel led the attack with 13 kills 
and Olivia Kolodka added seven more. 
Blackburn had 34 assists and 15 digs in 
the match, while Emily Kolodka ’18 added 
16 digs. Reed had a team-high 17 digs in 
the contest.  
The Panthers – who are now 4-7 overall 
on the season and 1-3 in NESCAC play –
play host to Bowdoin at 8pm on Friday, 
Oct. 10 followed by a matchup with Colby 
at 2pm on Saturday, Oct. 11 in Pepin Gym.
The Polar Bears and Mules should 
provide a slight break for the Pantherse.
Sitting at 12-4 on the season and 4-2 
within the conference, Bowdoin is coming 
off a weekend in which they were upset by 
Trinity. The Polar Bears are in need of a 
win in order to solidify their place among 
the NESCAC’s competitive teams in 2014.
Colby, meanwhile, has struggled to a 
9-7 record so far this season, including 
a 1-4 mark in the NESCAC. Both the 
Panthers and Mules look to be teams 
who will have to pull together a string of 
late wins if they are going to qualify for 
the eight-team NESCAC championship 
tournament.
On Oct. 4-5, the Middlebury women’s 
golf team competed in the Williams 
Invitational, their fourth tournament of 
of competition and a 335 on the second 
day. These similar scores demonstrate a 
consistency that the Panthers have been 
looking to maintain since the beginning of 
the season.
Middlebury was once again led by 
Michelle Peng ’15, who came in 10th place 
overall. She shot a 79 on day one and then 
completed the weekend with an 82 on day 
of her fall season. She has come in second, 
tournaments. Peng’s consistent record of 
heap among NESCAC competitors.
Jordan Glatt ’15 was the next top 
Glatt has also performed well this fall, 
tournament. Peng and Glatt, who have 
successfully led the Panthers this season, 
will hope to continue that trend in the all-
important spring season.
weekend with a 171, which secured her a 
solid 25th place while Theodora Yoch ’17 
was just three strokes behind with a 174, 
good for 29th place. Emma Kitchen ’14.5 
and Sarah Breckinridge ’18 also competed 
this weekend. Kitchen shot a 203 while 
the tournament, Peng, Glatt, Matthews, 
and Yoch made major contributions to 
NESCAC schools.
Unfavorable weather conditions posed 
an additional challenge for the Panthers 
as they played throughout the weekend. 
“Even though the weather didn’t cooperate 
on Saturday, we were fairly pleased with 
our performance given the extra obstacle 
of rain,” Glatt said. Looking ahead, Glatt 
stated: “Although our overall team score 
was consistent when comparing the two 
rounds, we look to improve next weekend 
at Wellesley.”
The Middlebury women’s golf team will 
complete its fall season next weekend at the 
Ann Bachelder Invitational, which will take 
place at Wellesley College.
| october 9, 201418 sports
Football Held Scoreless Against Amherst
By Stephen Etna
File photo
Matt Milano ’16 and the Panther offense stalled out on Saturday, Oct. 4 against 
Amherst. The Lord Jeffs held Milano and company to just eight first downs and 129 
yards of total offense as Amherst shut out Middlebury by a final score of 7-0.
Women’s Golf Finishes 
Fifth at Williams Invite
8
Volleyball 
Too many ups and downs so 
far this season. 
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Plunkett’s Predictions 
2
Cross Country 
Both teams dominated last 
Women’s soccer
A three-game winning streak 
could be the spark this team 
3
Field Hockey 
Earning coach’s 200th victory 
last weekend should motivate 
the squad to keep winning.
4 fAll Break Needed on a number of levels.  
5 Men’s Soccer
team has all the weapons to win. 
7
Football  
Scoring is an important part of 
winning football games. 
6
Men’s Golf 
We can expect a great 
performance this weekend in 
the ECAC Championship.
the middlebury
great  eight
Volleyball Unable to 
Tally NESCAC Wins 
By Will Case
28
27:31
Number of points separating women’s 
cross country from the second-
Championship meet.
Solo tackles by Matthew Benedict ’15 in 
football’s 7-0 loss to Amherst.
8K time for Sam Klockenkemper 
men’s cross country.
hockey coach  Katharine DeLorenzo. 
14
200
by the Numb3rs
soccer goaltender Emily Eslinger 1.000
SEE TOUGH, PAGE 17
october 9, 2014| 19SPORTS
Football Held Scoreless Against Amherst  Double-Overtime Match Ends in Tie
panther sc0reboard
Football vs. Amherst 
Women’s Soccer  vs. Tufts 
CROSS Country @ State Meet 
field hockey vs. Tufts 
Men’s Soccer vs. Tufts
The Panther defense was unable to 
compensate for a weak offensive 
effort against Amherst. 
Both teams swept the meet. Four of 
Panthers.
A late conversion made the 
difference in an otherwise even 
matchup with a NESCAC rival. 
The team produced a lot of 
scoring action in Coach Katharine 
Great goaltending from transfer 
7-0 L 
1-0 W
3-1 L
6-1 W
0-0 T
MIDDLEBURY
The Panthers want another shot at 
Bowdoin, and Trinity just happens 
to be in the way.
YES
Middlebury is going to take out 
their frustrations on lowly Trinity.
NESCAC. 
MIDDLEBURY 
Trinity upset Bowdoin. They’re 
going to be more upset when they’re 
eaten by the Panthers. 
YES 
This girl showed up and is just 
murdering it on the soccer pitch, 
keep up the good work. 
150 
There are a lot of rushing threats in 
ST. LOUIS 
Seems to be an evenly matched 
series, but I think St. Louis will 
pull it off. 
105
This is a down year for Williams, 
but the Ephs always have size up 
front.
ST. LOUIS
It’ll be four straight NLCS 
appearances for the Cards.
editors’ picks
REMO PLUNKETT (8-3, .727)
Fritz Parker (52-47, .530)
MIDDLEBURY
Last week, both of these teams had 
a NESCAC co-player of the week, so 
it should be close. Go Panthers!
YES
She’s already done it three times 
this season, so there’s a good 
chance it will happen again.
115
The running game is going to carry 
Middlebury to the win.
LOS ANGELES
Clayton Kershaw is a boss.
Emily Bustard (5-6, .454)
The men’s soccer team continued their 
NESCAC schedule with a pair of double-
overtime games this week, falling to 
Williams on Wednesday, Oct. 1 and tying 
Tufts on Saturday, Oct. 4.  
On Wednesday, Middlebury travelled to 
Williamstown to play Williams. The Ephs 
started the season nationally ranked, but 
have since fallen to the middle of the pack 
in the NESCAC. Middlebury took the lead 
early only to lose it down the stretch, with 
a Williams game winner coming in the 
second overtime.
Middlebury took advantage of an early 
Williams slip up to jump on top early. A 
wayward clearance in the Ephs penalty box 
bounced around and hit a Williams arm to 
give Middlebury an early penalty kick. Noah 
Goss-Woliner ’15 converted the spot kick 
in the seventh minute by forcing a strong 
kick past the Williams keeper, who guessed 
correctly on the shot by nonetheless came 
up empty.
In the following minutes, Williams had 
two scoring chances, one of which was 
negated by a handball, and a dangerous 
cross that drifted out for a goal kick. 
However, the Ephs would break through 
header off a corner kick. Panther keeper 
Greg Sydor ’17 was up to the task, and 
pushed the ball away with a diving save. 
He however couldn’t regain his feet before 
Williams forced home the rebound. 
The game continued through the 
second half in a dead heat, with both teams 
recording shots on goal, including a Goss-
Woliner shot denied with 10 minutes left. 
Sydor recorded seven saves on the day, 
tying a season high.  
In the overtime periods, Middlebury 
did not record a shot, and early in the 
second overtime, Williams’ Zach Grady 
sent the Panthers home with their second 
consecutive loss.  
Despite the result, Coach Dave Saward 
noted the improvement over last week’s 
loss to Colby. 
“We played quite well at Williams, 
and they’re a good team,” Saward said. 
“[Williams Coach Mike Russo] has got 
some very good players, and we competed 
game.”
On Saturday, Oct. 4, Middlebury played 
host to Tufts. The Jumbos were lead by 
coach Josh Shapiro ’97 who played for the 
Panthers for four years. 
The rain came down throughout the 
entire game Saturday, as Middlebury and 
Tufts battled to a scoreless draw over 110 
minutes. Middlebury’s starting lineup 
had a few changes from the beginning of 
the season, and the players managed to 
Saward commented on the changes he 
made after the Colby loss, perhaps leading 
to the consistent quality coming out of the 
“We’ve changed a couple of players in 
played very well on Wednesday and gave us 
a little more connection… Luis and Noah 
[Goss-Woliner] played extremely well, and 
we put Kirk Horton [’17] in at left back and 
he did really well. We feel like were in good 
shape, and if our two up front can connect: 
they’re dangerous.”
Unfortunately for Middlebury, the team 
was unable to generate any goals, putting 
up only six shots to Tufts’ 14. Despite the 
low numbers, Middlebury threatened 
consistently throughout the game and 
controlled the ball effectively, but were 
unable to convert any of their set pieces, 
one of the big producers of goals in recent 
games.
Greg Conrad ’17 had one of the better 
opportunities for the Panthers, when he put 
a soft ball past the charging Jumbos keeper 
in the 50th minute. The ball trickled wide 
right. 
As Middlebury found their chances 
early, Tufts almost broke through in the 
second half with several one-on-one 
chances between Jumbos forwards and 
Sydor.  Some chances sailed high or wide, 
and Sydor recorded six saves on the game. 
Sydor praised his back line that helped 
him record his sixth shutout of the season. 
“I think collectively, our defense has 
matured a lot since Colby. Before then we 
were feeling invincible which was good but 
at times made us take things for granted. 
Colby served as a great wake up call.  From 
there we made a few tactical adjustments 
which I think have been working well so 
far.”
Late in the game, Middlebury almost 
converted on a set piece, with a Tim Ogle 
’17 throw in that skipped across the face of 
goal. 
In the overtime periods, Tufts held 
the upper hand, especially early. Halfway 
a point blank shot on frame that Sydor 
managed to keep out with his foot. As the 
overtime periods drew to a close, Tufts 
pushed their last opportunity wide with 
almost two minutes left. 
After a goal kick, Middlebury won a free 
kick at the halfway line with one minute left. 
Goss-Woliner – who found it convenient to 
carefully tie his shoe – sent the ball into the 
Tufts box as time expired to end the game 
in a tie.
‘We were very frustrated with the result 
against Williams,” Echiverria commented 
on the week’s play. “We thought we had 
played a very good game, perhaps one of 
our best in the entire season, and we were 
not able to get the win regardless. However, 
against Tufts we were happy with only 
picking up a point. They are a very good 
team and we wanted to stop the recent 
losing streak.”
Middlebury has a chance to build on 
this weekend’s tie with a doubleheader 
next weekend, Oct. 11 and 12. The team will 
travel to Trinity and Hamilton on Saturday 
and Sunday respectively.  The two teams 
sit 10th and ninth, respectively, in the 
conference table.  
“We’ve got it all to do,” Saward said. 
“It’s up to us. I think we’ve got the players, 
I think we’ve got the capability of doing it, 
but we’ve got to put a full game together… 
If we can put a little run together we’ll be 
By Colin McIntyre
The women’s tennis team fared well 
this weekend, Oct. 3-5, in a series of dual 
matches against Williams, Case Western 
Reserve and Army while hosting the 
Middlebury Invitational on Friday-
Sunday, Oct. 3-5.
Middlebury did not take the court 
until Saturday when it squared off in its 
first dual against Case Western Reserve, 
winning four out of six matches in 
singles. Lily Bondy ’17 got the team going 
with a win in straight sets over Sarah 
Zargham 6-1, 6-0. Alexandra Fields 
’17 was somehow able to top Bondy’s 
performance, winning in straight sets 
and not conceding a single game to her 
opponent, Marianne Bonanno. Katie 
Paradies ’15 continued the theme of 
dominance by defeating Surya Khadilkar 
6-3, 6-0. Kaysee Orozco ’17 suffered 
a tough, three-set defeat to Nithya 
Kanagasegar 6-2, 3-6, 11-9, and Jennifer 
Sundstrom ’17 fell in straight sets 6-3, 
6-3 to Michelle Djohan.
The Panthers’ doubles pairs, however, 
could not get it going against the 
Spartans, and failed to record a victory 
in any of their three matches. The duo of 
Orozco and Sundstrom fell to Bonanno 
and Djohan 8-5. Bondy and Fields 
posted the same result, losing to Surya 
Khadilkar and Kanagasegar 8-5. The 
tandem of Paradies and Shannon Gibbs 
’18 could not give the team its first win 
in doubles either, dropping the set 8-3 to 
Zargham and Nina Cepeda.
On the third and final day of the 
tournament, Middlebury matched up 
against Army.  The success in singles 
carried over from the previous day 
as three out of five players won. The 
doubles pairings bounced back from a 
disappointing outcome on Saturday to 
win half of their six matches.
Orozco was able to battle back after 
losing her first set against Elle Taylor to 
triumph in an epic third set that took 20 
games to declare a winner. 
Sundstrom wasted no time in 
dismissing Aly Hall in straight sets 6-0, 
6-1. Gibbs seemed to get stronger as her 
match wore on, sweeping her second set 
en route to a 6-4, 6-0 victory over Molly 
Prins. Bondy did not return to her form 
of the previous day, falling to Carolyn 
Pitman 6-4, 6-1. Paradies also suffered 
defeat in straight sets, but that does not 
tell the full story as she lost by a total of 
three games 7-6 (4-0), 7-5 in a very tense 
match.
Since time allowed, the Panthers 
were able to play six doubles matches on 
Sunday, allowing for Coach Mike Morgan 
to mix up his pairings. Orozco and Bondy 
joined together to triumph 8-6 in a tight 
set only decided by two games. Another 
new pairing of Gibbs and Sundstrom also 
won, and did so with ease, winning 8-4. 
Then Sundstrom and Orozco returned 
to their normal tandem and combined 
for the team’s third doubles win of the 
day, beating Taylor and Nancy Porter in 
dominant fashion 8-1. The other novel 
coupling of Fields and Paradies did not 
yield similar results, as they failed to 
win a game against Taylor and Porter on 
the Army squad. The original pairings of 
Fields/Bondy and Paradies/Gibbs also 
fell, both dropping their sets 8-3.
The team will have this week to rest 
and prepare before heading to Mount 
Holyoke the weekend of Oct. 17-19, to 
compete against fellow New England 
teams in the NEWITT Invitational.
By Andrew Rigas
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
By Fritz Parker
PANTHER HARRIERS 
SPEED TO STATE 
CHAMPIONSHIPS
PAGE 17
VOLLEYBALL FALLS 
TO TOP TWO TEAMS 
IN NESCAC
PAGE 18
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Youth Movement Leads Field 
Hockey to Home Win over Tufts
By Remo Plunkett
File Photo
sports 20
Liam knox
 
SEE PAGE 18 FOR FULL COVERAGE.
SOggy Stalemate
