october 11, 2012 | Vol. 111 no. 5 | middleburycampus.com
in
sid
e
Welcome to the annual green edition of the Campus, 
in which we take a closer look at environmental 
issues in the Middlebury community. To do our 
part, we have reduced the number of pages in 
this week’s newspaper — be sure to check out our 
website for additional coverage! To read about how 
the Campus staff urges individual responsibility for 
sustainable living, see the editorial on page 6.
Members of the Solar Decathlon team made a digital rendering of InSite, the house they will build 
for the Solar Decathlon competition held next fall. The house will be constructed by September 2013.
Courtesy OF Solar Decathlon
SOLAR DECATHLON GOES DIGITAL
Solar Decathlon 
competes again
The College will return to the 
Solar Decathlon competition for 
the second time in October 2013, 
and the team is currently in the 
early stages of construction on 
the College’s entry house, InSite. 
The Solar Decathlon competition, 
sponsored by the U.S. Depart-
ment of Energy (DOE), challenges 
participating colleges and uni-
versities to design, construct and 
present an environmentally sus-
tainable house.
“It started with one student 
having a crazy idea, one professor 
trusting it could happen and the 
administration putting a ton of 
trust in an idea that two years lat-
er got us fourth place in this com-
petition,” said Cordelia Newbury 
’13, one of the project managers of 
the Middlebury Solar Decathlon 
team.
While the guidelines for the 
house are issued by the DOE, the 
team is also working to construct 
a livable and sustainable structure 
that will permanently reside in 
Middlebury.
Work on InSite began in No-
vember 2011 when the team sub-
mitted their proposal to the DOE. 
Originally, the team intended 
to structure the house around 
-
cal construction approach that 
emphasizes revitalizing utilized 
space in an existing community. 
Students later changed the proj-
ect’s name to InSite to encompass 
a broader range of concepts in the 
thematic scheme of the house.
The name, InSite, incorporates 
three concepts of the house: the 
“site” of the house, their goal to 
“incite” change and their dedica-
tion to thinking and planning “in-
sightfully.” 
“The house is a representation 
of the ideas we are looking to pro-
mote,” said Construction Coordi-
nator Jack Kerby-Miller ’14. 
These ideas are laid out fur-
ther in the team’s “Five Points,” 
a list of principles they aim to 
apply to the house at every step 
of the planning and construction 
are simple: respecting nature in 
all contexts, addressing the street 
(making the façade of the house 
welcoming) and condensing en-
ergy networks. 
The team also intends to struc-
ture the house in a way that pro-
vides public spaces, such as the 
living room and kitchen, with 
more square footage than private 
spaces, such as the bedrooms and 
bathrooms. 
Team members stress other 
components of the project besides 
the environmental innovations of 
the house. With the mantra “pas-
sive homes, active communities,” 
the team hopes to educate, inspire 
and incorporate members of the 
local and global community into 
the project. 
 “When we talk about sustain-
ability, we’re talking about the 
environment, and of course that’s 
really important. However, what 
we fail to address often is the so-
College revamps campus security
Students participate 
in Green Challenge
By Nate Sans
By Isabelle Stillman
By Emma Eastwood-
Paticchio
Project Green Challenge, a 
month-long competition run by 
the environmental group Teens 
Turning Green, is beginning its 
the College will join a group of 
over 500 other colleges partici-
pating in the project.
The challenge was created 
and put together by mother and 
daughter Judi Shils and Erin 
Schrode in order to raise aware-
ness about sustainable living and 
educate students on how they can 
achieve a sustainable lifestyle in a 
campus environment.
The competition takes place 
throughout the month of October. 
Each day, participants receive an 
email with the day’s challenge and 
theme. The theme changes daily, 
ranging from your dorm room to 
labeling to your body.
Once the participant has com-
pleted the challenge, he or she up-
loads proof to the website and is 
entered to win a prize. There is a 
prize for each day, as well as over-
all prizes at the end of the month, 
including an invitation to a three-
day eco-summit.
“It is really easy, and the chal-
lenges teach you about the prob-
lems with the way most of us live 
you are living in a way that will 
help improve the state of the envi-
ronment as well as your own life,” 
said Piper Rosales Underbrink 
’15, the campus representative for 
the project.
There are three levels to each 
challenge: green, greener and 
greenest. This system helps make 
the project open and welcoming 
to students who have no experi-
ence with sustainable living, as 
President of the College Ron-
ald D. Liebowitz announced in 
an email last week the formation 
of the Threat Assessment and 
Management (TAM) team, a com-
ranging from mental health to 
technology, assembled to provide 
a transparent process for compil-
ing and addressing threats to stu-
dent safety. 
Liebowitz acknowledged in his 
email that the decision to form the 
TAM team comes in the midst of 
higher levels of concern for safety 
on college campuses in the wake 
of mass shooting incidents in re-
cent years, such as the Viriginia 
Tech massacre of 2007 and the 
shootings in Aurora, Colo. in July. 
Tragic events like these have high-
lighted the need for an on-campus 
threat management system.
While the College has had a 
system in place in the past, these 
events have encouraged the Col-
lege to revamp its security efforts. 
“Middlebury College had a 
crisis team in the past, but it did 
not include as many college de-
partments or areas of expertise,” 
said Director of Public Safety and 
Chair of Threat Assessment and 
Management Lisa Burchard. 
“We felt that it was important 
to engage the broader Middlebury 
community and develop a more 
systematic and transparent ap-
proach to managing threatening 
behavior [with a team of] faculty 
and staff … who have been trained 
to analyze and respond sensitively 
to reports of potential violence or 
other concerning behavior,” wrote 
Liebowitz of the decision to form 
the revised team. 
Administrators say that com-
munity reporting and engage-
ment will be crucial to the success 
of the TAM program.  
“Early intervention is critical. 
Research has shown that perpe-
trators of serious campus violence 
don’t just ‘snap,’” wrote Human 
an email. “Most [perpetrators] — 
over 75 percent — consider, plan, 
prepare and discuss their plans 
with others before they engage 
in violent behavior … A critical 
element of the threat assessment 
process is encouraging the cam-
pus community to look for and 
report warning signs.”
The new approach to threat as-
sessment on campus will include 
what Ritter described as a “trans-
SEE SOLAR-POWERED, PAGE 3SEE COLLEGE, PAGE 3
SEE THIRTY-ONE, PAGE 2
VT YANKEE 
NUCLEAR POWER 
PLANT MAY BE 
SHUT DOWN
PAGE 4
BIOMASS PLANT 
PLAYS KEY ROLE IN 
ACHIEVING CARBON 
NEUTRALITY BY 2016
PAGES 10-11
PUBLIC ART 
FIXTURE “SMOG” IS 
NOT ALL THE 
NAME IMPLIES
PAGE 13  
On Tuesday, Oct. 9, the College’s campus sustainability coordinators hosted Trashy Tuesday, which 
sought to teach students about recycling and waste disposal. The event was held on Hepburn Road.
Jessica Munyon
STUDENTS GET TRASHY
Easter Island, located approximately 
2,200 miles off the west coast of Chile, is fa-
mous for its massive Moai statues, erected 
by the native Rapanui people of the island 
some seven centuries ago.
Easter Island throughout the 18th and 19th 
centuries and recorded seeing the impres-
sive stone carvings, but native islanders 
were not friendly to foreign contact. After a 
more forceful invasion by slave traders and 
missionaries in the mid-19th century, Eas-
ter Island was annexed by Chile, its closest 
continental neighbor, in 1888. 
In recent years, overbearing tourism on 
Chileans (who now outnumber the island-
ers) have deeply strained the relations be-
tween Chile and this indigenous Polynesian 
group. 
Much of the indigenous opposition to 
the Chilean government has focused on an-
cestral land claims. In 2010, a group of na-
tives clashed violently with security forces 
as they were forcibly removed from sit-in 
protests at a new hotel and several other 
buildings. The Rapanui protestors claimed 
that the buildings were constructed over 
land that rightfully belonged to them.
Yet, the Rapanui have other causes for 
concern, especially with what they see 
as neglect from the Chilean government. 
Many islanders are frustrated with how 
the Chilean government has managed the 
island’s affairs, going all the way back to 
annexation. Many policy and infrastruc-
ture decisions concerning the island are 
currently made by regional authorities in 
Valparaiso. There is a recent push, howev-
Easter Island more autonomy.
For some, even autonomy would not suf-
has begun formally seeking independence, 
claiming that the 1888 annexation treaty 
the island on the part of the Chilean gov-
ernment.
The Rapanui parliament even crowned 
a new king in 2011, in an attempt to legiti-
mize its claim to independence. The new 
king, Valentino Riroroko Tuki, is a direct 
descendant of the island’s last monarch, 
who died in 1898.
Islands in the 1950s, during a period of es-
pecially brutal oppression by the Chilean 
military. “This island was operated like a 
concentration camp,” he said.
The desire for independence on the part 
of some prominent Rapanui leaders is cer-
tainly not universally shared by all natives 
on the island. Some hold a more pragmatic 
view of the situation, as Chile currently sup-
plies much of the modern resources that 
connect the island to the rest of the world.
Though their population is much small-
er than many other native groups around 
the world vying for autonomy, recognition 
and independence, the prominence of tour-
ism on the island has put a spotlight on the 
plight of the Rapanui.
Not only are the Chileans closely watch-
ing the tides of popular sentiment on the 
island, so are other members of the inter-
national community. France is facing simi-
lar problems in New Caledonia, their own 
Nations weighed in on the Easter Island 
claims that ended in violence, as that body 
denounced “the use of force to resolve the 
island’s problems.”
These recent developments in such re-
mote parts of the world are a lingering re-
minder that the ghosts of colonialism are 
still very much alive, even in the 21st cen-
tury.
BY DANNY ZHANG
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| october 11, 20122 NEWS
well as those who are already aware and 
want to learn more.
Sustainability Communication and Out-
reach Coordinator Avery McNiff brought 
Project Green Challenge to Middlebury 
through the recommendation of Tiffany 
Chang, a future member of the Middlebury 
class of 2017, who is spending her gap year 
working with Teens Turning Green. 
“We thought it would be a good way for 
the Campus Sustainability Coordinators to 
learn more about sustainable living and in-
teresting ways to promote it,” said McNiff.
project because she saw the value it could 
have for the college community as a whole. 
“Middlebury is participating in the chal-
lenge because we are a school that has 
made a decision to try to live as ‘green’ as 
possible and to promote sustainability,” 
way to get people excited and involved.”
Thirty-one students are participating in 
Project Green Challenge, beating the origi-
nal goal of 20 students. Participants like 
Sarah Studwell ’13 are just as excited about 
the project as the coordinators.
“Project Green Challenge seems like a 
really tangible way to put into practice a lot 
of the ideals that we hold here at Middle-
bury,” said Studwell. “It has the potential 
to get a lot of people doing the little things 
that really add up.”
Students interested in joining the chal-
lenge for the remained of October can sign 
up at projectgreenchallenge.com.
Thirty-one 
accept green 
challenges
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Weybridge alters weekly 
meals to conserve funds
This fall, residents of the Weybridge En-
vironmental House altered the frequency 
with which they serve meals to the campus 
population, veering away from a three-
year long tradition of providing meals four 
nights per week. Starting this year, dinners 
will be held two nights a week, in addition 
to Saturday brunch. 
The Weybridge House, which accom-
modates 18 Middlebury students this year, 
is the Environmental Studies and Local 
Foods Interest House on campus.  Every 
week, this small cohort of students cooks 
meals from food collected and bought over 
the summer for dinners open to the entire 
school community. 
The meals, prepared in Weybridge’s 
kitchen and served in its living room, al-
low students the chance to experience what 
house.  
“I feel like it’s part of the culture at Wey-
bridge to just sit down over a good meal in 
the kitchen and just sort of talk about what-
of a different pace of life.”
Though the Interest House was founded 
pre-1990’s, its dinners are a relatively new 
event.  The meals were started three years 
ago, separate from any kind of college man-
date and so entirely student-run.  
Starting this year, the house’s student 
leaders have decided to economize by shift-
ing weekly meals to Monday and Wednes-
day dinners at 6:30 p.m. and Saturday 
brunch at 11 a.m.  
“We have the same budget that we had 
last year but we felt like some of the meals 
last year weren’t quite as complete as we 
wanted,” house leader Katie Michels ’15 
explained. “Both because we didn’t have 
enough food to stretch that far and also be-
cause it was just a lot of time that was re-
quired.”
Weybridge house residents hope that 
the new meal plan will prove to be more 
cost and time effective. Over the summer, 
the house has two preservation interns who 
work to buy, collect and store all of the food 
that will be used for meals for the rest of 
the school year. This limited amount of 
food poses a challenge for the House resi-
dents who must estimate the weekly sizes 
of meals and ration their supplies accord-
ingly.  
Michels explained that fewer meals will 
not only allow the House to more accurate-
ly predict attendance and therefore lessen 
the probability of left-over food, but will 
also save the student cooks some time. 
“We will be serving fewer meals, but the 
quality is going to be better,” said Michels.
The new change has brought more 
students to Weybridge house. Saturday 
brunches, which allow for a wider variety of 
foods, have been especially popular.  
“I think that there is enough of a range 
of options,” said Ari Lattanzi ’13, a former 
summer resident of the House and fre-
quent diner. “[The cutback] still keeps the 
open atmosphere without overburdening 
Weybridge.”
Both dinner and brunch are open and 
free for the entire school community. Mi-
chels commented that anyone interested 
in cooking is welcome to join Weybridge 
residents starting at 4:30 p.m. on dinner 
nights.  “We’d love to see even more new 
faces,” she said.
By Anna Chamby
I’ll admit, when I arrived in Stockholm, 
Sweden, a little over a month ago, I had big 
expectations. Visions of an eco promised 
land where everyone used shopping bags 
made of recycled water bottles, biked to 
work and picked out produce at Middle-
bury Co-op-inspired grocery stores danced 
through my head as I packed my bags for 
the dark, snowy Scandinavian climate. 
major and self-proclaimed tree-hugger, 
I was seduced by Stockholm’s title as the 
2010 Green Capital of Europe and its repu-
tation for innovative environmental design, 
architecture and policy. Surely I would re-
-
ish insights about all things eco and, armed 
into an equally eco-conscious nation of the 
future! (I told you, big expectations.)
In reality, I discovered that, alas, plastic 
grocery bags do still exist in this land of the 
Midnight Sun, bikes are more for afternoon 
excursions in the park than for transporta-
tion to work and grocery stores are sorely 
lacking in apples of the Middlebury Co-op 
caliber.
 I was ready to concede that Stockholm 
wasn’t quite the beacon of (green) light I 
expected it to be until this past week, when 
I started to truly notice and appreciate the 
subtle — and more realistic — eco habits 
that permeate life in the city. 
Composting, for example, is the norm 
in my neighborhood, as is recycling. Along 
with a trash can, my roommate and I were 
given a composting bin, which we periodi-
cally dump for collection in a communal 
bin at the end of the street. Recycling bins 
are also common in Stockholm stores and 
on street corners, so even when on the run, 
it’s relatively easy to go green.  
The public transportation system here 
Swedes may not bike to work, but they can 
choose from an array of other low-carbon 
options like the commuter train, subway, 
trolley or bus. 
Coffee culture is prominent in Stock-
holm, but rather than take their coffees to 
go, Swedes prefer to sit down and enjoy a 
cup of joe with a cinnamon bun (a tradition 
-
bucks, Swedish coffee shops serve drinks 
in glasses and mugs, which reduces paper 
waste. 
Not only are these habits less blaring 
than I expected, but Swedes accept them 
as commonplace, blurring the line between 
eco-friendly and normal. Swedes don’t 
consider themselves particularly eco-con-
scious, even though they seem to be by our 
American standards. Being “eco-friendly” 
has become obsolete here, because in a 
sense, everyone already is. 
One month into my time abroad, Stock-
holm has in fact proven to be the promised 
land of eco-neutrality that I had hoped to 
-
ing ways than I had initially expected. 
If I have any eco Swedish insight to 
bring back with me, it is this: we can move 
toward a mindset where “eco-friendly” be-
comes obsolete; and each day, Stockholm 
proves that effective environmental policy 
depends on our community’s ability to do 
just that!
overseas
briefing
BY OLIVIA FRENCH ’14
Stockholm, Sweden
Students and faculty push for food minor
This year the College will reconsider a 
proposal for a Food and Agricultural Stud-
of 2011.
The proposal for the minor was submit-
ted to the Educational Affairs Committee by 
a sub-group of the Environmental Council 
consisting of Pier LaFarge ’11, David Clark-
Barol ’12, Amanda Warren ’12, Ben Black-
shear ’12, Manager of Bread Loaf Campus 
and Waste Management Missy Beckwith 
and Professor of Biology Helen Young.
The initial proposal discussed a num-
ber of key administrative details, including 
the required courses for the minor, and the 
possibility of a required internship/study 
project. The document also provided infor-
mation about the hiring of a faculty mem-
ber for the minor and gave suggestions of 
food studies courses at other colleges that 
courses at Middlebury could be modeled 
upon.
“The proposal was in response to tre-
mendous student interest in food, food jus-
tice and food production … along with the 
realization that faculty here were already 
teaching relevant courses,” said Young. 
“We put the two together to write the pro-
posal.”
Last year the proposal was not taken 
up by the Educational Affairs Committee 
needs, as well as a desire to develop a more 
comprehensive approach to deal with the 
increasingly large number of minor offer-
ings and an increased interest in on-the-job 
learning at the College.
The committee will discuss these is-
sues this fall and Associate Vice President 
of Academic Affairs and Professor of Reli-
gion James Calvin anticipates taking up the 
Food and Agricultural Studies proposal as 
part of the discussion.
“In general I can say that there is quite 
a bit of enthusiasm for food studies in the 
administration, as well as among many fac-
ulty and students,” said Calvin.
“But there are also institutional issues 
that complicate a minor proposal like this, 
-
demic program for years down the road, so 
the Educational Affairs Committee is trying 
to sort through [this decision] responsibly.”
Anticipation for the Committee’s review 
of the proposal is high, as many students 
are already involved with and interested in 
working with and studying their food.
“I really like food,” said Katie Michels 
’15.5, a student director of the Middlebury 
College Organic Farm who is majoring in 
environmental studies and geography. “It’s 
helpful, it’s valuable to talk about in a criti-
cal way and everyone eats it.
“There’s a lot of activity in the food 
world right now, and for Middlebury to be 
a part of that would be super,” she added. 
food studies if it were offered.
By Isabelle Dietz
october 11, 2012 |  3        News
COMPILED BY GABRIELLE GUTMAN
“Bleach bombs” target 
minority students
University of Texas students gathered 
on Oct. 2 to draw attention to violence that 
has targeted minority groups, showing 
evidence of lingering racism, according to 
some. Community members gathered un-
der a campus statue of Martin Luther King 
Jr., where two students shared stories of 
from high-rise buildings. In recent weeks, 
aware of racially themed parties. Party 
organizations drew criticism following a 
chapters of Tri Delta and Zeta Tau Alpha, 
during which members of the houses were 
Students play vital role on 
National Public Lands Day
On Sept. 29, hundreds of students par-
ticipated in National Public Lands Day, 
the single largest national community ser-
vice event dedicated to the preservation of 
public lands. During the event volunteers 
worked to conserve over 2,100 sites, in-
cluding parks, beaches, forests and other 
land used for outdoor recreation. Event 
organizers were supportive of student in-
volvement, and encouraged student or-
ganizations such as the North-American 
Interfraternity Conference to connect stu-
dents with public lands conservation op-
portunities. 
— UWIRE
SGA creates position for Health & Wellness
By Ben Andersonsga update
parent, systematic and widely publicized 
encourage students to feel more comfort-
able coming forward with their concerns. 
The new TAM policy includes a regula-
tion addressing retaliation: “Retaliating 
directly or indirectly against a person who 
has in good faith made a report under this 
policy or who has supported or participated 
-
visions such as these are intended to pro-
tect complainants and encourage student 
reporting of suspicious behavior. 
The TAM team has members with ex-
pertise in a wide array of areas. The team 
is chaired by Burchard, and includes mem-
Business Services, Academic Affairs, Com-
munications, Library and Information 
Services and a representative for the Lan-
guage Schools, Schools Abroad and the 
Bread Loaf programs. The responsibilities 
of each team member will vary depending 
on their area of expertise. The team has 
been receiving instruction and training 
in threat assessment, and will continue to 
meet regularly on a monthly basis for train-
ing purposes. The team also has access to 
nationally-recognized threat assessment 
experts who are willing to consult on an as-
needed basis, and additionally will be look-
ing to examples at other schools with threat 
assessment teams.
In threat assessment training sessions, 
the TAM team is presented with hypotheti-
cal scenarios — such as the outbreak of a 
highly contagious disease or the presence 
of a shooter on campus — and then seeks to 
explore potential solutions and formulate 
responses. 
“The exercises alert us to any gaps or in-
consistencies in our understanding, plan-
ning, communication, and response and al-
low us to think through and plan for these 
of Health and Counseling Services Gus Jor-
dan, a member of the TAM team. 
A challenge facing the TAM and the new 
policy will be providing a framework for 
student participation and increasing stu-
dent awareness of the team’s goals while 
also educating the student body about the 
necessity of the team and how they can 
help.
 “I don’t really feel threatened on Mid-
dlebury’s campus but I’m glad the admin-
istration is thinking proactively about ways 
said Sarah O’Brien ’13. “I’ve never seen 
something that I would consider threaten-
ing so it might be helpful if this TAM com-
mittee created some suggestions of what to 
be aware of or what they would consider 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
College outlines protection plan college 
shorts
cial environment and the importance of 
the links between people and our interde-
Krause ’14.
Work on the house has been constant 
since last spring. Sixteen student interns 
accomplished the majority of the design 
work over the summer as they developed 
plans for the house. The team has also 
spent considerable time establishing com-
munity links through phone-a-thons, web-
site construction and outreach initiatives. 
The team faces the task of raising the 
$1.4 million needed to fund the project. 
“It’s a giant number, but as you break it 
down into chunks, it very quickly becomes 
The team requires $50,000 to cover 
transportation to California, $400,000 to 
pay for student labor, $200,000 for the re-
establishment of the house back in Middle-
bury, $250,000 for construction materials 
and the remainder will cover consulting 
costs and outreach materials. Currently, 
the team has only raised $44,000. 
In an effort to cover these costs, the Col-
lege’s Solar Decathlon Finance sub-team is 
applying for grants, contacting private and 
corporate donors and planning fundraising 
events. They also hope to secure in-kind 
donations from companies whose products 
could then be showcased at the competition 
in California. 
“We spent a lot of time building up fun-
draising strategy and connections. We have 
a really close relationship with College 
Advancement. They’ve been a really great 
The construction of the house will in-
corporate eco-friendly materials, including 
wood gathered from Middlebury’s campus, 
cellulose insulation and formaldehyde-free 
and low-volatility organic compound mate-
rials. 
The house will rely on solar power, and 
the team has taken a non-traditional ap-
proach by deciding to place the panels in 
a path-like formation leading up to the 
house, rather than on the roof. 
“The path will directly increase the con-
nection between people [and the commu-
nity], and also will become an educational 
the solar panel path could be replicated 
in other parts of the community, such as 
along sidewalks and in backyards. 
Without panels, the roof is left free to be 
planted with sedum, a low-growing plant 
requiring little water that will insulate the 
home. 
In the months leading up to the com-
petition, the team is required to submit 
periodic deliverables to the DOE to moni-
tor construction progress. Student leaders 
hope that construction on the house will 
begin in January, if not earlier.
During the competition, the house will 
be judged on several different accounts 
from maintaining a consistent air tempera-
ture to energy budget to effective commu-
nications.
Though excited about the project, stu-
dent leaders noted the disadvantage the 
College faces being the only small liberal 
arts college in the group of twenty compet-
ing institutions.  
“We aren’t an engineering school, and 
we have students who know nothing about 
plumbing or electrical or heating ventila-
tion and air conditioning, and they have to 
Krause. 
Yet, throughout the project, student 
leaders have attempted to leverage the 
global thinking skills afforded to attendees 
of a liberal arts college. 
“We’re addressing these problems with-
out as much background knowledge, so we 
can come up with completely unrestricted 
-
portunity to challenge convention and 
come up with what hopefully are better so-
Construction of solar-powered house to cost $1.4 million
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
The Sept. 30 meeting of the Student 
Government Association (SGA) opened 
with a discussion led by President of the 
SGA Charlie Arnowitz ’13 on his proposed 
reformation of the SGA by-laws. Discus-
sion and voting on the formation of a court 
and changes in the term lengths of junior 
senators was ultimately postponed until 
those aspects of the legislation can be more 
-
cussion was short and the remainder of the 
bill passed unanimously.
Next, Arnowitz presented a piece of leg-
islation that would reinstate an SGA Oper-
ating Account. This account is accessible 
by the sitting president and can be used for 
without the need to pass individual legisla-
tion for each purchase. Arnowitz’s proposal 
cut the account from the earlier precedent 
of $8,000 down to $2,000. The bill passed 
unanimously.
Arnowitz raised this legislation in part 
for the upcoming SGA summit. The sum-
mit is a meeting of student government 
presidents and senators for various NES-
CAC schools. Arnowitz hopes to attend this 
summit with two other senators and hopes 
to have this account active in time for the 
event.
During discussion, the question of the 
summit’s purpose was raised by a few of the 
an educational opportunity.
“This is a great opportunity to share 
ideas with other schools and encourage 
discussion on how each school’s SGA ad-
dresses the various problems with which 
Next, Kathryn Benson ’13 came before 
the SGA with legislation to continue the 
arts and crafts space in the McCullough 
Student Center. The new bill continues last 
year’s program and creates a manager po-
sition that will be in charge of regulating 
the center’s programming. The bill also 
reduced the budget for the program from 
$3,000 to $2,180. The bill passed with only 
one abstention.
The Oct. 7 meeting of the SGA opened 
with a presentation from the Dean of Li-
brary & Information Services (LIS) Michael 
for volunteers to serve on the Student LIS 
Advisory Committee, a committee which 
acts as liaison between LIS and the SGA.
Roy also raised the topic of the current 
state of Portal and the varying student 
opinions on the program.
Senator Anna Shireman-Grabowski 
’15.5 spoke of an issue raised by a few of her 
constituents.
“Many students have come to me asking 
said Shireman-Grabowski. “They believe 
that asking them to communicate through 
In response, Roy said that LIS has no ju-
risdiction over all-student emails.
One idea that has been raised by some 
staff in LIS to facilitate inter-campus com-
munication is the creation of a platform 
through which students could post infor-
mation about events. Students could then 
subscribe to certain updates, ensuring that 
information only got to the people who 
were most interested. 
Next, Addie Cunniff ’13 led a discussion 
on legislation to create an SGA Director of 
Student Health & Wellness. Cunniff’s hope 
student health and wellness leaders around 
campus.
“There are a lot of good programs around 
campus addressing problems of stress and 
of wiggle room to expand these programs, 
which will be a top priority for this direc-
Arnowitz, the sponsor of this bill, added, 
“The main goal for me in writing this legis-
lation is to demonstrate institutional sup-
port for these initiatives without putting 
The bill passed and Cunniff was nomi-
nated and elected to this newly created po-
sition. 
An ad-hoc committee was proposed to 
Committee Senator position that Danny 
Zhang ’15 and Rana Abdelhamid ’15 cre-
ated last year. Five senators volunteered to 
on the Parking Ticket Appeals Committee, 
a committee that works with Public Safety 
to review parking ticket appeals, and one 
Committee, a committee formed to reduce 
the workload of the Community Council 
during the housing process.
2013 SOLAR DECATHLON TIMELINE and PROJECT COST BREAKDOWN
OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER | JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER
CONSULTING AND OUTREACH MATERIALS STUDENT LABOR COSTS TRANSPORT
ON-CAMPUS
INSTALLATION
DESIGN
$25OK~$500K $400K $50k $200K
CONSTRUCTION IRVINE, CA
local
Vermont Yankee faces an uncertain future
Middlebury resident
Plans to export low-level waste from 
Vermont to Texas came to fruition in early 
a 90-gallon drum of low-level radioactive 
waste to a nuclear waste control facility in 
Andrews County, Texas. The shipment of 
waste — facilitated by the Texas-Vermont 
Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact 
Commission that was established in 1998 
— represents the most recent step taken by 
determining the future of nuclear energy 
generation in the state.
“The purpose of [the waste-shipping 
agreement] is so that we have a repository 
for low level waste generated in Vermont,” 
said Deputy Commissioner of the Vermont 
Department of Public Service Sarah Hof-
mann. 
In March 2012, the operating license 
for the Vermont Yankee, Vermont’s only 
nuclear generation facility, expired. Own-
ers of the facility appealed to the Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission for relicensing, 
which was granted in March 2011.
“We have an extensive oversight pro-
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission Diane 
Screnci.  “It’s an inspection program that 
we carry out at each plant in the country. 
Five or six thousand hours of inspections 
and inspection-related activities each year 
where we look at what they are doing.”
The facility, which has been producing 
nuclear energy since 1972 and is Vermont’s 
single largest in-state source of energy gen-
eration, is the focus of an intense statewide 
debate about the appropriateness of re-
licensing the nuclear facility  — one that is 
being played out in both federal and state 
courtrooms. 
There are currently active court cases 
about the Vermont Yankee at both federal 
and municipal levels. 
At the state level, the public service 
board is concerned with the potential for 
environmental degradation and other is-
sues that may arise due to the plant’s aging 
infrastructure. Critics cite an incident that 
occurred in August 2007 in which a cooling 
tower at the Vermont Yankee partially col-
lapsed and caused a 50 percent reduction 
in energy production while repairs were 
being made as a primary reason why the 
license ought not to be renewed.
The terminology used in the Texas Low 
Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Compact 
Commission agreement, which catego-
rizes all of the exported fuel as “low-level,” 
seems to beg the question, what happens to 
the high-level waste? 
“High level nuclear waste — which 
is called spent nuclear fuel — is actually 
[housed] in a spent fuel pool in Vermont 
Yankee,” said Hofmann. “There are now 13 
dry casks on a pad — big concrete canis-
ters. Some of the high level fuel is in these 
casks and some is in the fuel pool.”
Hofmann is quick to acknowledge the 
age of the facility and recognize the impor-
tance of managing the facility’s aging in-
frastructure. Across Vermont, critics of the 
plant have voiced safety concerns.
“I think Vermont Yankee should not 
have received a license extension from the 
NRC,” said Stafford Professor of Public 
Policy, Political Science and Environmen-
tal Studies Christopher McGrory Klyza. 
“The plant is beyond its planned life, has 
had numerous operational problems and 
has an untrustworthy operator.”
The federal case pits Entergy — the 
New Orleans-based energy company that 
owns the Vermont Yankee — against Gov-
ernor Peter Shumlin and the state of Ver-
mont.
“[It’s] a case about how much control 
the state legislature [should] have over the 
re-licensing,” said Hofmann.
Shumlin’s recently imposed tax in-
crease on nuclear electricity generation 
has elicited a harsh response from En-
the state of Vermont in response to this 
tax hike, claiming that the state is in vio-
lation of the equal protection clause of the 
14th amendment of the U.S. Constitution, 
in which corporations are guaranteed the 
same rights as people. 
Entergy claims that the tax is uncon-
stitutional because it is intended to drive 
the Vermont Yankee — the state’s sole nu-
clear energy provider and consequently the 
only corporation subjected to the new tax 
hike — out of business despite the federal 
ruling made by U.S. District Court Judge 
John Murtha in March 2012 that Vermont 
Yankee would be allowed to continue op-
erating under the auspices of NRC’s re-
licensing. 
According to Hofmann, the case has 
already been decided — district-level 
federal judges have indicated that the 
Vermont legislature has overstepped its 
boundaries — and while the federal case is 
being processed, the federal court has al-
lowed the plant to remain open. However, 
the Vermont Yankee is not currently pro-
ducing any energy.
“Right now there is no Vermont util-
ity taking power from Vermont Yankee 
under our contractual agreement,” said 
Hofmann. “We get none of our power from 
Vermont Yankee at this time.”
According to Hoffman, Vermont Yan-
-
mont’s energy future.
“The way we did the comprehensive 
energy plan was to plan without Vermont 
Yankee because it was slated to shut down 
in 2012,” said Hofmann. 
The future of nuclear energy in Ver-
mont and across the country  is uncertain. 
Klyza cited costs, waste storage uncertain-
ties and health risks as the primary obsta-
cles to the expansion of nuclear power in 
the US.
“I might support the development of 
more nuclear power if, and only if, it were 
part of a comprehensive plan to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions, such as a cap 
and trade program,” said Klyza. “I am op-
posed to further expansion without such 
an explicit connection.”
Courtesy of WGBH
Courtesy of VT commonsCourtesy of Bloomberg lp
It is unclear whether the Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power plant, located on the Connecticut River in Vernon, Vt., will remain open.
Left: Vt. Governor Peter Shumlin, pictured, is being sued by Entergy. Right: Workers make repairs to a collapsed cooling tower.
By Conor Grant
George Demarais, 57-year-old 
Middlebury resident, engaged members 
of the Middlebury Police Department in 
a gunfight that lasted for nearly 45 min-
utes last Thursday, Oct. 4 and ended in 
his own death.   
Police responders arrived at Dema-
rais’ home — located on a wooded lot 
along Vermont 116 near the border of 
Middlebury and Bristol, Vt. — after re-
ceiving a suicide call from Demarais in 
which he outlined his desire to die by a 
law enforcement officer’s gun. Upon ar-
rival, members of the Middlebury Police 
Department discovered a copy of his last 
will and testament — which donated his 
pet cats to the local animal shelter — 
posted on his front door.  
Six officers from the Middlebury Po-
lice Department assumed strategic posi-
tions around the perimeter of Demarais’ 
house. Demarais, who was inside the 
home, ignored multiple requests to open 
his front door, and he eventually emerged 
from his home brandishing a long firearm 
at around 4 p.m. in the afternoon. 
He disregarded requests to drop his 
weapon and fled to a wooded area adja-
cent to his house where he had construct-
ed a barricade out of fallen trees and large 
stones. Police later learned that Demarais 
had also stocked his makeshift bunker 
with food, water, extra ammunition and 
a battle helmet.
Demarais — a former corrections of-
ficer at a Vermont prison — remained 
camped out in the woods for nearly two 
hours while the Middlebury police force 
arranged for the arrival of a hostage nego-
tiation team and a tactical support unit.
The police officers tried to reason 
with Demarais, but he began shooting at 
them when they advanced on his posi-
tion around 6:15 p.m. The officers, armed 
with M16’s and a .45 caliber carbine, re-
sponded to Demarais’s gunfire with a vol-
ley of defensive shots. The police officers 
secured a position at a distance of around 
20 yards, and the gunfight continued in-
termittently for nearly 45 minutes.
During lulls in the shooting, officers 
attempted to negotiate with Demarais, 
but he responded with taunts and refused 
to emerge from the woods. After almost 
45 minutes, Demarais’ gunfire ceased, 
and when the police advanced on his 
position, they found that Demarais had 
been shot and killed. 
The gunfight is the first police shoot-
ing reported in Middlebury since the 
1970s and only the second fatal shooting 
in the state of Vermont this year.
A medical examiner later determined 
that Demarais had sustained two gunshot 
wounds from Middlebury police officers. 
The identities of the officers who struck 
Demarais are unknown, but the medi-
cal examiner confirmed that the gunshot 
wounds were not self-inflicted. In a ma-
cabre twist, Demarais died in the grisly 
manner that he had desired.
By Conor Grant
Directing through Research, Educa-
tion, Adventure, and Mentoring (DREAM) 
is about building community, and in my 
opinion, working towards building commu-
nity has been the most important and most 
rewarding experience I have encountered. 
There is a beautiful old African proverb, “It 
takes a village to raise a child.” I believe that 
this proverb illuminates what DREAM is 
fundamentally about — providing the neces-
sary human connections and support to fos-
ter community. Without a safe, supportive 
environment and a network of people to lean 
I was fortunate enough to have come across 
-
ganization that fosters community between 
college students and local families and chil-
dren from affordable housing neighbor-
hoods. When I signed up for DREAM, I had 
no idea that it would come to be such an im-
portant source of community for me. 
I had  enjoyed working with kids through-
out high school, so when I approached the 
DREAM table at the Middlebury Action Fair, 
I decided this group mentoring organization 
sounded like a great opportunity to get in-
volved in community service and get to know 
some incredible peers.
-
tions, DREAM made my transition to college 
much smoother. I now had a community 
that I could connect with beyond the “cam-
pus bubble.” Every Friday I can look forward 
their down-to-earth families and a consis-
tent group of college mentors — mostly up-
per-classmen — who helped bring DREAM 
to Middlebury. 
the semester, we had a family BBQ, bring-
ing together new and old mentors, our men-
excitement was simply contagious. Before I 
knew it I was playing tag games and Frisbee 
and feeling overwhelmingly included. I felt 
like this was a space where I could complete-
ly be myself and I loved that others felt the 
same. 
During spring of last semester we had a 
retreat for DREAM mentors and had asked 
recent alumni to send us a few words about 
what DREAM means to them. One of my 
through DREAM during my 
-
timately, DREAM is both 
a collective and individual 
commitment to come back, 
Friday after Friday, and de-
vote ourselves to our mentee 
communities, each other 
and the spirit of DREAM — 
service.” 
As Williams mentions, 
consistency is an essential 
part of DREAM. Although 
we are a group mentoring 
organization, we depend on each individual 
mentee and mentor to have a successful 
Friday activity, and in the long run, foster a 
strong, supportive community. When men-
tors go abroad or graduate, the kids we work 
with feel their absence. But the beauty of 
DREAM is that it carries on, year after year. 
We welcome new mentors, fresh ideas and 
bigger dreaming. 
Last January we also expanded our com-
munity of mentees and doubled the number 
of kids in our program. A few months after 
getting to know our new mentees and intro-
ducing them to DREAM, we had a spring cul-
minating event, which went extremely well.  
We bonded on an overnight camping trip 
and through everything from the planning to 
a new sense of community. 
I know I feel incredibly thankful to be 
a part of such a group, and though our kids 
may not say so every day, they expressed 
their appreciation for their mentors, for each 
other and for DREAM that night we went 
camping. I am so proud of DREAM as an or-
ganization for the trust and genuine relation-
ships that it builds in this way. The fact that 
our mentors come to DREAM Fridays and to 
bigger events regularly with such excitement 
and earnestness means a 
lot to our kids. The fact 
that DREAM has been a 
part of my college experi-
ence certainly makes all 
the difference for me, and 
the same goes for other 
mentors in our program. 
One overarching 
goal of the DREAM pro-
gram as an organization 
is fostering a supportive 
community. Whether we 
acknowledge it or not, I 
believe that community 
plays a fundamental role in our lives  every 
day. When we are going through a particu-
larly rough time it makes all the difference 
to have someone by our side, reminding us 
to recognize and grasp the opportunities 
that come our way, to stay positive, to keep 
dreaming, to keep achieving. I cannot begin 
to imagine life without the support of fam-
ily, friends, neighbors or any such network 
of people. Perhaps that is why I feel such a 
strong connection and appreciation towards 
the DREAM program. As a DREAM mentor 
-
port and love to the community, the more 
joy, support and love I reap.
 On Sept. 17, the Middlebury Area Land 
Trust (MALT) hired a new executive director, 
Carl Robinson, to oversee all of the current 
and future projects in store for the organiza-
tion.
The land trust was incorporated in 1987 
with a mission to preserve green space in the 
-
panded their reach to the surrounding towns 
and have preserved over 2,000 acres of land. 
In addition, MALT created and continues to 
maintain the well-used, 16-mile Trail Around 
Middlebury (TAM).
Just a few weeks ago, MALT held its 
ninth annual fundraiser “TAM trek” to raise 
money for ongoing repairs to the trail over 
the course of the next year.
One of the organizers for the event was 
summer maintaining the MALT trails and 
working on a mapping project for the TAM.
“The TAM Trek was great — good turn-
out,” said Loizeax. 
Loizeax noted with appreciation the siz-
able turnout of Middlebury students, repre-
senting a large portion of the 100 people who 
went.
showed up, [which was] probably half of 
the number of people that were there,” said 
Loizeaux. “The Middlebury Mountain Club 
was [also] out there.”
President of the Mountain Club Tess 
event.
“I guess my main take-away,” said 
Sneeringer, “was how much of a tradition the 
TAM Trek itself really is and how enthusias-
tic the organizers and long-time participants 
were.”
Looking ahead, Robinson said that 
MALT will do things a little differently to 
drum up even greater support and interest in 
the TAM Trek event.
that up a little bit. As far as the activities we 
what [those] will be. If it will be more of a 
running event like a 5k or run the whole trail. 
We have some participants who do that now, 
but we [might] make it timed, [adding] a lit-
tle bit of a competitive nature.”
In addition to maintaining the TAM, 
MALT is also working on a few other projects 
in conjunction with other state and national 
groups to provide green spaces and particu-
larly trails as ways for people to get out and 
enjoy nature.
One of the big projects MALT has been 
working on is a new stretch of trail that will 
connect the TAM to the trailhead at Snake 
Mountain, providing hikers with access to 
“That trail has been laid out by a couple 
people,” said Robinson, “Emma [Loizeaux] 
and then John Derrick, who is our trail ex-
the National Parks service, adding another 
While this additional spur, or section of 
trail, will open up walking access to Snake 
Mountain for Middlebury hikers, the project 
also has a national scope as well.
national scenic trail which currently goes 
from North Dakota and ends in Crown Point, 
N.Y. The national parks service is looking to 
continue that trail and connect it to the Ap-
 Crown Point is a mere 15 miles away 
from Middlebury and the goal of the proj-
ect is to build out the trail so that it extends 
through to Middlebury, joining with the 
with other larger trails.
“The idea is,” added Loizeaux, “that you 
[can] hike from the Dakotas across the mid-
west through New York state to Crown Point 
and then across … through Addison County 
to the Long Trail, then south on the Long 
Trail to the Appalachian Trail.”
between the TAM and Snake Mountain has 
these larger efforts.
trail that I helped build this summer,” said 
hike that I will be leading on Oct. 20.”
With reference to this project and oth-
ers, Robinson expressed his happiness to be 
involved with a group organizing volunteers 
for public good, much like organizations he 
had worked with in Arizona before settling 
in Middlebury with his wife seven years ago.
a little more for the community,” said Robin-
son, as well as “being back into [a] volunteer 
organization to help enhance Middlebury.”
Back in Arizona where he earned his 
bachelors degree in parks and recreation, 
Robinson worked for groups like the Co-
conino County Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment and the Flagstaff Biking Organization, 
bringing together volunteers to maintain, de-
velop and appreciate trails and parks in that 
region.
After seven years of working part-time 
at different jobs in the area and providing 
primary care for his kids, Robinson felt ready 
to step into this larger role with MALT.
to be part of the organization.”
For more information on the Oct. 20 
unveiling of the new section of trail marked 
24MALT makes progress with new directorBy Isaac Baker
Ciderfest 2012 in Shoreham
During this Saturday afternoon festi-
val, producers in the area will provide 
samples of their sweet and harder ciders 
or apple wines. In addition, there will be 
live music by the rollicking acoustic group 
Run Mountain at the center of the festival, 
while on the outskirts, goers will be able 
to pick their own apples in celebration 
of the harvest season. Come and have a 
chance to enter the Stellar Cellar hard 
cider and apple wine contest or to watch 
cider and wine making demonstrations, 
all the while enjoying locally-made, gour-
met cheese and hors d’ouevres.
Tickets are $18 a person and are available 
online at www.champlainorchards.com, 
by phone at 802-897-2777 or at the door.
OCT. 13, 3:00 P.M. – 7:00 P.M.
“The Diary of Anne Frank” on stage in 
Vergennes
Friday night lights up in Vergennes with 
this presentation by the Little City Players 
of the Pulitzer Prize winning play adapted 
from the book Anne Frank: Diary of a 
Young Girl. The play documents Frank’s 
emotional trajectory during her years 
hidden away from the German Nazis. 
Tickets cost $12 for adults and $10 for 
seniors and students. 
For more information, call 802-877-6737 
or visit www.vergenesoperahouse.org.
OCT. 12, 8 P.M. - 10 P.M.
Weekend Quilt Show in Middlebury
The Milk & Honey Quilters Guild Show, 
known as “Quilting in the Land of Milk 
and Honey,” will be on display at the 
Middlebury Union High School Saturday 
and Sunday. The show will feature quilted 
jackets, table runners, bed hangings and 
wall hangings. The event will include 
at the door cost $5.
For more information, visit www.milkan-
dhoneyquilters.com.
OCT. 13, 10:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M.
OCT. 14, 10:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M.
Bake and Rummage Sales at the 
Middlebury Methodist Church
The Middlebury Methodist Church will be 
hosting a combination bake and rum-
mage sale this Friday. The bake sale will 
take place in the upstairs of the church 
from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., while the rummage 
sale will be going on all day. On Satur-
day, the rummage sale will kick into full 
gear, known as “Big Bag Day,” where 
shoppers will be able to pick up a bag’s 
worth of items for just $2. Shoppers can 
toys and household goods; all of the pro-
ceeds go to support the church’s mission 
here in the county and around the world. 
For more information, call Mimi Hardy at 
802-388-6016.
OCT. 19, 9:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M
OCT. 20, 9:00 A.M. - 12:00 P.M..
Contradance comes to Middlebury
The bands called Two Families, the Elders 
of Bristol and the Quinns of Middlebury 
will be joined by Elias Alexander to put on 
an exciting night of lively music for the di-
rected, old-style dancing. All of the dances 
will be taught and it is not necessary to 
come with a partner or even any prior 
experience. The only thing you must have 
are soft-soled, non-street shoes. Admis-
sion is $7 for adults and free for anyone 
under age 13. 
For more information, call 802-388-7828
OCT. 12, 7:30 P.M. - 9:30 P.M.
Local 
lowdown
 | october 11, 2012Local 5
“The fact that 
DREAM has been 
a part of my col-
lege experience 
certainly makes 
all the difference 
for me.”
Simran  Sabharwal ’14
By Simran Sabharwal
Connecting with Community
Some of the many ways Middlebury students get involved in the surrounding area
Courtesy of Carl Robinson
MALT hires Carl Robinson as new director.
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
editorial board 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
IS A GREEN MIDDLEBURY A GREEN MIDD KID?
opinions
Notes from
the desk
Isaac Baker ’14.5 
is a local news editor 
from Shelburne Falls, 
Mass. 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kathryn DeSutter
MANAGING EDITOR
Michelle Smoler
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Quinn Proffer
NEWS EDITORS 
Jess Berry, Bronwyn Oatley, 
Kelsey Collins
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Joanna Lyons, Carina Guiterman
SPORTS EDITORS 
Tom Clayton, Damon Hatheway,
Owen Teach
LOCAL EDITORS 
Conor Grant, Isaac Baker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Lauren Davidson, Stephanie Roush, 
Joshua Kruskal
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Deirdre Sackett, 
Santiago Azpurua-Borras, Grady Trela
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Jessica Munyon,  Jiayi Zhu
DESIGN MANAGER
Ian Stewart
DESIGN EDITORS
Olivia Allen, Marea Hatheway
ONLINE MANAGER 
Greg Woolston
ONLINE EDITOR
Leah Pickett
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR
Charlotte Gardiner 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
by andrew goulet
-
-
-
-
-
vation and environ-
editorial in this vein 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Frack it, we’ll do it live
 7opinionsOctober 11, 2012 | 
Energy in the election
Reader op-ed
Petr Knor ’15, Emma 
Ashby ’13 and Steven 
Dunmire ’13 are co-
chairs of the Middlebury 
Open Queer Alliance.
All blood is created equal
Republican politicians and talking 
heads including W. Mitt Romney have 
made a big deal lately of the Obama Ad-
ministration’s supposed “war on coal.” It’s 
a phrase that no doubt tests well with blue-
collar focus groups in the states needed to 
win the election, and the evidence seems 
to match the at-
tack line: across 
the United States, 
plants have be-
Coal prices have 
increased substan-
tially over the last 
several years. The construction of new 
Part of this is due to the Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA), which has put 
into place a series of regulations that limit 
the emissions of mercury, acids and small 
particles that come from coal plants and 
cause hundreds of thousands of cases of 
asthma in the United States every year. 
But that’s not the whole story. 
The true culprit of the war on 
coal is natural gas. Natural 
gas extraction through high-
volume, horizontal hydraulic 
fracturing — fracking — has 
revolutionized the American 
energy industry, lowering 
both prices and carbon emis-
sions. With the proper safe-
guards, natural gas extraction 
can help revitalize stagnant 
rural communities through-
out the nation.
In 2008, Penn State ge-
the starting pistol for the natural gas rush 
when he announced that the Marcellus 
Shale, a rock formation that stretches 
from Tennessee to within spitting distance 
of my house in Western New York, con-
tained as much as 500 trillion cubic feet 
of natural gas — more than is contained 
anywhere else, with the exception of the 
Iran and Qatar. At the time, the most re-
cent public estimate was two trillion feet. 
Engelder said that the discovery was a 
Christmas present for America; it turns 
out that it was much, much more. In the 
the United States fell to their lowest level 
-
place those burning coal, these emissions 
could continue to fall. Natural gas releases 
half as much carbon into the atmosphere 
as coal — not to mention fewer carcino-
Pennsylvania, the stories of manipula-
tive leases, overbearing corporations and 
water contamination have come from a 
failure of government to step up and play 
referee. These problems can be addressed 
by strict testing requirements, proper 
waste disposal, public disclosure of lease 
terms and land use restrictions. Sadly, 
heavy lobbying efforts including more 
to Republican Governor of Pennsylvania 
Tom Corbett have delayed the implemen-
tation of a severance tax on natural gas 
extraction that would help ensure that all 
beneath their feet and that the state has 
the money to adequately police the indus-
try. It’s naïve to assume that, in this or any 
industry, the companies will behave with-
out oversight. 
No energy source exists in a vacuum, 
and none is free of tradeoffs. Coal extrac-
tion often requires the removal of entire 
mountaintops. Nuclear waste remains 
radioactive for tens of thousands of years. 
Hydroelectric blocks the course of rivers 
— and there aren’t many viable sites left. 
Solar panels need toxic chem-
icals like gallium arsenide; 
batteries use even harsher 
chemicals. While solar panels 
-
cant promise for the future, 
the sun doesn’t always shine 
and the wind doesn’t always 
blow. These technologies 
need to advance more before 
they’re cost competitive and 
capable of meeting the energy 
needs of the United States. 
In the meantime, we have 
more than a century’s supply 
of extremely cheap, relatively 
clean natural gas.  
Natural gas has a huge advantage 
besides cost competitiveness and abun-
dance. When we buy fossil fuels, or any 
product, it represents a transfer of wealth 
from customer to producer. Europe has 
no choice but to throw euros at Russia to 
Qatar just to keep the lights on. But in the 
United States today, urban New Yorkers 
are transferring wealth to rural Pennsylva-
nians. San Diegans are sending money to 
North Dakota. The lights stay on cheaply 
in our cities, and communities are climb-
ing up from their knees in the countryside. 
Natural gas doesn’t just reduce our impact 
on the climate, it strengthens our econo-
my, lowers our electric bills and keeps the 
the years since the recession, the economy 
has grown by 2.7 million jobs. One mil-
lion of those were in the energy industry. 
-
ulous abandonment of fossil fuels, natural 
gas is a step in the right direction.
Apply 
liberally
Zach Dallmeyer-
Drennen ’13.5 is from 
Canadaigua, N.Y.  
the 
elephant 
in the room
Ben Kinney ’15 is from 
Seattle, Wash. 
Every U.S. President since Richard 
Nixon has promised “energy indepen-
dence,” and both President Obama and 
Governor Romney are doing their part to 
continue this political tradition. But while 
the two candidates agree that energy in-
dependence is essential to political and 
economic stability, they differ on how best 
to reach this historically unattainable goal. 
Perhaps not as much as you may think: 
both have continually voiced their support 
for an “all of the above” energy strategy, 
encouraging hydraulic oil fracking, natu-
ral gas drilling, the Keystone XL Pipeline 
proposal and green energy development. 
Moreover, while Obama has presented 
himself as the “green” candidate, vowing to 
“use energy sources of the future like wind 
and solar and biofuels,” his promise for 
Obama’s green energy experiment proves 
that these technologies are not competitive 
enough to provide desperately needed jobs. 
But while some politicians have poised the 
energy debate as a choice between the ener-
gy independence, job creation and low costs 
provided by fossil fuels and the long-term 
sustainability provided by green energies, 
Romney and Obama are correct in advocat-
ing both. However, both candidates’ plans 
for energy development have fundamental 
We’ve all heard the story: Obama grant-
manufacturer Solyndra, and the company 
quickly declared bankruptcy and defaulted. 
Several other failed investments by the 
Obama administration have led Romney to 
proclaim, and rightly so, that “the govern-
ment shouldn’t be in the business of pick-
ing winners and losers.” Romney’s opinion 
is that “markets, rather than governments,” 
must determine which energy sources pros-
per, with rising gas and energy costs facili-
tating a natural shift towards green energy 
dominance. Yet while Romney has voiced 
his intention to let wind and solar subsidies 
expire if elected, he simultaneously defends 
fossil fuel subsidies and tax breaks prevent-
ing market control. Energy subsidies give 
certain energy sources advantages over oth-
ers regardless of supply and demand, often 
with disastrous results. Free markets have 
long been a conservative ideal, so why does 
Obama’s criticism that “the oil industry gets 
$4 billion a year in corporate welfare,” put 
Romney on defense?
Romney’s pledge to subsidize and sup-
port coal mining would both harm energy 
markets and fail to sustain the dying in-
dustry. While coal made America strong, 
-
petitive due to low natural gas prices. Rom-
ney’s subsidies and tax deductions for coal 
mining, coupled with his vow to roll back 
environmental regulations, will merely 
waste taxpayer dollars on funding ecologi-
cal destruction. “Clean coal” is a political 
invention. American coal mining is no lon-
ger economical and our president needs to 
focus on creating new jobs for the 200,000 
American coal miners, rather than paying 
them to work in an outdated industry. Last 
Wednesday, Romney signaled that his sup-
port of fossil fuel tax breaks and subsidies 
could be traded for a lower corporate tax 
rate, a sensible exchange that most Re-
publicans support. Let’s hope he follows 
through. 
Both Obama and Romney will almost 
Pipeline project with the contention that 
it will create jobs, lower gas prices and 
bring us closer to energy independence. 
However, according to the only indepen-
dent report conducted on the pipeline, the 
multibillion-dollar project will only gener-
ate 2,500 to 5,000 temporary construction 
jobs, a comically small impact. Moreover, 
the majority of the oil will be exported over-
seas by TransCanada, rather than sold in 
the United States, 
so gasoline prices 
and overall supply 
will remain un-
changed. Finally, 
into (or more ac-
curately, through) 
America, more 
drills pumping in 
Texas and the Arctic and more fracking in 
the Rockies will not reliably lower gas pric-
es in the increasingly globalized market, 
so neither candidate can honestly pledge 
to ensure low costs at the pump. The Key-
stone XL Pipeline would probably not be 
an environmental disaster, but it provides 
that neither candidate is denouncing the 
project.
The future of energy in this country 
depends on Obama’s and Romney’s will-
ingness to let supply and demand, rather 
of new technologies and the abandonment 
of old ones. Multibillion-dollar projects, 
help us become more energy independent 
and could provoke a choice between envi-
ronmental and economic security. Obama’s 
strict energy regulations create more prob-
lems than they prevent, as they hinder eco-
nomic growth and have provoked some 
oil, gas and coal facilities to move abroad. 
Energy development, economic growth 
and environmental protection are not im-
possible goals, however, and Romney’s 
proposal for “a government that facilitates 
private-sector-led development of new en-
ergy technologies by focusing on funding 
research and removing barriers,” sounds 
promising.
sorry to those who don’t understand liters, but in a country 
where the Red Cross places Oman, Nigeria and the U.K. into 
the same group, nobody cares about distinction. Most of us 
has found a substitute for this magical liquid, so we rely on 
blood from others.
who can donate blood. Have you had gay sex? Or had sex 
with a man who did? Gotten a tat-
too in the past year? Lived in the 
U.K. and just in London? You are 
too dangerous. It doesn’t matter 
that all blood gets screened, that 
only eight million Americans do-
nate, that most are over 50 and 
that the demand for blood in-
creases annually by six percent. 
There are big blood shortages. 
-
ment of Health and Human Services. For me, it is not just 
about morals and discrimination. It’s about being rational. 
We need gay men to donate blood — they would bring some 
some gay blood in your body than sleep forever. We need 
gay men because we fear needles.
“ With the 
proper 
safeguards, 
natural gas 
extraction can 
help revitalize 
stagnant rural 
communities 
throughout the 
nation.”
We are the co-chairs of the Middlebury Open Queer Alliance, each affected personally and practically by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) bans enforced at American Red Cross blood drives. The accounts below are our personal reflections. 
Middlebury has a commitment to international stu-
dents, as we students are many times reminded:  “Sixty 
percent of Middlebury students study abroad;” “We are 
a globally-minded school;” “we have civilization require-
ments.”  Then what are we saying to those who have lived 
in one of the eight Sub-Saharan countries that the Red 
Cross refuses blood from? We promote the on-campus 
activities of those who put a blanket ban on donations 
from those who have traveled to or are “immigrating 
from … areas with a risk of malaria,” as well as stepped 
foot into a country that has ever fried a mad-cow burger. 
What right does the Red Cross have to lump together 
England, Northern Ireland, Gibraltar, Oman, Turkey and 
European countries, as if they were all the same size or 
had the same characteristics? And, what right do we have 
to bring in an activity promoted as a moral responsibility 
of college students, but that shuns all those who took seri-
ously Middlebury’s urging to see the world?
The call for blood does not fall under “recruitment,” 
and instead is put into a grey category under Middlebury’s 
handbook, which forbids discrimination. Certainly, no 
one could argue that blood donation is not a worthwhile 
cause. But we, as a community, need to seriously consid-
blood donors. Is it fair to bring onto our campus, a place 
we have worked so hard to make into a haven of equal 
opportunity, this sort of inherently hierarchical system?
I am a blood donor. I am also a gay man. When I or any 
out gay man walks into a blood drive, all our friends, co-
workers, professors and acquaintances present immediately 
know one of two potential truths about us: either we are ly-
ing to the American Red Cross in order to donate, or our 
sex lives are very … solitary. I cannot help but look around 
McCullough and wonder what people are thinking about 
me while I donate. I see students in similar positions to my-
self — gay men, international students from banned coun-
tries and others. What assumptions are being made about 
them? Thanks to the FDA ban on donations from these large 
swaths of the Middlebury community, the decision to do-
nate becomes one of opting out of helping people in need or 
revealing your personal history to all present who know you.
In my four years at Middlebury, administrators and the 
Commons Councils who organize blood drives have never 
once to my knowledge publicly addressed the discrimina-
tory nature of the FDA ban. While our non-discrimination 
statement only applies to extracurricular activities and on-
campus recruiters, I challenge anyone to argue that Middle-
bury is not breaking with an expressed set of values every 
time the American Red Cross truck pulls onto campus. I am 
not advocating that we ban blood drives — this punishes 
people who need donations. But our community needs to 
acknowledge the decision to overrule its respect for diver-
sity for the sake of donating blood. We owe it to every poten-
tial donor barred by the FDA.
We need to start talking about mental health
8 opinions | October 11, 2012
Reader
op-ed
Dave Yedid 
’15 is from Port 
Washington, N.Y.
Oct. 7 - 13 is National Mental Health 
Awareness Week — seven short days when 
we are encouraged to confront a topic 
many of us try to avoid all year long. Think 
about it — how often do we actually dis-
cuss mental health issues? Middlebury 
students are quite comfortable addressing 
a variety of social topics, including sexual-
ity, race, socioeconomic status and others. 
One would expect 
the same openness 
and acceptance to-
wards the plethora 
of issues surround-
ing mental health, 
right? Well, bluntly 
stated, we could be doing much, much 
more. 
Let me provide a bit of context. Men-
tal health issues are a serious concern on 
college campuses across the country. In 
fact, one in four college students struggle 
with mental health problems each year, in-
cluding, but not limited to, depression and 
anxiety. This statistic makes sense when 
we consider that many mental health is-
early twenties, and are often triggered by 
(both of which can be found in abundance 
on college campuses nationwide). Fortu-
nately, the National Alliance on Mental Ill-
ness reports that relief from mental health 
issues can be achieved 70 to 90 percent of 
the time — as long as a patient is properly 
diagnosed and treated. Shockingly, two-
thirds of college students in need do not 
seek help, including those who are think-
ing about suicide. Considering the fact that 
suicide is the second leading cause of death 
for college-aged individuals, this statistic 
is extremely alarming. If mental illness 
is diagnosable and treatable, why do so 
many college students avoid seeking help? 
Although a variety of factors exist, the U.S. 
Surgeon General reports that the stigma 
associated with issues of mental health is 
a major barrier preventing students from 
seeking help. 
These facts are not meant to dampen 
your mood. Rather, they should illustrate 
the effects that our attitudes can have on 
those struggling with mental illness. We 
health and wellbeing more openly. So, 
how do we start? As a Student Wellness 
Leader, I believe that the key is to better 
understand mental health in general so 
that we can ensure our own mental wellbe-
ing. By doing so, we can create a safe com-
munity for others struggling with mental 
health issues. We can educate ourselves 
in a variety of ways, particularly by access-
ing the many resources Middlebury has to 
offer. Although few are aware, the College 
is extremely committed to providing the 
resources necessary for students to take 
responsibility for their mental health. For 
example, Parton Health Center provides 
short-term counseling and referrals at low-
cost, and several student support groups 
meet weekly to provide support for issues 
including grief and sobriety. In addition, 
the CTLR offers one-on-one appointments 
to provide lessons in time-management 
and mechanisms for reducing stress. 
 Educating ourselves on mental health 
helps us to understand our own mental 
well-being so that we can take charge of 
ensuring our own health. Second, it broad-
ens our understanding of mental health 
on campus, thus lessening the stigma that 
prevents so many students in need from 
seeking help. 
I don’t mean to undermine the coura-
geous efforts of students who have sought 
assistance for their mental health issues. 
That being said, I can’t help but wonder 
just how many more students would seek 
help if we could change the perceptions 
toward mental health on our campus. Of 
course, this change won’t happen over-
night, and by no means do I expect it to. 
However, in light of Mental Health Aware-
ness Week, I hope that we will take ad-
campus culture towards mental health 
towards ensuring such a positive change. 
Does that seem too daunting of a goal? 
Well, it shouldn’t — in fact, now is the per-
fect time to act. So while you’re listening 
to the Dalai Lama speak about compassion 
and hope this weekend, think about how 
you can bring these principles to campus. 
Or, as you’re relaxing over fall break, take 
some time to rebalance your own mental 
well-being. 
Mental health is not a “them” and “us” 
issue — it affects everyone. Only once we 
become aware of that fact can the stigma 
stopped. Only then will we all be able 
to truly take care of ourselves and those 
around us. 
take care
Sanela Smaka ’15 
is from Eden Prarie, 
Minn.
Last Wednesday, Atwater Commons 
hosted its annual American Red Cross 
blood drive in McCullough Social Space. 
While waiting to donate, I encountered a 
donating blood — not because of anemia 
or traveling abroad — but because of his 
sexual behavior. His deferral is based on 
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s 
clause that excludes homosexual men who 
have had sexual contact with another ho-
mosexual male since the year 1977 from 
donating blood. The deferral sheet he re-
ceived attributed the 
grounds for deferral 
to “high-risk sexual 
behavior.” 
The FDA’s 
clause aimed to con-
trol the HIV/AIDS 
breakout, which 
occurred largely 
among gay men in the 1980’s. Prior to the 
1990’s, the FDA did not screen blood do-
nors, causing many patients who received 
blood transfusions to become infected with 
hepatitis and HIV/AIDS. To cover its own 
legal and medical bases, the FDA continues 
to use this policy. 
-
relevant, outdated and unfair. It implies 
that homosexual intercourse is somehow 
more risky than heterosexual intercourse, 
assuming that a gay man in a monogamous 
relationship engages in “riskier behavior” 
than a heterosexual woman having unpro-
tected sex with multiple partners. This no-
tion cannot be tolerated.
As a homosexual male who has had 
sexual contact with another man since 
1977, I still choose to donate blood. I recog-
nize that the clause against gay men is anti-
quated and inappropriate, but I still believe 
blood donation is important. Of the 37 per-
cent of the population eligible to donate 
blood, only 10 percent chooses to do so. In 
addition, 4.5 million people need donated 
blood each year, one in seven hospital pa-
tients require blood transfusions, and each 
donated pint can save up to three lives, ac-
cording to America’s Blood Center. Last 
summer was the Red Cross’s record low of 
blood donation, further highlighting their 
need to include groups such as healthy ho-
mosexual men. 
While donating, I felt a little morally 
… jumbled. On one hand, I knew I was 
doing something necessary and right, but 
on the other, I felt uneasy about lying, the 
exclusion of my friend and donating to an 
organization that views my blood as un-
clean. I spoke with one of the American 
Red Cross employees, whom I had met last 
year, about the gay male clause and what 
happened to my friend. He was very sym-
pathetic, and said that he too is frustrated 
by it; he has written letters to the FDA en-
couraging them to remove the clause and 
mentioned that some of the employees 
at the drive were homosexual. The most 
backward part, he said, was that if you are 
a woman who has had sexual contact with a 
gay male since 1977, you are only deferred 
from donating for one year, rather than 
you know?” he told me. “If you want any 
change to happen, whether it be concern-
ing the environment, or gender and sexu-
ality issues, it’s going to take years before 
anything happens.” He further pointed 
out that the screening surveys are hetero-
normative, providing options on sexual-
preference questions such as “I am female” 
or “I am male,” to skip a question, effec-
tively ignoring LGBTQ, gender-variant and 
transsexual people. 
It is unfair for the FDA to exclude 
healthy and eligible donors on the basis of 
sexual orientation and expression. There 
are many avenues of action and response. 
I choose to lie and donate, knowing my 
blood will go to someone in need. Some 
deferred, some self-defer and others, like 
a friend from home, shout while walking 
past Red Cross tables “Sorry I can’t donate 
… I just had really hot sex with my boy-
friend this morning!” We must respect any 
of these avenues, but must not ignore the 
need to take action. I have written letters 
to the FDA and the Red Cross promoting 
homosexual eligibility to donate blood.
I must also recognize the important 
activism of Jay Saper ’13 and Melian Radu 
’13, who staged a “Blood Dump” in which 
they asked students to dump fake blood 
-
ka-Loehr ’13, in solidarity with Saper and 
Radu, donated blood dressed in drag. 
These three students met with President of 
the College Ronald D. Leibowitz, presented 
the “Blood Dump” visual and encouraged 
him to write a letter to the FDA Commis-
sioner expressing his disapproval for such 
a clause and stressing the importance of its 
removal. I encourage President Leibowitz 
to follow through with this letter in order to 
promote the advancement of practices that 
are relevant to current societal context. 
As members of an institution with a 
policy of nondiscrimination based on “sex, 
sexual orientation and gender identity or 
expression,” we must be aware of this para-
dox. By labeling certain bodies as “impure”, 
a different group is simultaneously labeled 
as “pure.” This binary is dangerous — it 
reinforces stereotypes that are the basis 
for homophobia, hate-crimes and societal 
intolerance. The Middlebury community 
is known to be extremely informed, intel-
ligent and globally minded. We must use 
our voices to express the need for change 
when an organization comes onto our cam-
community. If we seek to achieve social 
justice and equality in our community and 
beyond, we cannot be blind to this shame-
ful injustice. 
Dirty blood? The carbon footprint of the hills is yours also
As many of you know, or maybe 
more importantly, as some of you may 
not yet know, Middlebury as an institu-
tion is committed to becoming carbon 
neutral by 2016. So hypothetically, in 
less than four years, the campus proper, 
Bread Loaf and the Snow Bowl will not be 
putting any greenhouse gases into the at-
mosphere that it doesn’t somehow make 
up for.  Having worked in the College’s 
past few months, I can tell you that we’re 
getting close — really close — to achiev-
ing that goal. Though oftentimes, when 
I talk to people about carbon neutrality 
and the College, I get the impression that 
most don’t have a very good idea of just 
how big a deal this is. 
With that said, why, exactly, should 
you care?
Carbon neutrality at Middlebury 
is special. Not just because it will prob-
on the refrigerator, or because it would 
make us the most-endowed 
carbon neutral college or 
university in the country 
(which it would — the only 
other carbon neutral schools 
I was able to identify were 
College of the Atlantic and 
Southern New Hampshire 
University), but because 
Middlebury’s commitment 
to carbon neutrality origi-
nated with us, its students. 
In 2007, a group called 
the Carbon Neutrality Initia-
tive Task Force put together 
a proposal called “MiddShift,” which 
outlined a plan for carbon neutrality at 
Middlebury with the rather ambitious 
goal of making it happen by 2016. Want-
ing to do it right, the students involved 
devised a plan that didn’t just say how we 
would pay for enough carbon credits (ba-
sically investments in sustainable energy 
industries — the easy way out) to make 
up for the greenhouse gases College op-
erations produce, but created a blueprint 
for how we could outright eliminate 
our emissions and become more reliant 
on clean energy. Determined to see a 
change made, the group put the proposal 
before President of the College Ronald 
D. Leibowitz and received his support. 
The plan was then put before the trust-
ees, who were clearly convinced enough 
to give the plan the go-ahead. Middle-
carbon neutrality. 
Maybe more than anything else, 
this commitment is a celebration of ev-
erything that makes Middlebury the in-
stitution that it is. It’s right in line with 
the reputation we’ve established for our-
selves as a leader at the forefront of the 
sustainability movement in higher edu-
cation at not just the national, but the 
global level. It shows that a liberal arts 
education may just be good for some-
thing after all, and that there’s hope of 
our lives (insert 
alternate lib-
eral arts cliché 
here). But more 
than anything, 
it showcases 
just how much potential each and every 
member of the Middlebury community 
has to create change in the way that not 
only this magical place, but the world, 
works. Carbon neutrality isn’t just some 
ploy by the administration to advance 
the so-called “Middlebury Brand,” but 
something that the student body com-
mitted itself to of its own accord.
And whether apparent or not, the 
commitment that those students made 
all those years ago wasn’t 
just theirs — it’s ours. As a 
member of this community, 
each and every one of you is 
a part of the movement to 
become carbon neutral. I’ll 
tell you outright that chanc-
es are, you’ll never know 
exactly how much energy 
you’ll have used when all’s 
said and done after your 
four years here, but we will 
know how much energy the 
community has used. Re-
sponsibility for any effects 
that the College’s emissions have on the 
global environment falls upon all of our 
shoulders. The greenhouse gas account-
ing process doesn’t calculate individual 
footprints — we’ll only have one number 
for the community to tell us just how 
close we are to accomplishing our goal. 
Carbon neutrality will only become a 
reality at Middlebury if each and every 
one of us here at the College takes full, 
unwavering ownership of the movement. 
Which, considering it’s already ours, hy-
pothetically shouldn’t take that much ef-
fort. 
In her doctoral dissertation, “Where 
Meaning Lies: Student Attitudes and 
Behaviors Relating to Sustainability in 
College,” NYU graduate student Annie 
Bezbatchenko points out that institu-
tions themselves cannot prescribe types 
of behavior. The most effective means of 
changing attitudes towards sustainabil-
ity utilized pressures from the commu-
nity in the form of social networks, trust 
and norms. Consider this week’s column 
as pressure from the community to start 
caring.
Green piece
Julian Macrone ’14 
is from Clifton, N.J.
“ As a member 
of this 
community, 
each and every 
one of you is 
a part of the 
movement to 
become carbon 
neutral.”
9opinionsOctober 11, 2012 | 
By Dylan levy
Dear Editors,
While we appreciate your inclusion of our initiative in the Cam-
pus this past week, we were perturbed by the narrative that was 
constructed about JusTalks in the article, well-intentioned as it may 
have been.
In Hudson’s interview, he used neither the adjective “generic” 
nor “pedantic” to describe his feelings about JusTalks. He did, how-
ever, express concerns that the event would be mis-
understood, as we fear it may have been from the 
article published in the Campus.
-
ing what it is not: JusTalks is not an exercise in po-
litical correctness and platitudes about identity or 
privilege; it’s not a day for social justice activists to 
pat themselves on the back; it’s not what is going to 
diversify the Middlebury community. Rather, JusT-
alks is premised on the idea that we, individually and collectively, 
JusTalks was founded on the notion that nobody should gradu-
ate from Middlebury without having the opportunity to explore and 
students to “participate fully in a vibrant and diverse academic com-
munity” and to “learn to engage the world,” as Middlebury’s mission 
JusTalks is growing from your ideas. Feedback collected from 
students all over campus — from clubs, sports teams, social houses 
We are proud to say that for years 
to come, this event — intended to bring 
our community together by shattering 
the preconceptions that divide us — will 
be a requisite part of the Middlebury 
education for all incom-
us wish we could have 
gone through it when we arrived. Perhaps some of 
us would have been more comfortable saying, “I 
belong here.”
Remember Midd Uncensored? Entire person-
al histories of hardship (“I have lost a family mem-
family to go to college”) and of hidden identities (“I am grounded in 
my faith”) were shared in an instant by standing or raising a hand. 
Admit it, there was some point when you got chills. That wasn’t 
corny. That was real.
So what is JusTalks? It’s 200+ people getting together to talk 
about the things that keep us up at night or get us through the day. 
Starting this January, the event is open to students from any year. 
Come check it out: you’re invited.
letter to the 
editor
JusTalks team
Dear Editors,
Don’t carry your groceries all the way from Shaw’s up the hill 
back to campus. There’s a FREE bus every half hour from town to 
campus. Public transportation within Middlebury is available FREE 
and travels from campus to town and back. As a daily Addison 
County Transit Resources (ACTR) rider since 1997, I know this form 
of transportation is an easy way to reduce one’s carbon footprint. 
If you’re headed to Shaw’s, take the College/Weybridge bus 
from campus. After arriving at the Middlebury town green, that 
same bus heads directly to Shaw’s to swing back through the park-
ing lot ten minutes later and then returns to campus. And don’t hes-
itate to tell the driver to keep an eye out for you on the return trip. If 
you need to shop a little longer, the cycle is a half-hour.   
If you need a ride only from downtown to campus, an Addison 
County Transit Resources (ACTR) bus leaves the town green every 
30 minutes on the hour and on the half-hour. Both the College/
Hospital bus and the College/Weybridge bus travel from the green 
to ADK Circle — the Porter Hospital route 
then extends via Old Chapel Road toward 
the Athletic Complex/CFA.
 From downtown, the Weybridge 
bus route goes past Sama’s, whereas the 
Hospital route travels Storrs Avenue past 
Davis Library. Keep that in mind because 
route.
If TJ’s or Hannaford is your desti-
nation, take the Route 7 South bus from 
those locations back to the town green, 
then catch one of the aforementioned routes back to campus.
Way in addition to, as was recently written in the Campus, the Col-
lege and other supporters. 
letter to the 
editor
Irene Barna is 
Administrative Assistant 
to Executives-in-
Residence & President’s 
At the conclusion of last Wednes-
day night’s presidential debate, the 
media consensus was clear — Gov-
ernor Romney had won the debate. 
President Obama underperformed. 
The race for president was going down 
to the wire.
Yet, beneath both the outpouring 
of elation among Republicans and the 
head-banging of 
Democrats, did 
Romney REALLY 
win the debate?
Sure, Rom-
ney was stylisti-
cally confident, 
prepared and aggressive. But a closer 
look at what he said, as opposed to 
how he said it, reveals that Romney 
did what he has been doing all along: 
providing few substantive details of 
what he would do as president and 
not being completely truthful with the 
facts.
For example, Romney emphati-
cally rebutted Obama’s claim that 
the Republican nominee would en-
act a five trillion dollar tax cut. Yet, 
he did not tell us exactly what his tax 
plan would entail. His generaliza-
tions about giving deficit-neutral tax 
cuts ignored the fact that an extension 
of the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy, 
which Romney supports, would cost 
over one trillion in the next decade.
On deficit reduction, Romney’s 
quip about cutting Big Bird and the 
subsidy to PBS ignited a firestorm of 
jokes and memes on social media. But 
at the end of the day, these cuts would 
erase less than 0.01 percent of the en-
tire federal budget. Beyond repealing 
Obamacare, which would actually add 
to the deficit, Romney offered no spe-
cific details. 
Romney also criticized President 
Obama for doubling the deficit in his 
first term. Yet this fiscal year, the pro-
jected deficit of $1.2 trillion is actually 
slightly smaller than the $1.4 trillion 
deficit posted in 2009. Romney also 
claimed that U.S. government spend-
ing is now as high as that of Spain. But 
a look at the facts show that current 
U.S. government spending is approxi-
mately 35 percent of GDP, less than 
the 42 percent Romney cited and only 
a few points higher than it was during 
Reagan’s presidency.
Romney’s troubles with arithme-
tic extended into the discussion on en-
ergy. He claimed that half of the green 
businesses Obama has invested in 
have gone out of business when truth-
fully only three of 36 have.
When pushed on his plans for 
Medicare, Romney criticized the 
president on cutting $716 billion but 
promptly proceeded to advocate more 
private choice, giving even less secu-
rity to seniors who depend on the pro-
gram.
As the debate discussion wound 
its way to health care, education and 
Wall Street reform, Romney contin-
ued to offer vague and fuzzy general-
izations instead of a real substantive 
vision. What would he replace Obam-
acare with? He wouldn’t say. What 
would he replace Dodd-Frank with? 
He wouldn’t say. How would he help 
students like us afford college? He 
wouldn’t say.
After the debate, pundits and lay-
men alike observed that Obama was 
underprepared, fatigued or apathetic. 
Yet, we College Democrats believe that 
he told Americans what they needed 
to hear, not what was politically con-
venient. Yes, Governor Romney’s per-
formance made the debate an exciting 
one to watch, but did he really offer 
any truthful substance to the Ameri-
can people? We think not.
Did Romney really 
win the debate?
reader 
op-ed
College Democrats
“JusTalks is 
premised on the idea 
from communal self-
Setting the record straight on JusTalks
An easy way to reduce your carbon footprint
Many thanks to the staff of the Campus for its coverage of 
the Project on Creativity and Innovation, including the accom-
panying editorial, “Expanding Your Liberal Arts Education.” 
As a faculty member, I am encouraged when all members 
of our community engage in lively, 
even contentious back-and-forth on 
the meaning and goals of a liberal 
arts education. So while I don’t al-
ways agree with the perspectives of 
[Associate Professor of Mathematics] 
John Schmitt  and [Assistant Profes-
sor of Philosophy] Kareem Khalifa, 
who were quoted in your coverage, I 
always learn from them and from our 
exchanges. 
And as is often true when one discusses issues that mat-
with Schmitt, for example, I have learned how highly we both 
value the two words on the Middlebury seal, “Scientia et Vir-
tus.” With Khalifa, I have discovered how strongly we both 
feel that fundamental questions at the heart of philosophy — 
“What is the meaning of my life? What is the right thing to do?” 
—  should ground the liberal arts experience. 
Airing our differences, in other words, reveals common 
values. As your articles illustrate, the Campus is an excellent 
venue for sharing varied perspectives found at Middlebury 
about the liberal arts. 
letter to 
the editor
John Isham is a 
professor of economics 
and faculty director of 
Finding common
ground Speaking on behalf of colleagues at the Project on Creativity and 
Innovation (PCI), many thanks to the Campus for running the series 
of articles last week about the opportunities that PCI has assembled 
for students. Alongside all educators at Middlebury — faculty and 
staff alike, on the Vermont campus and beyond — we are honored to 
do our part in helping to implement President of the College Ronald 
D. Liebowitz’s vision for the 21st-century liberal arts. Yet while PCI’s 
programs received the attention in your special section, your readers 
should know how many colleagues have helped to make the PCI, in 
its current incarnation, a reality. They include (here we go!) Mary 
Stanley, Thad Stowe, Norm Cushman, Pam Norton, Tom Corbin, 
Lyn DeGraff, Mary Reed, Tammy Grant, Jennifer Pottinger, Maria 
Farnsworth, Corinna Noelke, Jenna Bron-
son, Maggie Paine, Pam Fogg, Bob Cluss, 
Sue Levine, Kris Williams, Blair Kloman, 
Meghan Williamson, Dave Donahue, Shir-
ley Collado, Patrick Norton, Dave Kloep-
fer, Adella Langrock, Dianne Munroe, 
Missy Foote, Mike Morgan, Stever Bartlett, 
Matt Jennings, Public Safety, Tim Etchells, 
Kelly Rizzo, Susan Baldridge, Danielle 
Madison, Valerie Costello, Nate Burt, Tim 
Spears, Pieter Broucke, Matt Biette, Tiffany Sargent, Media Services, 
Mike Pixley, Ashley Calkins and Tracy Himmel Isham, among many 
others, as well as Ron and Jessica Liebowitz and whoever we have 
inevitably forgotten! At PCI, we take seriously the motto, “How can 
we help?”  In part we do so because so many colleagues over the 
years have helped us shape the vision and execution of PCI, on be-
half of current and future Middlebury students. Down at 118 South 
Main Street (come visit!), we are very thankful for the leadership, 
collaboration and support of so many.
letter to 
the editor
Elizabeth Robinson 
’84 is director of the 
Project on Creativity 
and Innovation
Thanking PCI contributors
11
Two or th
ree trucklo
ads of wo
odchips 
— locally-
sourced, 
from withi
n a 75-mi
le 
radius — 
are delive
red to the
 biomass 
plant daily
. The plan
t consum
es around
 
20,000 to
ns of woo
dchips a y
ear. O2
Woodchips are heat-
ed in a low-oxygen 
chamber, causing 
them to gradually 
release gas. Oxygen is 
chamber, causing the 
gas to ignite. 
This combustion 
creates tempera-
tures exceeding 
1100°F. This heat 
energy is used to 
create steam that is 
distributed across 
campus through 
underground pipes.
The steam is used for 
heating, cooling, hot 
water and cooking. 
Some of the exhaust 
is sent back to preheat 
water before entering 
the boiler.
Before steam is sent 
into the underground 
pipes, it works to ro-
tate turbines, thereby 
generating electricity. 
These turbines pro-
duce between three 
-
watt-hours of electricity 
annually.
Exhaust and left 
over waste from 
the combustion 
is sent through a 
cyclonic separa-
tor, which forces 
larger particles to 
drop out.
The biomass plant creates energy for the entire col-
lege by converting woodchips into steam and energy. 
Twenty thousand tons of woodchips are used annually 
to heat dorms and create 20 percent of electricity on 
campus. The steam then condenses back into water and 
is transported back to the plant to be turned into steam 
again. An underground piping system facilitates the 
transport of steam throughout campus.
While other schools like Colgate University and 
Bennington College utilize heat energy from the wood 
burning process, the College’s system uses a gasification 
process where chips are converted into gas, leaving only 
mineral ash, which produces more efficient and cleaner 
energy.
 
College-related travel and waste still remain obstacles to 
achieving carbon neutrality. Administrators remain unsure 
of how to account for the use of college-owned vehicles and 
transportation to sponsored conferences, which are not cur-
rently factored into the overall carbon footprint. Addition-
ally, while 65 percent of our waste is recycled, the rest goes 
to a landfill in the northeastern part of Vermont.
To reduce the amount of waste and energy produced, the 
Environmental Council is developing an energy literacy 
campaign to educate students on how much each activity af-
fects our environment. Supplemental to the campaign is an 
energy pledge which will be unveiled at the end of October. 
Council members hope other planned events like campus 
sustainability day on Oct. 24 will encourage environmental 
awareness by providing all local foods in the dining hall, 
among other initiatives.
“Through our efforts we are teaching and reminding the 
student body how to effectibely reduce their carbon emis-
sions,” said council member Piper Rosales Underbrink ’15. 
The biomass plant started as an idea discussed by the 
Environmental Council in accordance with a 2004 winter 
term class focusing on carbon reduction. Ultimately, the 
Council and other supplementary groups set a goal to reduce 
the 1990-level emissions by 10 percent by 2012. After put-
ting together a report including potential results, costs and 
savings, they recommended the biomass plant as a way to 
achieve this goal. 
Before the construction of the biomass plant, the College 
used two million gallons of fuel oil (propane number six) 
per year to produce the required amount of energy. Known 
as a “dirty” fuel, number six comes from the bottom of the 
barrel, and produces and releaes more carbon dioxide emis-
sions than most other fuel sources.
Despite these efforts, the amount of woodchips that 
the biomass plant requires is larger than one may think. 
Each student uses 39 pounds of woodchips and one gallon 
of number six fuel oil per day, much more than one might 
expect.
To reduce the number down to zero before the 2016 
deadline, the College is looks to an unlikely source: ma-
nure.
Recently, the College signed a contract with a devel-
oper who is planning to build a manure digester on a dairy 
farm. Manure is considered to be carbon neutral because it 
originated from grass.
This developer would deliver biomethane for 10 years 
in order to supplement the gas provided by the biomass 
plant. If enacted, the use of biomethane would reduce car-
bon emissions by 13,000 metric tons, leaving just five tons 
remaining. 
The College is also considering other options, including 
renewable diesel oil and better management of the large 
amounts of agriculture land.
BIOMASS BASICS
As a small liberal arts college, Middlebury proves that bigger 
is not necessarily better —at least when it comes to environmental 
responsibility. In recent years, the College has paved the way for 
some of the most advanced and environmentally friendly energy 
systems among colleges and universities in the country. 
In 2004, the College set the goal of achieving carbon  neutral-
ity by 2016. In 2009, the biomass plant, located beside McCullough 
Social Space, became operational in order to aid the efforts in 
achieving this goal. Although the plant cost the College $12 mil-
lion, it has cut fuel oil use in half, reducing consumption from 
two million gallons per year to one million gallons. Additionally, 
the biomass plant has helped to reduce the College’s carbon foot-
print by 40 percent. The current footprint is measured at 18,000 
metric tons of carbon. 
The steam production process requires 20,000 tons of wood-
chips annually. These woodchips come from mill residue and 
bole tree chips, and all are sourced within a 75-mile radius of the 
College.
Since its early years as a research operation, the biomass 
project has grown to become even more efficient than the manu-
facturer first believed possible. Presently, other schools, including 
University of South Carolina and Eastern Illinois University, are 
looking to the the College’s system as a model for their campus 
energy systems. Director of Sustainability Integration Jack Byrne 
believes the success of biomass at the College can be attributed to 
the community’s dedication to the project over the years.
“[The College is] doing a good job of figuring out how to make 
it work really well,” said Byrne. “I think as a result, we have had 
a lot of people who are considering systems come to us to find out 
how we do it. We’re a valuable resource for advocating this sys-
tem.”
CARBON FOOTPRINT
Ash left over from 
the combustion 
process is sent to 
local farms to be 
used as 
fertilizer.
This process is rated 
to remove around 
99.7 percent of 
residual particulates; 
the remaining water 
vapor is vented into 
the air through the 
smoke stack.
FROM START TO FINISH
THE STEAM CYCLE
LOOKING FORWARD
BREAKS IN THE BOOKS
The exhaust then goes 
which remove nearly all 
remaining 
particulates.
Avery McNiff ’12 currently works alongside Director of Sustainability Inte-
gration Jack Byrne as the student sustainability, communications and outreach 
coordinator. Her job entails communicating Middlebury’s sustainability efforts 
to students. McNiff believes that educating the community to become involved 
is an integral part in making carbon neutrality a possibility by 2016.
“The best part of this job is working with students who really care about 
reaching our goal of carbon neutrality and who are passionate about working 
on issues regarding the environment on and off campus,” said McNiff. “Students 
have amazing ideas and visions and have been a huge force behind the carbon 
neutrality goal and sustainability efforts in general.”
Byrne also understands the importance of student involvement and hopes 
that by increasing student awareness, cutting the carbon footprint will become 
an easier task.
“We’re putting the emphasis this year on getting more student involvement 
around energy use,” said Byrne. “What we are hoping is that we will have a ma-
jority of students really understanding how to use energy in their dorm rooms, 
cars and using best practices.”
While carbon neutrality by 2016 is a lofty goal, Byrne believes the goal 
shows the College’s dedication to environmental responsibility and that our 
community can set an example to others.
“This all emanates from our concern [which emerged] years and years ago 
that climate change was a serious issue,” he said. “We have one of the most 
ambitious plans of any college or university in the country. Carbon neutrality 
by 2016 is pretty bold. The resolutions [the trustees] passed demonstrate that we 
want to do it in a real, substantive way on our own.”
Olivia Noble ’13, an environmental studies major with a focus on policy, 
said that the plant is a positive addition to the campus’ eco-frendly infrastruc-
ture, but that more still needs to be done in order to achieve carbon neutrality.  
“Since the building of that plant, few major projects have made their way 
through the woodwork that would notably reduce the carbon footprint of this 
campus,” said Noble. “Partially this is because a lot of that support from the 
students faded away, partially because of the recession. Now that the deadline 
is creeping up on us, the College is piquing its interest again, so maybe we’ll see 
more action on this front, but I am pessimistic in thinking that we will make 
the deadline in a meaningful way.”
IT STARTS WITH STUDENTS
BY LAUREN DAVIDSON
DESIGN BY MAREA HATHEWAY 
AND OLIVIA ALLEN
START
END
CHIPPING AWAY AT OUR
| october 11, 201210features
12 features
FALL BREAK
School’s out for fall break/
School’s out forever WINNERS&losers
| OCTOBER 11,  2012
BALL JARS
Thanks to the newest Proctor 
addition, we’re the hippest 
students in the NESCAC.
IS BECOMES IGS
Glad we added “global” to 
make International Studies 
more international.
FALL BREAK
“F*** if I know what I’m 
doing yet!”
SHOOTING IN TOWN
Scary stuff. 
PARENTS ON CAMPUS
“Does she even go to 
this school?!”
In the early 1960’s, Professor of Biol-
ogy Howard E. Woodin, along with sev-
eral other faculty members spanning the 
science departments, developed the idea 
-
mental studies program in the country. 
By 1965, President Emeritus James Arm-
strong approved the proposal and the 
environmental studies (ES) program be-
at the College.
 From 1965 until 1985, the major did 
not undergo many changes. Each subject 
encompassed by the program, including 
geology, geography, chemistry and biol-
ogy, among others, was treated almost as 
its own unit. 
From 1985 to 1991 the program un-
derwent its most crucial period of growth. 
During these years, ES saw an increase in 
attention from the administration, which 
resulted in the hiring of new faculty and 
the training of current faculty with an in-
terest in the program but who had not yet 
become involved.
 According to Professor of Environ-
mental and Biosphere Studies Stephen 
Trombulak, student interest in the pro-
gram also grew tremendously during 
this period. Coinciding with the general 
rise in environmental awareness that oc-
curred during the late 1960’s and 70’s, 
he explained that college students across 
the country began to realize the impact of 
their decisions on the natural world. By 
the 1990’s, many of these students were 
training the next generation of college-
bound high schoolers. 
By 1985, two decades after the estab-
lishment of the ES program, the world of 
academia was beginning to view environ-
mental studies as less avant-garde and 
more as a legitimate discipline.
“We haven’t really changed the fun-
damental structure of the major since 
’91,” said Trombulak.
 Besides some tweaks to the 14 fo-
cuses and cognates, the program has re-
mained largely unchanged since its incep-
tion. Dean of Environmental Affairs Nan 
Jenks-Jay, however, notes that the pro-
gram is “growing in the direction of global 
environment with the new hires of [Vist-
ing Assistant Professor of Environmental 
Studies] Cat Ashcraft and [Assistant Pro-
fessor of Political Science] Kemi Fuentes-
I was having lunch with friends from my environmental class the other day at Ross. We were all starving af-
ter the long lecture, and the long line in 
Ross made us even more hungry. One of 
them took half a plate of turkey and two 
slices of cheese pizza. 
We had great conversation about the 
issue of food waste on campus, and ev-
eryone agreed that something needs to 
be done to reduce food waste. 
After lunch when we were taking our 
plates to the dish rack, I snuck a glance 
of my friend’s plate. I doubted that he 
ate any of the turkey. 
I asked him why he didn’t finish the 
food, and he said he was so hungry that 
he took more than his stomach could 
handle. 
Things like wasting food while talk-
ing about food waste happen a lot among 
students. 
How can we throw away paper that 
is only printed on one-side while criticiz-
ing the logging industry in Brazil? How 
can we leave refrigerators, laptops and 
other devices in our dorms plugged in 
24 hours a day while encouraging others 
to save energy? How can we drive to the 
gym to work out while fretting about cli-
mate change? How can we act one way, 
while advocating something completely 
different?
My parents never complain about 
the logging industry or climate change 
with me, but they also never waste food. 
Sometimes when we’re very hungry, we 
cook too much as well. But we always 
save it for another meal. Or we just fin-
ish it and get really full.
Next time when we are hungry again, 
we can remind ourselves of the conse-
quences of preparing too much food and 
learn to cook the right portions. 
For my grandparents’ generation, 
they never wasted food because food was 
so valuable at that time in China. 
For my parents’ generation, they 
don’t waste food because their parents 
taught them not to. 
I remember my grandparents con-
vincing me at age four to finish the last 
bit of my rice because “if you don’t do so, 
your boyfriend in the future will have as 
many pocks as the number of rice that 
got left in your bowl.” 
Since I really didn’t want my boy-
friend to look like that, I always finished 
all my rice. 
When I grew older, my parents 
told me that we should be grateful for 
the food we eat because there is always 
someone else in this world starving and 
suffering. I accepted their reasons to not 
waste food not because those reasons 
are moving and touching, but because 
I know they treasure every single bit of 
food themselves. 
On weekend mornings when my 
family enjoys breakfast together, we 
always have a competition to compare 
whose bowl is the cleanest. After eating 
our porridge, we always lick the bowl, 
careful to not let the last drop of por-
ridge be wasted. 
It is not convincing if I encourage 
my friend to finish the vegetables on her 
plate with my plate full of leftovers. 
It is not convincing at all for us to talk 
about environmental awareness without 
meeting the standards ourselves. 
taste cheese 
chopsticks
BY JIAYI ZHU
wi
th
George.”
 Ashcraft teaches courses in envi-
ronmental studies that focus on tackling 
global challenges, and Fuentes-George 
teaches courses in political science, spe-
cializing in environmental policy.
 Issues facing Middlebury and the 
larger liberal arts community — such as 
what it means to be a liberal arts institu-
tion in the 21st century and how to serve 
the needs of students in this day and age 
— have spurred the program to expand 
the range of issues addressed under the 
ES umbrella. Trombulak mentioned envi-
ronmental justice and sustainable energy 
as two areas into which the program may 
expand.
 In order to meet rising interest in the 
-
rently working on an initiative that would 
establish a summer program in environ-
mental studies. A timeline for instituting 
such a program has yet to be set in stone, 
but Trombulak estimates that the launch 
date will be “sooner rather than later.” 
“We are always looking to see what we 
can do better,” said Trombulak. 
He explained that just as the Eng-
lish  and American literatures department 
does not want to be the only unit on cam-
pus that expects students to write prop-
erly, the ES program does not want to be 
the sole venue for discussing and teaching 
environmental issues.
A biology major specializing in con-
servation, Jake Nonweiler ’14 said that 
one of his favorite parts of the ES program 
is the way that the core classes provide a 
common foundation for all ES majors, 
while the various focuses ensure that a 
wide breadth of subjects are addressed.
“It’s an all-around yet detail-oriented 
approach to a subject that really makes 
this program shine,” he said.
Thanks to environmentally-conscious 
groups including Environmental Council, 
Sunday Night Group, Solar Decathlon, 
Campus Sustainability Coordinators, U.S. 
Green Building Council Student Chapter, 
Socially Responsible Investment Club 
and more, involvement in environmental 
causes has increased on campus. Not all 
of these campus groups are supervised by 
ES professors, nor are all of their student 
leaders environmental studies majors. 
Many groups draw participants from a 
wide range of academic backgrounds.
 “I actually wasn’t interested in ES un-
til I had already gotten into Middlebury. I 
left New Jersey and found myself engag-
ing in more environmentally-driven activ-
ities,” said Jordan Collins ’15.5. “The ES 
[program] is so exemplary of a liberal arts 
education. I get to focus on something like 
religion or philosophy and take a breadth 
of classes within the major.”
Trombauk explained that because of 
the ES program’s wide reach, environ-
mental studies have become a cornerstone 
of the College’s institutional identity.
By Alex Strott
Environmental studies remains strong at 47
As a campus that prides itself on be-
ing environmentally conscious, it is easy 
for students to fall into a trap of compla-
cency. However, the Campus Sustainabil-
ity Coordinators (CSC) have taken it upon 
themselves to ensure that their peers’ in-
volvement in environmental affairs is not 
the chance product of passive action, but 
instead the byproduct of a widespread ac-
tive awareness amongst the student body. 
The campus sustainability coordina-
tor position evolved from the former Res-
idential Sustainability Coordinator (RSC) 
position, in an effort to reflect the group’s 
broader and more ambitious goals. 
“It’s a new name and a new initia-
tive,” said Spencer Petterson ’14. 
“The mission of the CSCs is to pro-
mote sustainable living habits by educat-
ing their peers on ways to reduce their 
carbon footprint.” 
Since the group’s inaugural year in 
2010, it has gone through many struc-
tural changes, according to CSC Rebecca 
Hartje ’14. 
Prior to this year, the RSCs narrowed 
their focus to informing residents, com-
mons by commons, about sustainable 
practices within the dorm. 
“The group is getting more seri-
ous and is actually trying to accomplish 
something on a broad scale,” said Petter-
son.
Petterson spearheaded this week’s 
Trashy Tuesday event to kick off the 
group’s all encompassing new initia-
tive. By stationing themselves outside of 
Proctor with a tangible image of what a 
week’s worth of waste looks like, Petter-
son hopes the event created a dialogue 
between students and the CSCs. 
“It’s an opportunity for people to ask 
specific questions about what waste goes 
where and how they can reduce certain 
types of waste,” she said. The CSCs plan 
to hold many campus wide, can’t-miss-it-
if-you’re-walking-with-your-eyes-open 
type events throughout the year to bol-
ster awareness. 
“I think the best solution to the envi-
ronmental issues would be if one morn-
ing everyone woke up and had it on their 
mind,” said Petterson. 
Hartje agrees. 
about real change is getting people to care, 
which requires people to actually have a 
base knowledge of the state of the envi-
ronment,” she said. Hartje was inspired to 
join the group two years ago by its deliber-
ate focus on intercampus education. 
In providing a common education for 
students through campus wide events, 
CSCs function as community builders. 
“The group tries to take an approach 
that is educational, but also fun and enter-
taining,” said Dean of Environmental Af-
fairs Nan Jenks-Jay. 
While many of the group members’ 
academic interests involve the environ-
ment, they want to move outside of the 
classroom to affect more tangible change. 
“I think there are a lot of myths about 
sustainability that often get mistaken as 
truth, and I really enjoy when I can help 
inform people and dispel those rumors 
with actual facts,” said Hartje. 
You can stay posted on the CSCs’ lat-
est initiatives through updates on Middle-
bury’s environmental blog, Green Poodle.
By Meredith White
CSCs strive to effect sustainable change
The Franklin Environmental Center at Hillcrest houses the College’s ES program.
File Photo
arts sciences
Check out recent progress 
in the environmental 
studies program!
Page 14
don’t
miss
this
First Year Show
“Best of New York: An Evening of Scenes” is this year’s 
10/18 - 10/20, 8 P.M., HEPBURN ZOO
A Screaming Man
10/20, 3 AND 8 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
Visiting Architect
Hollywood Lighting: From the 
Silent Era to Film Noir
10/18, 4:30 P.M., AXINN ROOM 232
of the immense sculpture installed in 
Installed after the death of its ar
stood taller and even made the cover 
of Time
health issues in humans and ani
pure  and its complete 
metal form do not high
light the grit of harmful 
lattice of positive and 
of crystals and the passion of living 
Students echoed the sentiment 
a harmful molecule does not mean it 
“I’m not particularly in love with 
Despite its mag
some students are un
aware of the sculpture’s 
“I feel that the 
meaning of the sculp
isn’t made clear to this 
serves one percent of money spent 
on architecture projects to go toward 
purchasing and constructing works of 
“Smog” functions naturally as 
In addition to the intricate mes
centennial Hall itself features many 
massive window in the Great Hall is a 
visitors as they walk to and from the 
by Crysteaux Sun and 
Deirdre Sackett
file photo
“[The form] pos-
sesses both the 
logic of crystals 
and the passion of 
living forms.”
 “art in public places”
Comittee for art in public places
“Smog,”
THE IRONY OF SMOG
Why pollutants represent the green aesthetic
October 11, 2012  | 
In the environmental studies depart-
ment, students and professors strive to 
research innovative solutions to environ-
mental issues. 
Projects and interests range from 
building sustainable housing to studying 
the composition of minerals. 
The program is in its 46th year, and is 
still going strong.
Professor of Geology Peter Ryan 
works in mineralogy and geochemistry.  
Ryan is on academic leave this year, 
and will travel to for Spain this January to 
further his research. 
“My research is more or less split into 
two topics: the geochemical and mineral-
ogical analysis of bedrock-derived arsenic 
and uranium in Vermont ground water, 
and the mineralogy and geochemistry 
of soils developed on terraces along the 
Rica,” said Ryan. 
His work with Vermont ground water 
(in collaboration with his students, as well 
as Jon Kim of the Vermont Geological 
Survey) contributed to passage of a new 
groundwater testing law in Vermont. 
could also have the same impact.
 “[It] has implications for under-
standing the rates and pathways by which 
young, nutrient-rich soils evolve into the 
classic nutrient poor oxisols of the trop-
ics,” he said. 
Students are also hard at work with 
their own projects. 
Assi Askala ’15 is organizing a confer-
ence, scheduled for mid-March, tentative-
ly called “Youth in the New Economy.” She 
explained the objective of her creation.  
“We have the local foods movement,” 
she said. “We have the Socially Respon-
-
day Night Group, which is very climate 
oriented. But there’s not a lot of connec-
tion between these different groups, there 
isn’t awareness that they’re all tackling 
the same problem [and] trying to change 
the same system. 
But they are all part of what our so-
ciety and economy is going through right 
now.  
So what I want to get out of [this con-
ference] is a link between those groups.  [I 
want to] raise awareness that there is an 
alternative working economic model out 
there.” 
Both Ryan and Askala embody the all-
encompassing environmental ethic that 
pervades this campus. 
From their own unique angles, they 
are trying to tackle the intertwined eco-
nomic and environmental challenges 
faced by this generation. 
This isn’t a new phenomenon here at 
The environmental studies (ES) pro-
gram web page boasts of the oldest un-
dergraduate ES program in the country, 
“with over 900 graduates in 46 years.” 
The program declares that “environ-
mental solutions cannot come from one 
type of knowledge or way of thinking, not 
just from politics or chemistry or econom-
ics or history.  
They will come instead from leaders, 
thinkers and innovators who can draw 
of knowledge and work with teams of 
thinkers from every corner of the campus 
and the globe.” 
Phoebe Howe ’15 is an architecture 
and environmental studies joint major 
currently taking core environmental stud-
ies courses in addition to the standard 
courses for her major.
“We aren’t spoon-fed how architec-
ture and the environment overlap,” said 
Howe. 
“It’s about taking classes from two 
-
ply the two concepts on your own,” she 
added. “Even when I’m not focusing spe-
architecture studio, I still end up applying 
concepts from my environmental studies 
class.”
Howe noted that this kind of educa-
tion was essential for both a broad knowl-
edge of both topics, as well as synthesis.
“It’s the epitome of liberal arts edu-
cation,” she said. “You’re given two dis-
parate topics, and you have to take the 
initiative to unify your overall education. 
And it works. It’s effective.” 
But the environmental ethic extends 
beyond the classroom and beyond the en-
vironmental studies program. 
The level to which the ethic has per-
-
lege’s commitment to the environment on 
a broader scale.  
Middlebury’s Solar Decathlon team 
embodies this commitment. 
It’s a team that competes in a chal-
lenge set forth by the U.S. Department 
of Energy: “to design, build, and operate 
solar-powered houses that are cost-effec-
Howe was also on the Solar Decath-
lon design team last spring, and she spoke 
about her personal experience.
“To accomplish something, it in-
volves carving time out of your schedule 
and making time in your day and in your 
life to be more conscious and intentional 
about what you’re doing,” she said. 
-
next Solar Decathalon will be held. 
According to Middlebury’s page on 
Middlebury team had this to say; “We see 
a house as just one piece of larger human 
and natural ecosystems. 
We strive to design a house that em-
bodies the principles of a centralized 
community that reduces demands on 
transportation while facilitating greater 
personal interactions. 
By realizing the potential of underuti-
lized spaces, we aim to integrate a house 
into an existing walkable community—to 
suggest a model of living that is applicable 
on any scale. With history and nature as 
our guides, we hope to design a home that 
sustainable society, economy, and envi-
ronment. “
“Even when I’m not 
-
-
 Phoebe Howe ’15
Architecture and environmental studies Joint major
go/
obo
first year show
“Best of New york”
10/18 -10/20
hepburn zoo
$4
GALLICANTUS
saturday
11/10
mead chapel
$6 for students
Bus tickets
Break Buses
NYC, BOSTON
Burlington
(AIrport, Bus station)
arts SCIENCES14
science sp   tlight: environmental studies
by Will Henriques 
The occasion for this review of Don 
DeLillo’s historical tour de force Libra, 
reprinting in the Penguin Ink series. In 
a wise attempt to make books worth pur-
chasing, as opposed to the ever-more-
popular (and purportedly environment-
friendly) e-book, Penguin has hired tattoo 
artists to create gorgeous, inspired covers 
for some of their classic novels. With an 
artfully drawn cover, sturdy, expensive 
and deckle-edge paper, this edition of 
Libra makes a convincing argument for 
purchase.
But this new edition’s physical beauty 
should not, ultimately, persuade you to 
purchase this novel. For judging this book 
by its cover would woefully underestimate 
its power and sheer aesthetic force.
The plot of the novel follows and rei-
magines the life of Lee Harvey Oswald, 
from his childhood in the Bronx, to his 
military service in Japan and his defec-
return to Texas, where he assassinates 
JFK. In alter-
nating chapters, 
DeLillo also en-
visions possible 
members of the 
conspiracy, plot-
ting toward the 
-
Lillo refers to as “the seven seconds that 
broke the back of the American century.” 
The novel has an eerie feel to it precise-
ly because of this alternating structure. 
to tell which moments, which images and 
which people have been invented, and 
which have not. 
DeLillo, although strangely still ob-
scure, is one of the greatest living Ameri-
can novelists. His other books explore a 
wide range of American themes, like road 
-
lege, baseball, New York city taxis and 
9/11. Among his 15 novels, four could 
easily be considered masterpieces: White 
Noise, Libra, Mao II and Underworld. 
What is both odd and great about 
DeLillo’s corpus is that all of these nov-
els concern themselves with a similar set 
of preoccupations and themes, including 
language, media, crowds, images, pic-
tures, watching, history, names, secrets, 
conspiracies and connections. Somehow, 
DeLillo does this without ever seeming 
repetitious or obsessive. Libra discusses 
most directly the force of history and con-
spiracy and the inevitability of connec-
tions, but one can always spot the recur-
a casino owner, comes under surveillance 
by the FBI and suddenly discovers that he 
not only has FBI watching outside of his 
home, but, absurdly, “sightseers come to 
the street where he lives to watch the FBI 
But mediation and watching, which 
were central points in his previous novel 
White Noise, only show up tangentially. 
This novel speaks of history, and con-
nection: one character, a conspirator, in-
forms the other, “I believe there are forces 
history or necessity or anything you like.” 
Another character, plotting to use Oswald 
to assassinate the president, plans to cre-
ate a “fabric of connections.” This belief in 
history as a connecting force seems to mo-
tivate the characters of the novel, who are 
all struggling to merge their lives “with 
the greater tide of history.” The reader 
watches in amazement as all of the differ-
ent characters do indeed merge together 
in history, connecting in a single assassi-
nation plot. 
DeLillo’s themes are only half of the 
equation. His oft-praised style, at once 
both musical and colloquial, represents 
some of the best writing in the English 
language. He focuses not only on the as-
sonance and alliteration of words, but also 
even in a simple half-sentence: “Beautiful 
auburn glitter at the bottom of a glass.” 
The precision within this single sentence 
imbues the language of the entire novel.
By itself, the plot of Libra should fas-
cinate anyone interested in America and 
its history. Add in DeLillo’s preoccupa-
tions and nearly superhuman style, and 
not only demands to be read, but reread. 
In his new introduction to the novel, De-
Lillo writes that “some stories never end,” 
and that these stories seep into “the very 
texture of everyday life.” So long as this 
book remains in print, whether in Pen-
guin Ink or e-book form this story will 
constitute the texture of everyday life for 
each of its readers. 
Recommendation: Read it immedi-
ately. Let yourself slip into the “assassi-
nation aura.” It will be better than almost 
any novel or textbook you’ll need to read 
for class.
b0oking it
BY MICHAEL GAFFNEY
Libra
Don DeLillo
Professor of Geology Peter Ryan, who is 
on leave this year, researches Vermont 
groundwater and geochemistry of soil. 
Courtesy
Symphony of Whales
Vermont Symphony 
Orchestra
10/21
MCA Concert Hall
Children : $6
Adults: $8
Wyatt cenac
as seen on 
“The Daily Show”
10/20
mccullough Social 
space
$8
In the atrium of the Johnson Memorial 
Building, sculptures featuring welded steel 
rods, paper, fabric, wood and many other 
new exhibit. 
This exhibit, “Line in Space: Just a Cor-
ner of Your Memory Palace,” features work 
from the studio art class Sculpture I, and it 
-
day. 
uniqueness and visual appeal of the exhibit, 
they might not look at each piece in terms 
of its component parts.
Artists, however, do think in these 
terms, and an important question today, 
in light of climate change and pollution in 
general, is the impact that certain art mate-
rials might have on the environment. 
Professor of Studio Art Jim Butler 
notes that art has largely phased out harm-
ful chemicals over time.
used as a solvent,” he said. 
“Today we use mineral spirits instead, 
which are much better for the environ-
ment.” 
Butler also mentioned that in print-
making, “water-based ink has replaced oil-
based ink” and that toluene, a solvent used 
anymore.”
“ Also,” said Butler, “at the College 
we reuse work rags they are collected and 
washed by the school. You don’t use old 
ragged T-shirts and then throw them out 
like in the past.”
Echoing Butler’s sentiment, Visiting 
Assistant Professor of Studio Art Sanford 
Mirling, who is teaching Sculpture I this 
fall, added that the safer solvents are also 
disposed of in accordance with the College’s 
policy on handling hazardous materials.
-
en care of properly,” he said.
As is the case with many college art 
programs, a culture of reusing and recy-
cling pervades the studio art program here.
“First of all,” said Associate Professor 
of Art Hedya Klein, “if it still has life to it, 
we store items for later art making. Re-
cycling services picks up wood shavings, 
for them, and I know they have different 
piles for everything.”
Mirling makes a point to get the most 
use out of materials, citing the current 
“Line in Space” exhibit as an example.
“Evio’s piece incorporates a  blue cur-
tain, which we’ll use again,” Mirling said, 
pointing out the installation by Evio Isaac 
’13, which consists of a large blue curtain 
hung by wire and resembles a leaning tepee 
from one angle. 
“The Plexiglass in his piece has been 
reused three times,” he said. 
In fact, one goal of Isaac’s instilation 
was to only purchase materials that could 
all be used more than once.
Katie Rominger ’14, also a student in 
Sculpture I, reused materials for her instil-
lation, a towering curtain that incorporates 
steel, cloth and surgical masks, amongst 
other items.
 “They [the art department] provide us 
with a lot of reused fabric,” she said. “I feel 
like there is a decent amount of reused ma-
terial.”
Although he agrees that people in the 
studio art department reuse material, Mi-
sha Gershcel ’13 feels that some waste is 
inevitable.“Some things you just end up 
throwing out,” he said. “Although spray 
paint can’t be great for the environment, 
it’s convenient and sometimes I use it on 
projects.”
Gerschel also added that in compari-
son to the bigger picture, “the carbon foot-
print that art leaves is a drop in the bucket. 
Art also has intrinsic value; you can ‘upcyle’ 
by reusing old materials to make something 
new and better,” he added.
Professor of Studio Art Jim Butler em-
phasizes the department’s awareness of the 
issue and their efforts to minimize the im-
pact of art waste on campus. 
“Talking to my colleagues — it’s a big 
concern. You know, this country has so 
many materials you don’t have to buy new 
ones.”
 | october 11, 2012 15   arts SCIENCES
one life left
BY SANTIAGO AZPURUA-BORRAS
Art professors reuse and recycle supplies
by Grady Trela
Video games and environmentalism, 
sounds crazy, no? However, even as ear-
ly as 2010, the gaming industry has been 
taking steps to save itself some “green” 
and  reduce CO2 emissions. 
Ubisoft, the developers of games 
such as Assassins Creed and Splinter 
Cell, has led this front by a making a 
small change: the significant reduction 
of the instruction booklet inside games. 
For those of you that don’t know, 
most games, even those from the much 
older generations, come with an instruc-
tion booklet as well as the physical copy 
of the game.
 The content of the booklet varies 
from game to game. 
Sometimes it is a bare-bone descrip-
tion of the controls and how to play the 
game. 
Other times it might be incredibly 
in-depth, even offering some insight into 
the game world and the various inhabit-
ants you will encounter. 
Ever since this initiative began, 
many games have been adding only a 
one or two page booklet with very basic 
information (usually the controls of the 
game), with the full game manual found 
on a disc. 
According to Greentopic.com, this 
simple act of paper reduction has saved 
about 6,000 pounds of carbon dioxide 
emissions, 15,000 gallons of wastewater 
and over two tons of wood. 
If every developer began doing this, 
the overall collective energy saving could 
be monumental. 
This approach could be applied to 
other industries and goods besides vid-
eogames. 
Just off the top of my head, most 
consumer electronics also come with 
instruction manuals that aren’t really 
necessary (such as with a television or a 
media player like Blu-Ray). 
But, for the sake of customer sat-
isfaction/and the ability to service the 
greatest amount of people, all instruc-
tion manuals could be made available 
directly from the companies’ websites, 
available in PDF format to be printed at 
the users leisure (or not). And lets face 
it: who even reads the manual anymore?
Another change that the gaming in-
dustry has been making recently (as well 
as the DVD and software industries) is 
cutting down the plastic used for disc 
cases. 
Certain disc cases are now becom-
ing available with 20 percent less plastic 
than the full-plastic counterparts. How-
ever, this case is not easily replaced. 
These environmentally friendly cas-
es feel significantly flimsier and can still 
hold the disc in place. 
But lord have mercy if your case un-
fortunately finds bottom of a shoe be-
cause the case and disc may not survive 
the encounter. 
Companies have also been chang-
ing the actual model of their video game 
consoles so they use less plastic. 
For example, the new slimmer Play-
station 3 actually contains 34 percent 
less plastic than its bulkier older brother. 
To top this all off, good news to all 
you Nintendo fans! According to the Na-
tional Resources Defense Council, the 
game console of its generation. 
It uses only one -seventh of the total 
power compared to its Xbox and Playsta-
tion rivals. 
The video game industry even has its 
own system of recycling. Brick-and-mor-
tar stores often have a used games sys-
tem where people can come in and trade 
in their games for cash or store credit. 
-
serves their own column, I cannot deny 
the fact that it does keep the amount of 
disposable plastic down. 
Going even beyond the thinner cases, 
there are plenty of clients such as Steam, 
GOG, Xbox Live and the Playstation Net-
work that get rid of physical games and 
make them entirely digital. 
This is obviously the greenest op-
tion as it cuts all physical materials from 
gaming entirely. 
However, despite this, I dislike that 
it eliminates a certain sense of owner-
ship. I enjoy having physical copies of 
my games for my collection. But who 
knows? If these trends gain momentum, 
the Xbox 360 game cases won’t be the 
only thing that’s green.  
Green Gaming
Because the position of reel critic is 
tenured to ensure public opinion does 
not hinder free thinking, I loved Taken 
2. I’m aware that the movie’s rating on 
Rotten Tomatoes stands at a firm 18 
percent (the image of rotten tomato par-
ticles next to the figure emphasize this), 
but in spite of this fact, I think it might 
be worth the price of admission.
Even though I enjoyed the film, I 
don’t disagree with people who said it 
was a bad movie.  There are essentially 
two ways of viewing the film. The first 
way involves using your mind; if you’re 
too analytical when you watch the mov-
ie, you’ll get caught up in the many non 
sequiturs that plague it, like the minor 
detail that Bryan Mills (Liam Neeson), 
blind-folded and bound in the back of a 
van, can track the distance from his ho-
tel in Istanbul by listening to the clicks of 
his watch and vague sounds he hears out-
side that spur vivid images in his mind of 
locations he has been to maybe once. I’m 
not kidding.
The second way of viewing the film is 
to watch it with your heart. This sounds 
corny, but it is the secret to watching 
most “bad” movies and makes this pic-
ture much more enjoyable. I believe any-
one can watch the film from the second 
perspective if they try. Really, you only 
need to take a few things into consider-
ation before viewing Taken 2. Realizing 
these things will relax your mind and put 
your gut in control, making it practically 
impossible to take the film too seriously. 
First off, the movie isn’t really about any-
thing except Liam Neeson. 
Director Oliver Megaton knows the 
key demographic of 18-35 year-old males 
wants to see as much Liam Neeson in 24 
frames per second as can be managed. If 
this means making other characters un-
interesting at the expense of getting him 
more screen time, so be it. 
Second, you need to give Liam Nee-
son’s character a break. All action mov-
ies  let their heroes escape from hairy 
situations against all odds. Also, the fact 
that he has cool gadgets of all sorts is a 
feature in many films, from the Mission 
Impossible movies to The Cat in the Hat.
Perhaps the most useful thing to real-
ize about Taken 2 is that the basic prem-
ise of the movie assumes you have am-
nesia. (This same assumption fueled the 
creation of five Final Destination mov-
ies) The first Taken, even though it in-
corporated all of the action movie clichés 
in existence, rocked because the plot was 
very basic but engaging: Liam Neeson’s 
daughter gets kidnapped in Europe so he 
sets off to kill the people who did it. 
forgive some of the film’s absurdities.
The problem with the Taken series 
is that any sequel has to involve the kid-
napping of a member of Liam Neeson’s 
family or else the film seems unrelated. 
Maybe they’re just unlucky, but after 
a while the family just starts to look bad: 
How many times can a member of the 
Mills family be kidnapped? Three?
BY GRADY TRELA
The reel critic: taken 2
Liam Neeson reclaims his role as Bryan Mills in the action thriller Taken 2.
Courtesy of 20th Century Fox
jessica munyon
“Line in Space: Just a Corner of Your 
Memory Palace” uses space to draw the 
viewers’ eyes inside and to its center.
 16 advertisements   | October 11, 2012
617-373-3244
gspa@neu.edu
www.msamba.neu.edu
Start Your Career 
in Accounting.
Northeastern’s MS in Accounting/MBA 
for non-accounting majors:
Take the first step.
Career Fair 
 Date: 25 2
 Time:
 Location: 104
www.msamba.neu.edu.
Become our fan on Facebook.
facebook.com/northeasternuniversitymsamba
THE CAMPUS+THE INTERNET
MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM
NEW, LOCAL, OPINIONS, FEATURES, SPORTS, ARTS & SCIENCES
IT’S ALL THERE. LOG ON TODAY
The Middlebury offense punted on its 
next two drives, but the defense forced 
consecutive three-and-outs, keeping the 
second quarter, Middlebury ended the 
scoring drought as Foote found Preseason 
All-American Billy Chapman ’13 for an 
11-yard touchdown pass, the third of the 
season for the 6’4’’, 223-pound tight end. 
Two possessions later, Foote and Chapman 
connected again, this time for an eight-yard 
score, capping a six-play, 64-yard drive and 
extending the Middlebury lead to 14-0.
Chapman caught 12 balls on the 
afternoon for 110 yards and two scores while 
Driscoll, coming off a NESCAC Player of the 
Week Award, brought down 11 receptions 
for 126 yards.
“[Chapman] and Driscoll have a really 
great understanding of route running and 
defenses and where to sit down, when to 
stand and run,” said head coach Bob Ritter. 
“This is [Foote’s] second year with those 
guys and there’s great chemistry there. 
[Foote’s] going to lead them into the right 
spot and they’re going to be [there].”
Hoping to take a three-score lead before 
the half, the Panthers defense forced an 
Amherst punt with 6:41 remaining in the 
second quarter. Foote orchestrated a drive 
using short passes to Driscoll and running 
back Remi Ashkar ’13 to open up looks 
Jeffs 44-yard line, the Middlebury signal 
caller found Brendan Rankowitz ’15 over the 
yards. The home team’s drive was stranded 
there, however, as Foote threw consecutive 
from the Amherst 22-yard line, followed 
Jeffs territory to punt, Ritter 
fourth down. Foote’s 12-yard 
completion to Josh Amster 
’13, however, came up four 
yards short.  
The defense yet again 
picked up the offense, forcing 
three-and-out — their sixth of 
the half. With 50 seconds left 
in the quarter and all three 
timeouts remaining, Foote 
and the offense took over at 
from Amherst punter Jackson McGonagle. 
Following a conversion on third-and-six 
down to the Amherst 24-yard line, Foote 
Goodkind ’16 who made a leaping grab 
over the middle on a 20-yard pass to the 
four-yard line. Following a pair of timeouts 
by Ashkar, Middlebury faced second-and-
goal from the three-yard line with eight 
surveying the end zone for an open receiver 
Foote stepped out of a would-be-tackle and 
offensive play of the half to give Middlebury 
a 21-0 lead.
“I read [the play] front to back, but 
everyone was covered from the right side 
to the left side,” Foote said, describing the 
play. “I have thrown to Driscoll late over the 
middle [in the past] and everyone else knew 
that too, so Amherst was pushed 
back and I was able to walk into 
the end zone sort of untouched.”
with two touchdown passes 
in addition to the rushing 
the ground in his Middlebury 
career. The Newton, Mass. native 
through the air, marred only by a 
second half interception.
The Panthers opened the 
second half with the ball, but 
were unable to extend the lead 
as Foote threw three consecutive 
way back into the game engineered its only 
scoring drive of the game. Riding running 
backs Ryan Silva and 240-pound Steven 
plays. With its back to the goal line, however, 
the Middlebury defense stiffened, bringing 
down Amherst tailback Tyler Jacobs for a 
loss of a yard on third down and eight at the 
Middlebury nine-yard line. Amherst head 
goal, which kicker Jake Schmidt converted 
only score of the game.  
Jake Feury ’16 capped an 11-play, 33-yard 
Middlebury lead back to 21. 
and NESCAC Defensive Player of the Week 
Tim Patricia ’16 intercepted Amherst’s 
second-string quarterback DJ Petropolous 
with 2:25 remaining. Patricia led the team 
in tackles for the second consecutive week 
adding 12 total tackles to his team-high 
32 this season. His interception, however, 
demonstrated that Patricia will make plays 
in coverage, as well.
“I had been lurking the past three plays 
[on the drive],” Patricia said. “[Petropolous] 
so I knew he would probably try to dish it 
to his second read the next time down. So I 
lurked underneath that [route], he threw it 
and I made a play.”
The interception sealed the Middlebury 
victory and likely Patricia’s NESCAC Player 
of the Week Award as well. 
“I was really excited to get the nod from 
the NESCAC — it was awesome,” he said. 
“But the win was really all I needed.”
The 3-0 Panthers travel to Williamstown, 
(1-2). The Ephs have struggled with early 
season injuries at key positions, but have 
dominated Middlebury historically. The 
Panthers are looking to beat the Ephs for the 
October 11, 2012| SPORTS
editors’ picks
The Middlebury men’s and women’s 
cross country teams continued their 
recent string of success by securing wins 
in both races at this past Saturday’s 
Westfield State Invitational. The men 
and women won their respective 40- and 
43- team meets by a substantial point 
margin. Each Middlebury runner who 
was counted in the scoring system for 
both the men’s and women’s race placed 
in the top 10.
The highlight of the Middlebury men’s 
performance was a first place finish out 
for the eight-kilometer race. Davies’s win 
was followed by third, fourth and fifth 
place finishes by Panther runners Nate 
Sans ’ 14, Patrick Hebble ’13 and Kevin 
Wood ’15, respectively. None of the other 
Division I, II or III teams came close to 
Middlebury’s final score. 
The Panthers team win was followed 
by two NESCAC second and third place 
finishes by Amherst and Connecticut 
College, respectively. 
The Middlebury women’s race was 
highlighted by a second place finish 
from senior racer Addie Tousley ’13 in 
the 453-woman race. Tousley finished 
the six-kilometer run with a time of 
21:50.61, roughly 20 seconds behind 
finish was complemented with top-10 
finishes from Katie Rominger ‘14, Emily 
Atwood ’13, Sarah Guth ’15 and Allison 
Maxwell ’15. 
The win comes days after the 
Middlebury women’s team was ranked 
third nationally in Divison III, behind 
Williams and MIT in the most recent 
United States Track & Field and Cross 
Country Coaches Poll. 
Tousley’s second place finish comes 
a week after she sat out of the Vermont 
State Meet, and two weeks after her first 
place finish at the Purple Valley Classic. 
The week of rest was designed to put 
Tousley in a good position for upcoming 
meets. The program as a whole benefits 
from the example of the older runners. 
“It seems as though the men’s 
success can significantly be attributed to 
upperclassmen strength and leadership 
as four of Middlebury’s five top 10 
finishes came from upperclassmen 
runners,” Tousley said. 
three upperclassmen out of their five top 
10 finishers. 
The Panthers will race again this 
Saturday at the St. Michael’s Invitational 
in Colchester, Vt. The meet is the last that 
both the women’s and men’s teams will 
race before the NESCAC championship 
Football team knocks off 2011 NESCAC champions Amherst
17
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20
“I was really 
excited to get 
the nod from 
the NESCAC 
...  But the win 
was really all I 
needed.”
Tim Patricia ’16
NESCAC player of the 
week 
Tom clayton (7-12, .368)Owen Teach (33-34, .493)Damon Hatheway (67-55, .549)
How many goals will Christiano 
Ronaldo score in Friday’s World 
Which undefeated team will 
How far will Campus 
sportswriter Lok Sze Leung 
advance in this weekend’s ITA 
by the Middlebury defense at 
Williams on Saturday.
Which MLB team will be the 
last to win their league division 
It can’t be any other way ... 
although I may have written 
Athletics yesterday.
His record nationally isn’t great 
and are we even sure he’ll play?
Heart over head is never a good 
strategy. And yet ...
what varsity sport do you play 
again?
He’ll look great doing it, 
though.
He probably won’t try very 
hard.
NEITHER
Tough game this weekend at 
might not ever lose.
Maybe this means we’ll get her 
articles in earlier than midnight 
on Monday.
Where she will defend her 
title. 
Doesn’t matter how it happens 
the journey, Tom. 
And they will be lucky to 
 
They’ll beat Williams for the 
in a shootout.
Doesn’t mean they won’t win ... 
which they will.
UNDER
Tough call, but I’m going 
with the best defense in the 
NESCAC.
The Middlebury men’s soccer team 
defeated Hamilton 2-0 on Saturday, Oct. 
7 and tied Connecticut College 1-1 on 
Sunday, Oct. 8. 
Harper Williams ’15 scored in the 
eighth minute on an assist from Dan 
Skayne ’15 to put the Panthers ahead. The 
pair connected again for Middlebury’s 
second goal in the 73rd minute when 
Skayne deposited his first goal of the 
season off a helper from Williams. 
“As awesome as [Skayne and Williams] 
were scoring those goals, their most 
effective play has been in controlling the 
ball in the midfield,” said Ben Tabah ’13. 
“They both have unbelievable touch and 
natural instinct as center midfielders, 
and that has given us the confidence and 
ability to give them the ball and have 
them switch the field and distribute. 
They’ve been huge for us holding it down 
without [Jon] Portman ’13.”
Coach Dave Saward echoed Tabah’s 
praise.
“They’ve stepped into the breach and 
done a great job with their work rate,” 
said Saward. “Harper in particular plays 
every minute and his energy is stellar. 
I know they have the experience and 
confidence in themselves going forward. 
It was also nice to see them rewarded 
against Hamilton.”
Zach Abdu-Glass ’13 added four saves 
in the win.
The Panthers final game of the week 
against the Camels of Connecticut 
College featured a 1-1 draw that lasted 
through two extra-time sessions. 
Jack Freeman ’13 opened the scoring 
in the 10th minute when he slotted a 
penalty kick inside the left post. The 
Camels answered early in the second, 
beating Abdu-Glass off a one-timed 
effort. Abdu-Glass performed well in 
the net again, recording 10 saves in the 
extended contest. 
The Panther attack has come alive 
since Tuesday’s 3-0 win over Castleton, 
after an own goal in the 79th minute 
opened the floodgates. It took a bit of 
luck to rejuvenate a comatose attack and 
deliver a victory to a team ravaged by 
injury. 
“We had outplayed Castleton from 
start to finish and once we caught a break 
on the own goal. It was only a matter of 
time,” said Sam Peisch ’13.5.
Insurance goals from Peisch and Ben 
Tabah ’13 followed. Since Tuesday’s 
game, the offense has found its footing.
“We’ve spent a lot of practice just 
getting the ball into dangerous areas and 
really going all for broke in the box,” said 
Tabah. “We have a swagger back because 
it helps to know we can get the ball in the 
back of the net.”
The 5-4-1 Panthers take on Trinity 
this coming Saturday, Oct. 13, before 
heading to Colby-Sawyer on Oct. 16.
| October 11, 201218 sports
by the Numb3rs
0
3
2
The number of shots (and goals) allowed 
4
4
Saturday Oct. 6, the Middlebury College 
the East Coast Rugby Conference (ECRC) 
Sevens tournament in Amesbury, Mass. in 
extra time, 12-7 to Northeastern. With the 
win, Northeastern received a bid to the USA 
7s tournament in College Station, Texas in 
November. The Middlebury College Women’s 
Rugby Club (MCWRC), meanwhile, traveled 
proved too wet to play on. Once on dry 
ground, however, the women dropped Tufts 
33-0.
In the ECRC tournament, the men, who 
usually play rugby union rules, had a chance 
to compete in a different style. Sevens, or 
seven-a-side rugby, is a fast-paced brand of 
rugby in which teams of seven compete for 
two seven-minute halves. The Blue otherwise 
play an ECRC season of 15-a-side rugby with 
two 40-minute halves. Both games are played 
on the same size pitch, yet the differences in 
player count and duration account for the 
drastic difference in style of play. 
“We handled the adjustment to the sevens 
game extremely well,” said Coach John 
Phillips. “We had a very good week of practice 
working on our attacking ball skills.”
A potent attack propelled the Blue through 
pool play. MCRC beat Albany 38-5, Southern 
Connecticut 35-0 and AIC 38-19. In the 
beat defending champions Boston College 
29-3. 
On a day full of concentrated, hard-
running matches, the Blue called on its depth 
“The whole 15-man squad was 
outstanding,” said Phillips. “There was no let 
down when we sent on the subs.”
time to break a long run down the sideline into 
the try zone that broke the 7-7 tie and gave 
the Mad Dogs the 12-7 win. In games lasting 
only 14 minutes, one play can prove decisive. 
When the 15-man sides met two weeks ago, 
MCRC beat Northeastern 23-20 in a thrilling 
contest at home.
“We have started to develop a strong 
rivalry with [Northeastern],” said Allan 
Stafford ’13.5.
The MCRC continues its ECRC play this 
weekend in Storrs, Conn. at UConn and 
home games in successive weeks against the 
University of Albany, American International 
College and Boston College. 
The women, meanwhile, improved to 2-1 
in conference play with their trouncing of 
Tufts.
the MCWRC pressed the attack towards the 
position, but were unable to score. 
Scrum half and captain Jess Berry ’13 
half. 
“We worked really hard to wear them down, 
In the second half MCWRC broke through 
the Tufts pack and never looked back. Tries 
came from Melanie Haas ’13, Julianna 
Gardner ’13, Emily Duh ’14 and Ali Hentges 
career.
the two-point kick on all four second-half tries 
for a match-high total of 13 points. 
A home match against Bowdoin this 
Saturday, Oct. 13, followed by trips to Williams 
and Bates await MCWRC in the coming three 
weeks. 
Men’s soccer wins, draws in NESCAC, 
improves to 2-4-1 in conference play
8
golf
1
RANKING TEAM
2
Cross Country
Field Hockey
3
football
4 
Women’s Soccer
5 Volleyball
7
Women’s rugby
6
Men’s Soccer
the middlebury
great  eight
panther sc0reboard
Football 
field hockey 
Men’s Soccer 
Women’s Soccer 
volleyball 
24-3 w 
8-0 w
2-0 w
1-0 W
3-0 W
biswash ghimire
Jack Freeman ’13 winds up for a strike 
during the Panthers win vs. Hamilton. 
courtesy of molly benedetto
Sarah Minahan ’14 jumps to receive a throw-
in during the team’s 33-0 win over Tufts.
362
This weekend the Middlebury women’s 
golf team placed fourth in the pouring rain and 
tournament of the fall. Weather conditions 
have not been easy on the Panthers.
“Saturday’s conditions were really 
challenging. There was a lot of wind and a 
down-pour that left us soaking wet for the 
majority of the round,” said Caroline Kenter 
’14. “Getting on the green in regulation was 
tough.”  
Williams won at home, dominating the 
two rounds with 641 strokes, followed by 
Ithaca College (660) and SUNY Cortland 
(666). Middlebury rounded out the top four 
with 669 strokes. 
On Sunday the Panther women turned 
the course of the weekend around, posting 25 
fewer strokes than Saturday’s scores.
Kenter was a major contributor, improving 
her personal score by 12 shots. 
“I think we were all pretty happy with 
the improvement we saw from Saturday to 
Sunday,” said Kenter. “I still can’t believe the 
12-stroke difference between my two days.”
Captain Keely Levins ’13 led the Panthers 
Monica Chow ’16, who both saw large 
improvements on Sunday, tied for 17th with 
171 strokes. Jordan Glatt ’15 placed 23rd (172) 
followed by Michelle Peng ’15 in 27th (174).
“Our team had a fall season that we’re 
all proud of,” said Levins. “Each member of 
the team had rounds that stand out for her 
individually, and we had a few days where we 
were able to post impressive team scores.”
Levins and the rest of the women’s golf 
team concluded their fall season positively, 
and now look ahead to their spring season 
when they hope to compete for an NCAA 
Championship.
“Though we have a lot to be excited about, 
we know where work needs to be done,” said 
Levins.  “We struggled to put two good days 
of team scores together, and at times that 
landed us with results we know we are better 
than.  We are a talented and competitive 
team, and we look forward to the opportunity 
to prove that we are more than capable 
of putting two good days of team scores 
together.”
Levins will clip into her skis as captain of 
the Middlebury women’s nordic ski team this 
winter.
The Middlebury women’s volleyball 
team bookended a mixed weekend in 
Hamilton, N.Y. with a shutout win 
against Colby-Sawyer on Wednesday, 
Oct. 3 and another shutout Tuesday, 
Oct. 9 in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. against 
Skidmore. Middlebury boasted a third 
shutout in the first leg of a double-
header against Hamilton on Saturday, 
Oct. 6 before falling later that day 3-0 to 
12th-ranked Cortland State. 
Hot off a five game winning streak, 
the 3-1 week bolstered the Panthers to 
a 13-4 record with just over two weeks 
remaining in the regular season.
Wednesday the Panthers opened a 
stretch of four games in six nights by 
defeating Colby-Sawyer in straight sets. 
The Panthers won the first set after a 
back-and-forth battle that concluded in 
a 30-28 victory, while winning the other 
two with the less-dramatic scores of 25-
17 and 25-19. 
Tri-captain Megan Jarchow ’14 had 
13 kills with a .393 hitting average and 
Kathryn Haderlein ’16 collected a match 
best 32 assists and three aces. 
On Saturday the squad 
travelled to Clinton, N.Y. to 
compete in a tournament 
against both Hamilton and 
Cortland State. The first game 
against the Continentals 
ended in yet another 3-0 
shutout. The Panthers won 
all three sets by at least seven 
points, taking the first set 25-
12, the second set 25-18 and 
the third set 25-17. 
Olivia Kolodka ’15 
contributed 11 kills, while 
Piper Underbrink ’15 led the team in 
hitting efficiency at an outstanding 75 
percent with nine kills. 
Jarchow believes that their success 
came from the team’s ability to remain 
calm and collected throughout the 
entirety of the game against Colby-
Sawyer. 
“We brought that to the Hamilton 
match as well,” added Jarchow.
The team followed its win over 
Hamilton with a game 
against  a talented Cortland 
State (23-2) team. The Red 
Dragons came out on fire, 
winning the first set 19-25 
and the second set 21-25. 
However, the Panthers came 
back strong in the third set, 
testing Cortland State’s 
endurance with an epic final 
set, which they ultimately 
lost 33-35. 
Tri-captain Caitlin Barrett 
’13, Kolodka and Amy Hart 
’14 led the team defensively, combining 
for 38 of the team’s 54 digs with 22, eight 
and eight, respectively.
The Panthers rebounded quickly 
from the loss to Cortland State with a 
resounding win over Skidmore (15-5). 
Offensively, Kolodka, Hart and Jarchow 
led the way, combining for 34 of the 
team’s 47 kills with with 13,11 and 10, 
respectively. First-year setter Kathryn 
Haderlein ’16, meanwhile, racked up 35 
assists while Barrett added 21 digs. 
The visitors won the three sets by a 
total of 13 points, 25-21, 25-20 and 25-
21.
Middlebury resumes its NESCAC 
schedule this weekend as the team 
travels to Amherst on Saturday, Oct. 12 
and Trinity on Sunday Oct 13.
Though the team enjoyed a successful 
week, the loss to Cortland State stuck 
out in the mind of Barrett and her 
teammates.
“I think our loss against Cortland this 
weekend helped us to prepare for the 
upcoming week,” Barrett said. “Although 
we lost in three sets, we proved to 
ourselves that we can hang with anyone. 
This week will definitely be competitive 
and I think we’ll be successful as 
long as we stay focused and play with 
confidence.” 
As a steady trickle of rain fell onto the 
soggy pitch, the Middlebury women’s 
soccer players, their socks caked in mud 
and shirts drenched, battled to a 1-0 win 
against Hamilton on Saturday, Oct. 6. 
Just a day later, however, on Sunday, Oct. 
7, the Panthers’ undefeated season came 
to an end with a 1-0 loss on the road to 
Connecticut College.
On Saturday, Middlebury started off the 
stronger of the two sides and dominated 
possession. With build-up controlled by 
Boston ’13, the Panthers offense gave 
Hamilton little respite with one surge after 
another.
The Continentals weathered the storm 
and eventually established themselves the 
game, resulting with a good chance for 
Alex Rimmer who placed her shot wide 
after a through ball in the 38th minute. 
Middlebury striker Scarlett Kirk ’14 had 
a similar opportunity in the 41st minute, 
knocking the ball wide during a one on one 
confrontation with the goalkeeper after 
muscling through a Hamilton defender.
Playing conditions were less than ideal, 
as many players struggled to keep their 
footing, resulting in several misplaced 
passes. However, Middlebury showed 
both their technical skill, by controlling a 
slippery and rapidly travelling ball, as well 
as their physical presence with strong slide 
tackling.
The Panthers made a breakthrough 
halfway through the second period off the 
foot of Amy Schlueter ’13. The co-captain 
found the back of the net from outside the 
18-yard box with a powerful strike. The only 
goal of the game also brought Hamilton’s 
undefeated season to an end.
against Hamilton], not just because we 
won but because we outplayed the team as 
well,” said Head Coach Peter Kim. “It was 
our biggest test so far and we proved that 
we could play.”
While the game against Hamilton proved 
to be a boost, Connecticut College brought 
the team back down to earth. Middlebury’s 
undefeated run came to an end on Sunday 
in a gruelling match against the Camels, 
during which the women conceded their 
second goal of the season in the defeat.
Astrid Kempainen of Conn. College 
made the difference with a 25-yard strike in 
the 35th minute, assisted by Alina Torres. 
of chances Middlebury had in the game, 
however, as the Panthers outshot Conn. 
College 20 to nine. Camel’s goalkeeper 
Natalie Signor was also forced to make three 
more saves than Middlebury goalkeepers 
Elizabeth Foody ’14 and Jocelyn Remmert 
’13, who both saw action in the contest. 
“The Connecticut game was a textbook 
example of what happens when you overlook 
a weaker opponent,” said co-captain Lucy 
Wagner ’13. “ While we all came into the 
match knowing that we needed to work 
hard to get the win, we allowed ourselves 
technical lapses that in the end we were 
the mistakes we made and I have no doubt 
we will come back better than ever to take 
on Trinity next weekend.”
The team faces the Bantams in Hartford 
this Saturday, Oct. 13, before returning 
home against Skidmore on Oct. 16.
october 11, 2012| 19SPORTS
The Middlebury men’s tennis team 
heads into the last part of the fall season 
with tremendous confidence after the 
men split into two squads to pick up 
wins at both the Dartmouth Shootout 
in Hanover, N.H. as well as the Bates 
College Wallach Invitational in Lewiston, 
Maine, Oct. 5-7.
 “
successfully compete against Division 
I teams,” said Head Coach Bob Hansen 
of the group that played at Dartmouth. 
won matches.” 
First-year Ari Smolyar ’16 won 
Flight no. 5 singles bracket. He won 
two straight-set victories over players 
from Stony Brook and Williams before 
defeating Eph Jose Raventtos 4-6, 6-3, 
6-2 in a grueling final match. 
Senior captain Spencer Lunghino ’13 
advanced to the finals of the Flight no. 4 
singles draw after defeating challengers 
from Dartmouth and Williams. Lunghino 
fell to Justin Chan of the Big Green 5-7, 
6-7 in a ferocious final. 
Courtney Mountifield ’15 came in 
third place in Flight no. 3, overpowering 
a  Stony Brook opponent, 6-2, 6-3. 
Rookies Palmer Campbell ’16 and 
junior Alex Johnston ’14 reached the 
semifinals in Flight no. 1b. Campbell was 
eliminated by Ghorbani of Dartmouth 
in a neck-to-neck 7-5, 6-4 decision, 
while Johnston had to withdraw from 
his semifinal match due to a tendinitis 
injury. 
In the back draws, senior captains 
Alec Parower ’13, Will Oberrender ’13 
and first-year Jackson Frons ’16 brought 
home the plates with an impressive 
showing in Flights no. 1a, no. 5 and no. 
3 respectively.
In doubles action, the formidable duo 
of Johnston and Lunghino dominated the 
no. 1 bracket. They topped Dartmouth’s 
number one doubles pairing of Centenari 
and Ghorbani in the final, dropping just 
three games in the pro-set. Meanwhile, 
in the no. 3 round robin draw, winners 
Mountifield and Smolyar came away 
with three consecutive wins, including a 
9-7 verdict on the Big Green pair of Todd 
and Isaza.
While eight Panthers competed at 
Dartmouth College among prominent 
Division I and III teams, four players 
travelled to Maine to match up against 
familiar NESCAC foes at Bates College. 
 “One of the strengths of our team is 
our depth, and that was on full display 
this weekend,” said Assistant Coach 
Adam Kent. “We only had four guys 
on the Bates trip, but we definitely 
competed well against some other full 
NESCAC teams.” 
 First-year Allen Jackson ’16 fought 
back from a set down to defeat Traff 
from Trinity in a super-tiebreaker in the 
opening round, but was one match short 
from booking a place in the “B” Flight 
singles final as he bowed down against 
Bowdoin’s Wolstencroft 5-7, 1-6. 
The Panther no. 4 doubles tandem of 
sophomores Peter Heidrich ’15 and Chris 
Frost ’15 collected two wins over the no. 
2 pairings of Bates and Bowdoin before 
losing to Seigel and Krems of Brandeis 
8-9(2) in a seesaw match.
After a strong road performance this 
past weekend, the Panthers look to close 
out the fall at home the weekend of Oct. 
26th through Oct. 28th. Then the team 
will reconvene in February after three 
months off. 
“We plan on carrying this momentum 
into the off season as we train for the 
spring,” said Lunghino. 
“Our goal for the off-season is pretty 
simple: work,” said Parower. “This is a 
very confident team, and I think a lot 
of our confidence stems from the fact 
that we know we are better prepared for 
every match than our opponents. We are 
all committed to our mission of winning 
a National Championship. When you 
have 16 guys that are willing to push 
themselves to the very maximum, you 
are dangerous.”
By Lok Sze Leung
Men’s tennis team wins pair at Dartmouth, Bates
jiayi zhu
Scarlett Kirk ’14 takes a right-footed shot against Hamilton on Saturday, Oct. 6. Kirk had 
two shots in the game.  The Panthers won the close match 1-0 off an Amy Schlueter ’13 goal. 
Volleyball team splits pair at Hamilton, blanks Skidmore
Lok sze leung
Head Coach Bob Hansen instructs a dou-
bles pairing during a break in the action.
“I think our 
loss against 
Cortland this 
weekend helped 
us prepare for 
the upcoming 
week.”
Caitlin Barrett ’13
 tri-captain
No member of the football 
team had ever beaten Amherst. 
Not a single member of the team 
had ever been 3-0. Until Saturday 
Oct. 6, that is, when Middlebury 
dominated the defending NESCAC 
champions Amherst, 24-3 in a tour 
de force performance, handing the 
a year and ending their 10-game 
winning streak.
Led by an offensive line with 
two returning members from the 
2011 All-NESCAC team and a 
trio of explosive running backs, 
the Lord Jeffs entered the game 
leading the NESCAC in rushing, 
averaging over 300 yards per 
game on the ground alone through 
Saturday, the Middlebury defense 
limited them to just 146 rushing 
yards on 43 carries — a paltry 3.4 
yards per carry.
The defense also continued 
to make big plays, bookending 
the Middlebury win by forcing 
turnovers from a pair of Amherst 
quarterbacks. The unit’s 
improvement, however, goes far 
beyond forcing turnovers. Through 
the Panthers defense has allowed 
just over 11 points per game, the 
fewest in the NESCAC. Last season 
the defense ranked last in points 
allowed, giving up more than 31 
points per game.
“It’s the little things that we 
didn’t do last year,” said defensive 
coordinator Doug Mandigo. 
“Eight-yard gains or completed 
passes are inevitable in a football 
game. The whole idea is not 
[allowing] an eight-yard gain or a 
completed pass [to become] a 50-
yard gain or a touchdown. We’re 
just much better at that than we 
were last year and so we haven’t 
given up as many big plays as we 
did last year.”
The offense, meanwhile, 
in the game — a worrying trend 
for quarterback Mac Foote ’14 and 
company, who have scored just 
three games.
“We’ve moved the ball well, but 
we haven’t been able to convert 
on big third downs [early in the 
game],” Foote said. “It’s something 
we can’t afford [going forward].”
It was Amherst, therefore, who 
quarter lead. Following a three-
the Lord Jeffs marched 37 yards 
10 from the Middlebury 23-yard 
line. On the ensuing play, however, 
linebacker Matt Crimmins ’14, who 
halftime the week before, sacked 
Amherst quarterback Max Lippe, 
forcing a fumble in the process, 
which defensive lineman Jimmy 
Tilson ’13 recovered.
The second-ranked 
Middlebury field hockey team 
pushed their record to an 
unblemished 11-0 with three 
wins in the span of four days, 
outscoring their opponets 22-0. 
The Panthers began by blanking 
visiting Hamilton 8-0 on 
Saturday, Oct. 6 before going on 
the road to Connecticut College 
and emerging with a 5-0 victory 
on Sunday. Tuesday, Oct. 9 the 
team finished a special week 
with a 9-0 decimation of Keene 
State in Keene, N.H.
Lauren Greer ’13 opened the 
scoring for the Panthers against 
Hamilton in a rain-soaked 
contest, converting a penalty 
corner off of an insert from 
Alyssa Dimaio ’15. Greer added 
another tally minutes later on a 
penalty stroke to push the lead 
to two. Katherine Theiss ’14 got 
on the board for the Panthers 
20 minutes in, converting a 
feed from Charlotte Gardiner 
’13 before Greer added another 
to stretch the lead to 4-0 less 
than 25 minutes into the half. 
Middlebury continued to rain 
shots on the Hamilton keeper 
for the remaining 10 minutes, 
as Greer and Theiss each added 
another goal to give the Panthers 
a 6-0 lead going into the half.
In the second half, Gardiner 
hit a crossing pass from the right 
wing that found Theiss, who 
made an acrobatic diving finish 
for her third goal of the game.
“Charlotte’s pass to me on the 
far post is a play that we work on 
a lot,” said Theiss. “I was able 
to dive for it before it got to me 
because I knew it was coming.”
A career-best fifth goal from 
Greer two minutes later, her 
20th of the season, capped the 
Panthers 8-0 victory.
“Greer’s offensive ability is 
crucial to our team’s offensive 
success,” said Theiss. “She 
generates a lot of great offensive 
plays and is really easy to work 
with on the field. Every team 
we play tries to shut her down 
by face-guarding or double-
teaming her, but they rarely 
succeed.”
The Panthers returned to 
action the following day, Oct. 
7, against conference opponent 
Connecticut College, with Anna 
Kenyon ’16 recording an early 
goal off an assist from Cat 
Fowler ’15 to get Middlebury on 
the board. Fowler added a goal 
of her own for a 2-0 halftime 
advantage, before Theiss, 
Kenyon, and Erin Petry ’16 each 
added second-half goals to give 
the Panthers the 5-0 victory.
Middlebury did not allow 
either NESCAC opponent to 
record a shot over the weekend, 
as they racked up a 56-0 shooting 
margin while also holding a 26-1 
advantage in penalty corners. 
Madeline Brooks ’13 and Emily 
Knapp ’15 each saw time in goal 
for the Panthers, though neither 
saw any action en route to the 
two shutout wins.
Middlebury finally allowed 
a pair of shots — one on goal, 
no less — in the game at Keene 
State. It took 18 minutes for 
Middlebury to get on the board, 
with Kenyon finally beating the 
Owls keeper to give the visitors 
the lead. The Panthers would 
add four more first-half goals en 
route to the 9-0 victory. Fowler 
led Middlebury with two goals 
and four assists on the night. 
Kenyon and Greer each added 
two goals as well, while Theiss 
contributed a goal and an assist.
At 11-0 overall and 7-0 
within the NESCAC, Middlebury 
currently sits atop the 
conference standings while 
trailing only Salisbury (Md.) in 
the national poll.
The Panthers resume 
NESCAC play at second-place 
Trinity this Saturday, Oct.  13.
For the past 15 years, the 
College’s Environmental Council 
(EC) has worked to further the 
College’s efforts on sustainability 
and to spread environmental 
awareness in the community. The 
EC recommends changes on the 
College’s sustainability policy and 
acts as an adviser to its President. 
Avery McNiff ’12, the current 
sustainability communications and 
outreach coordinator, spoke to the 
high level of commitment behind 
the group.
“The call for applicants helped 
to recruit individuals who feel 
connected to our initiatives,” said 
McNiff. “[They] are excited about 
improvements this year.”
The EC acts to advise policy 
carbon neutrality, food and dining, 
grants, and “greening athletics.”
The phrase “greening athletics” 
is appropriately vague, as the EC 
has already tackled many small 
issues in the athletic department 
through sustainability initiatives 
the athletic center and creating 
team environmental liaisons. 
Now, the Council has plans to 
move on to more challenging topics. 
Andrew Gardner, head 
coach of the Nordic ski team, 
has coordinated the athletic 
department’s sustainability 
program since 2005 and has been 
generally inspired by athletes’ 
environmental prerogative.
“The most impressive thing 
I’ve noticed in my time here is that 
most of the sustainability initiatives 
are self-driven from athletes,” said 
Gardner. “Not much has been 
mandated, meaning that every 
positive step we’ve taken has been 
done because people have been 
invested in it.”
These athlete-led initiatives 
cover a wide range of projects, 
including the lacrosse team 
“offsetting its season” by purchasing 
carbon allowances, to the ski team’s 
van running on vegetable oil for the 
past three years. 
One of the central undertakings 
of the Council will involve changing 
the athletic culture’s ideology to 
overall sustainability mission.
In many ways, this concept is 
groundbreaking in the athletic 
community, an arena in which 
material wealth through stellar 
play. The world’s top athletes have 
new product lines and video games 
every season, which only encourage 
more consumption. This ideal is 
what Gardner seeks to upend.
“In competition, athletics is 
cleanly,” said Gardner. “Athletes 
their ways of life. For a skiing 
coach, climate change has a direct 
relationship with not achieving 
environmental sustainability, 
making sustainability something 
athletes should strive for.”
In other words, no snow means 
no skiing.
While most do not have their 
own product lines, athletes at 
Middlebury can play their part.
Since 2005, Gardner has made 
many cars enter and leave Kenyon 
parking lot each day for practice. 
What he found was that on an 
average day nearly 60 cars come 
and go between four and seven.
“In the time that I’ve been here, 
driving has increased substantially,” 
said Gardner. “It would be great to 
see fewer cars arriving every day, 
and some teams have certainly 
taken this on.”
Gardner spoke to the 
“missionary” aspect of the 
“greening,” in hopes that those who 
are dedicated to environmental 
issues already will spread the 
program’s message among athletes, 
coaches, fans and the community at 
large.
As the Environmental Council 
continues its work this year, look 
for more open parking spaces.
sports October 11, 2012 | 20
Panthers dominate Amherst, improve to 3-0
By Fritz Parker
outscores trio of opponents 22-0
jiayi zhu
Madeleine Despins ’15 chases down a loose ball in the Panthers 
dominant 8-0 win over Hamilton Saturday, Oct. 6. 
Jiayi zhu
MEN’S SOCCER 
COMPETES IN 
NESCAC PLAY
PAGE 18
WOMEN’S SOCCER 
SEES FIRST LOSS 
OF THE SEASON
PAGE 19
Environmental Council 
promotes green sports 
By Owen Teach
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Dan Kenerson ’13 and Andrew Singley ’13 track down the football on special teams following a punt from Zach 
Driscoll ’13. The Panthers ultimately downed the ball inside the one-yard line in the 24-3 win over Amherst. 
By Damon Hatheway
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 17
