Two student leaders of In-
terVarsity Christian Fellowship, 
a national evangelical Christian 
organization that has a chap-
ter at Middlebury College, were 
asked to resign their leadership 
posts by other members in the 
chapter in January 2015 because 
of their sexuality. The two stu-
dents chose not to speak about 
the incident until now.
The students, Jonathan 
O’Dell ’18 and Josiah Stork ’15, 
were approached several times 
in 2014 by another student 
board member, who has since 
graduated. According to Stork, 
the student told the two that 
Intervarsity (IVCF) had a na-
tional policy against openly gay 
student leaders, meaning O’Dell 
and Stork would have to step 
down. 
The board member who asked 
the two to step down declined 
multiple requests for comment, 
and instead directed The Cam-
pus to Chris Nichols, the IVCF’s 
regional director for New Eng-
land.
Nichols denied that such a 
national policy against gay stu-
dent leaders ever existed.
“There is (and has been) no 
national policy in place in Inter-
Varsity that bars student leaders 
from serving if they are openly 
gay,” said Nichols in an email to 
The Campus on Oct. 4.
Nichols did say that the IVCF 
expects its leaders “to affirm our 
doctrinal basis and to share a 
common approach to faith with 
the group.” According to IVCF’s 
website, the doctrinal basis 
is “the basic Biblical truths of 
Christianity.” 
Interpreting Scripture
While IVCF does not explic-
itly prohibit gay students from 
serving as leaders, the student 
who asked them to step down 
was interpreting the IVCF pol-
icy as Biblical tenet, O’Dell and 
Stork said.
As much of this was going 
on, the College IVCF chapter or-
ganized a speaker series during 
Winter Term 2015. The series 
featured regional directors from 
IVCF leading discussions based 
on “close scripture reading.” 
The series explicitly marketed 
gender and sexuality as its main 
theme.
Nichols was one of the speak-
ers at the series and spoke about 
passages from Romans 1:1-32.
The chapter describes “sin-
ful” acts of humanity that pro-
voke God’s wrath.
“Men committed shameless 
acts with men and received in 
their own persons the due pen-
alty for their error,” the passage 
reads (Romans 1:27).
Later, it continues, “They 
know God’s decree, that those 
who practice such things de-
serve to die — yet they not only 
do them but even applaud oth-
ers who practice them” (Romans 
1:32).
According to Stork, Nichols’ 
speech affirmed a traditional 
homophobic interpretation of 
these passages, which have been 
interpreted in many other ways 
within the religion.
O’Dell and Stork reported 
their concerns to the College 
Chaplain’s Office in January 
2015. Throughout that spring, 
O’Dell and Stork met with the 
Chaplain of the College Lau-
rie Jordan and the other MI-
VCF leaders during what O’Dell 
called “negotiations.” A member 
of the Chaplain’s Office served as 
a moderator during these meet-
ings, O’Dell said.
“We intentionally did not in-
volve the Judicial Board or the 
Dean of Students in the pro-
cess,” Stork said. “We didn’t 
want to cast a negative light on 
the religion as a whole because 
of the actions of a few bigots.”
By notifying only the Chap-
lain’s Office about the College 
chapter’s requests, no admin-
istrator was made aware of po-
tential violations of the College’s 
non-discrimination policy. The 
Chaplain’s Office is a strictly 
confidential resource, and so it 
could not relay any information 
about the incident to proper dis-
ciplinary channels.
“In our roles as Chaplains 
we welcome students to speak 
with us in a safe, private and 
confidential environment, and 
we hold that trust dearly,” said 
Chaplain Jordan. “Of course, 
in any given situation, students 
may speak for themselves, but 
we will always honor our com-
mitment to confidentiality.”
Revising Policies
Beginning in April 2015, MI-
VCF’s leaders began revising 
their constitution at the request 
of Stork and O’Dell. All student 
organizations need to have a 
constitution in order to be offi-
cially recognized by the College, 
and thus eligible for funding 
from the SGA, said Ellen McKay, 
a staff member at the Scott Cen-
ter for Religious Life who directs 
the Religious Life Council.
The amendments included a 
provision that allows the entire 
membership to call new elec-
tions by a majority vote. A de-
scription of the proposal said it 
would make leadership changes 
a formal matter, rather than 
OCTOBER 13, 2016 | Vol. 115 no. 5 | middleburycampus.com
COCOON 
STORYTELLING 
EVENT
PAGE 15
NEW FULL-SERVICE 
SALON, THE 
PARLOUR, OPENS
PAGE 4
WHAT’S HAPPENING 
TO MIDDXPRESS?
PAGE 14
in
sid
e
By The Editorial Board
SEE INTERVARSITY, PAGE 2
Hillary Clinton 
for President
By Ethan Brady and Ellie 
Reinhardt
News Editor and Editor-in-Chief
SEE ACLU, PAGE 3
Q: If the 2016 presidential election were being 
held today, for whom would you vote?
Exclusive: THE campus ELECTION POLL
Christian Group Dismissed Gay 
Student Leaders in 2015 
Students Come Forward About Chapter’s Conduct
Top from left: Taylor Berkley, Day Robins, Melanie English, Kate Reinmuth, Yanfeng Jin, James 
Burke, Noel Antonisse. Bottom from left: Mohamed Hussein, Evelin Tóth, Chia Ming, Nellie Pierce, 
Julie Merchant, Ethan Peterson-New.
Office of Communications
FALL CLASS OF PHI BETA KAPPA INDUCTED
ACLU Panel Covers 
Justice in Modern USA
By Nick Garber
Senior Writer
On Monday, Oct. 16, members 
of the Middlebury College com-
munity gathered in Wilson Hall 
for an event entitled, “From Mid-
dlebury to the ACLU: Two Alums 
Discuss Civil Rights, Free Speech, 
and the Atmosphere on College 
Campuses.” The event mainly 
consisted of a dialogue between 
Dennis Parker ’77, who currently 
directs the Racial Justice Program 
at the American Civil Liberties 
Union (ACLU), and Lee Rowland 
’02, who works as a Senior Staff 
Attorney for the ACLU’s Speech, 
Privacy, and Technology Project.
President of the College Lau-
rie L. Patton, who gave opening 
remarks, noted, “These are chal-
lenging issues, and particularly 
timely ones.” 
“They are not issues where it’s 
easy to find consensus,” she said. 
“We’re fortunate to have such 
two talented, knowledgeable, and 
skilled professionals with us to-
night to explore these topics with 
sensitivity and rigor, but not with 
total agreement.”
Each speaker began with an 
overview of how their career 
paths led them to their present 
jobs. Parker, whose first job after 
law school was in criminal de-
fense, shared that he immediately 
perceived “the huge gap between 
what you are learning now in con-
stitutional law… and the reality of 
what happens in the courtroom.”
“In fact, the law is not objec-
tive,” Parker said. “I walked into 
a courtroom where virtually ev-
eryone on one side of the bar was 
white, and everyone on the other 
was African-American or Latino.”
Institutional bias, Parker ex-
plained, was evident. “You start-
ed to learn very quickly that you 
could anticipate questions about 
bail, questions about sentence of-
fers, questions about what some-
one would look like when they 
SEE PAGES 10-11 FOR FULL RESULTS
This past Monday’s presidential 
debate was embarrassing. The first 
question the candidates were asked 
was this: “…do you feel you are mod-
eling appropriate and positive be-
havior for today’s youth?” The fact 
that this question even needed to be 
asked is telling. When one thinks of 
a presidential debate, certain words 
come to mind — decorum, respect 
and civility being some of them. 
Those words feel like a pipe dream 
now. Ever since Donald Trump en-
tered the presidential race, rudeness 
and racism have masqueraded as 
the antidote to supposedly stifling 
“PC culture.” But Trump has con-
fused a rejection of political correct-
ness with the reintroduction and 
normalization of bigotry, sexism 
and xenophobia. And it shows. In 
2005, Trump bragged to Billy Bush 
about sexually assaulting women; 
the conversation was inadvertently 
recorded. This past Monday, Trump 
threatened to have his opponent 
thrown in jail. This is both terrifying 
and undemocratic. Trump is con-
sistent only in his impropriety, and 
in the oppressive, belittling nature 
of his rhetoric. The editorial board 
overwhelmingly condemns the lan-
guage, behavior and candidacy of 
Donald Trump. Tangentially, and 
accordingly, we support Hillary 
Clinton.
SEE A VOTE FOR HILLARY, PAGE 6
dependent on informal conversations 
among the leaders. On May 12, 2015, 
a quorum of members voted in favor of 
adopting the proposed amendments.
The membership clause of the con-
stitution has always included the Mid-
dlebury non-discrimination statement. 
However, the statement only ensures 
non-discrimination in membership and 
does not specify a policy on leadership 
positions. According to Stork, this was a 
point of contention.
“MIVCF shall not discriminate in its 
membership or activities on the basis of 
race, creed, color, place of birth, ancestry, 
ethnicity, national origin, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity or ex-
pression, age, or marital status,” it reads.
MIVCF’s funding is granted by the 
Religious Life Council, which receives a 
lump sum and then distributes it to all 
religious student organizations. The SGA 
Finance Committee oversees the Reli-
gious Life Council, but the council has 
broad leeway in determining exactly how 
their funding is allocated.
“As stewards of the student activity fee, 
we make it our priority to fund organiza-
tions equitably,” said Kevin Benscheidt 
’17, chair of the SGA Finance Committee. 
“This news raises interesting questions 
about the role of the SGA in regards to 
censorship. However, I can assure you we 
were never made aware of any discrimi-
natory practices.”
Student organizations are required 
to undergo a review process every three 
years, in which they submit reports of 
their activity to the SGA Constitution 
Committee. The committee last reviewed 
MIVCF in Jan. 2015 and approved the 
MIVCF’s status as a registered organiza-
tion. The committee will conduct its next 
review of MIVCF in Jan. 2018.
“Potentially discriminatory practices 
are definitely taken into account when 
reviewing a student organization,” said 
Nick Delehanty ’17, chair of the SGA Con-
stitution Committee. “Notice of an orga-
nization failing to comply with College 
policy would definitely call into question 
a student organization’s status as an offi-
cially recognized organization during the 
review process.”
National Conversation
The conversation surrounding IVCF’s 
beliefs on human sexuality is happening 
at the national level as well.
On Oct. 7, TIME reported that Inter-
varsity Christian Fellowship USA, the na-
tional office, told its 1,300 staff members 
that “they will be fired if they personally 
support gay marriage or otherwise dis-
agree with its newly detailed positions on 
sexuality,” effective November 11, 2016, 
reads the TIME article.
According to the article, the national 
office called the decision a process of 
“involuntary termination” for any staff 
member who comes forward and dis-
agrees with its positions on human sexu-
ality. Staffers are being asked to come 
forward voluntarily if they disagree with 
the theological position. TIME called it a 
“theological purge.”
In a response statement made the 
same day, IVCF claimed that the TIME 
report was not true. “No InterVarsity em-
ployee will be fired for their views on gay 
marriage,” it states.
TIME reported that the decision was 
the outcome of a four-year internal re-
view on what the Bible teaches about hu-
man sexuality. 
IVCF confirmed that it had been re-ex-
amining its position on human sexuality 
through a four-year process in which “we 
reiterated our beliefs on human sexual-
ity and invited our staff to study and to 
reflect on how our beliefs about Scrip-
ture and our hermeneutic approaches to 
Scripture lead us to those conclusions,” 
said Greg Jao, InterVarsity vice president 
and director of campus engagement in 
the IVCF statement.
It continues, “InterVarsity’s process 
invited all employees to take 18 months 
to work through a nine-part curricula, 
read a variety of resources, and study the 
relevant biblical texts to conclude wheth-
er they were in agreement with InterVar-
sity’s unchanged position.”
“It’s clear that InterVarsity has their 
conception of what they believe but that 
they’re not really being tolerant of a lot 
of other beliefs that are still within the 
framework of Christianity,” said Stork. 
“I think InterVarsity’s by-line has often 
been, ‘come and see what you believe, 
figure out who you think Jesus Christ is.’ 
But, assuming the TIME piece is right, 
asking people who disagree with their 
belief patterns to leave is narrowing the 
score of what they can direct students to, 
and what they can really claim as far as 
letting people explore belief.”
TO READ MORE FROM STORKS, SEE RELIGIOUS 
HOMOPHOBIA, PAGE 7
| October 13, 20162 NEWS
By John Gosselin
Community Council Correspondent
Community
Council 
UPDATE
The Oct. 4 meeting of the Community 
Council began with introductions from 
this year’s Council members. The com-
mittee consists of students, faculty and 
staff from all parts of campus. 
The two council co-chairs are Katy 
Smith Abbott, vice president for student 
affairs and dean of the College, and Da-
vid Ollin Pesqueira ’17. 
Student members of the committee 
include Reid Manheim ’17, SGA Presi-
dent Karina Toy ’17, Emma Bliska ’18, 
Sandra Luo ’18, Fiona Mohamed ’18, 
Charles Rainey ’19, Michelle Na Keong 
Hwang ’19, Maleka Stewart ’19, Sarah 
Yang ’19.5, Holley McShan ’19.5 and 
Yovany Martinez Barahona ’20.
This year’s faculty appointees are 
Assistant Professor of Environmen-
tal Studies Merrill Baker-Medard, As-
sistant Professor of American Studies 
Jessyka Finley and Associate Professor 
of French William Poulin-Deltour. 
Staff members include Associate 
Dean of Students for Residential and 
Student Life Douglas Adams, Telecom 
Manager and Tech Support Specialist 
Solon Colburn and Landscape Horticul-
turalist Tim Parsons.
After introductions, Co-Chair Abbott 
discussed the purpose of Community 
Council, saying that the body is unique 
on campus in that it is the only organi-
zation that deliberates on problems per-
taining to the entire Middlebury com-
munity. Colburn added that Community 
Council helps to expose people to differ-
ent parts of campus they may not have 
interacted with before. 
Bliska  mentioned that important 
conversations which started last year 
will continue this year, and that this 
organization is in a unique position to 
address those issues. Rainey expressed 
how the Community Council is a great 
place to get niche opinions out into the 
open. 
Abbott then transitioned to discuss-
ing the Council’s constitution and by-
laws by way of addressing a question 
about the Council’s relationship with 
the administration. 
She said that, as vice-president for 
student affairs, she would give the se-
nior leadership group updates so that 
the administration always knows what 
Community Council talks about. 
Bliska then presented internal is-
sues on which the Community Coun-
cil could improve. She identified three 
main areas: membership, structure and 
outreach. With students, she said that 
the Council needs diversity in order to 
represent everyone, including margin-
alized voices, but also athletes, since 
Council meetings usually conflict with 
practice times. 
She also discussed how it is difficult 
for faculty to devote the time to attend 
the meetings. In terms of structure, she 
said a large issue is making the meet-
ings accessible for faculty and staff. 
On outreach, Bliska deferred to Co-
Chair Pesqueira, who said that he wants 
to make effective outreach a focus this 
year. He discussed how he wanted to 
get closer with student publications, in-
cluding The Campus, to provide a forum 
for online conversations.
After the presentation, the Council 
dispersed into groups to brainstorm 
ideas for the upcoming year.
Intervarsity asks students to step down
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
J Street U held their first event last 
Thursday after being inactive on campus 
for several years. 
The event served to educate students 
about the Israeli occupation of the West 
Bank. J Street U is a national organization 
with chapters at many college campuses 
across the country. They aim to foster dis-
cussion and activism about the Israeli-Pal-
estinian conflict, and they are also attached 
to J Street, a lobbying organization that 
tries to effect change in Washington D.C. 
Moriel Rothman-Zecher ’11 started the 
first chapter of J Street U when he was a 
student, and the chapter has existed on and 
off since he graduated. Rothman-Zecher 
went on to be the first national president 
of J Street U, which was founded in 2009, 
but the club has been dormant on campus 
until this year. Celia Alter ’19.5, the current 
chapter president, restarted the club at the 
end of last year and is currently focused on 
recruiting members.
According to Alter, the primary goal of J 
Street U is to bring the conversation about 
the conflict to campus. 
“I originally wanted to start this organi-
zation because I thought there should be a 
space on campus to talk about the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict in a non-academic set-
ting. Twenty-five students attended the first 
event, which to me indicates that there is a 
real interest in this issue on campus,” said 
Alter. “We are also currently in the process 
of registering as an official student organi-
zation on campus, and doing outreach to 
bring new people into the club.”
Alter also acknowledged that the Israeli/
Palestinian conflict can be a sensitive sub-
ject for a lot of people. 
“This group may well be contentious, 
given that many people view the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict through a very personal 
lens, and J Street U as an organization has 
a set of distinct political values that I plan 
to represent,” she said. “However, I think 
it is very important that it is a space where 
all people feel welcome and there can be 
dialogue between people with different be-
liefs.”
J Street and J Street U’s political values 
include supporting a two state solution for 
Israel/Palestine, which means they advo-
cate creating a nation of Palestine on part 
of the land currently occupied by both Is-
raelis and Palestinians. 
According to their website, J Street fo-
cuses on the core issues of borders, secu-
rity, Jerusalem and refugees. They believe 
that the best way to ensure peace in the 
region is to create two separate sovereign 
states.
According to the J Street U website, 
the organization is “deeply committed to 
ensuring Israel’s future as the democratic 
homeland of the Jewish people, which can 
only be secured through a two-state resolu-
tion. We know that the fates of both peoples 
are intertwined. Advocating for Israel ne-
cessitates advocating for Palestinian state-
hood, and we defend and support the right 
of both the Jewish and Palestinian peoples 
to sovereignty and security in democratic, 
self-governing states.”
J Street U’s re-launch at Middlebury 
has been met with considerable interest. 
During the first meeting, Alter and other 
members of the J Street U leadership team 
introduced J Street U’s political stance and 
asked students to consider their own opin-
ions about the region. The meeting also 
included an informational portion to help 
give everyone the language they need to 
discuss the issue. 
Cerindipity Schoel ’19.5, a leadership 
team member who spoke at the meeting 
about her commitment to human rights 
in the West Bank, believes that J Street U 
walks an important middle line between 
both sides of the conflict. 
“[J Street is] the only organization that 
I’ve found that tries to come at the issue 
from both sides,” she said. “The Israel-Pal-
estine conflict has been near to my heart for 
a while, and I want to find a way to affect 
meaningful change by looking closely at 
the actions of the Israeli military and how 
those actions should be altered in order to 
end suffering and bring peace.”
In addition to being a place for students 
to talk and become educated about the Is-
raeli-Palestinian conflict, Alter and Schoel 
hope J Street U can become directly in-
volved in activism. 
“As I’ve gotten more involved with the 
national organization, I’ve also gotten more 
interested in the activism side of J Street 
U,” said Alter. “The occupation of the West 
Bank symbolizes a major human rights is-
sue, and I think human rights activism 
can draw a lot of interest at Middlebury….
We have a lot more ideas for events, includ-
ing a series of events around Susya, a Pal-
estinian village that the Israeli government 
wants to demolish.”
Schoel believes that students should 
concern themselves with the conflict in Is-
rael/Palestine, and that J Street U offers a 
way to do that. “It is the job of students first 
and foremost to educate ourselves on what 
is going on in the world and why, and with 
an issue as complex and contentious as the 
occupation, understanding exactly what is 
going on is all the more necessary,” said 
Schoel. 
Additional reporting was provided by Sar-
ah Asch.
By Jacob Villalobos
Contributing Writer
J Street U Chapter Returns to Campus
Endowment 
nets Negative 
Returns
The College’s endowment generated a 
negative return for the fiscal year that end-
ed on June 30. The negative 4.5 percent 
return marked the third time in twelve 
years that the College has netted a loss. 
Over the past three years, the College’s 
endowment has seen 5.9 percent growth. 
Five out of the last ten years have seen 
growth of at least 14.8 percent, with a peak 
of 21.2 percent in 2007, and a low of nega-
tive 15.9 percent in 2009. 
Since May 31, 2005, the College’s en-
dowment has been managed by the Char-
lottesville, Virginia-based firm Investure. 
The firm’s other clients include Smith Col-
lege, Trinity College and the Carnegie En-
dowment for International Peace. 
Per the College’s newsroom, the current 
endowment totals just over $1 billion, and 
consists of both unrestricted and restrict-
ed endowment funds. Of those hundreds 
of funds, over 75 percent are restricted.
In addition to the College, the endow-
ment supports the Middlebury Language 
Schools, the Middlebury Institute of Inter-
national Studies at Monterey, Middlebury 
Schools Abroad, the Bread Loaf School of 
English, the Bread Loaf Writers’ Confer-
ences, and the School of the Environment.
By Will DiGravio
News Editor
October 13, 2016 |  3        News
By John Gosselin
Contributing Writer
Lecture discusses economics of philanthropy
were charged with disorderly conduct. You 
started to realize that, ‘Huh, they’re not 
charging him with anything else. I bet he’s 
black, and I bet he will have been beaten,” 
he said. “You learn to anticipate that the 
white clients are more likely to be released 
on their own recognizance, while the black 
and Latino clients charged with this same 
offense were more likely to have high bails 
set.”
Rowland spoke next, describing her 
upbringing as a “poor kid” with teenage 
parents who were “all over the map politi-
cally.” Nonetheless, she explained, “There 
was kind of a shared ideal that if the gov-
ernment reduced our liberty, if it took away 
choice in some way, it had to have a good 
reason for it.”
“I hadn’t thought about civil liberties 
as a mode of being until my junior year 
here, when 9/11 happened,” Rowland said, 
explaining that her wariness of the War 
on Terror and opposition to the Iraq War 
brought her much criticism on campus.
She continued, “I thought that I’d found 
a bubble here— a lot of well-meaning, gen-
erally progressive folks who were not racist, 
who were not sexist, who were level-head-
ed, decent human beings. And even here, 
even at Middlebury, I realized that a civil 
libertarian perspective was unbelievably 
rare.”
Next, Rowland cited as an influence her 
status as the child of poor parents who “de-
cided they were getting divorced when I 
was eleven and couldn’t afford it till I was 
sixteen.” 
She said, “I had a very bizarre concep-
tion of the law, which was, it was a set of 
fundamental rules that govern our lives and 
how we interact, but they’re written as an 
obscure code by lawyers, for lawyers, so you 
have to pay lawyers to decipher them for 
you.” Pursuing law was the most obvious 
way to “dismantle what I see as an unjustly 
constructed society.”
Yet even within progressive institutions 
like the ACLU, Rowland explained that 
opinions on legal matters often prove to be 
divided. Rowland cited a particular case in 
which she defended the First Amendment 
right of the Washington Redskins to main-
tain what she herself considers an offensive 
team name.
Many in her organization, she said, dis-
puted the notion that “we’re putting our re-
sources towards defending a football team 
that has a billion dollars and the best law-
yers in the country. […] It shows that you 
can have a group of extremely opinionated, 
really smart people, and these controver-
sies don’t go away. Even for us, there are 
times where we see liberty and equality, via 
the lens of free speech and racial justice, in 
a fundamental tension.”
The conversation then moved to the is-
sues of free speech and political correct-
ness on college campuses, as Parker shared 
his perspective as one of the College’s few 
black students in the 1970s. “People will 
sometimes say, ‘Things are now becoming 
politically correct, and things that used to 
be acceptable are not acceptable now. This 
is horrible, it’s destroying education, it’s 
ending speech.’”
“What I hear,” he continued, “is what 
existed before was horrible, it just wasn’t 
horrible for you. For you, fighting political 
correctness means having your right to go 
in blackface to a Halloween party. For me, 
it means the ability to go to a school and 
feel comfortable and feel I can participate.”
Rowland connected Parker’s thoughts to 
her work on the First Amendment, imag-
ining a scenario in which she, as a white 
woman, is criticized by a fellow student for 
wearing blackface.
In this scenario, Rowland said, “I have 
experienced no loss of my free speech 
rights. No structure of power has told me 
I can’t wear blackface. Instead, what has 
happened is another private person, some-
one who deserves a voice and a megaphone 
and a platform every bit as much as I do, 
has told me, ‘I don’t appreciate that. I don’t 
like that idea. Here’s why I disagree.’ That’s 
what the First Amendment envisions.”
Conversely, Rowland noted, she would 
oppose an effort by the College to expel a 
student for a similarly offensive gesture. “If 
you kick that kid out, aren’t you basically 
saying, ‘We don’t educate racists?’ I am 
very skeptical that that’s the endpoint any 
of us want to get to.”
Parker concurred, noting his disdain for 
people who “think that the act of being of-
fensive makes you a champion of the First 
Amendment.”
“The First Amendment is the hero 
there,” Parker said. “You’re an asshole. It 
permits you to be an asshole, and that’s one 
of the reasons why it’s so great.”
After further discussion of anonymous 
speech and the constitutional right to pro-
test, Parker and Rowland answered student 
questions. 
One question, from Harrison Cramer 
’16.5, pertained to the Campus’s publica-
tion of an op-ed earlier in 2016 that many 
students found offensive. Specifically, Cra-
mer asked “whether it is the role of the 
newspaper to reflect the campus accurately 
and fully, including unpopular opinions,” 
or alternatively, if the newspaper should 
reject such thoughts in favor of fostering a 
socially conscious community.
Rowland responded first, explaining 
that she opposes any censoring of oppos-
ing views because “even a well-meaning 
constriction of power can easily flip on 
you.” While a campus newspaper is hardly 
an all-powerful force, she conceded, “we 
are still talking about investing trust in a 
power structure that is not democratically 
accountable.”
“I actually agree,” Parker added to 
laughter, noting that “seemingly objective 
laws and procedures and roles do not al-
ways equally protect people.” 
Still, he emphasized, “it should be 
framed in a way that’s responsible and that 
encourages true access to people who have 
differing opinions.”
Following closing remarks by President 
Patton, both Rowland and Parker told the 
Campus that they were pleased with stu-
dents’ engagement at the event. 
“This gave me hope, said Rowland. “It’s 
representative of a campus that’s not afraid 
to engage what has been, even recently, a 
very sore spot. I hope this is the beginning 
in a series of these conversations, rather 
than a one-off.”
Parker elaborated on the challenges fac-
ing the College. “It’s incumbent on the col-
lege to find a way to permit people to dis-
agree in a civil way, he said, “but to create 
a campus environment that everyone feels 
they’re a part of, that they’re welcome, and 
that they have something to contribute.”
Don-Marc Arnold ’19 said of the talk, ““I 
thought it was really thought-provoking in 
that they touched on the idea of white anxi-
ety where, under the white supremacist dis-
course, groups of white Americans feel that 
their civil liberties are being infringed to 
appease a group of people [read: black peo-
ple] who are accruing benefits for a wrong 
‘righted’ years ago. A good example of that 
was when Lee spoke about the color day at 
the university where the student pushed 
back for for wearing a ‘white power’ shirt.”
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Free Friday Film: Ghostbusters
This 2016 remake features nuclear 
engineer, a subway worker and 
paranormal enthusiasts after a ghost 
invasion takesover Manhattan. 
FRIDAY AT 6 P.M. AND 9 P.M. IN DANA AUDITORIUM
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
Talk Likens 
WWII-era 
to 2016 
Election
By Kate Criscitiello
Contributing Writer
The College’s Department of History 
hosted the forty-second annual Grant Me-
morial Lecture in Mead Chapel on Oct. 7. 
Established in 1966, the lectureship 
honors the late Charles S. Grant, and has 
hosted history professors and writers from 
colleges and universities across the world.
This year, Middlebury welcomed public 
historian Lynn Olson, whose latest book is 
Those Angry Days: Roosevelt, Lindbergh 
and America’s Flight Over World War II. 
A book that, according to former Secretary 
of State Madeleine Albright, “confirms [Ol-
son’s] status as our foremost chronicler of 
World War II politics and diplomacy.” 
On Friday, Olson kept with the theme 
of World War II in her lecture, “America 
First: How the 2016 Presidential Campaign 
Echoes America’s Fight Over Its Role in 
World War II.” Throughout her speech, Ol-
son drew parallels between the 1940s de-
bate to enter the war and the presidential 
election. 
She explained how the economic in-
stability of the Great Depression and the 
social changes of the Roaring 20s created 
tension and anger in the 1940s, echoing the 
unhappy mood of the present day political 
campaign. 
Olson also drew similarities to the 
strong anti-immigrant sentiment present 
in both time periods. In the 1940s, many 
Americans saw Jews and Communists as 
threats to true “Americanism” and Ameri-
can jobs. In the present day, this same fear, 
along with a “threat” to national security, 
drive the anti-Muslim and anti-Latino im-
migration sentiment. 
She discussed how anti-alien and iso-
lationist feelings can be seen directly in 
the use of the slogan “America First.” In 
the 1940s, “America First” was the name 
of America’s largest isolationist group. It 
is also a slogan that has been used by Re-
publican presidential candidate Donald 
Trump. According to Olsen, Trump’s use of 
this historical name is a “deliberate effort 
to harken back to those who supported iso-
lationism in America in 1940.”  
Olson also compared Trump to Charles 
Lindbergh - the unofficial leader of Amer-
ica’s isolationist movement in the 1940s. 
While both Trump and Lindbergh pos-
sessed no political experience, the Ameri-
can people still listened to what they had to 
say as a result of their celebrity.
“I think I look at this election and think 
it’s unprecedented and totally new and it’s 
interesting to see that there is some prec-
edent for out of the box candidates like 
Trump,” said Gia Gould ’19.
ACLU Talk Features Two Midd Alums
“And even here, even at 
Middlebury, I realized 
that a civil libertarian 
perspective was 
unbelievably rare.”
Lee Rowland ’02
This past Thursday, Oct. 6, guest speak-
er Dr. Cecilia A. Conrad spoke at the Ro-
hatyn Center for Global Affairs as part of 
the D.K. Smith ’42 Economics Lecture Se-
ries. Conrad gave a talk titled “Economics 
of Philanthropy: How to Give Away 100 
Million Dollars?” 
The College established the David K. 
Smith ’42 Lecture Series in the early 1990s 
to honor the late alumnus and Economics 
professor D.K. Smith. A gift from the Schaf-
fer family, the series of lectures brings re-
nowned speakers to the College to discuss 
issues related to Economics each semester. 
Previous lectures have covered the gender 
wage gap, income inequality and other is-
sues.
Conrad, the Managing Director at the 
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foun-
dation, had served as Associate Dean and 
Vice President for Academic Affairs at Po-
mona College prior to joining the Founda-
tion in Jan. 2013. 
Her academic research there focused on 
the effect of race and gender on economic 
status. Her work has appeared in academic 
and nonacademic journals and publica-
tions including The American Prospect and 
Black Enterprise.
Her talk focused on two main subjects: 
the difference between, and criticisms of, 
new- and old-school philanthropic founda-
tions. 
Conrad described old-school charitable 
organizations, like the Carnegie and Ford 
Foundations, as having incentives peculiar 
to their type of institution. For example, 
these foundations sometimes have char-
ters which say they will exist in perpetuity, 
meaning that they should never run out of 
funds. 
As a result, many of these charitable or-
ganizations spend their money conserva-
tively so as not to diminish their capital for 
the next year. They also have teams of peo-
ple working in-house to create solutions for 
problems they see in the world and which 
follow their mission statement. Addition-
ally, foundations may not want to finally 
solve the problems they are meant to im-
prove due to  the risk involved in doing so.
Conrad illustrated these incentives and 
risks by comparing two possible projects: 
funding a soup kitchen every year into 
perpetuity, or funding a project to create 
a pill that ends hunger. The soup kitchen 
promises a relatively low reward in terms 
of helping people, but it also presents little 
risk. So long as the soup kitchen continues 
to use the money to serve soup, people will 
be fed and the charitable organization will 
be successful in its mission. The project to 
cure hunger presents high risks; in fact, it is 
almost assuredly doomed to failure. It also 
promises high reward; if this charitable or-
ganization contributes to a project to cure 
hunger, then it will have succeeded in its 
mission to help people. 
Conrad discussed a project that she had 
worked on at the MacArthur Foundation 
called “100&Change”. This project will give 
$100 million to the proposal that wins a 
competition judged by a diverse and expe-
rienced board of judges; the proposal can 
deal a problem in any given field.
Middlebury is now home to The Par-
lour, a full service salon located on Elm 
Street. The salon offers a wide range of 
services from waxing to hair cuts to fa-
cials and even manicures. The Parlour is 
situated in an old house that owners Lisa 
Phelps and Megan Mandigo renovated 
and decorated impeccably to create a re-
laxing and high-end atmosphere. 
In order to emphasize their com-
mitment to quality, The Parlour oper-
ates in a somewhat untraditional man-
ner. Rather than full-time, hourly paid 
employees, numerous experts rent the 
space from Mandigo and Phelps. Each 
renter specializes in one field such as 
hair or facials. 
“Quality is our main objective. We 
want to offer city quality services at a 
reasonable price,” Mandigo said. 
She went on to explain that many 
students who come from cities, now 
come to the Parlour to get their hair 
done because the services are the same, 
high quality services they are used to 
getting at home, yet the price is signifi-
cantly lower. 
Both Phelps and Mandigo are deeply 
involved in the College community. For 
the College football team, Mandigo’s 
husband is the defensive coach and 
Phelp’s husband is the offensive coach. 
Coincidently, Phelps and Mandigo met 
each other at a College football barbe-
cue. Both women also have kids who go 
to school in the town of Middlebury. 
“Starting a salon in Middlebury, 
just made sense. We wanted to support 
Middlebury in our own way,” Phelps 
said, and Mandigo agreed.
As well as a connection to the town, 
Phelps explained how there really is 
a need for a place like The Parlour in 
Middlebury. 
“Coming from Burlington, there re-
ally isn’t a place here where college stu-
dents can go to receive the services we 
offer. I wanted to create a place for lo-
cals and for students, because college is 
a really stressful time and this is a place 
where you can go to shut off your brain,” 
Phelps said. 
The Parlour is very aware of the com-
munity of which they are a part. Phelps 
and Mandigo created an a la carte menu, 
which allows customers to receive more 
than one service at once to maximize 
time-saving. This service appeals to the 
common MiddKid desire to multi-task. 
Mandigo, a Middlebury alum, said, 
“I remember when I was a college stu-
dent, my time was very valuable. We 
wanted to offer small, short services 
you could have done simultaneously. 
For example, while you’re waiting with 
your foils in, you could get your eye-
brows waxed. When people are in here, 
they have the opportunity to have an ad-
ditional service they maybe don’t have 
time for later in the week.” 
The Parlour is adamant about re-
maining relevant to the needs of college 
students. They are constantly asking for 
feedback from customers and friends 
and the owners and renters meet often 
to discuss how to improve. 
“We are looking to be the best, and 
provide quality services,” Mandigo said. 
“The next step is to let college stu-
dents know we exist,” Phelps added.
The best part about The Parlour is 
that it is so much more than just a sa-
lon. College students are constantly get-
ting ready to work, working or even just 
thinking about work. Students rarely 
have the time to come into a stress free 
environment, take a deep breath and be 
pampered. 
At The Parlour, there is no awkward 
chat about the weather or classes, but 
instead college students, Middlebury lo-
cals and the stylists and technicians at 
the Parlour coexist in a comfortable and 
genuine atmosphere. Phelps is funny, 
hip and smart. While she cut my hair, 
she shared how she had helped students 
get internships and even facilitated pro-
ductive connections between College 
students and Middlebury residents. 
Mandigo, too, said that forming a 
new community was one of her favorite 
parts about starting The Parlour. 
“We have created a great group of 
people and I look forward to coming to 
work every day,” she said.
When creating The Parlour, Phelps 
and Mandigo wanted to be connected to 
the town and College equally. 
Phelps said, “There are a lot of plac-
es that cater either to the town or the 
college and I think there is sometimes 
issues with the interconnectedness of 
the two. That is what we don’t want. We 
embrace everyone.” 
Both owners love the town of 
Middlebury and the College and want to 
continue to foster the bond between the 
two. 
On Oct. 27, The Parlour will host an 
event called “Talk of the Town.” A $30 
door fee will cover a 20-minute facial, 
a blow out and even a nail polish color 
change. Mandigo said, “The small door 
fee will get you as many services as you 
have time for.” 
Phelps and Mandigo are driven, 
knowledgeable and ambitious. When 
Lisa originally moved to Middlebury, she 
said she was often referred to as “Coach 
Phelps’ wife,” which fueled her desire to 
make an identity for herself. Together, 
Mandigo and Phelps have successfully 
created a much-needed space for stu-
dents and locals, and in doing so, cre-
ated a name for themselves. 
 
The Parlour, located on Elm Street, is a new, full service salon in Middlebury. The 
salon offers facials, manicures, blow drying and much more. 
Sophie Slotnick
One downside to living in rural Ver-
mont is that to go anywhere exciting, 
you usually need a car. However, there 
are a few trails you can access from the 
College campus by walking or public 
transportation. For those of you who 
are staying on campus over Fall Break, 
we’ve put together a list of our favorites.
The closest trail to campus, is, of 
course, the Trail Around Middlebury 
(TAM). Many of you have probably 
walked out to the organic garden on it 
at some point, but the TAM extends for 
16 miles around the entire town. This 
makes for great running or walking; you 
can go for as long as you want without 
ever being too far from campus. 
One of our favorite spots on the 
TAM is the Gorge section in Weybridge. 
This section runs in a loop along the Ot-
ter Creek and up through a cow pasture 
(don’t be afraid of the cows! But watch 
your step for cow pies). The trail is well-
maintained and mostly easy grade. If 
you’re looking for more of a challenge, 
try Chipman Hill, a moderately steep but 
short climb with views looking back to-
wards campus at the top. 
There are several trails you can take 
for Chipman Hill that come out at a few 
different entry points, so go explore! An 
interactive map can be found at go/tam-
trail.
The TAM is a great place to go if 
you just need some time off campus, 
but if you want a little more wilder-
ness, take the ACTR bus to the top of the 
Middlebury gap. This just beyond the 
Middlebury Snow Bowl. From here, you 
can follow the Long Trail north or south 
for as long as you want. For a short, 
moderately steep hike with good views, 
go to the top of the Snow Bowl on the 
Long Trail South. 
Make sure you check out Lake Pleiad 
on your way (there is a sign marking the 
short side trail). If you want a longer 
hike, you can stay on the Long Trail (LT) 
past the top of the Snow Bowl, where it 
follows a narrow ridge through beautiful 
high-elevation forest with some partial 
views on both sides. 
You can also head north from the 
gap to Silent Cliff (0.8 miles one way) or 
Breadloaf Mountain (5.1 miles one way), 
both of which have views. If you want to 
do a loop, try splitting off the LT on the 
Burnt Hill Trail, which connects to the 
Norske trail at the bottom. 
In the winter, this is a ski trail 
(maintained by the Middlebury Moun-
tain Club!), but this time of year it’s not 
too wet to hike. You can follow it back 
up to Rt. 125, where it comes out across 
from the Snow Bowl driveway. In total 
this loop is 6.7 miles and moderate dif-
ficulty. 
The best part about the LT and the 
TAM is that you can make your hike as 
long and hard as you want. There are a 
lot of cool spots on these trails, so we 
recommend you take advantage of fall 
weather and fall break to go exploring! 
Happy hiking!
A New Full Service Salon, The Parlour, Opens 
By Paul Donelon
Contributing Writer
local
No-Car-Needed Trails To Try Over Your Fall Break
By Nina Sonneborn and Dorothy 
Punderson
Contributing Writers
For an interactive map of the Trail Around Middlebury (TAM) visit go/tamtrail. 
Alessandria Schumacher
For information 
the TAM,
the Long Trail, the 
ACTR bus sched-
ule and more visit 
go/fortnightly-
feature
Fortnightly Feature
Martha sits at her post at the 
Middlebury Farmers’ Market; a knitter 
and craft maker by trade, she welcomes 
passersby into her little tent to answer 
their questions about her handmade 
sweaters and scarves.  She sits on a small 
red chair, waving to friends and onlook-
ers alike.  
When we enter her space, she smiles 
and shrugs, embracing our own ques-
tions that dive a little deeper than the 
pattern of her fabrics.  Martha grew up 
on a remote island off Mystic, Connecti-
cut, and as she begins to talk about what 
it felt like to live there, her eyes light up 
as if recalling an old friend.  Although it 
has become much more gentrified, there 
originally weren’t many people there 
- she and her sister were the only kids 
around in the off season.  
“We would get so excited when we 
even saw a car driving down the road!” 
Martha laughed.  “It was a very mystical 
place to grow up and learn how to be self 
sufficient.  It’s probably why I knit.”  
Her childhood on the island also 
came with World War II, something that 
seeped through the cracks of her every 
day experience.  
“The best thing I remember about 
the war was we had black out curtains, 
and Dad used to show movies on them. 
Although the real reason for the cur-
tains, of course, was that submarines 
were creeping around outside.” She grins 
as she says this, and we begin to see the 
multi-layered complexity of her adoles-
cence
Inside, her mother divided jars of 
sugar for everyone in the family, held a 
contest for who would pick the weekly 
dessert. Outside, people were divided 
across nation lines, and the weekly rou-
tine was listening to the radio, praying 
loved one’s would come back home.  
Yet, Martha says that although she 
was perhaps afraid of death when she 
was younger, it doesn’t pose the same 
threat as it used to.  
“It’s not something ever to be afraid 
of, just a nuisance,” she chuckles, clasp-
ing her hands in her lap.  
She’s lived a few different lives, from 
the island to college to two marriages 
and now by herself with her artwork. 
She says she loves it. And now that she’s 
as old as she is, she hopes her death can 
pass without putting a burden on her 
friends.  
Martha says this nonchalantly and 
adds that we might not understand yet 
because we are so young.  We like to 
think we understand, but also know that 
her 50-some years on us certainly give 
her a bit of perspective, if not immense 
wisdom.  
The conversation trickles to books 
we’ve read recently and fades when we 
think she might need to tend to the cus-
tomers looking at her knitting. She rubs 
her fingers over her brown corduroys 
and looks up at us from her seat.  Martha 
wishes us luck on our future endeavors, 
and I can’t help but think that within the 
creases of her smile lies the knowledge 
that we’ve got countless spools of yarn 
to go through before we knit our whole 
sweaters.  
October 13, 2016 |
Students and community members 
gathered to hear Vermont Senator Pat-
rick Leahy (D) speak on politics, his own 
career and his life last Tuesday, Oct. 4, at 
Carol’s Hungry Mind Café in the town of 
Middlebury. For an hour and a half, Sen. 
Leahy spoke about the presidential elec-
tion and his own political journey. The 
talk was sponsored by the Middlebury 
College Democrats.
The talk was open to the public. The 
seating capacity was filled with College 
members, curious passersby and Senator 
Leahy’s wife, Marcelle and staff. 
Currently Vermont’s senior Senator, 
Leahy has been in office since 1975. Since 
then, he has served as the Chairman of the 
Senate Judiciary Committee, though he 
now serves as the ranking member. Sen. 
Leahy is currently the longest-serving U.S. 
Senator, as well as the longest-serving 
U.S. Senator in the history of Vermont.
Sen. Leahy talked to the College Dem-
ocrats at a table specially designated for 
the event. He asked each member in atten-
dance what they wanted to do in college 
and what they planned to do afterwards. 
The focus then shifted to policy, 
where the College Democrats were invited 
to ask questions to 
the Senator. Asked 
about the positives 
and negatives of the 
restoration of rela-
tions with Cuba, 
Sen. Leahy said, 
“It’s going to be 
in many ways two 
steps forwards, one 
step back, but it’s 
going to be forward 
all the time.”
The focus then 
switched to local is-
sues. Sen. Leahy ad-
dressed a question about the town of Rut-
land’s recent decision to accept 100 Syrian 
refugees and the background vetting pro-
cess of those refugees. 
“I know that the kind of background 
checks that a refugee has to go through 
and it is enormous,” Sen. Leahy said.
Commenting on Rutland’s process of 
volunteering for the Syrian refugees, he 
said, “There should 
have been more di-
alogue, but there’s 
dialogue now.” 
 Sen. Leahy 
then noted the 
similarities of Rut-
land’s decision to 
accept refugees to 
that of Burlington, 
saying, “Burlington 
has brought in all 
kinds of refugees, 
and they’ve done 
well.”
Leahy tied the 
local issues into a more general and na-
tional issue by addressing Republican 
Presidential candidate Donald Trump’s 
proposed stringent vetting policies of ref-
ugees. 
“That would put us back a hundred 
years. We can’t do that,” Sen. Leahy said.
Throughout the question-and-answer 
session, the audience asked questions that 
ranged from Sen. Leahy’s interest and 
cameos in the Batman series to the pollu-
tion of the waterways by Lake Champlain. 
After the event, Sen. Leahy’s staff wrapped 
up by taking pictures of the attendees and 
the Senator, and then with the owner of 
Carol’s, John Melanson.
“First of all, Senator Leahy honored 
me by coming here, although it was the 
students that set it up, so I was really 
pleased that they did that,” Melanson said. 
He added that Senator Leahy was sur-
prised by the College community and the 
enthusiasm around the event. 
“He [Sen. Leahy] remarked how im-
pressed he was with Middlebury students 
themselves, how enthusiastic, how knowl-
edgeable they were, and was very im-
pressed with that,” Melanson said.
Senator Leahy (D) Visits Middlebury
By Paul Donelon
Contributing Writer
5Local
Humans of Vermont: A Moment with Martha
By Wendy Walcoff
Martha sits at the Middlebury Farmers 
Market with her sweaters and scarves, 
the products of her work as a knitter 
Wendy Walcoff
“[Relations with Cuba 
are] going to be in 
many ways two steps 
forwards, one step 
back, but it’s going 
to be forward all the 
time.”
Senator Patrick Leahy (D)
Staff Writer
JOIN OUR PACK
WRITE FOR THE MIDDLEBURY CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS 
AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE INTERESTED, EMAIL 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
Since their ill effects have come to 
light over the last several decades, I 
have been told to never, ever smoke cig-
arettes. My grandfather suffered from 
lung cancer until a surgery saved him 
from an early death. Cigarette popu-
larity rose drastically in the U.S. in the 
1940s and reached its peak in about 
1955, around the time my grandfather 
started smoking. Today, it’s nearly im-
possible to evade anti-tobacco ads. Com-
ing across someone who has no idea that 
cigarettes are bad for your health would 
be like finding a five carat diamond in 
the street: practically unheard of. To-
bacco kills more than 480,000 Ameri-
cans every year and cuts life expectancy 
by about ten years. Regardless, smok-
ing has turned into an unhealthy trend 
among college students since the 1990s.
I wonder why we knowingly engage 
in such an unhealthy practice. Why do 
we find smoking these skinny tubes of 
filtered leaves to be so appealing while 
the general American population is wise 
enough to cut back? A 1999 Harvard 
study found that almost half of all stu-
dents had smoked in the last year. Al-
though on average, uneducated people 
have been found to smoke more than 
those in school, this gap is shrinking 
steadily.
This dangerous development is due 
in part by the social structure of college. 
Smoking goes well with drinking – it’s 
goes down easy. But, as I take a drag on 
my ‘social cig’ on Battell beach, I start 
to think: “Where are my priorities?” The 
fact that it is a taboo to smoke may only 
add to the appeal. “Is this my rebellion?”
In April 2014, I eagerly went on a col-
lege tour with my mother to the East 
Coast. Soon, however, I began to notice 
something odd: college kids smoking 
cigarettes. I was appalled. Of course, I 
had been to high school parties where 
the occasional ‘cig’ was lit, but most of 
my peers opposed them. As a child, I 
even glared at smokers on the street and 
dramatically held my breath anytime I 
had to walk across their path. In middle 
school, my P.E. teachers made us run 
around the the gym and tag each wall 
with our hands screaming, “I will never 
smoke!”
This mantra was ingrained deep with-
in me. Walking along the ivy-marked 
paths of these institutions of higher ed-
ucation, I couldn’t help but scoff at stu-
dents huddled in groups, circled around 
a ‘smoking gun,’ as if in the midst of a 
cultural ritual. However, the mantra, 
along with “I will never drink” and “I 
will never swear,” quickly faded in im-
portance.
I don’t know how I gradually morphed 
into one of those students. I smoked my 
first cigarette at Middlebury my fresh-
man year. In fact, The National Institute 
on Drug Abuse found that nearly 40% of 
students begin smoking or become reg-
ular smokers after starting college.
There is a clashing of ideologies, a 
flip-flopping of values that happens ev-
ery weekend on campus. On the typical 
weekday, I spend most of my time in 
class striving ardently to strengthen my 
neural connections. However, my values 
shift by Friday and I succumb to a new 
moral code. Forget books and higher ed-
ucation. Now, my job is to ardently act 
against my health by using alcohol and 
various drugs. We are all smart here. We 
all know the effects of the substances we 
use. Yet for me, at least, that knowledge 
is not enough.
Last week, I was on FaceTime with 
my friend who is abroad in Ireland. We 
soon started talking about cigarettes. 
“They’re everywhere here,” Jonathan 
said.
“I’ve been smoking a few lately,” I told 
him, feeling almost as if I was confessing 
to some crime. “It’s weird, I’ve begun to 
notice how, after just one, I start to want 
it. I stand at a party and think, ‘I’d really 
like one right now,’ even though I don’t 
do it that often” I said. Then I blurted 
out a question I already knew the an-
swer to: “Are they really that bad?”
His little head on the screen of my 
phone stared at me blankly and his 
mouth began to move, “Abbie, they build 
up plaque in your lungs. That’s what 
they do. I used to smoke a lot a couple 
years ago, but then when I’d go to the 
gym the next day I couldn’t breathe, so 
I cut back.”
“That’s disgusting”, I thought. De-
spite everything, the next weekend I 
bummed one off a friend here at Middle-
bury outside Atwater.
“Do you think I could have one of 
those?” some guy asked me as I took a 
drag. I looked around and noticed that 
others had lit cigarettes, too. I told him 
I didn’t have any more and he walked 
away, but his desire for a cigarette no 
longer phased me like it would have a 
year and a half ago.
Just like chokers, polaroids and dad 
hats rising from the dead on campus, 
cigarettes are becoming more popular 
with increasingly young people. The dif-
ference between today and the 1950s 
is that now, we can’t pull the same ig-
norance card our grandparents did. In 
fact, that knowledge makes smoking 
even more tempting, like my own per-
sonal mutiny. Come next weekend, I’m 
not sure what I’ll choose.
opinions
editorial board 
The content written within the 
Opinions pages may cause emotional 
distress. Please exercise discretion.
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor. The 
opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions 
section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial com-
ics and other commentary, are views of the individ-
ual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the 
opinions of the newspaper. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.
middleburycampus.com. To be considered for pub-
lications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. 
Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all 
submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
A Vote for Hillary, Against Trump
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Ellie Reinhardt
MANAGING EDITOR
Christian Jambora
BUSINESS MANAGER
Julien Miller
NEWS EDITORS 
Caroline Agsten, Phil Bohlman, Ethan 
Brady, Will DiGravio, Eliza Teach
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Blackburn, Erin Van Gessel, Sara 
Hodgkins, Francesca Haass, Edward 
O’Brien
SPORTS EDITORS 
Will Case, Remo Plunkett, Andrew Rigas 
LOCAL EDITORS 
Annie Grayer, Harry Kramer, Alessandria 
Schumacher, Rebecca Walker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Henry Burnett, Renee Chang, Charmaine 
Lam, Alex Newhouse
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Toby Aicher, Finne Murphy, Dominick 
Tanoh, Elizabeth Zhou,
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Michael Borenstein, Anahi Naranjo, Mi-
chael O’Hara, Ivan Valladares
DESIGN EDITORS
Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway, Corde-
lia Prouvost
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Pyone Aye, Jerrica Davy, Elaine Velie
COPY EDITOR
Rachel Iacono, Emma Walker
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Nathaniel Wiener, Sara Hodgkins
OFFICE MANAGER
Sarah Koenigsberg
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
official opinion of 
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Disclaimer: Reader op-eds do not reflect the opinion of The Middlebury Campus editorial board. 
Cigarettes: we Do know better
continued from front page
Middlife crisis
Abbie Rosenbaum ’19 writes in about 
the dangers of cigarettes.
We’d like to begin with an analysis of 
Trump’s appeal. 
Whether you ap-
prove of the can-
didate or not, his 
popularity and 
momentum exist. 
He appeals to a 
prominent bracket 
of American vot-
ers, many of whom feel disenfranchised 
by the political status quo and are at-
tracted to Trump’s empty but booming 
promises. But Trump’s promises are just 
that — empty. His arguments lack sub-
stance; accordingly, he relies on personal 
attacks and libel to build his popularity. 
This reliance was evident at last 
Monday’s debate: devoid of robust 
policy ideas to challenge Clinton 
with, Trump hurled insults at her 
instead. Traditional debate deco-
rum disappeared, because decorum 
cannot exist when one candidate’s 
chief campaign strategy is to vener-
ate decorum’s absence — likely in the 
hope of distracting voters from his 
total absence of intelligent or intel-
ligible policies.
Trump cannot be deemed a com-
petent candidate simply because 
one day he’s marginally less out-
landish than the next. Similarly, 
Clinton cannot be deemed a com-
petent candidate simply because 
she is the lesser evil. We condemn 
Donald Trump. 
But we also believe that Hillary Clin-
ton is fit for the office of president without 
Trump’s candidacy taken into consider-
ation. Her experience is unmatched; she 
spent eight years as a New York senator 
and another eight years as Secretary of 
State. Furthermore, despite the flack she 
takes for having an establishment, sta-
tus quo-oriented program, her platform 
is objectively one of the most progressive 
ever put forward by a major presidential 
candidate in history. She promises to se-
cure debt-free public colleges, invest $1 
billion in police training and re-training 
programs for de-escelating situations 
and end racial profiling, invest $100 bil-
lion over the next 15 years in carbon-
reducing infrastructure, and double in-
vestment in early childhood education 
programs.  
Trump, however, frequently uses Clin-
ton’s experience against her — he labels 
her a member of the political establish-
ment, and questions her track record. 
Questions about the agenda of the po-
litical elite are worth asking, but not for 
the reasons Donald Trump asks them. It 
is important to hold candidates account-
able, and ensure that they represent 
public interests rather than private. But 
Hillary’s experience in politics has be-
come one of Trump’s vapid, inflammato-
ry talking points; and nothing more. We 
admire Clinton’s decades of experience 
in politics. Unfortunately, she hasn’t got-
ten much time to talk about them; 
Trump’s campaign has lowered 
the bar, forcing moderators 
to focus on    
petty, reductive 
questions instead of 
serious issues. 
You don’t have 
to agree with the 
Campus editorial 
board. But we do 
hope you develop 
an opinion of your 
own based on factual 
arguments and thoughtful 
contemplation. We hope you’re watch-
ing these debates too. And most of all, we 
hope you cast your vote this November. 
We, as young voters, ought to help decide 
which candidate is, as Anderson Cooper 
so considerately asked, “modeling appro-
priate and positive behavior for today’s 
youth.” Because this is our future, too. 
  7opinions
Make way for activism
Five years ago, debate erupted over 
the word feminist when celebrities Taylor 
Swift, Lady Gaga and Katy Perry said they 
did not consider themselves feminists. 
Culture wars ensued as Beyoncé (obvi-
ously) came to the rescue with the release 
of her song “Flawless,” and its accompany-
ing music video, which featured a record-
ing of Nigerian writer Chimamanda Ngozi 
Adichie defining “feminist” as “a person 
who believes in the social, political and eco-
nomic equality of the sexes.” 
Beyoncé and feminist supporters 
around the world sought not so much to 
make an argument for feminism as to sim-
ply define it. They thought that, in the 21st 
century, people’s resistance to the word 
was born not from the word’s stigma, but 
rather from a misunderstanding of its core 
principles. 
Shirts saying, “This is what a feminist 
looks like,” and “Feminism is the radical 
notion that women are people,” exploded 
on the streets and helped to normalize the 
word feminist as the not-so-radical idea 
that women and men are equal. 
But while the word feminist has be-
come less stigmatized, its close relative — 
“activist” — has remained in the shadows, 
especially at Middlebury.  
I first noticed the stigma around the 
word “activist” three years ago when I ar-
rived on campus as a first year and joined 
the Socially Responsible Investment Club 
(SRI), which has since been incorporated 
into the Sunday Night Group (SNG). As a 
group, we were in constant fear that by en-
gaging in activist activities we would lose 
our legitimacy among the student body. 
I was soon labeled as an activist and 
tried to recruit peers to participate in cam-
pus activism but got many No’s from those 
who feared being identified as an activist. 
Why did the activist identification and ac-
tivism in general come with so much bag-
gage?, I thought. Just as the true mean-
ing of feminism—equality of women and 
men—was once misconstrued to mean just 
man-hating and bra-burning women, peo-
ple have somehow gotten into their heads 
that activism—and to be an activist, means 
something other than simply standing up 
for what you believe to be right and pushing 
the arc of the moral universe a little closer 
towards justice. 
Elizabeth Dunn is a junior who wrote 
some beautiful race-related op-eds last year 
and has done activist work on and off cam-
pus related to ending sexual assault (go/
stairs) and mass incarceration and I asked 
her to meet up in Proctor lounge for lunch 
to discuss why activism has such a stigma 
on campus. Dunn said that many students 
stray from activism because, “on this cam-
pus a lot of really strange conceptions go 
into activism, especially reputation wise 
that it’s kind of odd.” Even I who seek to 
dispel the narrow stereotype of activism 
assumed Dunn would be a certain way be-
cause of her reputation as an activist on 
campus—an assumption that was broken 
a minute into our conversation when Dunn 
revealed herself to be calm, thoughtful, and 
funny. 
Dunn also said that, “at the base level 
I don’t think many people would disagree 
with the idea that it would be nice if ev-
eryone had opportunities to do well but 
apparently that’s a really difficult concept 
for people to actually invest in.” Dunn hy-
pothesized that because Middlebury is such 
a privileged institution and many students 
have an overshare of resources they think 
activism will make them give something up 
and become defensive and uncomfortable 
and that discomfort translates into not re-
ally doing anything. 
Apathy towards activism and privilege 
has long been a connected trait of Middle-
bury students. During J-term of 2014 Han-
na Mahon ’13.5 and Kristina Johansson ’14 
student taught a course and created a web-
site entitled, “A People’s History of Mid-
dlebury College,” which unearthed a 1947 
statement by Stanely Wright, Middlebury’s 
President at the time who spearheaded an 
aggressive effort to recruit underperform-
ing wealthy students. Wright wrote to the 
Board of Trustees regarding the ideological 
shift the campus experienced as a result of 
recruiting wealthier students: 
“On my arrival there existed a strong 
and fairly numerous group of students of 
various degrees of Left of Center opinions,” 
who were active of the ‘undemocratic’ or-
ganization of the college and of the lack of 
‘economic democracy’ in our capitalistic 
system. This group is now fewer in number 
and less bitter than it was four years ago, 
and not many are what would be consid-
ered leaders of the student body.” 
The prevalence of privilege has certain-
ly decreased student activist tendencies on 
campus and perhaps made it more stigma-
tized, but as Dunn pointed out to me, many 
students of color and other marginalized 
identities don’t have the privilege not to be 
activists. Just a few weeks ago Dunn men-
tioned a situation in which someone she 
knew instagram-ed a picture of a group of 
white male students who the friend over-
heard saying the n-word. Nobody inter-
vened to tell the man that his word choice 
was deeply offensive to many students on 
campus. Elizabeth says this type of situa-
tion happens frequently on campus, and 
she is left with the onus to call out others 
harmful behavior. 
This, then, is the invitation—to let the 
privilege that I and many students on cam-
pus have not lead us astray from activism 
but closer towards it. To acknowledge the 
privilege that has enabled us to ensure our 
own success and safety and work to give 
other people the same opportunity. 
Dunn and I discussed that activism 
can take many different forms and part of 
the reason people have a stigma towards 
activism is because they believe it can only 
be done in some extreme or radical way. 
In fact, Dunn mentioned that much of the 
work of activism is really just in changing 
toxic mindsets through conversations in 
the spaces we as individuals already occupy 
in our day-to-day lives. And if we all partici-
pated—if the onus was not always on Dunn 
or other peoples of marginalized identi-
ties to speak up, then maybe we wouldn’t 
have such an extreme conception of who 
and what an activist needs to be and do, 
because the work of bringing about a more 
just community would be more equitably 
divided. 
My friend and fellow senior Maeve 
Moynihan is a great example of someone 
who has sought to incorporate activism 
into her everyday life. Maeve is on a club 
sports team and last spring when it came to 
light that many students of color felt mar-
ginalized and oppressed on campus she for-
warded the Black Student Union’s letter to 
her team and even included a summarized 
version that took about 2 minutes to read. 
Maeve’s actions instigated discussions on 
greater racial inclusivity in a space that 
may not have taken up the issue if not for 
Maeve’s suggestion. 
So we can all engage with activism in 
our own way, but I dare say that we must all 
be activists. There comes a time when we 
must alter our individual behavior to match 
the gravity of the injustice of the time and 
at this point in history when we are faced 
with great racism, wealth inequality, and 
environmental degradation, I think we are 
called to step out of our own rigid schedules 
and social silos to participate in activism 
to the greatest extent we believe ourselves 
possible—perhaps even more. 
Sometimes when I try to convince my 
peers to engage in activism they respond 
with hopelessness that we can do anything 
to address any of the issues that face our 
world. I hold no delusions that the chal-
lenges we have will be incredibly difficult 
to overcome, maybe even impossible, but 
this notion that we as young people can do 
nothing to help is absurd considering that 
if we look historically young people—be-
cause their privilege of time proximity and 
idealism, are the only ones who have ever 
instigated fundamental change. It was stu-
dent activists around the country and even 
here on this campus who played a founda-
tional role in the civil rights, anti-Vietnam, 
and women’s movements. We are the ones 
we’ve been waiting for. 
And so as we begin the work of break-
ing the stigma around activism and open 
the doors for many more students to stand 
up for what they believe is right, I hope we 
can source inspiration from the fact that 
activism is hard but it is never dull. In fact, 
some of the most sacred moments from my 
three years at Middlebury have occurred 
when I’ve been in a group of activists who 
are striving to see things not as they are but 
as they could be, doing nothing short of rei-
magining the future of the world. 
religious homophobia on campus
In John 13:34-35, Jesus says, “A new 
command I give you: Love one another. 
As I have loved you, so you must love 
one another. By this everyone will know 
that you are my disciples, if you love one 
another.”  Unfortunately, the modern 
Church as a whole, and Middlebury’s In-
terVarsity Christian Fellowship specifi-
cally, deeply fail to live up to this com-
mandment.
During my Senior year at Middlebury, 
two of my identities clashed against each 
other in the most painful of fashions.  Af-
ter being elected to a leadership position 
in Middlebury’s chapter of the national 
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship, I 
came out as gay.  Initially the other lead-
ers were more or less positive. I was in-
formed, however, that per InterVarsity’s 
national policies, a leader that chooses 
to date someone of the same sex must 
step down from leadership.  When I did, 
in fact, start dating my first boyfriend, 
I met with one of the student leaders of 
InterVarsity to discuss it.  Interestingly, 
she repeatedly asked me how I came to 
this “decision”.  Regardless, she made it 
clear that I would have to leave my lead-
ership position in InterVarsity because 
of their policies about sexual orientation 
and leadership.
Over the course of the next few 
months, two other students in InterVar-
sity also experienced discrimination. 
One student who led a Bible Study was 
asked to stop leading it as she had start-
ed to date someone of the same sex.  (As 
a result, the Bible study stopped meeting 
altogether, which strikes me as asinine.) 
Another, the guy I had dated, was told 
that he would be welcome to hold a posi-
tion so long as he remained single and 
celibate. How generous.
Furthermore, over the course of J-
Term, the group was bold enough to 
host a series of talks on sexuality, gen-
der and religion, which clearly outlined 
a “traditional” (homophobic) reading of 
scripture without room for other opin-
ions.  In fact, one of the leaders emailed 
me before the last talk (which was by far 
the most blatantly homophobic) encour-
aging me to go and informing me that 
she had informed the speaker about my 
“decision” to step down from leadership. 
Essentially, Intervarsity hosted an entire 
month of events personally aimed at tell-
ing me they disapproved of my sexuality. 
I got the message.
I spent my final semester at Middle-
bury fighting with InterVarsity, trying 
to get them to change their homopho-
bic policies.  They were very resistant, 
claiming that their policies were not in 
conflict with Middlebury’s non-discrim-
ination statement. (By the way, they 
also require leaders to sign a statement 
of faith, which excludes people of other 
religions from positions of leadership, 
which has gotten InterVarsity in trouble 
on other college campuses, notably Tufts 
and the UC schools.)  In the end, I did 
manage to alert a few key members of 
the Middlebury community of the prob-
lem; but in the past year I’ve felt that I 
should have done more. Middlebury In-
terVarsity’s policies are homophobic and 
at odds with Middlebury’s community 
values of respect and inclusion.  There 
needs to be an open, honest discussion 
about homophobia and religious spaces 
on campus.  Middlebury needs to consid-
er what its values are and how they relate 
to the organizations allowed on campus. 
I believe that student organizations need 
to align themselves with Middlebury’s 
standards of inclusivity and diversity.
Reader Op-ed
Josiah Stork ‘15 writes in about the 
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship.
SWUGlight
Sophie Vaughan ’17 writes about 
activism on campus.
October 6, 2016 |
8 Advertisements OCTOBER 13, 2016 | 
GREEN
The new official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
PEPPERS
LOCAL | HANDCRAFTED | FRESHLY PREPARED |AT YOUR CONVENIENCE
[802] 388-3164
WANT A PIECE OF THE ACTION?
The Middlebury Campus is seeking people to join our team for the fall 
semester. Writers are needed in the following sections:
To express interest, please send an email to campus@middlebury.edu detailing the section(s) for which 
you’d like to write.
NEWS
ONLINE  
FEATURES
SPORTS
OPINIONS
ARTS&SCIENCES
CARTOONS
Win homer
URIEL ULLOA ADAN
KAITLYND COLLINS
Nolan Ellsworthemily cox
10features 11featuresOCTOBER 13, 2016    | October 13, 2016
Clinton Leads Big Among Students Who Plan to Vote
Hillary Clinton leads Donald Trump by 
a margin of 83 percent to 8 percent among 
Middlebury College students who are regis-
tered to vote, according to a poll conducted 
by The Middlebury Campus from Sept. 27 
to 30. A total of 691 students participated in 
the poll, of whom 582 said they were regis-
tered to vote.
Of those who said they were not reg-
istered to vote, 54 percent said they would 
probably or definitely not register in time 
for the election. Nearly all likely voters — 91 
percent — said they planned to vote in their 
home state via absentee ballot.
Nearly half of respondents are un-
satisfied with their choices for president. 
Respondents are about evenly divided in 
terms of their enthusiasm for voting, with 
51 percent saying their vote is primarily one 
for their candidate and 49 percent saying 
their vote is primarily one against another 
candidate.
Six percent of likely voters plan to 
vote for Libertarian Party candidate Gary 
Johnson, and three percent plan to vote for 
Green Party candidate Jill Stein. Less than 
one percent plan to write in a candidate.
Most respondents are registered to vote 
in states that are considered solidly Demo-
cratic: Massachusetts, California, New York 
and Vermont. Only 12 percent of respon-
dents plan to cast ballots in swing states, 
which have a predicted margin of less than 
10 percentage points between the two ma-
jor candidates. These include New Hamp-
shire, North Carolina and Pennsylvania.
Respondents considered the economy 
to be the most important issue in decid-
ing who they want to become the next 
president. The environment was the second 
most important issue, although education, 
the treatment of minorities and foreign pol-
icy were cited nearly as often.
Gun control received broad support 
among respondents, of whom only 29 per-
cent own a firearm or know someone in 
their family who does. A full 34 percent of 
respondents favor the repeal of the Second 
Amendment.
Virtually all respondents said they have 
little or no confidence in the political wis-
dom of the average American.
Registered Democrats hold a seven-to-
one advantage over registered Republicans 
in the sample. Thirty-eight percent of re-
spondents are unaffiliated with a political 
party.
Respondents tended to rate the aver-
age Middlebury student’s political views as 
more liberal than their own. On average, 
respondents placed their family’s political 
views as more moderate than their own.
Partisans reported experiencing Mid-
dlebury’s political climate differently based 
on their party allegiance. While 81 percent 
of Democrats said that they feel comfort-
able expressing their opinions openly on 
campus, 81 percent of Republicans said the 
exact opposite.
Nearly three-fourths of respondents 
agreed that a person’s opinion should be 
heard no matter what, even if it deeply of-
fends someone else.
The poll was conducted online by send-
ing an email to all students with a survey 
link enclosed. The poll was held open for 
three days before data were extracted.
The results of the poll were not weight-
ed according to demographic factors. The 
demographic profile of respondents roughly 
matched that of the student body, including 
known statistics about race, gender, class 
year, home state, financial aid status, first-
generation status and varsity athlete status. 
There was no significant evidence that the 
poll systematically undersampled or overs-
ampled a particular group.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall 
results based on this sample will differ by 
no more than four percentage points in ei-
ther direction from what would have been 
obtained if all current students had partici-
pated in the survey.
In addition to sampling error, the prac-
tical difficulties of conducting a survey of 
public opinion may introduce other sources 
of error. Variation in the order of questions, 
for instance, may influence the results. An-
swers were randomized where necessary in 
an attempt to reduce this error.
Election Poll Shows a Liberal Student Body, and a Partisan Divide
91%
of likely voters will 
vote by absentee ballot
55%
of unregistered voters 
will not register before 
the election
12%
of respondents will 
cast ballots in swing 
states
51-49 margin by which respondents are voting for their candidate, rather than against another one
46%
of respondents are 
unsatisfied with their 
choices for president
29%
of respondents 
own a firearm or 
know someone in 
their family who 
does
35%
of respondents 
favor repealing the 
Second Amend-
ment
47% of respondents voted in a primary or caucus in 2016 . . .
A person’s opinion should be heard no matter what, even if it 
deeply offends someone else
People who want to get ahead can generally make it if they’re 
willing to work hard enough
Stricter environmental laws and regulations are worth implementing, even 
if it means a significant loss of jobs
Poor people today have it easy because they can get government benefits 
without doing anything in return
The growing number of newcomers from other countries threatens tradi-
tional American values
The richest Americans should be taxed at much higher rates than people 
who have less money than they do
Americans need to be willing to give up privacy and freedom in order to 
be safe from terrorism
People today are too quick to accuse someone of being offensive and 
bigoted
The U.S. government has a good track record and almost always 
does the right thing
Q: Do you favor or oppose the following policies on guns?
Q: On a scale of 1 to 7, with 1 being very liberal and 
7 being very conservative, where would you place 
the political views of the following people?
Q: To what extent do you agree with this: “I feel comfortable expressing 
my political opinions openly on Middlebury’s campus.”
Q: How much confidence do you have in the political 
wisdom of the average American?
THE PARTISAN DIVIDESUPPORT FOR GUN CONTROL
PERCEIVED CLIMATE
THE AVERAGE AMERICAN
VOTING ON NOVEMBER 8 THE PRIMARY FIGHT
Q: If you voted in a primary or caucus this 
year, for whom did you vote?
. . . 41% in a Democratic contest,
. . . and 6% in a Republican contest.
Q: If the 2016 presidential election were held 
today, for whom would you vote?
PARTY REGISTRATION
POLITICAL IDEOLOGIES
Background 
checks for 
gun sales
Barring pur-
chases from 
people on 
no-fly lists
Ban on high-
capacity rifles
Repeal of 
the Second 
Amendment
Q: Indicate the extent to which you agree with each of the fol-
lowing positions.
Q: Are you registered with the Democratic or Re-
publican Party, or are you an unaffiliated voter?
#1
#2
#3
Q: In deciding who the next president will be, what three issues are 
most important to you?
MOST SALIENT ISSUES
Economy and jobs
Environment
Treatment of minorities
Q: In what sectors should the federal government play a 
major role?
ROLE OF GOVERNMENT
% of respondents saying “yes, major role”
97%
90%
82%
34% 66%
18%
10%
3%
By Ethan Brady
News Editor
As most at the College know, language 
tables are one of the many opportunities of-
fered to students seeking to hone their for-
eign language speaking and comprehension 
skills. The tables allow students to sit and 
speak with their peers in whatever language 
they are interested in, some meeting as of-
ten as every day.  Among the languages of-
fered are Spanish, Italian, German, Arabic, 
Portuguese, American Sign Language and 
Urdu. 
While the College does not offer any 
classes in Hindi or Urdu, Associate Chaplain 
and Muslim Advisor 
Naila Baloch started 
the weekly Urdu lan-
guage table in order 
to give interested 
students an oppor-
tunity to practice the 
language. The table 
meets at a different 
time from most other 
language tables, as it 
is held on Tuesday 
evenings rather than 
during lunchtime. 
Each person brings 
his or her own food, 
and they all share 
an informal dinner 
while conversing in 
the language.  
Urdu is the national language of Paki-
stan, the official language of six states of 
India and is one of the 22 official languages 
recognized in India’s constitution. Urdu is a 
form of Hindustani and, grammatically, is 
very similar to standard Hindi, although it 
has many specialized vocabulary words. 
Yasmeen Byrnes ’17 is passionate about 
both Urdu and Hindi, and has attended the 
Urdu table since last fall. While Byrnes grew 
up hearing Urdu and had some exposure to 
the language, she was only able to pick up 
simple conversation, and was eager to learn 
how to form sentences and apply the gram-
matical rules of Urdu. 
Byrnes explained that a few stdents and 
a faculty member usually attended the lan-
guage table. In addition, generally three of 
the students spoke Urdu natively and went 
to the meetings for fun.
Her passion for Urdu was strengthened 
by her study abroad trip to India during 
spring 2016. Studying in South Delhi, By-
rnes split her time between the language 
institute in New 
Delhi and Lady 
Shri Ram College 
for Women. 
At the lan-
guage institute, 
Byrnes studied 
two hours of Hindi 
every afternoon. 
She enjoyed her 
experience learn-
ing at the institute, 
stating that it was 
“like a family,” and 
“the small envi-
ronment allowed 
for discussion and 
questions.” The 
language table of-
fers a similar at-
mosphere in its intimate and conversation 
based setting. 
Since Byrnes attended the table last 
year, attendance has been dwindling, and 
Baloch has recently been considering dis-
continuing the program. This year, Byrnes 
said, “it is usually just me and one faculty 
member.” 
She believes that the main problem fac-
ing the language table is that the College 
does not offer classes. “The people who at-
tend either know nothing or are fluent,” she 
said. 
However, Baloch has suggested offer-
ing beginner lessons at the start of each din-
ner for those who may not be at all familiar 
with the language if more students attend 
the table and express interest in Urdu in the 
future. She has worked to spread the word 
among her friends and peers, and hopes 
that more people will come. 
“[It is] a great opportunity to try some-
thing new, meet new people and learn in an 
informal setting,” Baloch said. 
Hamza Kiyani ’19 is a frequent visitor 
of the table and also expressed his apprecia-
tion for the program. 
“I go to Urdu table every week; I am 
probably their most consistent member,” 
he said. “Naila, who runs the table, is from 
Pakistan, and I end up joining her every 
week because it’s really nice to catch up and 
talk in Urdu with someone. We don’t have 
a lot of people on campus [who] can talk to 
you in Urdu, so that always feels nice.”
Kiyani also stated that for him, the lan-
guage table is more of a place to share with 
others his passion for his home culture and 
language, rather than a place to learn more. 
“For me, because I grew up in Pakistan, 
I doubt Urdu is going away from me any 
time soon, so Urdu table isn’t really about 
improving my Urdu,” he said. “Instead, 
it’s about getting to talk in the language 
that I love, and don’t get enough of here 
in Middlebury. I have seen [the table] help 
my friends, who had really forgotten how 
to converse in Urdu. So I for one am really 
glad it’s there.”
On Sunday, Oct. 1, the Vermont-based 
Migrant Justice Coalition held a protest on 
Church Street in Burlington, calling for the 
release of Miguel Alcudia, a Migrant Justice 
leader arrested in Vergennes and currently 
detained in New Hampshire. About 100 
to 150 people, including members of orga-
nizations allied with Migrant Justice like 
Black Lives Matter and working class social 
movements within Vermont, also attended 
the rally.  
Twenty-five Middlebury College stu-
dents, in addition to Assistant Professor of 
Sociology Jamie McCallum, attended the 
protest. Austin Kahn ’17.5 and Anna Jacob-
sen ’16.5 organized the Middlebury con-
tingent at the event. They worked with the 
on-campus student group Juntos, which 
organizes and interacts with farmers in the 
region, to reach out to students and campus 
organizations and to coordinate rides. 
Both students had previously volun-
teered in Vermont; Jacobsen worked with 
the ACTR to expand transportation to less 
populated areas of Vermont while Kahn 
serves as a member on the Juntos board. 
Jacobsen and Kahn also hosted an 
event at their house to make posters for the 
protest. Many of these posters used the art 
of Favionna Rodriguez, an Oakland-based 
artist involved in activism for undocument-
ed immigrants. 
Migrant Justice is a coalition based in 
Vermont that advocates for migrant farm-
workers. The coalition estimates that there 
are around 1500 migrant farmworkers cur-
rently living in Vermont. Migrant workers 
are credited with contributing greatly to 
the workforce for many of Vermont’s iconic 
dairy companies, including Cabot Cheese 
and Ben & Jerry’s.
Miguel Alcudia, the focus of the protest, 
is a farm worker and Migrant Justice leader 
and was detained by the United States’ Im-
migration Customs Enforcement Agency 
(ICE) one day after his work visa expired. 
In Vermont, ICE is tasked with detaining 
and deporting undocumented immigrants. 
However, many students present at the 
protest believe ICE used tactics outside of 
the scope of US law to detain Alcudia and 
other migrant justice leaders. 
“Vermont’s economy relies heavily on 
this group of people and they are being 
terrorized by a federal agency,” Kahn said. 
“[Alcudia’s detainment] is outrageous and 
it demands our attention.”
Jacobsen agreed and argued that ICE 
has begun cracking down on Migrant Jus-
tice. “They’re not really bound by any leg-
islative bodies,” Jacobsen said. “Migrant 
Justice has been doing a lot of good work 
in Vermont, and ICE’s reaction to that has 
been to deport Migrant Justice’s leaders in 
creepy, stalker-y ways.” 
According to a statement regarding 
Alcudia’s detainment from Migrant Jus-
tice, “[ICE] agents stalked Miguel in an un-
marked car as he was leaving work, and ar-
rested him when he arrived in Vergennes.” 
Alcudia is currently being held in 
Strafford County Detention Center in New 
Hampshire. 
He is the second Migrant Justice leader 
to be detained by ICE. In April 2016, ICE 
detained Víctor Díaz, another Migrant Jus-
tice leader, through similar tactics used in 
Alcudia’s case. 
An outpouring of support from the 
community led by Migrant Justice ulti-
mately led to Díaz’s release. The coalition’s 
success in freeing Díaz inspired their latest 
attempts to help Alcudia.  
“A few months ago, when ICE detained 
Díaz, Migrant Justice succeeded in lob-
bying government officials to speak out 
against this injustice,” Jacobsen said. “This 
proved to be very impactful in his trial, and 
he was later released from custody.”
Both Kahn and Jacobsen described the 
rally as “energetic.” It featured a live band 
and chants by the attendees. The protesters 
marched down Church Street to the Farm-
ers Market, and later many Migrant Justice 
leaders and farmworkers made speeches in 
both English and Spanish. 
“The most impactful moment from 
the rally was when Víctor Díaz addressed 
the crowd and shared the story of his own 
detention and his experiences in ICE cus-
tody,” Kahn said. 
The Migrant Justice Coalition is com-
prised of farmworkers and community 
members and focuses on the issues of hous-
ing; freedom of movement and access to 
transportation; discrimination and access 
to healthcare. The coalition gained fame 
in 2012 when it led a protest outside of the 
Ben and Jerry’s flagship store in Burlington 
demanding the company provide regular 
days off and improved housing conditions 
that was later featured in The New York 
Times. 
The Juntos organization at Middlebury 
works in conjunction with Migrant Justice 
to support the coalition’s goals. 
“We advocate in solidarity for the needs 
of the migrant worker population through 
rallies, protests and workshops,” Kahn said. 
The club’s other activities include the Com-
pañeros program, which assists migrant 
workers with English and helps them ob-
tain drivers’ licenses, and cooking classes. 
“I think Juntos is one of the coolest 
organizations on this campus. They do ab-
surdly incredible work for the farmworker 
community in Vermont,” Jacobsen said.
Both Jacobsen and Kahn cite a com-
mitment to farmworkers and the commu-
nity outside the College as reasons for at-
tending the protest. 
“Like some other students here at 
Midd, I have close friends in the migrant 
community and it is really awful to see 
them being targeted by law enforcement,” 
Kahn said. 
Additionally, both Jacobsen and Kahn 
would like to see more College students at-
tend events like these in the future. 
“I think it’s important for students here 
to realize that there is a complicated and 
problematic world just outside the confines 
of our campus where people are being ex-
ploited,” Kahn explained. “It’s important 
that we harness the privilege we have here 
for the benefit of people in much more pre-
carious situations.”
The protest has had no immediate im-
pact on the status of Alcudia; however, his 
lawyer has garnered 1,000 signatures and 
many letters of support for his release to 
provide to the court. Both Jacobsen and 
Kahn believe that Migrant Justice is facing 
an uphill battle. 
“I think that we’re seeing a lot of pat-
terns and a lot of explicit intention set by 
ICE to really do everything in their power to 
destabilize the successes that Migrant Jus-
tice is having in forcing dairy farms to treat 
their employees with basic human dignity,” 
Jacobsen said. 
The Urdu Language Table’s Few But Devoted Attendees
By Bridget Colliton
Contributing Writer
Student Group Fights to Free Migrant Worker
Middlebury College
Students gather in Redfield Proctor for language tables each day of the week.
By Ally Murphy
Contributing Writer
Migrant Justice
“It’s about getting to 
talk in the language I 
love, and don’t get enough 
of here in Middlebury. I 
have seen [the table] help 
my friends, who had re-
ally forgotten how to con-
verse in Urdu. So I for one 
am really glad it’s there.” 
Hamza Kiyani ’19
Activists gather in Burlington, Vermont, in Oct. 2016 to protest the detention of mi-
grant worker Miguel Alcudia. Several Middlebury students attended the protest.
12 features |october 13, 2016
The New York Times published an 
opinion piece on Oct. 1 written by a cur-
rent Brown University student about his 
experience with anti-Semitism on cam-
pus. The student writes about being shut 
out of activist groups and other organiza-
tions because of his Judaism. Motivated 
by this piece and the High Holidays last 
week, I began to reflect on my own Jewish 
experience at Middlebury College. 
Anti-Semitism on college campuses 
is not a new phenomenon. During the 
early 1900s, many schools capped the 
admission of Jewish students at a certain 
percent. Luckily, that does not happen 
anymore and I have never experienced 
anti-Semitism at the College. Still, the ar-
ticle about Brown reminded me of a talk 
I attended senior year of high school  in 
Mill Valley, California, about anti-Semi-
tism in college. 
My Hebrew school scheduled the 
lecture to bring our attention to anti-
Semitism on college campuses and to 
give us tools to deal with it. The speaker 
explained how to respond to anti-Semitic 
behavior, comments and jokes. She told us 
not to put a mezuzah on our door (a tradi-
tional Jewish marker usually attached to 
the door frame). She also advised against 
displaying anything in our dorms that re-
vealed our Jewish identity. 
Apparently, many synagogues host 
similar events to help prepare Jewish stu-
dents to enter the world of higher educa-
tion. Sarah Dohan ’17, co-president of the 
Hillel Board, took a class on that very sub-
ject.
“In se-
nior year 
of Hebrew 
s c h o o l 
we took a 
class called 
‘ P a c k i n g 
for College: 
Where Does 
Judaism Fit 
In?’ and dis-
cussed [an-
ti-Semitism 
on campus-
es], but I 
was not very 
concerned,” 
she said. 
L i k e 
me, Dohan 
has never encountered anti-Semitism at 
Middlebury. Still, our synagogues felt 
the need to prepare us – if not for direct 
discrimination then at least for living in 
a less-Jewish environment than we were 
used to. 
Though Middlebury is about 15 per-
cent Jewish, many Jewish students feel 
there are fewer Jews here than in their 
communities at home. Jewish students 
have found the new environment in col-
lege affects their religious identities in dif-
ferent ways. Mikayla Hyman ’20 feels she 
has become more religious in her time at 
Middlebury so far. Hyman characterizes 
the Jewish community at Middlebury as 
smaller but more active than where she 
grew up. 
“I feel as though there are less Jews 
but the Jews that 
are here are more 
invested in re-
ligion than I’m 
used to,” she said. 
“I’m more reli-
gious here than 
at home because 
there’s a welcom-
ing and reassur-
ing community 
here. This means 
that I go to ser-
vices more often 
and reflect on my 
Jewish heritage 
more.”
D o h a n 
agreed. “At Mid-
dlebury I’ve be-
come more reli-
gious,” she said. 
“It’s harder to be 
Jewish here than 
when I lived with 
my parents in a 
Jewish home, and 
so I’ve intention-
ally sought out 
ways to identify 
myself through 
Judaism. Here I 
go to Shabbat ser-
vices each week, 
and really treasure 
that time of reflec-
tion.” 
Not every Jewish student seeks out a 
religious community during their time in 
college, and many students take a break 
from their Judaism out-
side of the context of 
their immediate fami-
lies. Still others, myself 
included, feel their reli-
gious beliefs manifest in 
much the same way here 
as they did at home. 
Like me, Hillel board 
member Alison Kraner 
’18 does not feel like 
her religious identity 
has changed much since 
coming to school. 
“I grew up in a very 
Jewish place and went 
to a Jewish school from 
kindergarten through 
12th grade,” Kraner 
said. “I also grew up 
around a lot of people 
and communities that were significantly 
more religious than my family. Here a lot 
of people think I’m especially religious be-
cause I’m on the Hillel board, fast on Yom 
Kippur, keep Passover, etc. so I thought 
that was kind of funny coming in because 
I never considered myself to be particu-
larly religious.” 
For the most part, though, Kraner is 
happy with her Jewish identity at the Col-
lege. “I am comfortable with the opportu-
nities to be Jewish on campus and feel like 
I can related to other Jewish students on 
campus in terms of the focus on culture 
and community that goes into Hillel and 
Holiday planning,” she said.  
Associate Chaplain and Rabbi Ira 
Schiffer works to make the Middlebury 
Jewish experience what each student 
needs it to be, and he helps welcome stu-
dents to the Jewish community on cam-
pus regardless of their previous experi-
ence with religion. 
“My primary responsibility is to sup-
port Jewish life on campus and help stu-
dents achieve the level of Jewish involve-
ment – either ritual, cultural, social and/
or academic – they would like to experi-
ence,” he said. 
Schiffer said he has seen the Jewish 
community here welcome students from a 
variety of religious contexts. “The College 
Jewish community is made up of an eclec-
tic group of students and faculty coming 
from secu-
lar to more 
tradi t ional 
Jewish back-
grounds,” he 
said.
Many of 
the people 
I talked to 
found the 
w e l c o m i n g 
atmosphere 
in Hillel to 
be the most 
positive as-
pect of the 
p r o g r a m . 
One of my 
first im-
pressions of 
Hillel was 
how open 
it was to all 
students, even non-Jewish students who 
want to participate in events, check out a 
service or even just grab a home-cooked 
meal on a Friday evening.
Schiffer hopes any interested stu-
dents will stop by Hillel. “Hillel has cre-
ated a warm and welcoming atmosphere 
and culture for students at Middlebury to 
explore their Jewish identity and a place 
where non-Jewish students can learn, 
question and experience a tradition not 
their own,” he said. “Hillel’s Friday eve-
ning dinners following services are a great 
example of its openness and hospitality.”
For many, the Jewish High Holidays 
mark a time of reflection and self-hones-
ty. I am still working out what it means 
to be Jewish in my own right, away from 
my family and Jewish friends from home. 
This year, my first fall on campus, I am 
trying to balance classes with religious 
services and my own Jewish identity has 
been on my mind and 
a frequent topic of con-
versation. 
During my time 
here, I have appreci-
ated that Middlebury 
students are open to 
learning about my re-
ligion. For those inter-
ested, there is another 
opportunity to learn 
more about the Jew-
ish faith this upcoming 
week during the holi-
day Sukkot. The Jewish 
festival to celebrate the 
harvest begins on Sun-
day, Oct. 16, and ends 
a week later on Oct. 
23. During this time, 
Jews construct a “Suk-
kah” reminiscent of the 
harvest tents our ances-
tors theoretically lived in during biblical 
times, and we perform rituals and cer-
emonies inside throughout the week. The 
Middlebury Sukkah will stand outside of 
the Freeman International Center for the 
duration of the holiday, and all students 
are welcome to visit it. 
Reflecting on Jewish Life at Middlebury
By Sarah Asch
Senior Writer
“I’m more religious 
here than at home be-
cause there’s a welcom-
ing and reassuring com-
munity here. This means 
that I go to services more 
often and reflect on my 
Jewish heritage more.”
mikayla hyman ’20
Hillel students met local congregants from Addison County’s Havurah  last month at Happy Valley Or-
chard to pick apples for Rosh Hashana (the Jewish New Year).
sarah asch
PAID ADVERTISEMENT
“The College Jewish 
community is made up of 
an eclectic group of stu-
dents and faculty com-
ing from secular to more 
traditional Jewish back-
grounds.”
Ira Schiffer
Associate Chaplain and Rabbi
13featuresoctober 13, 2016   
When Maxwell Leslie ’18 returned 
to the College this year, he noticed a big 
change at Midd-Xpress. “All the options 
are gone and therefore the Grille gets my 
money,” Leslie said, a frequent customer 
at the school’s recently renovated conve-
nience store. 
He was referring to Midd-Xpress’ rela-
tively empty shelves and lack of products.
 “I was a bit surprised,” Leslie said. “It 
looks nice but feels kind of empty. I feel 
as though something is missing and I just 
can’t put my finger on what it is.”
Dan Detora, executive director of Food 
Service Operations for the College, said 
that the College spent a lot of time reno-
vating the store for this year. 
But in spite of the aesthetic improve-
ments, Detora said, “There has been a 
struggle getting supplies into the store.” 
In mid-August, Midd-Xpress’s previ-
ous supplier was bought out by a company 
that sells food in bulk 
rather than smaller 
quantities of more 
variety. Dining Ser-
vices did not antici-
pate the switch.
Dining Services 
was “really late in the 
game so we’re defi-
nitely playing catch-
up,” Detora sad. 
The College’s 
new supplier, a 
larger company located in Maine, typi-
cally services convenience stores and 
does not have contracts to deliver health 
and beauty products. Those contracts be-
long to CVS, Walgreens and other simi-
lar establishments. According to Detora, 
this meant that for the first two weeks of 
school, Midd-Xpress could not sell femi-
nine products.
“[Dining Services] needs to fix that im-
mediately,” said Leslie. “[Women] need 
feminine products. If people don’t have 
access to them, where are they going to 
go?”
He also stated that he feels he can no 
longer rely on Midd-Xpress to stock the 
items he used to purchase there. 
“Stuff happens, but are they trying to 
fix stuff now, or are they trying to let it 
go?” said Leslie. “I need the things to be 
more supplied than they are because it’s 
getting frustrating going in there and they 
don’t have what I want [or] need.”
Detora said that although he did not 
personally receive complaints about the 
store and its merchandise, many students 
gave feedback at Midd-Xpress’ check-out 
counter. Students wondered about certain 
products and the lack of price tags, and 
many asked when everything would be 
back to normal.
“I am happy to say that right now we 
are stocked up and 
ready to go,” said 
Detora. 
Dining Services 
found a different 
supplier based out 
of Burlington and 
Midd-Xpress now 
has feminine prod-
ucts and other sup-
plies. The only on-
going changes will 
be updates of price 
markers and the introduction of more 
products.
Detora explained that the lack of price 
tags was not a business strategy but a re-
sult of the need to manually enter and 
categorize each new product Midd-Xpress 
decides to sell. Because of the new com-
pany, Dining Services has to enter over 
3000 product codes and they did not have 
time to finish entering all the items before 
school started in September.
Katie Preston ’17 was not satisfied with 
Detora’s explanation. “That still doesn’t 
change the fact that Midd-Xpress is over-
priced,” she said.
Nathan Rose ‘18.5 agreed with Preston 
and said, “While Midd-Xpress prices are 
higher because of convenience, not having 
price tags limits your ability to compara-
tively shop. If you don’t know the price, 
you can’t know how much you are spend-
ing.” 
Rose also noted that some students are 
on a budget and they need to know prices 
in order to make sure they can afford their 
purchase.
Along with a call for feminine products 
and price tags, students asked about Ben & 
Jerry’s ice cream. 
“Is it really Vermont if I can’t go and get 
some Americone Dream?” asked Leslie. 
Detora, unaware of the lack of Ben and 
Jerry’s – a Vermont staple – said that it 
should be easy enough to find a carrier and 
Dining Services will try and order the ice 
cream. 
“It was the perfect storm of us finish-
ing renovations on the store and this new 
company coming in, so I truly apologize if 
prices and products have been off,” Detora 
said. “By no means were the changes on 
purpose.” 
Detora hopes that in three weeks, 
Midd-Xpress will no longer be in flux. 
The Empty Shelves at Midd-Xpress
By Tabitha Mueller
Contributing Writer
ivan valladares
Students have noticed the empty shelves at Midd-Xpress since the beginning of the year. 
Dining Services has explained that a change in suppliers caused the product shortage.
“I feel as though 
something is missing 
and I just can’t put my 
finger on what it is.”
MAXWELL LESLIE ’16
14 features
Students Participate in Marathon Reading of Ovid
Michael  Borenstein Michael Borenstein
WRITE US A LETTER! THE 
CAMPUS ACCEPTS OP-EDS 
WEEKLY. SEND SOMETHING TO  
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
HAVE A THOUGHT? 
WANT TO
COMMENT? 
|october 13, 2016
arts &  sciences
don’t
miss
this
Belcea Quartet Concert
Founded at the Royal College of Music in London over 
20 years ago, the Belcea Quartet returns to perform a 
program of Brahms and Schubert quartets, including 
Death and the Maiden. The program is approximately 
60 minutes including one intermission. Tickets are 
$20 for College ID holders and $6 for students.
10/20, THURSDAY, 7:30 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
21st Annual First Year Show: Savage+Love
Rebecca Martin ’04.5 directs a night of one-acts by Sam 
Shepard, with a cast of first-year Middlebury College stu-
dents.  Please enjoy this annual Theatre Program tradi-
tion.  Tickets: $5
10/20-10/22, THURSDAY-SATURDAY, 8 P.M. EACH EVENING, PLUS 
10:30 PM ON FRIDAY, HEPBURN ZOO THEATRE
Art and Political Crises in Postwar Japan
This presentation explores the artwork of Naka-
mura Hiroshi in postwar Japan. He negotiated 
the shifting political spectrum through a gen-
dered lens that constructed the male body as a 
site of labor, struggle, and active movement.
10/20, THURSDAY, 4:30 P.M., ROBERT A. JONES CONFER-
ENCE ROOM
I would consider myself a pretty 
punctual person, but when I arrived 
at the Robinson Concert Hall for the 
fourth annual Cocoon, the seats were al-
ready brimming to capacity. Only after 
climbing to the balcony did I manage to 
find a place to hear the six stories that 
would enchant and move me that night.
Three students, two Middlebury 
community members, a Middlebury 
alumna and a faculty member took the 
stage on Friday, Oct. 7 to share stories of 
love, loss, journeys and hijinks in front 
of a 400-person audience.
As co-host and co-producer August 
Hutchinson ’16.5 described, “Cocoon 
is meant to be a pleasant and thought-
provoking way for individuals to com-
munally spend an evening, and an ex-
perience through which they can better 
understand the minds and lives of oth-
ers.”
The annual 
Cocoon event is 
a quasi-spinoff 
of the month-
ly Middlebury 
Moth-Up events. 
More formal and 
with a two- or 
three-fold in-
crease of attend-
ees, Cocoon in-
vites members of 
the community, 
faculty, alumni 
and students to 
tell their stories.
Before the show began, a palpable 
hum of anticipation filled the concert 
hall. Like many others in the crowd, I 
had been to the Middlebury Moth-Up 
before and knew that something won-
derful was about to unfold. The Moth 
events are not usually so well-lit, but 
they are always just as packed.
We waited patiently for a few min-
utes before the two co-hosts, Celia Wat-
son ’17 and Hutchinson, strode into the 
spotlight. Their brief introduction de-
tailed the concept of the Cocoon and the 
Middlebury Moth-Up: each speaker has 
ten minutes to tell a story completely 
from memory. They promised a riveting 
show, both with their words and the zeal 
behind them.    
And then Watson and Hutchinson, 
who also served as co-producers along 
with Tabitha Mueller ’18, welcomed the 
first speaker.
Rachel Liddell ‘15 detailed her post-
graduate job/soul search with the con-
fidence and style of a seasoned speaker 
– in part due to her previous position as 
the Middlebury Moth-Up co-leader dur-
ing her time at the College. 
Her journey across the country and 
back again dredged up her fears about 
never finding a job she loved. A chance 
job offer in an industry she had no expe-
rience with, however, gave her the op-
portunity to do what she loves best: tell 
stories.
Eric Mortensen, the second speaker, 
introduced him-
self as “the kid 
from the Bronx 
who married the 
farmer’s daugh-
ter.” A Middle-
bury commu-
nity member, he 
presented the 
story of his own 
marriage, be-
ginning with a 
bold phone call 
that would be 
answered by his 
future wife. 
For the first time in Moth history, 
a duo told the next story in tandem. 
Brother and sister Olivia Wiggins ’18.5 
and Kai Wiggins ’16.5 opened their tale 
with the possibility that they may have 
the same heart condition that took their 
father’s life. Together, with wrenching 
honesty and beautiful strength, they 
brought the audience back to the un-
imaginable day they lost their father.
After a brief intermission, com-
munity member Elizabeth Christensen 
recounted her dynamic career as a 
lighting technician for stage plays. Her 
run-ins with forty-foot ladders and the 
CIA painted for 
us a picture of a 
woman devoted 
to her craft and 
endlessly inter-
ested in expand-
ing her horizons. 
She now works 
for the College as 
a coordinator for 
the Americans 
with Disabilities 
Act.
Second to 
last was the char-
ismatic and elo-
quent Dominick 
Tanoh ’18. His 
deep voice and 
professional ca-
dence gave way to a remarkably silly 
romp about friendship, Chicago, the end 
of summer, the Peggy Notebaert Nature 
Museum and White Fire OG Kush.
Finally, Associate Professor Psy-
chology Kim Cronise detailed the 
journey she made with a painting, an 
heirloom that 
brought with it 
the wisdom and 
love of the wom-
an who gave it to 
her – her mother. 
Mired in the tu-
mult of her life, 
the painting car-
ried her through 
relationship tur-
moil, cross-coun-
try moves and 
job changes by 
representing the 
strength and love 
of her mother.
The beauty 
of the Cocoon 
and the stories 
that unfold on the stage come from the 
mutual understanding of vulnerability 
and trust between the audience and the 
speaker. They trust us with some of the 
most personal stories of their lives and 
we trust them to be honest. What we 
witnessed last Friday was an emotional 
and powerful journey through the ter-
rains of diverse yet relatable human ex-
periences, with each story centered on 
the theme of revelation.
“Revelation to me is a realization,” 
Watson explained, “a moment of reflec-
tion that points to something of greater 
significance or understanding. I also 
think of it as a moment that sheds new 
light on a particular situation and ulti-
mately causes a turning point in one’s 
life.”
These moments ranged from gain-
ing a better understanding of friends 
from afar to realizing the transcendent 
ways our family enriches our lives, from 
landing a dream job to finding the peo-
ple we want to spend our lives with.
As speaker Tanoh put it, “Those 
moments [of revelation] are so rare but 
when I have them, when I have my reve-
lations, it seems like I can finally see one 
small part of the patterns in an aggres-
sively chaotic universe... What a revela-
tion is to me: finding some moment of 
vision despite the constant turmoil that 
constantly catches us off guard.”
Cocoon Storytellers Share Revelations
By Finne Murphy
Arts & Sciences Editor
aaron Kimball
Alumna Rachel Liddell ’15 took the stage to discuss her frenzied post-grad job search.
The storytellers, producers, hosts and Ross Commons heads (who helped fund the event) gathered for a photo after the show.
Aaron kimball
“When I have my revela-
tions, it seems like I an final-
ly see one small part of the 
patterns in an aggressively  
chaotic universe... What 
a revelation is to me: find-
ing some moment of vision 
despite the constant turmoil 
that constantly catches us 
off.”
-Dominick Tanoh ’18
 Cocoon Storyteller
“Cocoon is meant to be a 
pleasant and thought-pro-
voking way for individuals to 
comunally spend an evening, 
and an experience through 
which they can better under-
stand the minds and lives of 
others.”
-August Hutchinson ’16.5
Co-Host and Co-Producer of the Cocoon
The Hepburn Zoo, a student-run 
blackbox theater on campus, is a plat-
form for students to mount plays writ-
ten both by students and by other play-
wrights whose work they wish to embody 
on the stage. Student-produced plays 
often feature Senior 700 Works, giving 
these seniors a professional performance 
space where they can showcase the cul-
mination of their thespian studies. The 
Zoo is also open to  rest of the student 
body and welcomes student use on a 
first-come first-serve basis. 
Students are welcome to mount 
shows on their own, and  Zoo members 
are available to   advise on budgeting, 
technical needs and use of space. Indeed, 
the Zoo encourages students to pursue 
their visions. 
“I would hate for someone to steer 
away from putting work up because they 
didn’t know how,” said Sally Seitz ’17, 
president of the Hepburn Zoo.
According to Seitz, theater thrives in 
a collaborative environment that fosters 
team spirit. 
“Putting up a show, no matter the 
size, is an incredibly daunting task,” 
Seitz said. “Theater and performance are 
group endeavors and they are that way 
for a reason. In certain ways, theater is 
very much a team sport.” 
We idealize the lone, tormented 
artist scribbling away in a garret, when 
plays are as much a product of their writ-
ers as of the bands of the actors, stage-
hands and others working backstage to 
bring the performance to life. That gives 
each showing its own irreproducible fla-
vor that appears once onstage and never 
again in the exact same way. 
Having an arts outlet such as the 
Zoo available on campus taps into the 
cohesive power of cinema. It provides a 
bonding opportunity for the people toil-
ing backstage as well as for the audience 
members themselves. 
Seitz emphasizes the power of the-
ater to bring people together. 
“The potential to bond on campus 
over mutual story-telling is tremendous. 
It’s such a rare opportunity to get to see 
people who live within a two-mile radius 
of you perform,” she said.
When Seitz arrived as a first-year, 
she was “astounded by the level of stu-
dent work” being brought to the Zoo, 
particularly by the seniors at the time. 
“Seeing a show is learning about 
people and learning about human emo-
tions,” she said. “You can’t sit there in 
the audience and not think: what do I 
think about this? How does this relate 
to me? What am I going to do about it? 
And I don’t think you get that sitting in a 
thesis carrel.”
This semester, the Hepburn Zoo will 
host a variety of shows: from Oct. 20-22, 
the Annual First-Year Show presents a 
collection of Sam Shepard plays; from 
Nov. 3-5, Rebecca Coates-Finke ’16.5 
produces the play Late: a Cowboy Song 
by Sarah Ruhl; Nov. 10-12 features Kris-
ten Corbett’s Senior 700 Work in Direct-
ing, The Waiting Room; Nov. 18-19, the 
independent student production Does 
This Woman Have a Name? debuts; Dec. 
1-3 features Lana Meyer’s Senior 700 
Work in Acting, Talley’s Folly; and final-
ly, from Dec. 7-9, Middlebury Discount 
Comedy performs their sketch comedy 
show.  Tickets can be purchased at the 
online Box Office or in person at the Box 
Office kiosks in the McCullough Student 
Center or Mahaney Center for the Arts. 
16 arts & SCIENCES   | October 13, 2016
The Legends of Kintamani concert be-
gan last Saturday, Oct. 8, with Bartók’s ee-
rie melodies in the Romanian Fold Dances 
and developed into the soothing optimism 
of César Franck’s organ composition, Qua-
tre Pieces Brèves. The Burlington Chamber 
Orchestra, led by Yutako Kono, sounded the 
battle cry and intense warfare ensued. 
Though we had been promised triumph 
in the beginning, I could not help but feel sad 
as the beautiful little romance unfolding on 
the stage before us ended in tragedy. Finally, 
however, victory came, and it came with all 
the pomp and percussion it deserved.
None of this sufficiently prepared me 
for the highlight of the evening: Legends of 
Kintamani, composed by Professor of Music 
Su Lian Tan. Darrett Adkins, the cellist from 
Ohio to whom the composer had dedicated 
the piece, took center stage as Evan Bennett 
– Su’s husband and former Middlebury Col-
lege Orchestra director – led the Burlington 
Chamber Orchestra into the first movement 
of the piece.
My ears are not accustomed to the cello 
as a leading instrument, but as I looked up 
at the moving visuals on the giant projector 
behind the orchestra, it all made sense. The 
sun was rising on the top of the volcano. The 
day had just begun. There was hope and po-
tential, though the effects of drowsiness from 
the previous night’s quiet were still lingering.
Throughout the piece, I encountered a 
variety of new sounds. The cellist used slid-
ing techniques to produce discordant noise, 
creating a surreal and depressive atmosphere 
that lingered throughout the five move-
ments. The influence of Indonesian music 
was prevalent as well: Garda Muhammad 
’19, an international student from Indonesia, 
noted that the finale was the most character-
istic of Gamelan influences in Su’s music due 
to its extensive use of wind instruments and 
cymbals.
The moving visuals playing behind the 
orchestra made excellent use of lighting and 
composition to provide a setting to the sto-
ries in viewers’ minds. Daniel Houghton ’06, 
who led the Animation team, designed the 
visuals to ensure that they would not divert 
focus from the musical composition. Five 
students from the College and a student from 
Middlebury Union High School worked un-
der Houghton’s leadership for eight months 
under the new Digital Liberal Arts Initiative 
to make the vision a reality.
I love making up stories in my head 
while listening to classical music, so I was 
initially unsure about the moving visuals. 
However, I was pleased to discover that 
they did not distract my attention at all, but 
rather complemented the stories in my mind 
very well. The mythical bird and the burst-
ing volcano, the red sky and the hazy mist 
all enriched my sensory experience. The only 
animation that disturbed the surreal fairy-
tale spinning through my mind were the too-
bright leaves of the trees. Overall, though, 
the collaboration between the worlds of live 
classical music and animation was a success. 
I would love to see it happen again.
By Bilal Khan
Contributing Writer
By Brandon Smith
Contributing Writer
Middlebury College Performing Arts Series
Last Saturday’s Legends of Kintamani concert featured stunning animations on a giant projector behind the orchestra.
Visual and Classical Masterpiece Debuts
Hepburn Zoo Gears Up for a New Year
 Midd Mouth: Featuring Zane Anthony
This week’s Midd Mouth poet is Zane 
Anthony. Zane is from Annapolis, Mary-
land. He is a senior studying architecture 
and ecology at the College. His writing has 
appeared in The New Yorker, The Addison 
Independent, The Cimarron Review and 
Blueline Magazine, and is forthcoming in 
other journals. Here are Zane’s reflections 
on his process and relationship with the 
written word: 
Matthew Blake (MB): How would 
you describe your creative process? 
Zane Anthony (ZA): Courage is the 
heart of my creative process; to feel level 
and able; to produce clean, well-reasoned 
work, even though I’m novice and only 
twenty-something. In my Middlebury 
years, I’ve felt the tangle of creative and so-
cial pressure latch on to me. A way of free-
ing myself from these constraints is first 
knowing these pressures are there, under-
standing how they weigh me down or make 
me behave otherwise. I often look to the 
oeuvre of contemporary writers like Charles 
Simic, Kay Ryan or Carolyn Forche’s “poet-
ry of witness,” which reads to me recklessly 
unshackled, near-completely new. Finding 
my voice in the way they have is the project 
of many lifetimes, but a joy-filled struggle 
much worth the ache. 
MB: How would you describe your re-
lationship to poetry? 
ZA: Poems can unravel the experi-
enced world, disentangling common ways 
of seeing. There’s a great line about living 
with intention, which came to me freshman 
year of high school, when we were reading 
a translated selection from Dante: “In the 
middle of the road of my life I awoke in a 
dark wood, where the true way was whol-
ly lost.” Most days I sit down to write, I’m 
there, in that “dark wood,” in medias res. In 
imagining the scaffolding for a poem, I’m 
searching for my intentions, or the “true 
way.” 
“Terroir” explores the vineyard-ver-
nacular conception of mesoclimate and 
environment affecting grapevine plants. 
French winemakers developed the term 
terroir with the discovery of regional dif-
ferences in the taste profiles of makes of 
wine across France. Vermont orchardists 
apply an analogous goût de terroir, which 
excites and encourages competition among 
growers and cider-mill products statewide. 
The speaker of the poem exalts the specialty 
of his land, how the south-facing and “ter-
raced tilt of hill” tastes like his “mahoga-
ny- garnet” apples ― his “alone.” With po-
etic economy, his musings offer lenses with 
which to know how cultural importance co-
heres and matures with place.
Terroir
There’s an epigenetics for these 
fruits, the orchardist says.  
This pomme de terre in particular 
tastes like this orchard, this one
alone ― this make of soil
and light, this terraced tilt of hill, 
which planes south.  What would
be different, say, if it swiveled 
just a hair easter?  Would this apple 
sour sooner in the sun, earn some 
other carefully chiseled cachet of 
mahogany-garnet tinge?  “Delicious,” 
he says coolly as his molars turn 
sonorous apple peel to splinters.
By Matthew Blake
Featuring Zane Anthony
17arts & SCIENCESOctober 13, 2016 |  
Ward Prize Honors First-Year Writing
On Friday, Oct. 7, the 39th presenta-
tion of the Paul Ward ’25 Memorial Prize 
acknowledged student members of the 
Class of 2019 who have produced out-
standing essays for their first-year writ-
ing classes. Over half of the 50 nominated 
students and their families gathered in 
the Twilight Auditorium in the afternoon 
for the hour-long celebration hosted by 
Mary Ellen Bertolini, Director of the Writ-
ing Center.
The Paul W. Ward ’25 Memorial Prize 
in Writing was established by Paul Ward’s 
widow, Dorothy Cate Ward ’28 in 1978. 
For 38 years, the competition has honored 
excellent writings by students in their first 
year at Middlebury College across all aca-
demic divisions. As a journalist and dip-
lomatic reporter, 
Paul Ward valued 
“precise and exact 
usage of words, 
exact meanings, 
phrases expressed 
lucidly and grace-
fully,” as put by 
Mrs. Ward.
Students’ es-
says are nominat-
ed by faculty annu-
ally and evaluated 
by an interdisci-
plinary panel of judges.
“We are impressed this year, that 
among the nominees and winners are 
students for whom English is just one of 
the many languages they speak,” Berto-
lini said in her welcome speech. “And we 
are impressed at the range of interest that 
your writing represents.”
Among the nominees’ work were 
personal narratives, critical arguments, 
creative works and research papers from 
various departments.
The honorable mention awards went 
to Gemma Laurence ’19.5 for “The Moral-
ity of Happiness: A Comparison of Aristo-
telian and Kantian Ethics,” Sarah Rittgers 
’19 for “Nationalism and the Collapse of 
the Soviet Union,” Leo Stevenson ’19.5 for 
“Natural Environments and Human Cog-
nition” and Kevin Zhang ’19.5 for “Natural 
Selection for E. coli Resistant to Triclosan 
and its Effect on Developing Cross Resis-
tance to Therapeutic Antibiotics.” 
A mere glimpse of the titles of their 
work gives a sense of how diverse the top-
ics are. Nominating faculty members pre-
sented the certificates, and spoke of the 
students’ work, highlighting how across 
different areas of academic study, the 
awarded essays showed the students’ ex-
cellent writing skills of formulating effec-
tive and lucid communication.
During the presentations of the two 
runner-up awards and the first-place 
award, the audience had the chance to lis-
ten to the student recipients read excerpts 
from their winning essays. Each recipients 
of the runner-up prize received $250 .
Abbie Hinchman ’19 was awarded the 
runner-up prize for her paper “The Geog-
raphy of Occupation: Examining the Use 
of Location in Out of It,” an essay for her 
first-year seminar on post-colonial litera-
ture.
Sarah Yang ’19.5 won the other run-
ner-up prize for her essay “Space Con-
trol in the Soviet 
Union.” The pa-
per fulfilled the 
task of applying 
a Marxist concept 
to a concrete his-
torical example, 
assigned by As-
sistant Professor 
of Spanish Irina 
Feldman in her 
seminar Intro-
duction to Marx-
ism. “I barely 
corrected it,” said Feldman afterwards, 
commenting on the Yang’s use of precise 
and elegant language.
The first-place prize, along with a 
$500 award, was presented to Caroline 
Snell ’19, for her essay “Mastery at Any 
Cost: The Dominance and Damning of 
Standard Oil”, which she wrote for her 
first-year seminar Power and Petroleum 
in Asia taught by Assistant Professor of 
History Maggie Clinton. Notably, the win-
ning essay was Snell’s very first paper for 
that class, which showed her talents in 
writing and her ability to follow guide-
lines even before coming to college.
According to Professor Clinton, the 
paper topic was not easy, as it asked stu-
dents to analyze how the rise of kerosene 
changed the 19th century, drawing from 
three challenging books. 
“Caroline more than rose to the occa-
sion,” Clinton said, adding that the paper 
“meticulously captures the nuances of 
historical change.”  
Professor Clinton was optimistic that 
Snell’s talents will bring her more success. 
“If she could write beautifully about 
kerosene, she could write beautifully 
about anything,” she said.
Each year, the nominees for the Ward 
Prize are invited by the Center for Teach-
ing, Learning, and Research to train as 
peer writing tutors.
“We hope you talented writers of the 
Class of 2019 will share your gifts with in-
coming classes,” Bertolini said.
Indeed, the students nominated did 
gain valuable insights through producing 
these outstanding essays. For Zhang, re-
cipient of honorable mention prize, taking 
the time to revise was essential.
“Even though it takes time, it is not 
until I start editing my work when my 
ideas and arguments truly become a lot 
more clear and concise,” Zhang said.
As a couple nominating profes-
sors mentioned how the prize recipients 
were active and considerate contributors 
to class discussion, talking about ideas 
seems to be equally important. Shan Zeng 
’19, one of the nominees, said that speak-
ing to professors and students about her 
essay was especially helpful.
“When you are forced to present an 
idea to someone else, you have to clarify 
it so that other people understand,” Zeng 
said. “It’s a very effective way to organize 
the complicated information.”
On the Friday just before this year’s 
Fall Family Weekend, many of the award 
nominees’ families were there to celebrate 
“some of the best 18- and 19-year-old 
writers in the country,” as Bertolini put it.
She especially expressed gratitude to 
the family members, stating, “They were 
there on the spot to recognize and encour-
age your very first words from the time 
you were toddlers, posting your accom-
plishments on Facebook and refrigerator 
doors.”
On behalf of the faculty, Bertolini 
also emphasized the College’s vision of 
writing in a liberal arts education. 
“It is our commitment to encourage 
you to use writing as part of your own life-
long learning process, and thus to make a 
difference in the world,” she said.
By Yvette Shi
Contributing Writer
Michael O’Hara
Caroline Snell ’19 won the Ward Prize for her essay on power and petroleum in Asia.
Once, twice or “thrice” are not enough 
for the Belcea Quartet as they return to the 
Mahaney Center for the Arts Concert Hall 
for the fifth time on Thursday, Oct. 20. The 
Middlebury community is extremely lucky 
to have this talented Gramophone Award-
winning foursome come through so many 
times. This time, they will play a quartet by 
Johannes Brahms and two pieces by Franz 
Schubert, including his famous Death and 
the Maiden.
The Belcea Quartet is known around the 
world for their performances of dynamic and 
free interpretative style that are unconfined 
by traditional boundaries. They perform reg-
ularly to great acclaim in concert halls across 
the world, among them the Concertgebouw 
in Amsterdam, the Palais des Beaux-Arts in 
Brussels and Carnegie Hall in New York. The 
Quartet also appears regularly at the Salz-
burg, Aldeburgh and Edinburgh Festivals, as 
well as the Schubertiade Schwarzenberg.
A great contributor to their creative suc-
cess is the diversity they bring to their en-
semble. With early roots in London, UK, at 
the Royal College of Music, they comprise of 
Romanian violinist Corina Belcea and Polish 
violist Krzysztof Chorzelski, as well as French 
musicians Axel Schacher (violin) and An-
toine Lederlin (cello).
The Belcea Quartet also possesses an 
impressive discography. During its long-
term association with EMI Classics, the quar-
tet recorded the complete Britten and Bartók 
quartets, as well as works by Schubert, 
Brahms, Mozart, Debussy, Ravel and Dutil-
leux, amongst others. In 2012 and 2013, the 
quartet recorded the complete Beethoven 
quartets live in the Benjamin Britten Studio 
in Snape, England, released under quartet’s 
new label ZigZag Territoires. As with its pre-
decessors, this CD has been met with critical 
acclaim, being recognized with such prizes as 
the ECHO Klassik Award.
In addition to their work on the stage, 
the Quartet has also founded its own Belcea 
Quartet Trust which aims to support and in-
spire young string quartets through coach-
ing and supporting the commission of new 
works from today’s leading composers to be 
premiered by the quartet in the future. 
The Belcea Quartet will play at Robison 
Hall on Oct. 20 at 7:30 p.m. at the Mahaney 
Center for the Arts. Tickets for the show are 
$6 for Middlebury College students; $20 for 
Middlebury College faculty, staff, emeriti and 
other ID card holders; and $25 for the gen-
eral public. Additionally, audience members 
can join fellow concertgoers for a pre-perfor-
mance dinner at 6 p.m. in the lower lobby, 
featuring a seasonal fall menu. The dinner 
will be a buffet with family style seating – 
tickets are $30. For more information, please 
visit go/boxoffice or call (802) 443-6433.
To follow up on other events at the Ma-
haney Center for the Arts, please be sure to 
visit go/arts, like the Arts at Middlebury 
Facebook page, or follow @midd.arts on In-
stagram.
By Hiruy Ephrem
Contributing Columnist
Robert Knapp
The renowned Belcea Quartet will return to the College for a fifth time on Oct. 20.
“It is our commitment to en-
courage you to use writing 
as part of your own life-long 
learning process, and thus 
to make a difference in the 
world.”
-Mary Ellen Bertolini
Director of the Writing Center
Performing Arts Sp    TLight: Belcea Quartet
 
At home on Saturday, Oct. 8, the football 
team came from behind to defeat Amherst 
27-26 and snap the Purple & White’s 21-game 
winning streak dating back to October of 
2013. With the victory over the two-time de-
fending NESCAC champions on Youngman 
Field at Alumni Stadium, Middlebury moves 
to 3-0 for the first time since 2012 when it 
won its first five games, while Amherst falls 
to 2-1.
The Panthers took the lead on the first 
possession of the game when they marched 
73 yards in 10 plays and 3:50. Diego Meri-
tus ’19 ran four times for 16 yards, and Jared 
Lebowitz ’18 completed four of his six passes, 
including 32-yard strike to tight end Daniel 
Fulham ’17 and the six-yard touchdown pass 
to Conor Banky ’19.
Amherst responded with an 11-play, 69-
yard touchdown drive of its own, but Stewart 
Denious ’17 blocked the extra point to keep 
Middlebury ahead by one point, which ulti-
mately proved to be the decisive play of the 
game.
“This game really highlighted the impor-
tance of special teams,” said kicker Carter 
Massengill ’20. “When we blocked the PAT 
at the start of the game, I went crazy on the 
sideline. Nobody else seemed that pumped 
because it was just an extra point.  I knew, 
however, that that one point would make a 
huge difference in the game.  We capitalized 
on that blocked extra point by making all of 
our kicks.”
The Purple & White took the lead later in 
the first quarter when John Rak showed off 
his leg by drilling a 52-yard field goal.
The game looked like it was headed in the 
direction of years past for the Panthers when 
Amherst turned a Drew Jacobs ’18 fumble 
into seven more points to take a 16-7 lead.
The next play, Middlebury’s Wyllis McK-
issick ’20 returned the kickoff 60 yards to the 
Amherst 30-yard line to give the Panthers 
a little bit of momentum. Lebowitz struck 
quickly with a 17-yard completion to James 
Burke ’17 and what originally looked like a 
13-yard touchdown to Ryan Rizzo ’17, but the 
play was called back due to holding. On first-
and-20 from the Amherst 24, Lebowitz found 
Banky for 14 yards, then Meritus coming out 
of the backfield for a nine-yard touchdown 
pass.
Down 16-14, Middlebury’s offense start-
ed to stumble for the first time this season. 
Lebowitz threw his second interception of 
the season, and its two drives after that were 
three-and-out, but the defense stepped up, 
forcing a turnover on downs and two three-
and-outs as well to keep it a one possession 
game.
The Panthers retook the lead on its final 
drive of the first half, when Lebowitz found 
Rizzo down the middle for a 15-yard touch-
down pass with 1:15 remaining.
“They are disciplined and well coached on 
defense, and there were a couple plays where 
they just outright won,” said Lebowitz. “But 
that’s going to happen, especially when play-
ing someone like Amherst. We just stuck to 
the plan and never panicked—we knew we’d 
need a full game of effort.”
Amherst was content running the ball and 
heading into the locker room down 21-16, but 
running back Jack Hickey broke away for a 
19-yard gain, and five plays later Rak kicked a 
field goal to bring the Purple & White within 
two at the halfway point.
The third play of the second half, Devin 
Boehm got behind the Middlebury defense 
and Nick Morales, in his first collegiate start, 
found him for a 71-yard touchdown pass and 
a 26-21 Amherst lead.
Middlebury pulled within two when Mas-
sengill kicked a 23-yard field goal, after John 
Jackson ’18 forced a fumble that Addison 
Pierce ’17 recovered at the Amherst 9-yard 
line. Middlebury could not punch the football 
in and settled for the Massengill kick.
On Middlebury’s next drive, Lebowitz 
found Rizzo for 12 yards on a crucial third 
down and 10. Amherst also took Lebowitz 
down after he threw and were flagged for 
roughing the passer, moving the ball down to 
the Amherst 21. On third-and-10 from there, 
Lebowitz scrambled for 12 yards and the 
first down, but the Purple & White defense 
held once more to force a field goal attempt. 
Massengill came on and nailed the 26-yard 
attempt to put Middlebury ahead for good, 
27-26.
“Nothing But NESCAC actually wrote 
a preview for our game and said that 
Middlebury better hope the game doesn’t 
come down to a field goal because the un-
steadiness of the kicking game,” said Mas-
sengill. “I used this as motivation throughout 
the game, and proved them wrong.”
Behind by one, Amherst could not get 
anything going offensively its next two pos-
session, as the Panthers forced three-and-
outs on both.
“Throughout the game, we kept empha-
sizing the need to get 3-and-outs,” Pierce 
said. “They are a very good team that is go-
ing to gain yards on any defense, but we knew 
we had to capitalize on their mistakes and 
step up on 3rd downs to win the game. Our 
focus is always on doing our job every single 
play because we have complete faith in Coach 
Mandigo’s defensive scheme.”
The Purple & White had its last chance 
to extend its unbeaten streak, starting from 
their own 45 with 3:11 remaining in the game. 
Morales hit Nick Widen for a 25-yard gain 
on the first play from scrimmage. On third 
down, the Panthers put pressure on Morales, 
who tried to throw the ball away but could 
not. Defensive lineman Marty Williams ’20 
got under the football and brought it in for 
the interception, the first of his career.
Middlebury got one first down and sealed 
its 27-26 victory. After falling behind 16-7 
and 26-21, the Panthers came from behind 
to beat Amherst for the first time since 2012.
“Beating Amherst is the greatest feeling I 
have ever felt on Youngman Field at Alumni 
Stadium,” Pierce said. “The past three years 
we have lost very tough battles to Amherst, 
but taking it to them Saturday and snapped 
their 21-game winning streak made it all 
worth it. This game has been marked on all 
our calendars since last season, and from 
working unbelievably hard in the off-season 
to focusing and getting better every single 
snap this season, we finally got it done.”
Lebowitz finished 23-45 for 261 yards 
and three touchdowns. Rizzo (82 yards) and 
Banky (70 yards) each caught six passes and 
a touchdown.
Despite -13 team rushing yards and being 
outgained 348-248, Middlebury scored four 
more points than they had against Amherst 
in the previous three seasons combined (27-
23).
“Our offense is designed to move the ball 
against every defense imaginable,” Lebowitz 
said. “Of course, sometimes the defense ei-
ther plays it perfectly or guesses right which is 
going to happen, but for the most part, we got 
the looks we were expecting and it was a mat-
ter of execution. Sometimes that execution 
meant improvising and making plays when 
something broke down.”
On defense, Pierce and Wesley Becton ’18 
both had eight tackles, while Pierce added a 
sack and recovered a fumble. Jackson added 
seven tackles, all of them solo, and a forced 
fumble. Williams added a sack and six tackles 
in addition to his interception.
At 3-0, Middlebury is tied with Trinity and 
Tufts for the NESCAC lead. The Panthers will 
travel to Williams to play the Ephs (2-1) on 
Saturday, Oct. 15, as they try to avoid a let-
down. They’ll return home the weekend after 
to play Bates on Saturday, Oct. 22. 
The Middlebury women’s volleyball team 
had two games this past weekend, with big 
implications for the NESCAC playoff race 
that is heating up as they near the end of the 
regular season.
On Friday evening, Oct. 7, the Panthers 
finally beat Bowdoin, who had knocked 
Middlebury out of the NESCAC tournament 
two years in a row, 3-0. On Saturday, Oct. 8, 
the Panthers had their eight-match winning-
streak snapped by conference-leading Tufts, 
who narrowly edged out the Panthers in five 
sets.
Coming off an extraordinary two weeks, 
the Panthers carried in their momentum 
back to Pepin Gym, extending their seven-
game winning streak to  eight against Bow-
doin. The Polar Bears came in just 2-3 in NE-
SCAC but 8-4 overall.
The Panthers came out firing on all cylin-
ders. They immediately took a 2-1 lead which 
they would not relinquish for the rest of the 
opening set. Emily Kolodka ’18’s ace was the 
clinching point for the Panthers, as they took 
the set 25-21. 
Middlebury continued to play well in the 
second set as they took an immediate 4-0 
lead after a monster kill from Becca Raffel 
’18. However, Bowdoin fought back to take 
a 19-18 lead before Hannah Blackburn ’17 
kill grabbed the momentum back to the Pan-
thers’ side. The Panther defense held strong 
for the rest of the set, which ended with the 
Panthers taking a 25-23 second-set victory. 
Bowdoin did not go down easily. The Po-
lar Bears came out quickly in the third set and 
took a 15-13 lead. The Polar Bears held the 
lead until Middlebury came back and to tie 
the set at 19 on an Isabel Sessions ’19 kill. The 
Panthers then proceeded to take six of the 
last nine points and completed a 3-0 sweep 
with a 25-22 third set victory. Raffel had a 
team high 12 kills on the night and Blackburn 
led the team with 16 digs on defense.
Middlebury put its eight-game winning 
streak on the line the next day against a Tufts 
squad that had yet to drop a match in NES-
CAC play.
The visitors came out on top in the first set 
overcoming an early 15-10 Panther lead. 
The Panthers wouldn’t back down though 
as they jumped out to a 4-0 second set lead, 
stuffing Tufts with a block from Alice Roberts 
’18 and Melanie English ’17. The home team 
would absolutely dominate the rest of the set, 
tying the match up at 1-1 after a 25-14 victory. 
The third set would prove to be another 
back and forth battle. Tied at 21, Tufts nar-
rowly went on a small run to pull away for a 
25-22 win to gain a two sets to one edge.
The fourth set was all Panthers after a 13-
13 stalemate, as they finished on a 12-2 run 
capped by two key kills from Sessions and 
Staver.
All tied up at two sets apiece, the NESCAC 
powerhouses duked it out in the fifth set, 
which is only played to 15. Each point shifted 
the momentum back and forth as the bench-
es of both teams got emotionally involved, 
clearly indicating to the crowd who had won 
each point.
Tufts seemed to have the early edge, but 
the Panthers did not give in as they caught 
up, tying the score at nine after a Tufts er-
ror. Tufts narrowly escaped the upset as they 
went on a late run to take the final frame 15-
11, and the match 3-2.
“[Our performance against] Tufts defi-
nitely showed us that we’re able to compete 
and beat tough NESCAC competitors,” said 
Staver. “We now know their plays and ten-
dencies and are preparing to beat them in 
NESCACs.”
The Panthers also added a 3-0 win over 
Skidmore on Tuesday, October 11, to move 
to 12-4.
They will host Amherst on Friday, Oct. 14, 
and Williams on Saturday.
| october 13, 2016 18 sports
Football Stops Amherst, Ending 21-Game Streak
YES 
They are in a great position to 
pick up conference wins. 
ALABAMA
No comment.
YES 
I think it will be a close game, but 
the Panthers are on a serious roll 
right now. 
SEAHAWKS 
Ben Joers seems to like them. I’ll 
buy it. 
editors’ picks
Remo Plunkett (80-62, .563)
Volleyball:
Will Midd (11-4, 4-2) beat Amherst 
(10-5, 4-2) on Friday, Oct. 14 and 
Williams (9-7, 4-2) on Saturday?
NFL pick’em: Falcons (4-1) @ 
Seahawks (3-1)
CFB pick’em: no. 1 Alabama (6-0) 
@ no. 9 Tennessee (5-1)
Women’s Soccer: Will Midd (9-2, 
4-2) beat Trinity (7-1-2, 5-1) on 
Saturday, Oct. 15 in Hartford?
YES
But it’s not because I picked them 
to lose last weekend when they 
won.
ALABAMA
Nick Saban makes me sick 
sometimes though.
NO
The Panthers are on a roll, but so 
are the Bantams and they’re on 
their home turf.
SEAHAWKS
The Falcons are on a roll too, 
but they aren’t going to go into 
CenturyLink Field and win.
YES
Go Midd!
ALABAMA
This one’s obvious to me.
YES
It’ll be close, but I have faith in the 
Panthers.
SEAHAWKS
For real?
will case (36-28, .562)
Andrew Rigas (66-43, .605)
By Colby Morris
Senior Writer
Volleyball Exacts Revenge on Bowdoin in NESCAC Matchup
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor
The Middlebury men’s soccer team (6-
1-2, 3-1-2) took to their home pitch Satur-
day, Oct. 8, for a highly anticipated clash 
against NESCAC rival Tufts (5-3-2, 3-1-
2). The Jumbos shut out Middlebury for 
a 2-0 win as the Panthers suffered their 
first loss of the year. The loss ended the 
Panthers’ eight-game unbeaten streak 
this season. 
The loss comes at the hands of a red-
hot Tufts team that has won three in a 
row and six of their last seven, including 
a recent underdog victory against a for-
midable defending national champion-
ship squad from Amherst. Previously un-
ranked, Tufts has made a push in recent 
weeks against several top-ranked teams, 
including No. 14 Middlebury, and looks to 
improve upon their ranking as they head 
into the second half of the season.
Coming into the match with 16 con-
secutive wins under their belts, the Pan-
thers were surprised by Tufts’ quick start 
to the game. Less than a minute into the 
game, Kevin Halliday’s direct kick con-
nected with Jackson Najjar, who put away 
the first goal of the game from the left 
side, stunning Middlebury and bolstering 
Tufts’ confidence as the scoreboard read 
1-0 in favor of the visitors. 
Quickly thereafter, Tufts added to their 
lead when Zachary Trevorrow gobbled up 
a loose corner kick in the penalty area and 
turned to fire a shot into the upper third, 
putting his team up 2-0 in only the sev-
enth minute of play. 
Halfway through the first half, 
Middlebury had a good opportunity to re-
gain some ground. Drew Goulart ’20 made 
a cross from the left side of the goal box 
to Tim Ogle ’17 who was able to manage a 
shot, but Jumbo goalkeeper Scott Green-
wood denied the attempt without gaining 
possession. In a rebound attempt, Adam 
Glaser ’17 quickly took a rip, but Green-
wood extended 
his shutout per-
formance on 
the day, making 
a diving save to 
maintain the 
clean sheet and 
hold the Pan-
thers scoreless.
The Pan-
thers had an-
other good 
scoring chance 
early in the sec-
ond half when 
Greg Conrad ’17 
received a Jer-
emy Barovick 
’19 pass in the 
middle of the 
penalty area. 
Conrad fired, 
but missed the 
net with a wide 
shot. The Middlebury squad was unable 
to get on the board in the remainder of 
the match and the final score was 2-0 in 
favor of the visiting Jumbos. 
“Obviously we’re not pleased with [the 
result against Tufts], but mistakes we 
made are controllable and can be fixed” 
Glaser, the Panthers’ leading scorer, com-
mented. 
“Truth is, outside the first 10 minutes, 
we were the better side. If we expected to 
go the entire season without some adver-
sity, we were kidding ourselves. It’s bet-
ter to be solving issues now than in a few 
weeks.”
Despite matching Tufts with 12 shots, 
the Panthers faced a 9-5 shots-on-goal 
deficit. Meanwhile, Middlebury goalie 
Greg Sydor ’17 re-
corded a season 
high seven saves 
while Greenwood 
tallied five. The 
Jumbos and Pan-
thers now sit tied 
at fourth in the 
NESCAC stand-
ings. 
“We’re think-
ing of this week-
end (and really 
the weeklong span 
with four games in 
seven days start-
ing Wednesday) as 
must win games” 
Glaser contin-
ued. “Especially 
after our result 
against Tufts, we’ll 
be looking for a 
bear-like, strong 
response. Trinity picked up a good win 
against Bowdoin this weekend. And Wes-
leyan, despite their position in last place, 
has given us a lot of trouble in the past, so 
both should be good games.”
Look for the Panthers to make a strong 
push as they move into the last two weeks 
of the regular season. They will face Trin-
ity on the road, Saturday, Oct. 15, and 
Wesleyan at home on Sunday, Oct. 16.
october 13, 2016| 19SPORTS 
Men’s Soccer Drops One to Tufts
women’s golf
Second place finishes at both 
the NESCAC Championship 
and the first annual George 
Phinney Golf Classic.
volleyball
Things are looking good, but 
definitely a couple big ones 
coming up to solidify their place 
in the conference.
By Riley Plant
Contributing Writer
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKING TEAM
Plunkett’s Predictions
2
football
Snapping Amherst’s 21 
game win streak, at home 
nonetheless. Pure gold. 
3
women’s soccer
Great momentum from a five-
game win streak as they head 
into the latter part of their 
season. 
4
5
7
6
men’s soccer
The squad had a little slip up 
against Tufts over the weekend 
but hopefully nothing to worry 
about.
presidential election
Enough said. 
field hockey 
Really hoping they can close 
out strong and mount another 
big postseason run.
the cold weather
Great effort out there “Lord Jeff,” 
but you’ll need to bring a little 
more than that to Panthertown if 
you want to hold onto your win 
streak again. 
Middlebury’s previously third-ranked 
field hockey team split its contests last 
weekend, playing on Saturday, Oct. 8 and 
Sunday, Oct. 9. The Panthers had their 
20-game home winning streak snapped at 
the hands of Tufts on Saturday and then 
survived in an overtime scare with New 
Paltz State on Sunday.
“It was a big learning weekend for us 
as a group,” said Caroline Knapp ’18. “We 
were exposed to some offensive and de-
fensive scenarios for which we had not 
prepared enough. However, now we are 
aware of exactly which team and individ-
ual skills to work on and what scenarios 
to practice against in order to become a 
stronger team.”
The Panthers began the weekend on a 
gloomy afternoon at Kohn Field by tak-
ing on seventh-ranked conference rival, 
Tufts, in front of a huge crowd of Pan-
ther parents on the College’s Fall Family 
Weekend.
The Panthers and the Jumbos both 
started out strong and most of the first 
half remained even with both sides trading 
possessions and shooting opportunities. 
With 12:43 left in the half, Middlebury 
was able to capitalize on a scoring oppor-
tunity and the team got on the board by 
a score of 1-0 when Lauren Schweppe ’18 
snuck a ball past Tufts’ goalkeeper for her 
sixth goal of the season. 
The fast-break started when Tufts 
missed a shot and Middlebury quickly 
transitioned the ball up the field as Grace 
Jennings ’19 and Schweppe passed the 
ball back-and-forth. Jennings completed 
a pass along the left side to Schweppe 
who netted the first goal of the contest.
The second half started out like the 
first, with back-and-forth possessions 
between the two teams as the Panthers 
fought to keep the one goal lead. 
Tufts eventually gained momentum 
when they were able to capitalize on a 
penalty corner scoring opportunity at the 
9:33 mark, bringing the game to a 1-1 tie.
With the clock winding down, both 
teams fought hard to snatch a victory. 
However, the Panthers struggled to de-
fend their lone goal and Tufts capitalized 
by converting a penalty corner to take a 
2-1 lead with 11:57 remaining.
In the final thrilling minutes of the 
game Annie Leonard ’18 barely missed 
the equalizer at the three minute mark 
and the Panthers were awarded a pen-
alty corner. Her penalty shot went wide, 
however, as time wound down on Middle-
bury’s 20-game home winning streak that 
dated back to 2014 season. Tufts outshot 
the Panthers 10-6 and held a 5-2 advan-
tage in penalty corners, with Emily Miller 
‘17 making two saves and Tufts’ goalten-
der recording a single save in the Jumbos’ 
win. 
Tufts handed Middlebury their sec-
ond loss of this season, moving to 7-2 
overall and 4-2 in the NESCAC. This win 
improved Tufts to 9-1 overall and 5-1 in 
league play.
The Panthers had a quick turnaround 
as they faced SUNY New Paltz on Sunday. 
Sunday’s 4-3 overtime victory closely 
resembled the previous day’s back-and-
forth nailbiter.
The Panthers scored quickly, as Molly 
Freeman ’19 artfully edged past the Hawk 
defense and netted a low shot past the 
New Paltz’s goalkeeper 45 seconds into 
the game. This was Freeman’s third score 
of the season. 
New Paltz responded less than two 
minutes later, evening the score at 1. The 
Panthers quickly struck back to regain a 
lead with 15:29 to play in the half when 
Schweppe capitalized on a pass from Ma-
rissa Baker ’20.
The second half had more fireworks as 
both teams netted three goals in the span 
of approximately a minute. The Hawks 
scored the equalizer with 7:53 left; how-
ever, the Panthers responded seconds 
later as Schweppe netted her eighth goal 
of the season, tapping in her second goal 
off a pass from Carson Peacock ’19. 
New Paltz quickly countered with a 
goal to tie it 3-3. Neither team was able to 
convert on any opportunities the rest of 
the half forcing overtime. 
In overtime, both teams fiercely fought 
to capture the victory. Middlebury was fi-
nally able to claim that victory with three 
minutes left in overtime. The Panthers 
were awarded a penalty corner resulting 
in a beautiful pass from Schweppe to An-
nie Leonard ’18 who drove a hard shot in 
the left corner of the goal to win the game 
4-3. This winning goal was Leonard’s 17th 
of the season and the 50th of her career.
On the defensive end, Miller secured 
the win with three saves. Middlebury held 
an 18-10 advantage in shots, while the 
Hawks led in penalty corners, 9-6.
The Panthers currently stand at 8-2 
overall as they enter the final third of 
their season with only five games remain-
ing.
“Heading into the final stretch,” Knapp 
noted, “we are going to be really focusing 
on certain smaller aspects of our game 
that will have a big impact on our domi-
nance all over the field.  Practices will 
be even more high-tempo to really make 
sure that everyone is pushing each other 
to be the best, most competitive, most ef-
fective player possible.”
The Panthers return to action on Sat-
urday, Oct. 15, when they head to Trinity 
to play the Bantams, who will enter the 
matchup tied with the Panthers for third 
in the NESCAC standings.
By Christine Urquhart
Senior Writer
Field hockey drops 20-game home winning streak to tufts
Grace Jennings ’19 carries the ball in field hockey’s loss to Tufts on Saturday, 
Oct. 8.
michael borenstein
“Especially after our result 
against Tufts, we’ll be looking 
for a bear-like, strong response. 
Trinity picked up a good win 
against Bowdoin this weekend. 
And Wesleyan, despite their 
position in last place, has given 
us a lot of trouble in the past, so 
both should be good games. ” 
Adam Glaser ’17
 The Middlebury women’s soc-
cer team, under beautiful skies 
and a slight breeze, defeated Tufts 
last Saturday, Oct. 8, over the Fall 
Family Weekend. Dozens of fami-
lies and friends lined the sidelines 
and stands to watch the Panthers 
jockey for position in the NESCAC 
conference standings against the 
Tufts Jumbos, as the Panthers en-
tered 3-2 in NESCAC play, while 
Tufts had a 3-1-1 record entering 
Saturday’s action.
Tufts scored the only goal of 
the first half when a Jumbo for-
ward lofted a ball outside of the 
penalty area over the outstretched 
hands of Middlebury goalie Kate 
Reinmuth ’17. The Jumbos de-
fense was tight and kept the Pan-
thers from creating any scoring 
opportunities.
The Panthers, however, came 
out firing in the second half. In 
the 55th minute, Sara DiCenso ’19 
pushed a nice ball ahead to Alex 
Barber ’19, who floated a 20-yard 
shot into the back of the net for 
her second tally of the season.
“I didn’t even notice I had the 
assist until the announcer called 
it,” Dicenso said laughing. “I just 
got the ball from the right side of 
the field and turned to find Alex 
coming up and so I passed it not 
even thinking she could score. But 
I was wrong and the next thing I 
know the ball is in the net.”
Tied at 1-1, the Jumbos an-
swered in the 72nd minute when 
one of their forwards headed a 
cross into the net to put the Pan-
thers down a goal with 18 minutes 
left in regulation.
The Panthers could not be 
stopped though, as Adrianna 
Gildner ’17, for her fifth goal of the 
season, received a beautiful touch 
from Amanda Hotvedt ’17 and 
sent it past the grasping hands of 
the Tufts’ goalie, knotting things 
up at 2-2. 
“The first half we came out a 
little frantic,” said Gildner. “But at 
halftime something just switched 
and we came out so fired up.”
With less then two minutes 
left in the second half, Gildner 
completed the comeback as she 
tapped a rebounded shot into the 
back of the net. Gildner’s shot 
sealed the deal for the Panthers, 
as they held off the Jumbos in the 
closing seconds and took home 
the 3-2 win.
“This game was such a battle. 
I feel like once the whistle blew 
for the second half we seemed like 
a whole new team,” said Alissa 
Huntington ’18. “Our offense was 
picking apart their defense and 
exploiting the holes in their back 
line which resulted in three amaz-
ing goals.”
In an unbelievable showing of 
resilience and determination, the 
Panthers battled back from be-
hind, not once, but twice. Look-
ing ahead, Middlebury has four 
games left, all NESCAC matches, 
which will determine the fate of 
their season.
“Scoring in the last two min-
utes was unbelievable because we 
always focus on playing the full 90 
minutes,” said Huntington. “This 
game was a real testament to fact 
we fought for the whole game and 
won.”
sports
FIELD HOCKEY 
DROPS FIRST HOME 
LOSS, FALLS TO 8-2 
OVERALL 
PAGE 19
FOOTBALL ENDS 
AMHERST’S 21 
GAME WINNING 
STREAK AT HOME
PAGE 18in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
women’s soccer Wins Again
michael borenstein
Last weekend, Oct. 8-9, the 
women’s golf team finished 
second at the NESCAC Cham-
pionships, shooting a collective 
631 to finish a mere two strokes 
behind now repeat champion 
Williams. On an already posi-
tive weekend, Panther first-year 
Chloe Levins ’20 was the high-
light. She took the individual 
crown from Williams’ Cordelia 
Chan, the previous individual 
champion, by shooting a com-
bined 150 over the two rounds. 
Levins finished atop the indi-
vidual leaderboard by a wide 
six-stroke margin.
For the last several years the 
Panthers have gunned for the 
Ephs — a team that has won the 
majority of the tournaments the 
Panthers have played in over 
the last three years — and last 
weekend was circled on their 
calendar.
“We were so close,” said the 
team’s no. 1 Katharine Fortin 
’18. “That’s all I have to say. 
Watch for us in the spring and 
next fall because our team is 
about to have a huge impact in 
the league, I can feel it.”
The progress the Panthers 
have made even since last fall 
was vividly on display and was 
reflected by the scorecard. 
A year ago, they finished 46 
strokes behind the Ephs at NE-
SCACs. Last week they shaved 
the margin by 44 strokes.
Along with Levins, Fortin 
had an excellent weekend for 
the Panthers. Fortin shot a 157 
for the weekend and finished 
third out of all the players in the 
field. Levins’ fellow first-year, 
Black Yaccino ’20, shot a pair 
of 80s in contribution to the 
team’s cause and finished her 
first-year fall season on a high 
note.
Hope Matthews ’18 shot an 
89 for the Panthers on Satur-
day’s round, but recovered with 
a 79 on Sunday. The team’s lone 
senior, Theo Yoch ’17, was also 
in the Panthers’ lineup and shot 
a 168 for the weekend.
Levins’ game has improved 
over the course of the fall and 
last weekend’s rounds were her 
first under 80 of the campaign.
“Golf is a mental game,” said 
the first-year. “As a brand new 
freshman earlier this fall, my 
mind was too concerned with 
the collegiate life adjustment to 
be able to play great golf. Now, 
as the aspects of student life 
find their course, my golf game 
does so too.”
As Levins has continued to 
adjust, both to new courses and 
to school, her game has steadily 
improved.
“Every course we played 
this fall was unfamiliar to me,” 
said Levins. “It was challeng-
ing, amidst the stress of fresh-
man fall, to be thrown into yet 
another unfamiliar world with 
personal expectations and team 
goals. Playing at the Ralph defi-
nitely gave me a sense of com-
fort and local knowledge that 
didn’t exist at any of the previ-
ous tournaments. My comfort 
and familiarity with the course 
attributed to a more settled 
mental game overall.”
While Levins and the rest of 
her teammates had the chance 
to familiarize themselves with 
courses in Massachusetts, last 
weekend marked the first com-
petitive rounds the Panthers 
played at the Ralph.
“Playing at the Ralph defi-
nitely gave me a sense of com-
fort and local knowledge that 
didn’t exist at any of the previ-
ous tournaments,” said Levins. 
“My comfort and familiarity 
with the course attributed to a 
more settled mental game over-
all.”
Along with getting on top of 
the mental side of the game, 
Levins felt that she finally found 
the consistency that has frus-
trated her throughout the fall.
“The technical difference be-
tween this tournament and oth-
ers was my short game,” said 
Levins. “I tried to approach ev-
ery shot as if it was impossible 
to miss.”
“The result [last] weekend 
was a culmination of peace of 
mind and resilience,” Levins 
explained. “I’m very pleased to 
have the closure of a solid tour-
nament and am looking forward 
to carrying this confidence, as 
an individual and team, into the 
spring tournaments.”
Women’s Golf takes second at NESCACS
By Will Case
Sports Editor 
By Sebastian Sanchez
Senior Writer 
end of an era
Football Shatters Amherst’s 21 
game win streak on home turf
