Thursday, October 13, 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Vol. 110, No. 5 Since 1905
th
is
 w
ee
k Learning by farming 
Read about Shelburne Farms’ 
education and cultivation work,
page 5.
Speeding up an education
Hear about one student’s experience 
with the Large Hadron Collider, 
page  19.
White van to the rescue
A profile of MiddRides driver 
Larry Laurent,
page 15.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
After an unusually warm fall, leaves are finally beginning to turn, starting the Vermont ‘‘leaf-peeping” 
season. Above, leaves on campus are turning their characteristic orange as colder weather sets in.
Warmer Weather brings late fall
Over 1000 
vote in 
student
elections
November concert to 
feature Brett Dennen
SAOC puts new 
policy into practice
By Adam Schaffer
News Editor
By Jess Berry
News Editor
By Kara Shurmantine
Editor-in-Chief
By Kyle Finck
News Editor
See Changes, page 2
See Suit, page 3
After two and a half years in the 
making, the College has implemented 
its new sexual misconduct policy. The 
development of a new policy was one 
of the first tasks on the agenda when 
the Sexual Assault Oversight Commit-
tee (SAOC) was formed in the winter 
of 2009.
Changes to the policy include 
clear definitions of key concepts, such 
as consent and coercion, the addition 
of a trained professional investigator 
to conduct interviews in private with 
the complainant and respondent, a 
reduction of members on the hearing 
board from eight to four and the abil-
ity for the complainant and respon-
dent to appeal the outcome. Both the 
complainant and the respondent will 
also have ability to review and respond 
to all investigation materials that will 
be considered in the hearings, but will 
still not be able to interact directly with 
other witnesses or each other.
Associate Dean for Judicial Affairs 
and Student Life Karen Guttentag ex-
plained that the need for a new policy 
stemmed from a belief that the old 
policy was not effective at addressing, 
preventing and resolving the issue of 
sexual assault.
“We had concerns that there were 
consistently aspects of the process that 
were not as strong as they could be,” 
she said. “Definitions … were unclear 
[and] language describing the process 
[needed improvement]. Specifically, 
we suspected that a hearing process 
itself, which is the standard for most 
schools, is just not the best way to 
resolve these kinds of issues and that 
specifically fear of having to partici-
pate in a hearing was having a negative 
On May 11, Jak Knelman 
’12.5 filed a civil lawsuit against 
men’s hockey and golf coach Bill 
Beaney and the College, seek-
ing more than $75,000 in federal 
court in Burlington, Vt. 
The suit cited irreparable rep-
utational harm, severe emotional 
distress, economic injuries, loss of 
athletic opportunities and loss of 
future career prospects stemming 
from a questionable yearlong dis-
missal. 
Brett Dennen
Courtesy
In an event sponsored by the 
Middlebury College Activities 
Board (MCAB), singer-songwriter 
Brett Dennen will perform at the 
McCullough Social Space on Nov. 
19.
Dennen, a folk-pop artist from 
California, has toured with acts such 
as Jack Johnson and John Mayer, 
and his music has been featured 
in television shows such as Grey’s 
Anatomy and Scrubs.
“I think Brett Dennen will be a 
great show as his style caters to stu-
dents with a taste of music that is a 
bit slower and more relaxed, but his 
talent in live shows is at a very high 
level,” said MCAB Concerts Chair 
Dan Crepps ’12. “I believe that the 
students that 
attend will 
enjoy it tre-
mendously.”
T i c k e t s 
for the event 
will be sold 
online for $10 
starting Oct. 
29 and will go 
for $15 at the 
door.
Crepps noted that MCAB is 
preparing to announce the per-
former for the larger fall concert, to 
take place on Saturday, Oct. 29, of 
Homecoming weekend.
“The large fall concert will be a 
little different style event, but it will 
be big, high-energy, and very fun,” 
said Crepps.
Courtesy of Dylan Kelley, Vermont Workers’ Center
Hundreds of Vermonters “occupied” Church Street in Burlington 
over the weekend in protest of economic inequality.  The protests are 
a continuation of the Occupy Wall Street protests in New York City.
Occupy Wall street prOtests hit VermOnt
The case is currently in the 
discovery period, with deposi-
tions lasting until Jan. 31, 2012. 
The two sides have a settlement 
meeting scheduled for Dec. 15, 
2011. If the case is not settled, it 
will go to court July 1, 2012. The 
College is being represented by 
Karen McAndrew of the Burling-
ton-based law firm Dinse, Knapp 
and McAndrew.
According to Knelman, the 
dismissal arose following an 
alumni hockey banquet on Jan. 15 
in which Knelman left the event 
early to have dinner with his fa-
ther, resulting in his dismissal 
from the team. He tried to resolve 
what he called a “humiliating” 
dismissal through the College, but 
said he was not taken seriously. 
“There’s a reason I filed suit,” 
he said. “I exhausted every single 
possibility to try and resolve this 
through the school. In the end, 
I am committed to carrying this 
out, because what happened to 
me shouldn’t happen to any other 
student athlete.” 
Beaney declined to comment 
specifically about any part of the 
case, saying that “the correct in-
formation speaks for itself.” 
Knelman believes that the 
College must institute a “due pro-
cess” system for athletes dismissed 
from teams to ensure fair treat-
ment.
In the current system, if an 
athlete files a complaint against 
a coach, he or she is entitled to a 
mediated meeting with the coach 
followed by consideration of the 
complaint during the coach’s 
yearly contractual review. The 
current process does not include 
a hearing, and the athlete is never 
given a change to present a case 
against the coach. 
In an email to Knelman on 
March 15, Athletic Director Erin 
Quinn said that preliminary dis-
cussions about changing the sys-
tem had taken place.
“At the time of your [Knel-
man’s] dismissal the Department 
of Athletics had begun discus-
sions to implement a system by 
which coaches would be required 
to report any potential suspen-
sions or dismissals to the Direc-
tor of Athletics before they took 
any action of this type,” Quinn 
wrote in the email to Knelman. 
“This system would ensure ‘due 
process,’ requiring that a coach 
either make the case for dismissal 
based on ‘dismissal with cause’ or 
a demonstrated and documented 
‘progressive discipline,’ which 
would justify the dismissal.” 
While there is no explicit pro-
cess mandating that coaches re-
port dismissals to the Athletic Di-
rector beforehand, Quinn said he 
is usually informed of dismissals. 
“The good news is that the 
overwhelming majority of stu-
dent-athletes are able to work 
through issues with their coaches, 
and they do not require the in-
Over 1,000 students headed to 
the polls on Oct. 10-11 to vote for 
Student Government Association 
(SGA) president and first-year sena-
tor, a turnout higher than  previous 
years. 
Five candidates — Kevin Brous-
sard, Vin Recca, Kennedy Mugo, 
Nathan LaBarba and Luke Carroll 
Brown — were on the ballot in the 
SGA presidential elections to replace 
Riley O’Rourke ’12 who resigned at 
the beginning of the school year.
At press time, the results re-
mained unknown due to election 
discrepancies, though it was con-
firmed that no candidate achieved 
the required 50 percent majority to 
prevent a runoff, which will occur 
Thursday, Oct. 13. 
The first-year senator elections 
were able to be decided Tuesday, with 
Rana Abdelhamid and Danny Zhang 
elected to represent their class at the 
SGA.
Athlete sues coach and the College
campusnews2 13 October 2011
ROLLER RINK
Friday //  6 p.m. - 10 p.m. // Skates 
provided free //  McCullough 
Social Space // 
MIDDLEBURY MUSICIANS UNION
Friday // 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. // Live music 
//  Crossroads Cafe
FFF: WINNIE THE POOH
Friday //  7 p.m. and 10 p.m. // Dana 
Auditorium
POET BILLY COLLINS
Saturday // 8 p.m. // Mead Chapel
ZUMBA
Sunday // 4 p.m. //  McCullough 
Social Space
WHAT’S 
HAPPENING 
AT MIDD?
MCAB PRESENTS
by Melanie Haas
Staff Columnist 
Tensions over the Obama administra-
tion’s killing of al-Qaeda leader Anwar al-
Awlaki, an American citizen, have risen after 
the discovery of a secret legal memorandum 
justifying the drone attack.
The death of Awlaki is only the most re-
cent “victory” in the war on terror in a year 
which Defense Secretary Leon Panetta terms 
“a bad year for terrorists.” Five months ago 
excitement and celebration rippled through-
out the United States with news of Osama 
Bin Laden’s death.  Now, Panetta claims that 
the death of Awlaki has saved American lives, 
reported Daily News and Analysis (DNA).
According to Obama, Awlaki spear-
headed several terrorist attempts, including a 
failed airplane bombing in 2009 and another 
targeting U.S. cargo planes in 2010.  Obama 
and Panetta have also emphasized Awlaki’s 
danger as a recruiter for al-Qaeda operatives.
“He continued to inspire people to ter-
rorize this country and to attack this coun-
try,”  DNA reported Panetta saying. “This 
country is much safer as a result of the loss 
of Awlaki.” 
Panetta’s reasoning echoes the legal 
memorandum that has recently drawn na-
tional attention.  The 50-page document will 
not be released because its subject pertains 
to a covert mission, though sources familiar 
with the document have shared its content 
with the The New York Times. 
According to the Times, the memo, 
which was written last year, provides justifi-
cation for ordering the death of Awlaki. The 
analysis presented in the document indicates 
that Awlaki’s role in the war and the danger 
he presented to American citizens gave the 
United States the right to legally kill him if 
capture proved impossible.  
When Awlaki died in the drone strike 
in Yemen last month, his death breached 
an executive order that prohibits assassi-
nations, along with domestic laws against 
murder and what the Times referred to as 
“various strictures of the international laws 
of war.”  Since 9/11, however, Congress has 
sanctioned the use of military force against 
al-Qaeda groups. 
According to anonymous sources who 
spoke to the Times, the memo asserts that 
Awlaki’s death could not be considered 
“murder” because it occurred within the pa-
rameters of the laws of war.  But the techni-
cality of who fired the missile also comes into 
play. If a CIA official fired the missile, he or 
she would not be wearing an official uniform 
making the act a crime of war. The memo 
also addresses the “problem” of the Fifth 
Amendment, which states that a person can-
not be killed “without due process of law.”  
Few regret Anwar al-Awlaki’s death, 
and most agree that the United States is a 
safer place with fewer people plotting ter-
rorist attacks. But the question of the legal-
ity of the attack is again escalating tensions, 
only months after an attack killed al-Qaeda 
leader Osama bin Laden.  The discovery of 
the document, which seems to attempt to 
justify what some term to be murder, has 
added a moral edge to the military opera-
tion. Calls for the administration to present 
justifications for killing an American citizen 
have gone largely unanswered, and instead, 
the White House has been focusing on the 
major role Awlaki played in the terrorist or-
ganization.
“The death of Awlaki is a major blow to 
al-Qaeda’s most active operational affiliate,” 
Obama said in a press conference. “Awlaki 
was the leader of external operations for al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. In that role, 
he took the lead in planning and directing ef-
forts to murder innocent Americans.” 
beyond
the bubble
Changes hope to encourage
reporting of sexual assault
New landscaping around Atwater include a grassy knoll with a small grove of trees.
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
By Adam Schaffer
News Editor
Continued from page 1
Atwater landscaping nears completion
effect on peoples’ willingness to report.”
Many of the changes to the policy, particu-
larly with regards to the new hearing process 
with the private investigator, were made in the 
hope that they will help increase reports of sex-
ual assault.
Margo Cramer ’12, student co-chair of the 
SAOC, believes the new hearing process is a ma-
jor improvement on the old policy.
“I think the changes will be very effective in 
better serving victims as well as those who are 
accused,” Cramer wrote in an email. “The new 
policy will improve the hearing experience for 
all parties.”
The investigator will be a member of Public 
Safety who has been trained specifically in sexual 
assault investigations. Mukui Mbindyo ’12, a stu-
dent co-chair of the SAOC, believes the trained 
investigator is a crucial aspect of the new policy.
“I think this new addition [of the indepen-
dent private investigator] will make the informa-
tion collection process more thorough and fair 
to both parties,” Mbindyo wrote in an email.
Approximately two to four cases of sexual 
misconduct go through the judicial process every 
year at the College, though the College suspects 
many more cases go unreported. 
“It’s always going to be really hard to get ac-
curate numbers because sexual assault is classi-
cally underreported for all kinds of obvious rea-
sons,” Guttentag said.
Human Relations Officer Sue Ritter feels 
that the policy changes will increase the number 
of reports.
“I am hopeful that the changes will be very 
effective — especially in terms of encouraging 
people to report sexual misconduct incidents,” 
Ritter wrote in an email. “I think that the new 
policy provides a fair, equitable, thoughtful and 
thorough investigation and adjudication pro-
cess.”
Guttentag explained that a common mis-
conception about sexual assault is that students 
assume sexual assault only occurs between a 
male aggressor and female victim.
“We really tried to craft a policy that was 
completely gender-neutral and responded to the 
diversity of our community in that way where 
any person would feel as though this were a fair 
and appropriate policy and not slanted in one 
direction.”
The College finds itself in a difficult situa-
tion in many sexual assault cases, as any employ-
ee of the College who is provided information 
indicating that sexual assault or harassment oc-
curred has a legal obligation to report the inci-
dent to the Human Relations Officer, who then 
must respond to eliminate hostile conditions.
“We really wrestle with, on the one hand, 
believing in that obligation to protect the cam-
pus, and on the other hand, really wanting to 
honor students’ readiness to make their own de-
cisions and their need to have a sense of control 
over the process,” said Guttentag.
Currently, confidential resources include 
the College’s counseling staff, medical staff and 
chaplains, as well as various 800 numbers that 
students can call. These resources, though, are 
under-utilized, Guttentag said.
In an attempt to resolve this issue, the SAOC 
has written a proposal for an advocacy program 
that would consist of students, faculty and staff 
who would receive the training required to be-
come rape crisis counselors, and would thus be 
confidential resources as well. The program is 
still being developed.
“I think this is such a traumatic thing for 
anyone to be involved with,” Guttentag said. 
“Whether their involvement is as a parent, a 
friend, a supporter, a survivor and even someone 
accused. While our ultimate goal is the eradica-
tion of sexual assault at Middlebury, our goal for 
the adjudication process is to try and treat every-
one with fairness and respect and try to gain clar-
ity in the most compassionate and effective way 
we can without furthering anybody’s distress.”
After over a year of planning, nearly two 
months of work and a hurricane, the Atwater 
“Turf Battle” landscaping project is nearing its 
close. Work has ceased for the season on the proj-
ect, and while some work had to be postponed 
until next year, the majority of the project has 
been completed.
Work to be completed next year includes 
the sidewalk and plantings connecting Allen 
and Wright Memorial Theatre. While not in the 
original Atwater plans, project planners are also 
considering turning the road in front of Wright 
Theater and Johnson — Le Chateau Road — 
into a pedestrian promenade to give area more 
visual coherence. The promenade is part of the 
College’s long-term Master Plan.
“If that [road] becomes a pedestrian walk-
way,” said Vice President for Administration Tim 
Spears, it would create “a really well-articulated 
pathway into [the Atwater area] of campus.” A 
final decision as to whether to proceed now with 
this added construction has yet to be made.
Spears launched the “Turf Battle” last fall, 
soliciting plans from students to landscape the 
area between Atwater Halls A and B. While no 
single plan was used for the final projects, aspects 
of some of the plans were incorporated into the 
plans drawn up by the landscape architecture 
firm HKW-P.
Student inspiration in the plan can be seen 
in the new stone plaza in front of Atwater Hall 
B, as well as with the low cement wall — to be 
covered next spring in stone — extending onto 
the grass. Originally planned to cross the width 
of the grass, the wall ultimately only extended 
slightly beyond the end of the patio because of 
underground steam lines. The location of the 
plantings around the rain garden near the Atwa-
ter parking lot, though not the type, was also the 
result of student designs.
Molly Rosenblatt ’12, who was involved in 
one of the three submissions, could not find any 
elements that immediately “resonated” with her 
group’s original design. She wrote in an email 
that because of budgetary and logistical con-
straints, much of the project ultimately did not 
incorporate students’ architectural designs to 
make the area more “inhabitable,” and instead 
limited changes to landscaping. 
Nevertheless, she is pleased with the aesthet-
ic appeal of the grass, and is optimistic about use 
of the grassy knoll in front of Chateau.
Looking back, Spears is satisfied with the 
work that has been done.
“I think it’s an immense improvement … 
and some of the improvements to come are go-
ing to further enhance the space,” he said.
Max Odland ’12, an environmental studies 
major, was surprised at the minimal changes that 
were made.
“I must admit, I was expecting some more 
dramatic changes to the area,” he wrote in an 
email. “The area looked basically the same as it 
did before the project.”
Drainage problems, long an issue on the At-
water quads, do seem to have been improved in 
the area. A drain has been placed along the length 
of the grass running toward the Atwater parking 
lot, and the land has been slightly re-graded to al-
low surface runoff into the drain and ultimately 
the retention pond at the bottom.
“Before we did the drain work,” said College 
horticulturist Tim Parsons, “[rainwater] basical-
ly funneled down the sidewalk, and that caused 
that big washout. While it doesn’t look like much 
of a change, [much of the land] was torn up.”
Having studied stormwater management at 
the College, Odland agreed with Parsons that the 
drainage problems seem to have been remedied. 
He cited the only minimal pooling during heavy 
late-September rains, even before the grass had 
taken root, as evidence that the area will be able 
to weather future storms without drainage issues.
Before work began, the project was estimat-
ed to cost $150-$175,000, though a final number 
is not yet known.
“I would say we’re pretty close to what we 
were expecting … I’m not expecting any big sur-
prises,” Parsons said.
campusnews 13 October 2011 3
overseas
briefing
by Salena Casha ’13
NORWICH — There were a couple of 
reasons why I chose to study abroad at Uni-
versity of East Anglia in Norwich, U.K. First, 
they spoke English (my knack for other lan-
guages being rather shoddy). Second, they 
have a fantastic creative writing program with 
notable alums including Kazuo Ishiguro and 
Ian McEwan. Sadly, however, I was unable to 
enroll in any such writing class because of 
the high demand. Third, the university was 
two hours outside London so I immediately 
thought it would be like Middlebury but filled, 
instead, with people sporting lots of beautiful 
British accents. And finally, they had the nic-
est pool in all of the U.K. (or said so on their 
brochure), so essentially I was sold. When I 
got here though, I realized how little research 
I’d actually done. With more than 20,000 stu-
dents, UEA isn’t at all like Middlebury and the 
“small town of Norwich” that I thought lay 
just within reach, is actually quite a large city. 
After nearly burning my dorm down try-
ing to cook pasta, getting lost trying to find 
the bus back to campus, confusing the regis-
trar when I tried to enroll in “courses” instead 
of “modules” (a course is actually the name of 
the entire program of study) and forgetting to 
take notes in lecture because I was so enam-
ored with my professor’s accent, I think I’ve 
started to get the hang of Uni life. I’ve picked 
up a few English sayings like “cheers” instead 
of “thanks,” “You doing all right?” instead of 
“How are you?” and “quite” instead of “really.” 
I still forget you need to buy tickets in order to 
go to parties and walk on the left side of the 
street instead of the right (and swim that way 
as well), but so far most major catastrophes 
have been avoided. 
And luckily, I still do find token famil-
iarities. The freshmen (or freshers as they’re 
called) in my flat are obsessed with Family 
Guy and 30 Rock along with lots of American 
music. We talk endlessly of major bands and 
they dance and mosh to dub-step every once 
in a while.  There are also three fellow Midd 
kids scattered throughout Uni housing along 
with fifty Dickinson students and a couple of 
other Americans. Since we all arrived for in-
ternational orientation, we’ve become quite 
close and often meet up around campus or in 
class. I’ve also brought my Middlebury nerdi-
ness with me as well and have headed to the li-
brary to study Middle English or Modernism. 
Such familiarities make the larger differences 
much easier to handle and enable me to truly 
enjoy my experience. Still, I love my flatmates 
and have tried to completely immerse myself 
in their culture and eccentricities, often en-
gaging in deep Midd kid-ish discussions that 
last sometimes until four in the morning. 
I never really thought of myself as being 
an “international” student until I came here, 
and even though we speak the same language, 
there’s still so much to learn from the U.K. I’m 
different but not so different from everyone 
else that I feel isolated or misunderstood. I’m 
still a student and an athlete (and now be-
coming a cook, dishwasher and traveler).  And 
above all, being abroad helps me to appreciate 
everything that Middlebury does for me (like 
the meal plan for starters). 
So here I am, living everyday on peanut 
butter sandwiches and pasta with tomatoes 
and olive oil, and trying to understand the ba-
sic universal commonalities we all share and 
have a bit of fun. And while “fit” doesn’t mean 
the same thing as “sporty” and they make me 
say the word “pasta” over and over again be-
cause my accent makes it sound funny, I’m lov-
ing being on my own beyond the Middlebury 
bubble. Hopefully, by the time I return from 
my semester abroad, I’ll have the makings of 
an English accent and the direction-conscious 
attitude of a city student. Cheers Midd, I’ll see 
you in January.
public safety log
DATE TIME INCIDENT CATEGORY LOCATION DISPOSITION
10/5/11 2:00 p.m. Harrassment Phone Warner Hall Case Closed 
10/6/11 4:00 p.m. Noise Disturbance Loud Music Service Building Referred to Commons Deans 
10/6/11 9:00 a.m. Burglary Residence Milliken Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/7/11 12:52 p.m. Vandalism  Bunker Window FIC Hamlin Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/7/11 9:52 p.m. Drug Violation Possession Battell Beach Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/8/11 2:17 a.m. Vandalism Stop Sign Porter Field Road Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/8/11 7:20 p.m. Property Missing Bike Atwater A Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/8/11 1:15 a.m. Misc. Incident Bunker Shut Down FIC Hamlin Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/9/11 1:30 a.m. Attempted Burglary Residence Bowker Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/9/11 1:35 a.m. Assault Battery Physical Assault Homer Harris Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/9/11 5:24 a.m. Fire Alarm Report Tampering with Fire Equip. Forrest Hall Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
October  5 - 10, 2011
The Department of Public Safety reported giving 9 alcohol citations between October 5 and October 10, 2011.
Continued from page 1
There’s a reason I filed suit. 
I exhaused every single 
possibility to try and resolve 
this through the school. I 
am committed to carrying 
this out ... what happened to 
me shouldn’t happen to any 
other student athlete.
 
— Jak Knelman ’12.5
tervention of the Director of Athletics,” he 
said. “The student-athletes are treated fair-
ly and judiciously, and they may bring their 
concerns to me if they think otherwise.”  
Knelman’s Dismissal
Knelman was a successful hockey play-
er at the Academy of Holy Angels, a Catho-
lic high school in Richfield, Minn.
After spending a brief time at Colgate 
University, Knelman played two seasons in 
the United States Hockey League (USHL), 
a top junior hockey league that currently 
has 158 players under contract in the Na-
tional Hockey League (NHL). 
After playing for the USHL Chicago 
Steel, where he was an assistant captain for 
the 2008-09 season, Knelman 
decided to leave the team to 
play collegiately. 
Knelman said some of his 
teammates were first-round 
draft picks in the NHL, and 
while Knelman attracted the 
attention of some Division I 
programs, he decided to at-
tend Middlebury because of its 
strong academics. 
“I had options to play 
Division I, but I decided that 
it was important to have the 
academics along with the ath-
letics,” he said. “At Middlebury 
you can succeed academi-
cally and still play professional 
hockey.” 
Knelman was considered a 
top recruit, and the coaching staff was ex-
cited to bring him in. 
“It will be an experience you will never 
forget,” the coaching staff wrote to Knel-
man in an email shortly after he commit-
ted to the College on April 10, 2009. “We 
have an outstanding class coming in and 
look forward to getting us back on top. We 
expect you will be a big part of it.” 
But by January 2011, the team’s record 
was below .500.  The day of the alumni 
banquet, the team lost to Wesleyan — the 
first ever to the Pioneers.
While the team wasn’t doing well, 
Knelman was the team’s fifth leading scorer 
with eight points — three goals and five as-
sists — over 12 games.
On Monday, Jan. 17, two days after 
the banquet, Beaney called a team meeting 
to discuss the team’s recent poor perfor-
mance, asking each player to comment on 
ways to improve his performance. 
According to Knelman’s lawsuit, 
Beaney proceeded to “humiliate” and “in-
timidate” him during the team meeting. 
“Among other things, Coach Beaney 
said that Knelman’s departure from the 
banquet was selfish,” reads the suit. “Knel-
man was stunned with Coach Beaney’s bul-
lying and humiliating treatment.” 
While the College denied in its legal 
response that Beaney intended to “humili-
ate” or “intimidate” Knelman, it did admit 
that during the meeting Knelman was told 
he did not have the right to speak given his 
early departure from the banquet. 
Knelman was suspended on Jan. 19 for 
the remainder of that weekend and dis-
missed from the team on Jan. 24. 
Beaney told Knelman in a meeting 
that the reason for his dismissal went be-
yond his early departure from the banquet, 
questioning Knelman’s attitude and com-
mitment.  
“Beaney questioned [Knelman’s] com-
mitment to the team, especially given his 
continuing refusal to acknowledge that his 
departure from the Banquet was improper,” 
says the College’s legal response. “[Knel-
man’s] dismissal from the team was partly 
based on his early departure from the team 
banquet but also based on his poor attitude 
with respect to playing time and his posi-
tion on the ice.” 
However, Beaney never disciplined 
Knelman for “attitude” or “commitment” 
problems prior to the Banquet. 
“In your case it is evident that the 
coach did not clearly communicate a pat-
tern of misbehavior, nor did you commit 
an egregious act that would have led to 
your dismissal by ‘cause,’” said Quinn in 
the March 15 email to Knelman. 
The College wrote in its response that 
several players did approach Beaney to 
voice their disagreement with Knelman’s 
suspension, but were told by Beaney that 
the decision was “not made in haste” and 
that it was ultimately the coach’s decision. 
No current hockey players contacted 
would comment on the Knelman case or 
the possibility of a due process for athletes. 
After receiving the dismissal, Knelman 
was advised to send a formal complaint to 
Quinn by Associate Dean for Judicial Af-
fairs and Student Life Karen Guttentag. 
Knelman’s academic advisor and Assistant 
Professor of Geography Jeff Howarth, Cook 
Commons Dean Ian Sutherland and Gut-
tentag all reviewed drafts of the complaint 
before it was sent, according to Knelman’s 
brief. Associate Professor of History Kath-
ryn Morse, who advised Knelman during 
the process, said in a March 20 email to 
Knelman that she shared his “anger and 
frustration.” 
“[Quinn] admits that the system is 
lacking and that new rules and procedures 
will be put in place — a clear admission 
that all is not well in the way [Beaney’s] 
power was used in this case,” she wrote. 
“Your case will make a difference to other 
athletes in the future.” 
Due Process for Athletes
After he submitted the complaint, 
Knelman said he quickly found there was 
no process in place to challenge his dis-
missal. 
“I felt like I was just pushed around to 
different places,” he said. “There just wasn’t 
a process. I got the feeling that the Athletic 
Department was just making it up as they 
went along.” 
Knelman pointed to the aca-
demic judicial process over chal-
lenging grades as a framework for 
what the Athletic Department’s 
process could be. 
“In academics, teachers have 
to write a report explaining why 
they’re giving you a D or an F,” he 
said. “That way you can say, ‘wait, 
this is disputable.’ There are pro-
cesses that ensure fair grading is 
enforced.”
Emeritus Dean of Advising 
Karl Lindholm also compared 
getting kicked off a team to chal-
lenging an academic grade, which 
he said works well. 
“While there is no objective 
board to hear the [grade] com-
plaint, I can honestly say that I 
have been impressed over how seriously 
grade complaints have been taken,” he said. 
Lindholm, who retired in 2010 after 34 
years at the College, served in a variety of 
roles, both as a member of the faculty and 
the administration.
However, reating a new “quasi-judicial 
board” might not be necessary, he said. 
“I also know that [Quinn] has taken 
seriously complaints by student athletes 
about arbitrary or unfair treatment and re-
sponded vigorously,” he said. 
Lindholm also noted that athletes get 
an opportunity to evaluate their coaches at 
the end of every year in a similar fashion 
to teacher evaluations at the end of every 
semester. 
“Those evaluations are taken seriously 
by athletic and school leadership,” he said. 
“I believe that coaches here have been let go 
because of poor student evaluations.” 
Knelman said that the student body 
has generally been sympathetic to his law-
suit.  
“As more facts about the case have sur-
faced, people have become more and more 
supportive,” he said. 
But the experience has taken its toll. 
“It’s been tough because hockey has 
always been such an important part of my 
life and has defined me so much,” he said. 
“It’s difficult. It’s emotional.”  
Suit questions dismissal process
college
shorts
by Jess Berry, News Editor
California governor
approves Dream Act
UVM sees small Occupy 
Wall Street protest
MU professor finds
possible autism treatment
On Saturday, Oct. 8, California 
Governor Jerry Brown signed legislation 
making the California Dream Act law. 
The new law permits the state to give fi-
nancial aid for college to undocumented 
immigrants who graduated from high 
school in California.
Starting in 2013, the graduates will 
be able to apply for Cal Grants, fee waiv-
ers at community colleges and institu-
tional financial aid at public universities. 
Republican lawmakers said they plan to 
repeal the law next year, complaining 
that the cost is too high.
Brown also vetoed a bill on Satur-
day that would have allowed race to be 
a consideration in public college admis-
sions. He cited the 1996 Proposition 209 
banning affirmative action for his deci-
sion.
— Chronicle of Higher Education
The spirit of Occupy Wall Street, an 
ongoing protest against the excesses of 
the financial industry and big business, 
reached the University of Vermont this 
week. Fifty students, faculty and staff 
gathered at the Burlington university’s 
Bailey-Howe Library Monday, Oct. 10, 
for a series of speeches in opposition to 
corporate greed.
Discussions and speeches also 
touched on topics closer to home for 
many in the UVM community, such as 
the outgoing president’s $410,000 “gold-
en parachute” severance package and the 
ongoing collective bargaining between 
the three unions at the university and the 
administration. Speakers also advocated 
for greater transparency in animal test-
ing and a ban on plastic water bottles,
The crowds dwindled early, how-
ever, and after an hour only 20 people 
remained.
 
— The Burlington Free Press
David Beversdorf, associate profes-
sor in the department of radiology and 
Thompson Endowed Chairman at the 
MU Thompson Center for Autism and 
Neurodevelopmental Disorders at the 
University of Missouri, has found that 
the drug propranolol may help adults 
and children with autism improve their 
language skills and social interactions. 
Propranolol is commonly used to treat 
high blood pressure and anxiety.
Only pilot studies have been con-
ducted, but the results have shown im-
provement in word fluency and verbal 
problem solving. The tests have only 
been done on subjects with mild autism, 
but Beversdorf hopes to run studies on 
people with severe autism and Asperger’s 
Syndrome in the future.
He has applied for a grant for a clini-
cal study, which would allow him to run 
tests and potentially have results within 
three years.
— Uwire
4 13 October 2011
campusnews
SGAupdate by Ben Anderson, Staff Writer
The Oct. 2 meeting of the Student 
Government Association began with the 
procedural ratifications of several cabinet 
members who had already been elected or 
appointed to their position as well as the 
five candidates for SGA president.
Last year, the SGA passed a resolution 
recommending that the College repeal the 
ban on Reserve Officers’ Training Corp 
(ROTC) on campus in lieu of Washing-
ton’s decision to overturn the controver-
sial policy “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell”, which 
prohibited gays from openly serving in 
the military. The resolution also suggested 
giving P.E. credit to those students who 
have been working on a ROTC program 
through the University of Vermont. Mi-
chael Polebaum ’12 was appointed as the 
sponsor of this resolution.
The SGA also discussed the Outdoor 
Introduction for New Kids (OINK) bill, 
which was passed last year and is wait-
ing to be moved on to the next step. The 
bill will extend the SGA’s sponsorship of 
OINK, which is currently paid for entirely 
by the SGA. Nathan LaBarba ’14 and Joani 
Thompson ’14 are the members of the 
Ad-Hoc Committee that worked to push 
this bill forward.
The bill is currently awaiting a final 
decision from Old Chapel. They were pre-
sented three options for continuing the 
program, and it is up to President of the 
College Ronald D. Liebowitz to choose 
one of the options and sign off on the bill. 
At the Oct. 9 meeting, the senators 
discussed a project organized by Brian 
Foster ’13, Library and Information Ser-
vices (LIS) and an outside company, Nep-
tune Web, to create a program Foster calls 
Cynirgy. Cynirgy would complement the 
many online resources available to the 
students and serve as a hub for user-gen-
erated content involving things such as 
school events and school-related discus-
sions. The SGA wrote a resolution in sup-
port of the program last year, though was 
unable to provide the funding Foster re-
quested for development this October be-
cause it is outside the power of the SGA. 
Foster emphasized the potential 
contribution to the College the program 
would make in centralizing communica-
tion channels online and complementing 
the abundant academic resources avail-
able to students, facilitating communi-
cation regarding events and meetings. 
Foster said that Cynirgy is ready to go live 
soon, thus presenting a ‘product’ the SGA 
can purchase, facilitating funding.
Foster also said that though this is an 
entrepreneurial project, he would not be 
profiting from the College with the pro-
gram. He added that the project has the 
full support of the administration and 
that they would be willing to fund half 
of it, with the SGA covering the cost of 
the other half. The senators feared that 
the project overlapped with existing re-
sources, many of which are barely known 
by the student body and hardly ever used 
to their potential. Senators were also 
skeptical about the user-generated aspect 
of the project, worrying that it would be 
abused. Currently, the SGA is waiting to 
hear from LIS and the administration 
about their support of the project and 
how they plan to proceed.
At the beginning of the meeting it 
was decided that should run-off elections 
be necessary for the SGA presidential 
election, they would be held the two days 
after the election, without any additional 
campaigning. 
Dean of Students and Assistant Pro-
fessor of History of Art & Architecture 
Katy Smith-Abbott also talked to the SGA 
about the alcohol task force that is being 
formed to evaluate alcohol policy and its 
effectiveness on campus. She asked for 
one senator to act as the SGA representa-
tive on the task force, and LaBarba was 
chosen for the position.  
SGA discusses ROTC, funding for OINK trips
Middbrief
by Adam Schaffer, News Editor
Bunker blackout goes dark before midnight
On its Sept. 7 opening night, crowd 
control issues forced the student-run 
nightclub at Freeman International Cen-
ter, the Bunker, to close before midnight. 
The night was slated to last until 3 a.m. 
and feature music DJed by Hunter Nolan 
’13. 
Festivities were cut short when one 
student, frustrated the event had already 
reached capacity, broke a window near the 
entrance to gain access to the party below. 
The general atmosphere was one of unrest, 
and tempers began to run high.
“[We] reached maximum capac-
ity pretty early on in the night,” said Tom 
Campanella ’12, who was acting as a 
bouncer, “and the line got pretty long. Peo-
ple would refuse to wait and tried breaking 
in as many places as they could.”
Once the window was broken, Pub-
lic Safety was reported to have closed the 
event. People refused to leave, Campanella 
said, and it took nearly an hour to clear the 
area out.
Public Safety was not available for 
comment at press time.
Despite the unrest, the events at Bun-
ker will continue, albeit with changes to 
ensure safety. 
“MCAB plans to address the issues for 
the safety of the crowd, the staff working 
the event and the facilities themselves, and 
there will be more Bunker events in the fu-
ture,” MCAB Concerts Chair Dan Crepps 
’12. “The administration has been sup-
portive of the Bunker resurrection, and is 
working with us to ensure the safety of all 
participants in the future.”
Though the large crowds caused the 
early shutdown, Crepps added, they are 
evidence of the high student demand for 
similar events at the Bunker.
WRMC to underwite programming
Middlebury College radio station 
WRMC decided last week to begin under-
writing its most popular shows again, re-
turning to a fundraising practice the station 
had regularly used in the past. The station 
will use the money to redesign their web-
site. 
Underwriting is a way for non-profit 
organizations to raise money by allowing 
businesses or organizations to sponsor a 
program in exchange for mentioning their 
product to listeners.
Although they do not have any spon-
sors yet, the station plans to partner with 
local businesses and College offices to fill 
slots. They hope to pair programming and 
underwriters so that they complement each 
other and listeners will be interested in the 
sponsor.
For now, WRMC will focus the under-
writing on sports talk shows, athletic games 
and the Democracy Now! syndicated talk 
show, which have the highest numbers of 
listeners.
Their plans for underwriting tie into 
WRMC’s current effort to integrate more 
with the community.
“WRMC became kind of a closed-off 
entity that didn’t really interact with the 
community, which is a shame because we 
have 2900 watts in our transmitter,” said 
Joanna Rothkopt ’12, general manager of 
the station. “That’s a huge range. We reach 
from Vergennes to Brandon and a little bit 
of Leicester.
“We have all of this area, which is pret-
ty rare for a college radio to have, and we 
weren’t really using it,” she continued. “We 
were kind of broadcasting for ourselves 
and for our DJs. And I think this signifies 
that we are interacting with the community 
more.”
The station has also tried to integrate 
with the community via alternative pro-
gramming, such as news shows or talk 
shows.  Sundays now consist entirely of al-
ternative programming.
“We’re aiming to reestablish our news 
department … which is us trying to engage 
with the community,” said Rothkopf.
Alternative, non-music programming 
has proven to be highly successful among 
the greater Middlebury community. Cur-
rently, Democracy Now! is aired from 5 to 
6 p.m. on weekdays and is WRMC’s most 
popular show. It is not, however, student-
run programming.
Students also have created alternative 
content via the show the Muse, which airs 
on Sundays from 2 to 4 p.m. The Muse is 
a news show about life on campus and in 
Addison County. Throughout the week, 
students compile stories to play during the 
show. Each week has a different theme. This 
week, the theme is family, in honor of par-
ents’ weekend.
“The hope is if we do outreach cor-
rectly, and we get into the community, pro-
grams like the Muse will be able to replace 
Democracy Now!,” said Michael Polebaum 
’12, executive producer of the Muse.
In the past, WRMC has had a strong 
repertoire of alternative programming, but 
in the last 10 years, news shows have disap-
peared in favor of music.
“It’s a whole lot easier to do a music 
show than a news show,” said Polebaum. 
“But our hope is that WRMC is not just that 
stereotypical college indie music radio sta-
tion. The long-term goal is to have alterna-
tive broadcasting, whether it be news or talk 
or whatever, for at least one hour every day.”
By Hannah Bristol
Online Editor
A window was broken Friday night at 
the bunker, ending the event early.
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
campusnews
local13 October 2011
  The Middlebury Campus
5
EIC reports to the Campus
Editor-in-chief of !e Addison Independent, Angelo Lynn, be-
lieves there is something magical about holding a newspaper,
page 6.
Sauté, sizzle and stir 
!e National !eatre live-broadcasted the 1950s tale of 
struggle and survival in a West End London kitchen,
page 7. 
by Becca Coleman Sta! Writer
Cattle grazing is a common sight at Shelburne Farms, a popular spot for families and local Vermonters during the fall, spring and summer months.
Nestled a little over a mile o" of Route 7, Shelburne Farms is a beautiful 1,400-acre prop-
erty, perched like medieval castles on top of rolling hills. !e Farms provides many activities 
that remind visitors of its distinguished history.  
Bought in 1886 by Dr. William Seward Webb and his wife Eliza Vanderbilt Webb, the 
Farms began as a beautiful agricultural manor. Webb had renowned landscape architect Fred-
erick Law Olmstead (designer of areas like Central Park and Montreal’s Mount Royal Park) 
envision the 3,800 acres of farm, #elds and forest in a new, uni#ed way. Where there had been 
33 small farms, Webb created a vast, charming property of rolling lawns, charming forests 
with footpaths and many buildings which still exist to hold cattle, make cheese and clean and 
cook the harvested fruits and vegetables.
!e property passed through generations this way, as a beautiful home to the Webb fam-
ily, until #nally, in the early 1970s, the generation of young adult Webbs realized that they did 
not want to sell it o" or partition the property, but also could not a"ord to maintain it in its 
present state. Its rich history begged to be opened up to the curious public, which is exactly 
what happened in 1972. 
!e Farms maintained its history, with only the addition of two modern “greenhouse” 
style barns built to produce dairy. All the other buildings were built in the 1880s, when Webb 
bought the property and were done in the same brown shingles and green windowpanes, with 
beautiful architecture very di"erent from barns of modern standards. 
Currently, the property has an inn (the former house of Webb and his wife), a farm barn, 
which has a veritable zoo of animals that children and adults alike can come look at and 
pet, various gardens, a solar orchard of stationary solar panels and one that tracks the sun to 
most e$ciently receive solar energy, and an education center, where employees teach kids and 
adults alike about natural resources and agriculture. 
!e history enriches the Farms and employees #nd it a valuable part of their mission 
to “cultivate a conservation ethic.” !e Farms has evolved into a place of education, one that 
makes kids, teens and adults aware of the importance of agriculture and natural resources. 
property tours run four times a day, and the inn gets almost all of its food from the market 
garden, which grows fruits and vegetables on the property. What doesn’t go to the inn is either 
sold at farmers’ markets or part of a farm share for the year-round sta".  !ey even have a 
sugar bush, a maple sugaring area, which is where the inn’s maple syrup comes from.
While the o$cial property tours and the inn close a%er this coming weekend, many 
events will continue to go on at the Farms. !e coach barn is another area of the property 
where special events such as conferences, retreats and weddings occur. Conferences are a way 
for the Farms to continue its education mission, and upcoming ones can be found on its 
website. Most are free, and only some require online registration. Students here at the Col-
lege looking for an internship or experience as a residential educator should look no further 
than Shelburne Farms to learn how to environmentally educate those of all ages in aspects of 
agriculture and natural resources.
Famous for their award winning-cheese making, the large variety of animals and of 
course the educational opportunities, Shelburne Farms has attracted school #eld trips for 
years. Teachers enter a lottery in February to win a #eld trip day for their students at Shelburne 
Farms where they can take their class in the upcoming school year. 
 “At the heart of all of [these activities] is the opportunity to share this place,” said Vice 
President and Creative Programs Director Megan Camp.
Currently, there is an arts exhibition that will be at the Farms for the next couple of weeks, 
with a theme of New England pastoral farms. With the end of the season coming up, there will 
no longer be a fee on admission, allowing a truly relaxing experience to walk around at the 
Farms. !e amount one can learn in a short walk observing the various buildings and opera-
tions that take place on the property, is impressive and inspiring.
Shelburne Farms offers 
opportunities galore
All photos courtesy of Shelburne Farms and Becca Coleman
In addition to making its own maple syrup, the farm also makes its own cheese, served at the restaurant inn. All are invited to come visit the land and experience all it has to o!er. 
6 13 October 2011
one in 8,700
 where the personalities of middlebury proper are celebrated
By Nora Fiore
Staff Writer
localnews
Newspaperman, community leader, cowboy and grower of roses: 
these are just a few of the roles that Angelo Lynn, editor-in-chief and 
owner of 'e Addison Independent, has taken on in his distinguished 
career.
For Lynn, being a newspaperman is more than a business. It is 
a way of life, and a family tradition. Born in Kansas, he remembers 
working for his father’s paper, the Iola Register, putting inserts into hot-
o!-the-presses papers when the length of the newsprint was taller than 
he was. Lynn speaks with pride about learning the business aspects of 
journalism from his father.  Of four siblings, three — Lynn, his brother 
and his sister — took over the family business and established careers 
as editors. "e fourth, Lynn says with a laugh, became a preacher.
“We didn’t learn how to do anything but write and editorialize, or 
preach, which sometimes is one and the same,” he said. 
A#er running three paper routes from the time he was eight and 
later getting a degree in journalism, Lynn headed out to Colorado. 
"ere, he roamed as a self-proclaimed “ski bum,” as a rock-climber 
and, yes, as a cowboy. One still gets a hint of the Code of the West with 
Lynn when he refers to the occasional crime that shatters Vermont’s 
peace. He shook his head while describing how two armed brigands 
recently robbed the home of a senior citizen. 
 “Why don’t they pick on someone their own size?” he said.  
Lynn’s next adventure is to return home to the family trade. He 
bought and ran his $rst paper, a small, %edgling weekly called 'e Yates 
Center News, by the age of 26.  Ironically, the opportunity came as a 
result of the kind of impersonal newspaper organizations that Lynn 
deliberately eschewed.
In 1984, the former editor of 'e Addison Independent, Gordon 
Mills, also a friend of Lynn’s brother, had $nally given up on $ghting 
news conglomerates. A#er watching the takeover of the Burlington 
Free Press, Mills decided to pass the torch on to a new generation, but 
the seasoned reporter was not about to sell his paper to just anyone. 
“He didn’t want to sell it to a big chain,” Lynn said. “He was look-
ing for an independent, family-oriented guy like me.” 
So, with his pregnant wife and his one-year-old daughter, the in-
trepid Kansan moved across the country to take charge of the strug-
gling local paper. You can chalk it up to the cowboy spirit. 
Today, 'e Addison Independent boasts the eighth largest circula-
tion in the state. Vermont news, which Lynn insists is not a contradic-
tion in terms, o!ers a unique personal cache for the dedicated journal-
ist. In a larger state, politicians might sit con$dently in their o&ces 
and deign to speak only to press agents of their choosing. In the Green 
Mountain State, however, Lynn said, “we know these guys.” In fact, 
when the likes of Bernie Sanders or Pat Leahey happen to pass through 
Middlebury, they just might “stop by” 'e Addison Independent o&ces 
to ask for advice. 
“"ey want our opinion,” said Lynn. 
State leaders might also protest with their side of the story. 
“"ey’ll come in and say, ‘Well, I didn’t like what you wrote about,” 
said Lynn.
"e “neighbor versus neighbor” angle that characterizes much of 
Vermont news forces a journalist to look at ethics from “a very real 
perspective.” In towns like Bristol and Middlebury, age-old tensions 
between the “community values and individual rights” threaten to boil 
over. While Vermont has its share of squabbles, though, Lynn still ad-
mires the “civility” that abides. You had better love your neighbors or 
you will feel mighty awkward when you “bump into them” at the post 
o&ce. 
“You gotta work this out somehow,” he said.  
With a grin, Lynn declared that instead of endless formulaic crime 
articles, up here, journalism has a more interesting slant.
 “It’s all about problem-solving,” he said. 
Lynn also praises Vermonters as “innovators” in every sense of the 
word. “We’re in the forefront” of many key issues and movements, like 
civil unions and environmental responsibility,” he said. In the state-
house, politicians have the freedom to “say things that aren’t said any-
where else” in the country. 
Unlike the usual public cynicism towards the press, residents of 
Vermont tend to trust reporters who reciprocally challenge themselves 
to stay honest for the people they represent.
Lynn said that “when a disaster happens,” as with Hurricane Irene 
this summer, more o#en than not, Vermonters poignantly invite jour-
nalists to “have a look, tell the story.” Such faith from citizens spurs 
Lynn to strive towards “a certain level of discourse” in his own writing 
and to “be thoughtful each time” he composes an editorial. 
As the parent of a Middlebury College alumna, his youngest 
daughter Elsie, Lynn enjoyed the chance to experience Middlebury in a 
new way for four years that he found both “interesting and satisfying.” 
He loves the College for the “culture it brings to the town.” "rough his 
interactions with the College, Lynn has interviewed the Dalai Lama 
and discussed world politics with Soviet diplomats. He served on the 
Bicentennial committee and maintains an active interest in the goings-
on of this newsworthy corner of Addison County.
When asked about the future of newspapers, a subject that tends 
to generate apocalyptic predictions, Lynn insists that quality reporting 
will always express itself through the available technology and media. 
However, the physical form of the newspaper forces you to leaf through 
subjects outside of your comfortable sphere of knowledge and tends 
to “broaden your outlook on the world.” With a digital publication, 
however, “you don’t read things that you’re not interested in.” Blogs 
and other contemporary news media also risk turning into “a game of 
telephone” when information gets passed from player to player based 
on %eshed-out rumors and partial information instead of a tangible 
base of sources.
Looking forward, Lynn also seeks to foster “the pride of contribu-
tion” and businesslike news practices elsewhere in the world. During 
two tours of China as then-president of the New England Press Asso-
ciation, he “established a journalism exchange with the All-China Jour-
nalists Association.” He laments that, with o#en inadequate business 
applications in a medium in%uenced by the state, “they don’t have the 
freedom that we do.” He dreams of returning to China, visiting other 
Asian countries and providing education and training for budding 
journalists there, once he passes the family business onto his daugh-
ters, the rising $#h generation of newspaper editors.
For the time being, though, he likes nothing more than going wa-
ter skiing in the mornings at his home on Lake Dunmore. 
“"e longer I’m here [in Vermont], the more I love it,” Lynn said. 
Farm Fresh
by Rachel Porter
Rachel Porter’13 is from Albany, N.Y.
Do you remember that iconic scene 
in Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory 
where we witness the extent of Wonka’s ed-
ible magic for the $rst time? "at fantastic 
moment when the camera spans the cas-
cading chocolate waterfall, spilling into a 
thick, creamy river. Wouldn’t you want to 
experience that yourself? Well, last week I 
had the pleasure of $nding the golden ticket 
that not only let me explore Proctor’s own 
underground factory, but also gave me the 
chance to sit down with Middlebury’s own 
food wizard, Director of Dining Services, 
Matthew Biette. 
"e conversation started much like 
Charlie’s wish to enter the realm of choco-
late, with a desire to learn more about the 
food we eat and how it is made. I was cu-
rious about how much of the food at the 
dining hall is local. According to Biette, 20 
percent of the College’s food dollars — the 
money available to buy food — is spent on 
local products, a $ve percent decrease from 
last year. A#er completing the annual $scal 
evaluation, a cut needed to be made. Biette 
made it clear that part of sustainability in 
Dining Services is “sustaining the budget.”
When selecting a vendor to buy from, 
Biette said it is not as simple as locating a 
product.
“People have to understand how big 
we are,” he said, and some farms simply do 
not have produce enough crops to meet our 
needs. “"e volume of food we use is tre-
mendous.” 
On any given day at the College, 7,000 
meals are served, totaling 1,400,000 meals 
a year. "ink about that. Now, let’s scale it 
down to a breakfast essential: the egg. "e 
majority of eggs used at the College are shell 
eggs, with 545,510 eggs being cracked a year 
and 900 dozen cracked a week. 
"e third component of how food is 
selected is the degree to which labor is re-
quired. Sometimes pre-packaged liquid 
eggs are simply more e&cient. "e Cli!ord 
Symposium picnic is another example of 
a labor-intensive endeavor. Two thousand 
ears of corn were brought in for that event 
and each ear was shucked by hand.
When Biette o!ered to take me on 
a tour of Proctor’s kitchen, I had no idea 
what to expect. We walked behind the soup 
counter and down the stairs to a busy little 
world, unknown to much of the student 
body. I was Charlie. Excited and wide-eyed, 
I saw cauldrons half my height and ex-
pansive countertops facilitating numerous 
preparation activities. "e sta! was busy 
and the atmosphere of purpose and team-
work was overwhelming. By the time we 
made it to the bakery, I was already %oating 
and that is when I saw the white chocolate 
river.  Pounds of lemon cheesecake were be-
ing poured over delicious brownie crusts. It 
was a sight to behold, and for those of you 
that ate the treats last Friday, you know how 
good they tasted. 
A#er my foray down to the kitchen, 
suddenly everything above ground tasted 
better. No longer did the food just magical-
ly appear at mealtime; it was connected to 
individual faces. "is is the advice that Bi-
ette le# me with as we reentered the equally 
busy environment outside of the dining hall 
walls. 
“Understanding that people are proud 
of what they make,” he said, is key to con-
necting with the heart and soul of dining 
services. 
Needless to say it was a humbling ex-
perience. 
On Monday, Oct. 10, Sugarbush Resort hosted Grace Potter, a Waits$eld, Vt. native, to raise money for the Mad River Valley Community 
Fund (MRVCF). "is fund, established in 1989, helps the four towns in the Mad River Valley, including Fayston, Moretown, Waits$eld and 
Warren. Over $210,000 was raised at the event, all of which will be donated to the %ood relief e!orts. Two hundred people attended the brunch, 
which featured much local food and solo concert. 
“We had two goals in mind when we were putting this event together: We wanted to raise a signi$cant amount of money for the %ood vic-
tims,” said Sugarbush President and Owner Win Smith in a press release. “We also wanted to celebrate the coming together of this community 
— that spirit of ‘neighbors helping neighbors,’ which has never been more apparent. It’s what makes this Valley so special.” 
Courtesy of Candice White
Grace Potter Performs for crowd at suGarbush
Andrew Podrgula, Photos Editors
Angelo Lynn sits at his desk at 'e Addison Independent.
 localnews 
local
lowdown
By Kaylen Baker
Local News Editor
Metropolitan Opera live 
broadcast
Oct. 15, 1 p.m. – 4 p.m.
!e Town Hall !eatre will broadcast 
Anna Bolena, Donizetti’s masterpiece, live 
from New York City. !is opera opens the 
met’s season, and entails a three hour and 
30 minute demise of a melodious Queen, 
played by Anna Netrebko, who falls into 
insanity as a result of the in"delity of her 
king. Tickets are available at the THT box 
o#ce for $24, or online at http://www.
townhalltheater.org.
 Lost Landscapes talk
Oct. 18, 12 p.m. – 1 p.m.
!is Tuesday, the Sheldon Museum hosts 
a talk by local Vermont photographers 
Milo Schaefer and Max Kraus, discussing 
forgotten places in Addison County, along 
with photos from the collection “Vermont 
Landscapes Lost and Found.” Dessert 
will be served. Call 388-2117 for more 
information.
Midd Chocolates returns for seconds
Neil Simon comedy
Oct. 14, 8 p.m. – 10:30 p.m.
!e Vergennes Opera House presents 
Rumors, a comedy that tells the story of a 
crew of high-society partygoers, who try 
to cover up their crazy evening activities. 
Set in the 1980s, the two-act comedy will 
also be showing on Oct. 15, 21, 22 and 23. 
For more information or to buy tickets 
($12 for adults, $10 for students and 
seniors), visit http://www.vergennesopera-
house.org.
13 October 2011 7
Benefit spin class
Oct. 15, 9 a.m. – 10 a.m.
Kathy Reynolds is holding a spin class, 
$10 for adults and $5 for students, to 
bene"t the Addison Central Teens. All are 
welcome to join the class at Middlebury 
Fitness. !ere is limited seating, so call 
(802) 388-3744 to reserve a bike.
Arts Walk in Middlebury
Oct. 14, 5 p.m. – 7 p.m.
Take a walk through downtown 
Middlebury and Marble Works on this 
second Friday of October, where over 40 
venues will display art created by artists 
in the area. Music and food will provide 
extra entertainment. Look for a pink boot 
at the door. For more information, call 
388-7951, ext. 2.
Salisbury fall festival
Oct. 16, 2 p.m. – 6 p.m.
Join others at the Salisbury Community 
School for its annual Fall Harvest Festival. 
A “freaky fun ride” will kick o$ the festivi-
ties, followed by carnival games and food 
contests, judging the best pies, jams and 
pickles. Later, all are welcome to enjoy a 
hayride, and the renowned chicken BBQ 
will start at 4 p.m. For additional ques-
tions, call (802) 352-4291.  
 Book signing
Oct. 19, 10 a.m. – 2 p.m.
Come to the Bixby Library in Vergennes 
to meet local author Jean Arleen Breed. 
She will be on hand to sign copies of her 
two newest books.
“!e bloody soup is still bloody sour!” shouted the voice of an 
angered English man, ricocheting out from Middlebury’s Town Hall 
!eater (THT) on !ursday, Oct. 6. !is may seem strange, consider-
ing that the brick edi"ce is not a soup kitchen, and had not, nor ever 
has, served soup. 
Instead, the THT dished up a play, ,e Kitchen, which was 
streamed from the National !eatre Live (NTL). !e company uses 
satellites to broadcast these British theater productions across the 
world. !e screening, delayed several hours to accommodate theater-
goers who prefer to watch said entertainment in the early evening, al-
ways broadcasts to English-speaking countries on the same day as the 
London performers’ "nale. Earlier this season, the NTL brought the 
play One Man, Two Guvnors to the Middlebury screen, to the riotous 
enjoyment of the local community.
!is week’s ,e Kitchen had a more somber e$ect. !e story is set 
in the 1950s, directly in the middle of a restaurant kitchen in West End 
London. !e characters — chefs, butchers, pastry makers, waitresses, a 
hobo and one imposing proprietor — have backgrounds as colorful as 
their employments. Some hail from their native England, while others 
come from France, Italy, Greece, Germany, Ireland and even Africa. 
Every character has a role within the kitchen, be it cutting, roast-
ing or serving, which they exact with precision throughout the entire 
play. 
“A lot of these actors have waited tables,” joked director Bijan 
Sheibani, during an interview backstage at the London performance. 
He did, however, bring in a cookery consultant, Jeremy Lee, to in-
struct the cast on proper cooking techniques, showing them the cor-
rect %icks of the wrist for each dish.
“Something important to realize is just how complex the move-
ments are,” said Lee. 
In the beginning of rehearsal, the cast practiced on real food.
“In week two there were thousands of chopped onions every-
where,” said Lee. “!en we realized they weren’t just onions, and that a 
lot of people were walking around with plaster splints on.”
Yet no food ever appeared on stage during the show; the actors’ 
ability to mimic cooking created the allusion. At any moment in the 
play, one of the characters was at a kitchen countertop cooking, even 
when the lights had gone dim and most characters had le& for the af-
ternoon.
“!ey are always making something speci"c,” said Sheibani. “I’d 
say to someone in rehearsal, ‘Can you move over here a minute,’ and 
he’d reply, ‘Just a second, I’m in the middle of my pro"teroles.’”
!e characters’ roles in the kitchen vary in more ways than sim-
ply cooking, as their personalities, dreams and ambitions contend with 
each other, attempting to rise above the grease and smoke of their 
working-class lives. Some are lovers, some black-eyed enemies, some 
mis"ts and some strangers. 
!e central character is a German named Peter, and was played 
by Tom Brooke. He’s a wiry, eccentric troublemaker who can’t "nd an 
ounce of inertia between professing his ardor for his married lover Mo-
nique, bullying his peers with knives, stealing cutlets for a beggar and 
building a “bridge of dreams” from a broom and overturned pots.  
“Don’t speak German!” was yelled across the kitchen o&en enough, 
and other characters too express such anti-German sentiments, since 
this era follows on the heels of World War II. !e German characters 
almost seemed to deserve it though, as they sang obnoxious German 
songs loudly, making fun of other races — they even reenacted a Hitler 
march. 
“It was just a dream,” Peter poorly justi"ed. 
!is multicultural setting underscores that fact that every char-
acter has a hard life. !e audience never saw the happy, comfortable 
diners; instead, it stayed in the kitchen, where fast-paced quantity takes 
front seat to food quality.
Complicated, clear-cut choreography contrasted with this chaos. 
Although ,e Kitchen was not a musical, old-fashioned French music 
o&en accompanied the sound of a whisk on eggs or the sizzle of a fry-
ing pan, while the so& hiss of gas burners pervaded the air. At times the 
actors all froze, allowing two characters to interact in a serious conver-
sation or a simple %irtation. In other moments, everyone was moving, 
running in circles around the round stage, and always screaming.
“!e choreography is beautiful,” said one Middlebury spectator 
during intermission. “It goes back and forth and back and forth — and 
then with the dialogue! It’s fun.”
Sometimes funny, o&en bullying, a bit crude, lewd and mean, in a 
very British sort of way, ,e Kitchen, stirred up the Middlebury audi-
ence like a pot of hot soup.
 In the "nal scene, a&er Peter has climbed atop a counter with 
a cleaver knife and sliced open the gas pipe in a "t of rage, releasing 
%ames into the air, not to mention the blood pouring forth from his 
hands, and runs through the dining room screaming to the dismay of 
the diners, the proprietor enters the kitchen. !is cold, digni"ed man, 
played by Bruce Myers, asks Peter, “Bloody fool, what is there more?”
Peter has no response, and neither did the audience. If the story 
could be boiled down as simply as a pot of soup, the THT attendees 
would have indeed pronounced it “sour.”
 Managing a chocolate shop is all about balance. As Stephanie and 
Andy Jackson’s shop expands, their lives just keep getting sweeter. 
Middlebury Chocolates has been closed for a few months while 
they revamped the shop’s business plan, but reopened on Oct. 1 just in 
time for fall. !e Jacksons wanted to reevaluate what they stocked, how 
they "lled orders and how they managed their time to ensure that they 
were living deliberately.
 “We were big co$ee nerds,” said Stephanie, concerning the cou-
ple’s past as co$ee brewers. But two years ago, as they searched for the 
perfect chocolate accompaniment, the couple realized that maybe the 
sweet treat was equally worthy of their attention. 
“We never went to school for it.” Stephanie continued. “Just kept 
experimenting with di$erent beans until we found something good.” 
A taste-test that began with Ecuadorian and Balinese Beans has now 
expanded to include beans from Peru, the Dominican Republic, and 
Venezuela. 
“A tru'e takes about three days to set before it gets coated. And 
then about 30 seconds to harden,” said Stephanie. She revealed that 
most time goes into coating each tru'e, which must be done with 
patience and care to produce the aesthetically and-taste-bud-pleasing 
product that the town of Middlebury has come to know and love.
Tucked away below the Old Stone Bridge, the shop is easy to miss 
on a walk down Main Street. But once you sample their chocolate, it’s 
hard to stay away. As their two young children weave between their 
legs, the Jacksons’ serve tru'es, chocolate bars, co$ee and milkshakes 
to %oods of customers.
“I come here for study breaks whenever I can,” said one student 
from the College. “It’s nice to get o$ campus and splurge on something 
totally satisfying.” 
!e place certainly has an o$-campus feel. With its large, open 
room, white sectional couch and contemporary local art, it more close-
ly resembles an art studio than a chocolate and co$ee shop. Simple 
white chalk writing scrawled on a traditional chalkboard advertises 
daily specials and doesn’t detract from the main draw. Both Stephanie 
and Andy come out from behind the counter to catch up with regular 
customers and to welcome newcomers into the shop.
A small bar area in one corner provides seating for those who wish 
to enjoy a “sipping chocolate” like Peruvian Chili, Traditional Spiced or 
Vanilla Bean, or just sample their tru'es in the house. 
While it takes a lot of work and careful balance of friends, family 
and %avors, the Jacksons are onto something. Whether it takes some 
extra sea salt or another drop of vanilla, they have discovered the for-
mula for success; in chocolate, in Middlebury and in life.
!e Kitchen spices things up at THT
By Becca Fanning
Staff Writer
!e British National !eatre stirs up a live screening of !e Kitchen.
Courtesty of Doug Anderson
Middlebury Chocolates o"ers six varieties of tru#es.
Courtesy of Connor Wood
A TASTING GUIDE TO MIDDLEBURY CHOCOLATES’ TRUFFLES
CLASSIC DARK Rich and smooth with a slight hint of mocha, the classic dark is 
underrated, and completely irresistible.
TRADITIONAL SPICED Like a ball of Christmas morning. !e subtle spices smell 
and taste piney with a kick.
SEA SALTED sprinkled with crystals of sea salt, this dark chocolate will satisfy 
your sweet and salty cravings. 
MAPLE !is milk chocolate tru"e is dipped in a crunchy shell then rolled in a 
dusting of maple brown sugar. 
CHILI Do not be intimidated by the dusting of red chili powder on top. !is one 
builds with each bite, and avoids being overly spicy by maintaining some sweet-
ness and a smooth, creamy center.
CARDAMOM VANILLA !e strongest one, the cardamom is tough to place, but 
sticks in the back of your throat.
8 13 October 2011 localnews
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
Apple picking is A fAll fAmily fAvorite At sunrise orchArds
Fall is the best and only time of year when families and friends can enjoy an excursion together to an apple orchard in the last of the year’s fair weather. There’s always 
something to do, no matter how young or old. Here, friends collect apples at Sunrise Orchards right off the trees, observe the process of making apple cider, and taste a 
crispy fresh apple, and enjoy the wonderfully warm breeze. 
www.
middleburycampus
.com
the best home page ever. do it. 
SUBSCRIBE
TODAY!
VISIT HTTP://BOXOFFICE.MIDDLEBURY.EDU
Middlebury Campus
Get the College 
weekly delivered 
straight to 
your home. By 
subscribing, you 
are supporting 
a 100-year-old 
tradition that has 
trained countless 
journalists, writers 
and designers, 
including Pulitzer 
Prize winners.
to the
advertisements 13 October 2011  9
I discussed my idea for this op-ed with multiple people 
before I wrote it, and the most frequent comment was: “What 
is Community Council, actually?” — which is half my point.
Community Council is a committee made up of the 
dean of the College and nine other faculty, staff and ad-
ministration members, the president of the SGA, the stu-
dent co-chair of the Community Council as elected by the 
student body, and eight other students. The Council meets 
once a week to discuss non-academic issues; it has the power 
to appoint students to both the Community and Academic 
Judicial Boards and make recommendations to the admin-
istration regarding College policies (i.e. changes to the stu-
dent handbook); and it oversees Social and Academic Inter-
est Houses. The Council is designed to hear proposals from 
anyone in the College community regarding any aspect of 
nonacademic life at the College, so drafting an articulate pro-
posal and generating enough community support to bring 
an issue before the Council is student’s best bet for enacting 
policy change at the College. 
All of that information is readily available in the student 
handbook, but how many of us have read the full handbook? 
I might have read it once as an eager first-year, but since 
then I have only briefly searched it for the College’s policies 
on tiki torches and dorm pets (both of which I found dis-
appointing), and occasionally to fact-check for the Campus. 
My point is that, with so few students fully aware of our op-
tions for shaping our own college experience, even fewer of 
us actually take advantage of those options. I like to think if 
we were more aware of our power to affect College policy we 
would participate more in the management of this institu-
tion, but realistically I think the other half of the problem 
is that students generally don’t care. We’re too busy going to 
Middlebury to worry about running it, and I think that’s how 
the College is designed; we’re supposed to be here for an edu-
cation, not for practice at policy reform. 
I argue that that practice should be part of our educa-
tion, however. We’re learning how to think and what to think 
about at Middlebury — why don’t we learn how to turn 
our thoughts into actions, too? One thing every student at 
Middlebury has experience in, and likely also has an opin-
ion about, is College life. It’s what we live every day, and we 
should take a more active role in shaping our daily experi-
ences. Community Council is a direct line for students to 
take that active role, but few among us will take the time to 
show up to one of those Monday afternoon meetings and 
plead a case for fewer restrictions on tiki torches, the expan-
sion of the College’s pet policy to include cats, or whatever 
other policy details we take issue with. It then falls to those 10 
students already on the Council to represent the wishes of the 
student body, and I do not trust that they can.
The eight students other than the SGA president and 
student co-chair are selected by the SGA after submitting an 
application detailing their current involvement in the Col-
lege community and what issues they hope to address as a 
member of Community Council. Having students self-select 
is unlikely to generate a diverse group of Community Coun-
cil members — I would bet that students who regularly face 
official College discipline, who work a job 30 hours a week so 
that they can attend Middlebury, who struggle to maintain 
a high GPA or who, ironically, are already heavily involved 
in College life in some other regard rarely end up on Com-
munity Council, or on either of the Judicial Boards. We need 
those students’ opinions just as much as we need the opin-
ions of students who want to be on Community Council, 
and the ones who want to be on Community Council rep-
resent a much smaller slice of the student body than those 
students who fall into the categories I listed here. A random 
sampling of students would represent a wider array of opin-
ions, and in fact that’s what I am proposing.
Serving on Community Council should be like jury 
duty — students could be selected at random from every 
class and serve for a semester. I think as students, essentially 
citizens of the College, we have a civic duty to participate in 
the formation of our education, and I think the College has 
a duty to prepare us to be active citizens. If we don’t take ad-
vantage of our opportunities to give feedback on the educa-
tional experience we’re living, the College should go out of it’s 
way to encourage us to do so, even requiring us to do so. The 
College certainly gives us many opportunities: the president 
has monthly open office hours, the SGA wields a fair amount 
of monetary power, we certainly could go before the Com-
munity Council as it stands now with whatever grievances 
we have over current policies and the administration does 
read the Campus. But as community involvement stands, it’s 
clearly not an essential part of the Middlebury education. 
It is very easy to get through your four years at 
Middlebury without once participating in something like the 
open forum on alcohol policy last spring, being a member of 
residential life or the SGA, or even opening any of the emails 
from the administration. We don’t have to know anything 
about the way the administration works or how College 
policy shapes our lives to successfully graduate, and I think 
that’s a problem. Maybe running participation in Commu-
nity Council like jury duty isn’t the solution, but it’s an idea, 
and I would like to see more ideas on how we can incorpo-
rate active citizenship into our value system at Middlebury. It 
is my last semester, and I am coming to these realizations very 
late in the game, but it’s never too late to at least offer up an 
opinion or hope for change.
campus policies and information
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus provide a forum for constructive and respectful dialogue on substantive issues. With 
this in mind, The Campus reserves the right to deny publication of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This includes, but is not 
limited to: the making of assertions based on hearsay; the relation of private conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable events; 
the use of vulgar language or personal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article that contains any of the aforementioned will be re-
moved before publication. Contributors will be allowed to reference prior articles published in the Opinions section or announcements 
for the public record. If a reference is made to prior articles, the submission will be considered a letter to the editor.  The Campus will 
not accept or print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, 
editorial comics and other commentary, are views of the individual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Submit works 
directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To 
be considered for publications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all submissions.
opinions
The Middlebury Campus
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the student newspaper of 
Middlebury College, is published by The Middlebury Campus Publica-
tions. Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, except dur-
ing official college vacation periods and final examinations. Editorial 
and business offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on Apple Macintosh 
computers using Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press Re-
publican in New York. The advertising deadline for all display and clas-
sified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the following week’s issue. Mail-
ing address: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, 
Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address 
distribution concerns to the Business Director. First class postage paid 
at Middlebury, Vt., 05753. 
Editorial
The staff editorial represents the official opinion of 
The Middlebury Campus as decided by 
the editorial board.
Lea Calderon-Guthe ’11.5 is the Online 
Manager from Chapel Hill, N.C.
Notes from the desk: Lea Calderon-Guthe
A Call for Civic Engagement
he iddleb ry a p s
Managing Editor
Dana Walters
Editor-in-Chief
Kara Shurmantine
Business Manager
Ethan Schmertzler
  News Editors
Jess Berry
Kyle Finck
Adam Schaffer
  Local News Editors
Kaylen Baker
Charlotte Gardiner
Devin McDonald
  Opinions Editors
Kevin Carpenter
Isabel Shaw
Ian Trombulak
  
Features Editors
Cedar Attanasio
Shannon Fiedler
Allison Forrest
  Arts Editors
Santiago Azpurua-Boras
Deirdre Sackett
Emily Scarisbrick
  Sports Editors
Alex Edel
Dillon Hupp
Katie Siegner
Damon Hatheway
Photo Editors   
Anna Clements
Paul Gerard
Jiayi Shu
  Online Editors
Hannah Bristol
Sarah Pfander
Design Editor   
Ian Stewart
Social Media Editor
Emily Pinto
Fill the grid with digits (1-4) so 
that no row or column has any re-
peats and the digits in the highlight-
ed box will yield the target number 
shown given the appropriate opera-
tion (+, -, x, ÷). For answers to the 
puzzle check www.middleburycam-
pus.com.
KevKev
 
By Kevin Carpenter, 
  Opinions Editor  Online Manager
Lea Calderon-Guthe
13 October 201110
The Middlebury Campus
In the Oct. 6 issue, Nathan LaBarba ’14’s class year was misprinted.  The Campus regrets the error.
Campus Correction
The ongoing lawsuit brought against the College by a former 
member of the varsity hockey team raises some intriguing questions 
about the absence of a codified system of due process for student-
athletes who feel they have been dismissed from an athletic team due 
to questionable circumstances. (See the story on page 1.)
Similar avenues do exist for students who wish to challenge a 
grade if they think they are unfairly assessed. In this case, the head of 
the department is consulted so that a disinterested person can review 
the situation from a similar vantage point but with an unbiased eye. 
The same principle applies to a business as well; if someone is fired 
for something other than his or her performance, he or she typically 
has the right to have the dismissal reviewed by a disinterested party. 
Middlebury athletes should have the same opportunity to challenge 
a decision perceived as unfair just like they can in the classroom set-
ting — and though this review may exist in practice at the College, it 
should be codified to avoid future inconsistency.
We recognize, however, the legitimacy of a coach’s absolute 
authority in most cases. For example, questions of athletic perfor-
mance should not be a legitimate reason to challenge one’s dismissal 
from an athletic team or attempt appeal to a third party. Addition-
ally, sometimes a coach holds his or her team to certain standards of 
behavior not linked to performance — regarding alcohol citations, 
for instance. If these rules are explicitly communicated, then the 
coach undoubtedly has the right to dismiss a player for an infrac-
tion.
If, however, the circumstances surrounding a dismissal are 
unclear, there should be a process of review to clarify the situation. 
This due process could resemble, for instance, an advisory group 
of coaches who could both sympathize with the coach’s reasons for 
releasing the player while using their experience to gauge the nature 
of the dismissal. It even could be as easy as giving Athletics Direc-
tor Erin Quinn the ability to review and have a final say in cases, a 
power that he¬¬ does not currently possess. Currently, complaints 
of improper dismissal are merely addressed at the coach’s contract 
renegotiations. There is no resolution for the accuser and any reper-
cussions of the dismissal are only addressed months, or years, after 
the fact. The athlete should have the right to question the coach and 
see some actual resolution.
Opening up this avenue of due process will not result in an in-
flux of complaints and accusations of unfair dismissal from athletic 
teams. Most cuts are performance-based with the full discretion of 
the coaching staff and would not merit a second look into the mo-
tives. But those few students who feel they may have been unfairly 
cut from a team should have the right to access an avenue through 
which the case can be assessed beyond the discretion of their coach. 
Regardless of what processes of review already occur in practice, we 
urge the Athletics Department to take steps to create and implement 
a structured avenue of due process for student-athletes to neutral-
ize any sort of disgruntlement of the sort that prompted the current 
lawsuit.
Senior Photos Editor   
Andrew Podrygula
Unbeknownst to me, my father has sub-
tly and tactfully brainwashed me with the 
feminist message since age birth. It is only 
now that I take a moment to reflect upon 
my upbringing that I recognize that it is un-
usual for a 40-year-old Washington wonk to 
blast the 1997 Lillith Fair two-part compila-
tion album from his convertible, purely for 
the ideological formation of his two pre-
adolescent daughters. Even more unusual 
is it to hear him singing along to “Scooter 
Boy” by the Indigo Girls. He preached and 
continues to preach inclusion, the freedom 
to choose one’s career, and, above all, high 
achievement. In fact, he quoted a potentially 
made-up mantra of Archie Manning’s so 
many times (it had something to do with 
“You can do whatever you want as long as 
you’re the best at it”), that I associate A+s 
with touchdowns and the password to my 
MOJO account is ‘Heisman’ (just kidding, I 
never use MOJO). 
Perhaps because I am so poetically 
gifted, or because I like animals too much, 
I managed to stay off the street in my teen-
age years. What’s more is that my parents 
never really encouraged me to explore that 
path of deceit and crime, even though it may 
have brought with it a life of more palpable 
achievement and success. The street I’m re-
ferring to is, of course, Wall Street. HA! Get 
it? I’m a liberal!
The demonstrations on this street about 
which my Twitter has been recently a-buzz 
have provoked in me this question: if wom-
en have come to dominate so many power-
ful industries, from education to media to 
the remarkable trend of major film studios 
— why haven’t we taken over our money-
holding institutions? Debora Spar, President 
of Barnard College, wrote about the over-
whelming presence of dangly bits (penises) 
in corner offices of corporate giants and 
referenced a Catalyst Research study from 
2008 that stated that while women comprise 
just under 60 percent of the workforce at 
Fortune 500 finance and insurance compa-
nies, they “account for only 17.9 percent of 
corporate officer positions and none of the 
chief executive positions.” What the hell? 
Spar suggests that this startling lack might 
be explained by the notion that some wom-
en are more inclined to blow the whistle on 
questionable corporate activity, hindering 
both the desire and ability to reach certain 
high-level positions.
Whatever the cause may be, the fact is 
that real power lies in the hands of these 
companies, and, because of this, I must 
demand of you something that neither 
Middlebury nor my progressive arts-focused 
high school has ever demanded of me: to suit 
up and become a corporate goon! The fact 
is that women will never hold equal societal 
sway as long as the real guts of the economy 
are controlled by boner-wielding, strip-club 
attending, Indy 500-watching dudes. I know 
that many of you anarchist tree-huggers will 
automatically oppose this stance, claiming 
that these corporations are the enemy and 
must be destroyed for the good of civiliza-
tion. But I think that’s slightly misguided 
and consulted an expert on power to help 
prove my point. Author of the upcoming 
book, Power Inc.: The Epic Rivalry Between 
Big Business and Government and the Reck-
oning that Lies Ahead, David Rothkopf, was 
nice enough to communicate with me via 
email, and spoke of the degree that corpo-
rations have come to rival nation states as 
heavy hitters on the international stage. He 
continued, remarking that, “There are prob-
ably 2,000 companies more powerful than 
all but the 30 or so biggest countries … It 
is undoubtedly the case that corporate suites 
are a male dominated domain, with wom-
en having made very, very slow progress in 
coming to control these enterprises which 
are playing an ever more important role in 
controlling the world.”
One way to combat this domination 
is through governments and media, both 
realms in which women have historically 
played a bigger role and can offset it more 
aggressively. “Another way,” he added, “is to 
have women start demanding their seats at 
the boardroom table. It’s where the money 
is. It’s where women ought to be.” In fact, 
studies have shown that the sheer presence 
of women in leadership positions could be 
enough to counteract certain high-risk and 
detrimental decisions. In a 2009 New York 
Times Op-Ed, “Mistresses of the Universe,” 
Nicholas Kristof referenced a Cambridge 
University study that tracked levels of testos-
terone in male traders in correlation to the 
amount of profits they earned that day. The 
results? Higher testosterone means more 
risk-taking. Kristof elaborated, “[The study] 
suggested that high testosterone levels ‘may 
shift risk preferences and even affect a trad-
er’s ability to engage in rational choice.” In 
other words: when male traders crash … 
boy, they crash. As women lack this aggres-
sive hormone, they conceivably have fewer 
brash tendencies.
Unsurprisingly, Spar put it best when 
she argued, “We need women in leadership 
positions not only because they can manage 
as well as men but because they manage dif-
ferently than men.” And I have to imagine 
that as future graduates of the sort of liberal 
arts college that preaches social responsibil-
ity as well as calculated risk-taking, Midd 
chicas are well-equipped to at least begin 
transforming corporate financial power. I 
thus leave you with the request that we close 
the gap between the 55 female and 133 male 
economics majors, stop browsing the web-
sites of social work school and dramaturgy 
MFA programs, and get ourselves into a JP 
Morgan or Goldman Sachs summer analyst 
program. Okay, I only sort of mean that, but 
you get my drift.  
              campusopinions 13 October 2011 11
heardoncampus
”
““Even though you are throwing people 
around, it is very 
calming ... [aikido] 
really helps me relax.”
    — Sydney Haltom ’14
secret meeting w/ my milli suitemates to strategize how we’ll 
haul a tub of chocolate ice cream from ross
when can i stop telling my roommate exactly when 
i’m headed to dinner? #freshmanprobs
trying to start a occupy college street movement in 
protest of the price hike on grille nachos
trying to think of a good excuse to be perusing the upper 
mezzanine #seniorcrushprobs
can’t explain the thrill of waiting to charge my comp in the 
libe until there’s only 1 min of reserve battery power left
now #sundayprobs
realizing that any topical tweet i come up with for this week’s 
campus will be four days behind #printmediaprobs
Trending this week:
#franksweeneyprobs
#chickenedout
#wheresthepita?
#brunchprocrastination   
#chalking
#squirrelh2h
#go/what?
#isitcoldyet?
#carrellcrush
#countdowntilbreak 
week in tweets
That Thing Down There: Joanna Rothkopf
A call for strong female corporate goons
Joanna Rothkopf ’12 is from 
Washington, D.C. 
Many Republicans breathed a deep sigh 
of relief when Sarah Palin announced last 
Wednesday that she would not be running 
for President of the United States. After John 
McCain selected Palin as his running mate 
at the end of August 2008, McCain’s nation-
al poll numbers briefly eclipsed Obama’s. 
Since then, however, she has become one 
of the most polarizing figures in American 
politics. Her decision 
not to run for Presi-
dent will allow her to 
campaign on behalf 
of other Republi-
can candidates. In a 
statement released 
by her political ac-
tion committee Sar-
ahPAC, Palin insists, 
“You don’t need an 
office or a title to 
make a difference. It 
is not about any one 
candidate.” The suc-
cess rate of the can-
didates she endorsed 
in the 2010 mid-term 
elections proves that 
she can play a pivotal 
role in the Repub-
lican effort against 
Obama’s reelection. 
Palin constantly reiterates that this country, 
and not her political career, comes first. Ac-
cordingly, Palin correctly recognized that 
she could best contribute to Obama’s defeat 
next year by rallying her supporters within 
the Tea Party and Republican Party around 
the chosen Republican candidate. 
Palin’s decision came on the heels of 
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie’s an-
nouncement that he also won’t be seeking 
the nomination. So who is left in the Re-
publican field? According to Gallup polling, 
any generic Republican candidate would, as 
of now, defeat President Obama. Contend-
ers in the Republican field are now fighting 
to put a face on that candidate. The media’s 
horse-race coverage of the election has el-
evated the strongest fundraisers, former 
Governor of Massachusetts Mitt Romney 
and Governor of Texas Rick Perry, to the 
forefront. Perry’s recent drop in the polls 
over the past two weeks, however, reflects 
his weak performance at recent GOP de-
bates.  The former CEO of Godfather Pizza 
Herman Cain has seen a bump in popular-
ity after winning the Florida Straw Poll. 
Cain, although a very successful business-
man, who lives the American Dream after 
pulling himself out of poverty, has never 
held political office. Historically, only dec-
orated generals, such as Dwight D. Eisen-
hower, have won the presidency without 
a political background. Americans, cur-
rently disgusted with 
the political grid-
lock in Washington 
and the persistently 
high unemployment 
numbers, however, 
may be looking for 
a savvy businessman 
rather than a slick 
politician.  
Is there still 
hope for the likes of 
Newt Gingrich or 
Ron Paul? After poor 
fundraising and fol-
lowing the departure 
of his top campaign 
strategists, John Mc-
Cain had been prac-
tically dismissed as a 
potential Republican 
nominee at this time 
in 2007. By Decem-
ber, however, none of the front-runners 
had gained traction, and McCain’s strategic 
campaigning in New Hampshire pushed 
him into the top-tier of candidates. Mc-
Cain’s comeback proves there is still hope 
for the underdogs. 
By the time this article is read, Tues-
day’s GOP debate will have taken place in 
New Hampshire, where the first of the po-
litical party primary elections occurs. De-
spite the extensive media coverage of the 
New Hampshire primary, the significance 
of the settled consensus on each of the 
participants’ performance at Dartmouth 
should not be overstated. Bachmann, who 
won the Iowa straw poll at the end of this 
summer, has since suffered a serious drop 
off in the polls. Amidst all the fluctuations 
in the polls, only Mitt Romney has main-
tained his front-runner status.
According to 
Gallup polling, 
any generic 
Republican 
candidate 
would, as of 
now, defeat 
President 
Obama.
Elephant in the Room: Katie Earle
Good call, Palin
Katie Earle ’12 is from 
Bedminster, N.J.
campusopinions          12  13 October 2011 
Apply Liberally: Zach Dallmeyer-Drennen
We killed Yamamato
Last Friday, a pair of MQ-1 Predator 
drones under the control of the Central In-
telligence Agency fired a volley of Hellfire 
missiles at a convoy in Yemen carrying Amer-
ican-born radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, kill-
ing him and several of his associates in what 
the unhealthy number of spy movies I have 
watched suggests must have been an epic 
fireball. There was no arrest warrant, nor any 
reading of his Miranda rights. Good riddance; 
al-Awlaki had his chance to remain silent, but 
instead he took to YouTube and other web-
sites to promote terrorist attacks against the 
United States.
A number of politicians and pundits on 
the right and left have decried the assassina-
tion as unconstitu-
tional or the start of 
another perilous jour-
ney for the Obama 
Administration down 
the most slippery of 
slopes. How does this 
set a bad precedent? 
Al-Awlaki had moved 
to a foreign country, 
where he began en-
couraging and plan-
ning acts of violence 
against his home 
country. He celebrat-
ed when Major Nidal 
Malik Hassan gunned 
down 13 of his fel-
low soldiers in cold 
blood at Fort Hood 
and cursed when the 
underwear bomber 
failed to explode a 
plane full of innocent 
Americans on Christ-
mas day, 2009. If the attempted bombing in 
Times Square killed you or me, or your moth-
er or father or little sister, I doubt al-Awlaki 
would have shed a tear. 
Al-Awlaki was no common criminal. He 
was a soldier, waging a war of words and plots 
against the country that brought him into this 
world, educated him and allowed him a pul-
pit from which to spew his vile propaganda. If 
the slippery slope that we have started down 
means that we kill those who plan and cel-
ebrate the deaths of Americans, then so be it. 
In the imperfect world in which we live, 
the assassination of al-Awlaki was the only 
real option. What kind of precedent would 
it send to allow him to plan attacks on the 
United States without fear of reprisal, just be-
cause of the passport in his pocket? It is not 
as though the FBI could have gone into the 
desert of Yemen and served al-Awlaki with 
an arrest warrant. Had they attempted such 
a move, it would have ended with the same 
result — a dead terrorist — and likely some 
FBI casualties, hardly a preferable outcome. 
A policeman can shoot someone who aims a 
gun at him; by encouraging and planning vio-
lence against the United States, al-Awlaki was 
pointing more than a simple firearm. 
If we must fight wars — and we will, as 
long as people see force as an effective solu-
tion to their problems — who should be the 
casualties? Is it more “just” to kill the young 
men and women who join the armed forces of 
their country in order to receive an education, 
a steady paycheck or a sense of discipline? Is it 
more “fair” to kill the civilians who happen to 
live in the nation that harbors our enemies? 
Or should we kill the plotters; the planners; 
the true believers who tell young men and 
women of paradise and patriotism and then 
send them to their 
deaths?
As the most pow-
erful military in the 
history of humankind, 
we measure the results 
of our operations by 
two markers: whether 
we meet our objec-
tives, and how few ci-
vilians we injure. Ter-
rorists like al-Awlaki 
measure their success 
by the number of body 
parts strewn across the 
sidewalk. The world 
is objectively a better 
place without him in 
it. It would have been 
satisfying to see him 
hauled in front of an 
American jury, but 
when he declared war 
against his homeland, 
he waived his right to 
a defense attorney. In the 21st century, warfare 
has evolved. No longer do soldiers in sharp 
uniforms face each other in formation, trad-
ing volleys and bugle calls. No longer do lead-
ers deliver formal declarations of war, listing 
their grievances with their foe. The founders 
of America declared war with a singed docu-
ment; al Qaeda declared war with a hijacked 
plane crashing into a skyscraper. As the strat-
egies used in war change, so must the rules. 
Are we fighting against the poor and impres-
sionable or against the scheming despots with 
their hands on the levers of power? I would 
feel better about the deaths of a hundred bin-
Ladens or al-Awlakis than one poor foot sol-
dier drafted into service, looking only to feed 
his family. All Americans should congratulate, 
rather than criticize, President Obama for 
taking the tough steps needed to protect in-
nocent civilians from terrorism at home and 
from the lure of extremists abroad.  
Zach Dallmeyer-Drennen ’13.5 is from 
Canandaigua, N.Y. 
If the slippery 
slope that we 
have started 
down means 
that we kill 
those who plan 
and celebrate 
the deaths of 
Americans, 
then so be it. 
”
As we move forward, become adults and international 
citizens and develop as scholars, we must remain aware of 
how our Histories (or Herstories) are connected and shared; 
we must be aware that there never was nor is one, central 
narrative — a metanarrative — to our nation; and we can-
not be afraid of this, we cannot be afraid of the difficulties 
that arise from reconciling and navigating the different ex-
periences of History. 
This week in Middlebury will be a highly political and 
historic one — and I don’t just mean SGA elections. Three 
events stand out to me:
This Monday, Oct. 10 marks one of the first celebrations 
of Indigenous People’s Day on campus. Around 15 students 
gathered in PALANA House today for Voices of Indigenous 
People’s (VIP) “Anti-Columbus Day.” As I learned at the 
event, the Indigenous People’s Day movement intends to 
replace Columbus Day by amplifying the stories of the de-
scendants of Indigenous people who survived colonization. 
On Wednesday, Oct. 12, Keith Reeves, a professor of Po-
litical Science at Swarthmore and friend to the Center for the 
Comparative Study of Race and Ethnicity (CCSRE), is visit-
ing campus to lead a lecture on the problems and policies of 
Black Male Incarceration. His goal is to bring the growing 
prison population in conversation with Martin Luther King 
Jr.’s Dream and the Civil Rights movement. His lecture will 
be in the Robert A. Jones House from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. He’ll 
also be leading a second, lunchtime lecture on Thursday, 
Oct. 13th in the Hillcrest Orchard from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. 
Also on Thursday, there will be a nationwide student 
march in solidarity with over 40 other colleges and the Oc-
cupy Wall Street Movement. Middlebury students are par-
ticipating. Our march will begin at 4:30 in front of the Davis 
Family Library and end at Ross Dining hall. There we’ll con-
gregate, talk about the movement, and celebrate (our differ-
ences, our diversity and our similarities, perhaps?).
The commonality between these three events is the 
power of a story. Our time in history is one of revival and 
changes. Our environment, borders, people, thoughts are all 
in a state of flux. America’s History, Mythology, Culture and 
Politics have become a work of art that changes based on the 
viewer’s perspective. 
Said another way, America’s History, Mythology, Cul-
ture and Politics are a minefield. Middlebury College is a 
reflection of these changes because Middlebury is a collec-
tion of a plurality of stories, all of them informed by class, 
gender, race, nationality, ability and so on.
We have all experienced history’s passage differently. If 
we are to be a diverse institution, we need space for all of 
these stories and experiences to figure out how to coexist. 
We must be aware of systemic, societal and cultural biases. 
Middlebury reflects the U.S. in that both are predominantly 
White institutions. What causes tension within this setup is 
that at times certain stories are suppressed, go unheard or 
seem to not make sense in context. Example: your Found-
ing Father may be George Washington, but to me he was 
a slave-owner. My Founding Mother is Angela Davis, with-
out whose actions I wouldn’t be able to vote — and thus be 
American. What does our history become in the wake of our 
differences? 
Indigenous People’s Day, Keith Reeves’s lecture and the 
Student Solidarity March Thursday present an opportunity 
for us to hear new stories.
In response to the Occupy Wall Street Movement, some-
one told me, “My initial reaction to this news was shock, not 
at the police reaction, but at the fact that a group had mo-
bilized out of what seemed to be thin air to protest against 
what to many is just the way things are.”
I say again, we have all experienced the passage of His-
tory differently. But we have also always changed History. 
Diverse Perspectives: Dane Verret
We make our own histories
Dane Verret ’12 is from New Orleans, La.
As Vermont considers the recently released 
Comprehensive Energy Plan and the draft air 
permit just given to a large proposed tree-fueled 
power plant in Fairhaven, Vt., it is urgent that 
citizens take a close look at just what is being 
proposed for Vermont’s energy and environ-
ment future because most Vermonters have no 
idea what policies are rapidly being cemented in 
place without much public debate or consulta-
tion.
Looking at the proposed Vermont Com-
prehensive Energy Plan, one quickly notices 
how adept we humans are at speaking sincerely, 
in perfect contradiction, out of both sides of our 
mouth. The plan frets about high carbon emis-
sions that cause global warming (as the floods 
rage) but then proposes policies and taxpayer 
subsidies to incentivize tree-burning “biomass” 
energy, which has the highest carbon footprint 
of all.
Meanwhile, too many so-called “green” 
groups sit by silently, or even cheerlead, while 
these plans, which would drastically increase 
cutting and burning of Vermont’s golden goose 
forests for tiny amounts of energy, quickly move 
forward.
Most people know that we need to protect 
forests to absorb carbon dioxide, clean our air 
and water, provide flood control, shelter wildlife 
and provide the beauty that brings higher qual-
ity of life and tourist dollars to New England. 
So how did increased cutting and burning of 
forests (called “deforestation” and “pollution” 
when it occurs in other countries) get re-brand-
ed as “green” energy, particularly considering 
that burning wood is one of the dirtiest forms 
of energy that exists?
In addition to the strong influence of vest-
ed interests, the serious negative impacts from 
tree-fueled biomass energy are often glossed 
over when promoted under the “local” banner 
which seems to raise blinders to looking at what 
local activity is being sold.  Vermont Yankee is 
“local” and coal is local to West Virginians, but 
just because something is local, doesn’t auto-
matically mean it is good.  (I do not support 
either of the above)
The latest science states the inconvenient 
truth that tree-fueled biomass electric facilities 
like the one proposed in Fairhaven are 50 per-
cent worse than coal and 300 percent worse than 
natural gas for carbon emissions, worse than 
fossil fuels for most conventional air pollut-
ants including particulates (even with modern 
air pollution controls and accounting for new 
tree growth) and will significantly increase for-
est ecosystem and wildlife impacts on already-
stressed forests.
Even more efficient combined heat and 
power (CHP) biomass facilities, which some 
consider “less bad” than biomass electric pro-
duction, still emit carbon dioxide at a rate 24 
percent higher than oil and 97 percent higher 
than natural gas.  Also, the air pollution pro-
file in CHP biomass is worse than even oil, so 
think hard the next time you hear it promoted 
as “good” for the climate, or “good” for heating 
hospitals and schools with their at-risk popu-
lations. New England already has the highest 
asthma rates in the nation.
Producing tiny amounts of new biomass 
energy in New England would require drastic 
increases in cutting and burning of living, green 
trees.  According to the Vermont Biomass En-
ergy Working Group (which is mostly stacked 
with biomass vested interests), it would require 
one million additional tons of cutting (a 62 per-
cent increase in logging of Vermont’s forests) to 
provide just one to two percent of Vermont’s 
heat and electric.  Think about that the next 
time you recycle a Post-It note to save trees.
Frighteningly, the recently released Com-
prehensive Energy Plan proposes getting 25 
percent of Vermont’s energy from bio-energy 
(fueled largely by forests) by 2025 which would 
mean a drastic increase in forest cutting and 
carbon emissions, the exact opposite of what we 
need at this time.  Additionally, New England’s 
forests are threatened by serious efforts to ex-
port wood pellets to Europe.
Nobody is saying “don’t ever cut a tree” or 
“don’t use your home woodstove” (although it 
is helpful to use cleaner, more efficient mod-
els).  The intention here is to avoid increasing 
the cutting and burning of our critical forests. 
According to the Cary Institute for Ecosystem 
Studies, Vermont is already cutting 67 percent 
of its annual forest growth, and if inaccessible 
areas like steep slopes are taken into consider-
ation, Vermont is already cutting about all of its 
available growth.
We have big energy and environmental 
challenges, but wishful and delusional thinking, 
such as the notion that burning forests is “green” 
just because it is “local,” is no better than West 
Virginians who want the money provided by 
dirty energy from their “local” resource. We can 
and must do much better than burning down 
the house (our forests) to keep warm for a night.
We are lucky to have our world-renowned, 
golden goose forests again in New England. 
They were almost gone 80 years ago, and could 
go again.  We do not the need additional pollu-
tion and tiny amounts of energy available from 
cutting, burning and belching them up dirty 
smokestacks, but we do need to protect our 
forests if they are to continue attracting tourist 
dollars, sheltering wildlife and cleaning up the 
mess we have already made of our air, water and 
atmosphere.
Local solar, geothermal, (appropriately 
scaled and located) wind and hydro energy, along 
with conservation and efficiency can drastically 
clean up our energy supply, and help save our 
environment without destroying it. This is where 
we need to be putting our energy … so to speak. 
Op-Ed: Chris Matera
Clean energy does not come 
out of a smokestack
Chris Matera is the founder of 
MA Forest Watch
              advertisements 13 October 2011 13
Learn more about Peace Corps overseas service 
Dana Auditorium at Middlebury College
Wednesday, October 19
4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. 
Be a Volunteer!
Contact Middlebury 
recruiter Jerry Wagner
(Belize, 2006-2008) 
jwagner2@peacecorps.gov
peacecorps.gov                               800.424.8580
Peace Corps at Middlebury 
Mind Over Time
(Keep It Simple, Do It Well)
Personalized coaching to create balance, 
calmness, efficiency, productivity, and 
quality in your life and work
Ron Rubin
Middlebury, Vermont
rlrubin@myfairpoint.net
ronrubin.wordpress.com
260 Court Street
Middlebury 
802-388-5400
M-F 9-7 | Sat 9-6 | Sun 9-5
GET IN  
GET CONFIDENT
1-800-SUPERCUTS | www.supercuts.com 
WELCOME MIDDLEBURY
COLLEGE STUDENTS
OPEN NIGHTS & WEEKENDS
SEVEN DAYS A WEEK 
ASK ABOUT OUR COLOR SPECIALS!
m
ak
e 
it
 y
ou
r 
ho
m
ep
ag
e
w
w
w
.m
id
dl
eb
ur
yc
am
pu
s.c
om
news.
local news.
opinions.
features.
arts.
sports.
it’s all 
online.
middleburycampus.com
e-mail
campus@
midd
do you have 
a story idea?
features  15 14 13 October 2011
The Hogwarts Campus
“THE GROWING PAINS OF 
MUGGLE QUIDDITCH”
Anyone who has read Harry Potter 
knows that growing up is hard to do 
(people who have grown up probably 
know this too, but I have to assume 
that that’s a smaller number). It 
takes Harry seven years — and 4,176 
pages — to truly step into his role as 
The Chosen One. 
Muggle Quidditch, the sport that 
stepped from the pages of Harry 
Potter to the verdant lawns of Battell 
Beach seven years ago, is experiencing 
growing pains too. Last year, the 
International Quidditch Association 
(IQA) developed into its own entity, 
taking charge of the Quidditch World 
Cup and moving it from Middlebury 
to New York City. Now the IQA is a 
co-creator Alex Benepe ’09, and 
his organization takes care of the 
tournament’s logistics. Organizers 
and players welcomed the move. 
“[The World Cup] outgrew 
our capacity to hold it,” said Tri-
Commissioner Andy Hyatt ’12 “We 
can’t house 50 to a hundred teams. 
 “NYC was great,” Tri-
Commissioner Phil Palmer ’12 said, 
reminiscing about last year’s event. 
“We played under the lights, we 
had tens of hundreds of spectators 
show up by the end and we did all 
of this in one of the greatest urban 
environments our country has to 
offer.” 
But what about quidditch at 
Middlebury? After the World Cup 
moved to New York, a void was left 
on the pitch of Battel. The sport as a 
whole became “a little more legit” — 
as Hyatt puts it — but cost the College 
a nascent but valued tradition. 
It seems that the game also lost 
something quintessentially quidditch 
in the transition: an informality and 
sense of fun infused in the nature of 
the game.
in every sense of the word,” notes 
Palmer.
The Tri-Commissioners hope to 
reverse this feeling during a new 
tournament next week, a regional cup 
that might evoke the early quidditch 
tournaments. 
It’s called the Middlebury Classic, 
campus teams and a similar number 
from other schools. And it promises 
“bust” of quidditch’s rapid growth 
on (and outgrowth of) 
Middlebury College turf. 
Hyatt admits, “Last 
year was a bit of a 
transition year.” Most of 
the campus was unable 
to attend the cup they 
had helped foster. At the 
higher levels, quidditch 
became les cordial and 
more competitive. The 
removal of the World 
Cup to New York City, the increased 
competitiveness and resulting 
increased brutality of the game are 
all culpable in what many refer to as 
the loss of Quidditch’s spirit. 
  
COMPETITION: 
THREATENING THE FUN 
OF THE GAME?
As the World cup has grown, so 
has the competitiveness of the game. 
Some believe that competition has 
led to a brutal type of play, with more 
injuries and less camaraderie.  “Ten 
World Cup [last year]. It was insane,” 
said Hyatt.
The growth of the sport is not the 
only explanation for the injuries. As 
Ian McKay ’14 explains, the crowd 
that Quidditch attracts also plays a 
factor.
“There are many students that have 
never tackled another person and do 
not know how to do so,” he said
Snitch Chris Johnson ’12 expands 
on this idea, adding that “a good 
passing game takes time and skill to 
develop. The alternative is just to be 
really, really brutal.” Of course, the 
growth plays a role, too.
As Hyatt explains, “Here, people all 
know each other, they’re all friends. 
You’re not going to go deck some kid 
out who you have class with the next 
day.” On the world stage, however, 
the simple stricture, 
“don’t be a jerk,” 
doesn’t really cut it.
One possible 
response to this is to 
simply ban tackling. 
This solution seems 
unlikely to be popular. 
McKay puts it simply: 
“If kids weren’t 
allowed to tackle in 
Quidditch, then it 
really wouldn’t be Quidditch.”
After all, the game is based on 
a sport in which players routinely 
ended up under the ministrations of 
the witch nurse Madame Pomfrey. 
Likewise, further delineation of the 
rules can only do so much. “You can 
have all these restrictions, but if you 
just do that, people can still get hurt,” 
said Hyatt. “You can’t put in the rule 
book, ‘Tackle, but tackle nicely.’ But 
that’s what it is!” he added. 
What appears to be needed is 
a return to the spirit of the IQA 
Handbook, if not its letters. This is 
exactly what Middlebury Quidditch 
is attempting to bring about with the 
creation of the Middlebury Classic. 
Tri-Commissioner Marianne 
Anderson ’14 spells it out like this: 
“The purpose of [the Middlebury 
Classic] is to decrease the 
competitiveness of the game and 
keep it fun and light.” Contributing 
to this goal is the decision to allow 
Johnson explains, “It’s not as big 
a deal for Middlebury to win or lose 
if there’re three Middlebury teams. 
It’s more like playing on a standard 
Sunday, but just with some other 
schools.” This relaxed atmosphere 
will help to accomplish Hyatt’s goal 
of, “building up community among 
the regional teams.”
THE MIDDLEBURY 
CLASSIC
The Tri-Commissioners hope that 
the Middlebury Classic builds up the 
Middlebury community. Featuring 
performances by student a cappella 
groups, demo matches with little 
kids and local vendors, the event is 
intended to be, as Hyatt explains, 
“a celebration of Middlebury . . . 
and everything our community has 
to offer.” He continues, “if it’s just 
Quidditch, it’s just a bunch of kids 
running around with broomsticks, as 
fun as that is.”
This perspective seems to be a 
critical element in maintaining 
the nebulous “spirit of Quidditch.” 
Although the game is obviously 
important to a great many people, it’s 
also not really supposed to be taken 
seriously. Tournament structure is 
a part of it, and so are the rules, but 
something deeper drives the gears of 
this popular and unorthodox sport. 
“At the end of the day . . . you’re 
playing a game that’s based on a 
children’s fantasy book, and there’s 
something inherently silly about 
that,” said Johnson. In a game that 
is alternatively silly, ridiculous, 
improvisational and whimsical, 
it’s important to step back and 
realize the true purpose, which, as 
Palmer explains, has little to do with 
snatching snitches. “In the end,” 
he says, “I came for the game, but I 
stayed for the people.”
“Wingardium
leviosa”
FLYING STUDENTS, 
AIRBORNE QUAFFLES 
AND SOARING SPIRITS:
“Competition has 
every sense of the 
word.”
— Phil Palmer ’12
Story by Anna Flinchbaugh
Photographs by Andrew Podrygula
Somebody out 
there needs to get up 
the nerve to call us all 
on our sh*t. 
Okay, !ne, I’ll do 
it. Here is my manifesto:
I have found 
myself in, and I fre-
quently !nd myself 
counseling friends through, this sort of situation: 
“Well, we like each other, but I don’t know. It’s 
not really going anywhere.” And that’s where I 
need to call bullsh*t.
I see Middlebury students looking for con-
nections — whether they’re purely sexual, just 
friendly or big-time commitments — and not 
!nding them. It is not always a case of one per-
son wanting more or less than the other; if we 
listen to each other, sometimes it does actually 
happen that we both just want to snuggle platon-
ically, or skip the niceties and only screw each 
other senseless between classes. But even then 
nothing happens! We know we have to risk a 
little to gain a little, but a"er that we end up in a 
stalemate with each other because it becomes so 
much harder to risk more. #e situation usually 
breaks down into the pursuer and the pursued 
— I chalk it up to a lack of con!dence on both 
sides.
As I am most o"en the pursuer, I’ll start 
there. I can’t usually hold in my a$ection for 
long when it comes to potential partners; if I’m 
going to face rejection, it comes quickly. O"en I 
have just let the rejection lie, but looking back I 
should have fought a little harder in some cases. 
Obviously there is nothing to be done if some-
one just doesn’t want the same things you do, 
or if they’re involved with someone else, but I 
should have thoroughly questioned whether that 
was actually the case in so many of the rejections 
I’ve been dealt. Some people just need to be con-
vinced, wooed a little. Many potential romances 
faded away a"er the other person just didn’t 
answer my !rst declaratory emails, but I should 
have persisted because, in my hubris, I believe I 
at least deserve a direct rejection, and I suspect I 
might not have been rejected at all. Some folks 
run scared from emotional confrontations, even 
when they’re positive emotions. 
#at brings me to the pursued. I don’t know 
what it is about the phrase “I like you,” but it 
seems to be even more threatening than tell-
ing someone, “I don’t like you.” Do we perceive 
expectations of us when we !nd out someone 
thinks we’re great? I know I have certainly wor-
ried about letting people down when they like 
what they know of me, but I don’t think they 
know enough. #at’s where I think someone on 
the other end of a proposition could use a little 
more con!dence — we could trust the opinions 
of people who like us a little more, and indulge 
our self-doubt a little less. I have also hidden 
from potential hook-ups before really !nding 
out what the other person wanted from me. I 
could de!nitely stand to listen !rst, even to di-
rectly ask, “What do you want?”
#is all sounds very open and commu-
nicative and responsible, but really what I’m 
advocating is emotional irresponsibility — I’m 
feeling a little o$-kilter saying that, but go with 
me. We guard our precious hearts and egos so 
carefully, especially as headstrong young adults 
who are !ghting to appear con!dent and on top 
of things. I think we could use more con!dence 
in our ability to bounce back, to fall o$ and then 
get back on top of things — we could stand to 
be a little more reckless and foolhardy in our ro-
mantic pursuits.
I always want to say, “Be responsible! Take 
care of yourself!” We don’t need to put ourselves 
through the emotional wringer of connecting 
with someone who is emotionally unavailable, 
unstable or really di%cult, and we don’t need to 
“settle” for people who like us but about whom 
we’re not so sure. We also don’t need to put our-
selves through the choke-hold of stress that is 
college, though, and we do it without knowing 
exactly what we’re going to get out of it, but we 
still trust that there is something worthwhile at 
the end of our four years here, right? To me, there 
is so much more to gain and learn even from a 
failed relationship than the precious ego we save 
by abstaining. Spilling your guts is the only true 
indication that you have any, and I know we have 
guts, Middlebury, so let’s spill them.
“Aikido is the way of moving in harmony 
with the energy of the universe,” said Profes-
sor in Education Studies Jonathan Miller-
Lane, the aikido club’s sensei (Japanese for 
“teacher”).  
Aikido is a Japanese word that has three 
parts, Ai, ki and do. Ai meaning ‘harmony,’ ki 
meaning ‘energy’ and do meaning ‘the way.’ 
#us, aikido is generally de!ned as “#e Way 
of Harmony.”
Miller-Lane began teaching aikido at 
the College in the winter of 2004. #ere was 
a dojo in Burlington, but he wanted to train 
somewhere closer to the campus where 
Middlebury students could get involved. A 
“dojo” is translated as the “place of the way”; 
it is the place where you can study how to har-
monize with the energy of the universe. 
Miller-Lane started working with 
the Parks and Recreation Department in 
Middlebury as the chief instructor and found-
er of the dojo. 
In the beginning, the dojo was comprised 
mostly of community members, and even to 
this day, college students make up only half 
of all the aikido e$orts in the town. But seven 
years ago, college alumni Iskandar Aminov 
‘06 founded the Middlebury Aikido Club. #e 
club is an important aspect of the dojo.
“#e club helps facilitate student involve-
ment in the dojo,” said Miller-Lane. “#e club 
makes sure the students can !nd the place 
since it is located in an unusual location and 
it brings in students from the campus. It also 
funds us when we need to bring in guest sen-
sei, usually all the way from Japan.”
“Aikido di$ers from other martial arts 
in that there are no competitions and there 
is no sparring during practice. In Aikido, you 
cannot win anything. #e only ‘battle’or ‘com-
petition’ is the one going on within yourself 
regarding how you will respond to an attacker. 
Any martial art can be studied as a ‘Tao” or 
path. But, Aikido’s unique non-competitive 
training atmosphere may o$er a greater op-
portunity to practice for the sole purpose of 
becoming a better human being, rather than 
training for the purpose of becoming a !ght-
er,” said Miller-Lane.
Rahul Rakshit ’14, President of the ai-
kido club adds, “I guess this may sound odd 
to say about a martial art, but we aikido prac-
titioners talk about harmony and compassion 
when we talk about aikido. Our goal is not 
only to stay in control and defend ourselves 
but also to ensure that the attacker remains 
unharmed.”
For Miller-Lane, practicing aikido a$ects 
his daily life. 
“In a place like Middlebury where time 
is so compressed, faculty, sta$ and students 
can get wrapped up in all that we have to do,” 
he said. “If you are very active and busy, you 
must be very productive; as long as you are al-
ways hurrying, you are successful. And if you 
are not mindlessly busy, you are wasting oxy-
gen here on Campus. However with Aikido, 
you can be productive without being frantic. 
“Are you really here at Middlebury to 
graduate and get a good job?” he continued. 
“You can go to di$erent school and get a good 
job. But why liberal arts? Going to a liberal 
arts school means you are on a path of study 
that will continue past your graduation. In the 
same way, aikido is the path of study that goes 
way beyond self-dense. You keep training be-
cause then your dojo will get bigger. So that 
it won’t always be in the basement of the mu-
nicipal building, but your whole life will be a 
dojo where you can practice how to deal with 
con&icts in harmony and peacefully.” 
Sydney Haltom ’14 echoed Miller-Lane 
on the lifetime e$ects of practicing aikido. 
“Even though you are throwing people 
around, it is very calming,” she said. “You start 
every class with a long stretch and there is not 
too much talking. [aikido] really helps me re-
lax. Being in the dojo is a di$erent paradigm 
from every day life because you are always fo-
cused on going forward but with aikido, you 
become aware of what you are doing at the 
moment.”
#e aikido club practices Mondays, Tues-
days and #ursdays from 5:30 – 6:30 p.m. in 
the basement of the town’s municipal build-
ing, right behind Alexander Twilight Hall. Se-
mester enrollment is just $25 dollars, and you 
only need clothes you can move freely in.  #e 
Club encourages one and all to come out and 
try aikido, even if it’s for just one class.
On Saturday night, I hopped in one of 
the classic white vans with the jovial Laurent 
Lussier (known by most students as Larry), 
the beloved Midd Rides driver. You may 
know him by his earring and his never-end-
ing supply of Pringles. He obligingly drove 
me on his route around campus so I could 
watch him in action and could hear some 
stories about his job and its boisterous riders. 
Larry has been a Midd Ride driver for 
!ve years, and a lifelong Middlebury resi-
dent. He works on Friday and Saturday 
nights, and occasional weeknights when the 
student drivers are unavailable. 
For one busy weekend night, Larry es-
timates that he drives around 200-300 stu-
dents. He explained that his bus can only 
hold nine kids, but students always try to 
squeeze in more of their party at one time. 
“#at can’t work,” he says, “and when I 
have to stop them, they give you a hard time, 
and that just ties up the buses longer.” 
According to Larry, J-term is the busiest 
time for Midd Rides, aince everyone wants 
to avoid a walk through the freezing cold of 
Vermont midwinters. As someone who has 
stepped into the wonder of blasting heaters 
in a Midd Rides van with relief on a subzero 
Friday night, I can see it’s a logical correla-
tion.
His favorite part of the job?  
“I like to communicate with the stu-
dents,” he says simply, &ashing a friendly grin 
to some riders as they entered, bound for 51 
Main. 
When asked if any speci!c encounters 
stood out, he shook his head at the memo-
ries.  
“#ere are so many,” he said. “I don’t re-
member names but I remember faces.” 
Funny moments certainly happen all 
the time — just last weekend some students 
spontaneously broke out in song as he drove 
them to their destination. 
“#at happens a lot,” he says, laughing.
He decided that rude student riders are 
probably his least favorite part of the job, but 
sometimes equally annoying is when stu-
dents get on the bus without an idea of where 
they’d like to be dropped o$. 
On the other hand, some misinformed 
students asked to be dropped o$ at places far 
o$ the Midd Rides route. 
“[#ey ask] to go to McDonalds a lot, 
or somewhere down Weybridge [Street],” he 
says.  “We have set stops: KDR, CFA, Ken-
yon, McCullough, ADK, Ridgeline, Robert A 
Jones, E Lot, 51 Main, Two Brothers…and if 
the phones are busy, just go to one of those 
places and we’ll be there eventually.”  
Remarking on the college policy, he says 
“Another thing that students forget is that 
there is no alcohol allowed in the vans, so I 
have to always watch for that too.”  
It takes a patient person to handle the 
rambunctious, o"en intoxicated weekend 
hordes, and a$able Larry is de!nitely the 
right guy for the job.
On this particular October night, the 
weather was unseasonably warm and the 
Midd Rides tra%c was slow. A"er a couple 
pleasant circuits around Middlebury, I asked 
to be dropped o$ near the Davis Library, and 
with an accommodating smile and turn of 
the wheel, Larry took me where I needed to 
go.
By Jackie Park
Staff Writer
  Club Spotlight on . . . Aikido
By Eliza Wallace
Staff Writer
Campus Character: Laurent Lussier
The L-Word
Lea Calderon-Guthe, 
Senior Sta! Writer
&
No one likes an all-nighter 
when it’s spent writing an 
eight page paper.
losers
Bunk beds
Maximize space in those closets 
we call dorm rooms.
A great show to get you in the 
Halloween spirit.
Of course the door got 
knocked in.
2am @ Grille
Love Me Tender, or Dr. Feel-
good? Dilemma!
Twilight
Is America !nally over Edward Cul-
len and his sparkly skin? And the 
building’s so far away!
True Blood
2am @Wilson Cafe Bunker
winners
Jiayi Zhu, Photos Editor
Members of the Middlebury aikido club practice their moves while others observe. 
campusfeatures16 13 October 2011
We all know we have the coolest NES-
CAC mascot (far better than a bantam or a 
purple eph), but what is the story behind that 
sleek and sexy panther?
!ere is a lot of history here at 
Middlebury that both our students and fac-
ulty take pride in, dating back to our found-
ing in the year 1800. We are known for our 
sports teams, for being the "rst American 
college to see an African American citizen 
earn a baccalaureate degree and for sustain-
ing a tradition of cultural tolerance and ap-
preciation. But then there are the elements 
of our history that have not been so empha-
sized, one of which is the history of our mas-
cot, the Panther. 
When I "rst delved into the task of re-
searching and discovering the story behind 
the Panther, I didn’t realize the extent to 
which it would lead me. My conversations 
with coaches, administrators, historians and 
other Middlebury employees lead me to a 
range of facts that, while extremely helpful, 
were somewhat contradictory and incom-
plete. In the end, it was a combination of 
many people’s input and resources that cul-
minated in my discovery of where and when 
the Panther became our school mascot.
What turned out to be a tremendous re-
source in my research were archived copies 
of !e Middlebury Campus dating back to 
the 1920s. In an article printed on June 13, 
1938, Alice L. Atwood ’40 described where 
and why the Panther "rst came into being 
our mascot in the year 1922. 
“[I]t is interesting to note the beginnings 
of such a "rmly rooted belief as that in the 
Panther as our mascot,” she wrote. “When we 
consider that we’ve only had the Black Pan-
ther since 1922 we wonder about the stability 
of some of our other traditions. One of the 
town merchants, Fay A. Evans, sponsored a 
contest in the CAMPUS for the choice of a 
suitable mascot. He o#ered a loving cup to 
be presented to the winner at a banquet.” She 
went on to explain that “Other suggestions 
for mascot were various members of the cat 
family, catamount, wild cat etc; also such 
semi-aquatic animals as beaver and otter.”
Based on the content of this article, as 
well as many others that I scanned from the 
decade, Middlebury originally adopted the 
Black Panther as its mascot. 
In an anonymous article printed on Sep-
tember 26, 1923, explaining the orientation 
activities of the previous weeks, “!e fresh-
men were introduced to the Middlebury 
mascot by a sketch including all the college 
mascots cowed by the Black Panther.”
But what is all this reference to a “Black 
Panther” when we know that our mascot is 
simply the Panther? A$er skimming through 
copies of the newspaper from the 1920s 
until present, I began to notice that, gradu-
ally, writers stopped referring to Middlebury 
sports teams and students as the Black Pan-
thers and started to call them, merely, the 
Panther. As it turns out, 1969 is the year that 
we can pin as the one where the Panther be-
came the o%cial school mascot. Not surpris-
ingly, this is around the time that the Black 
Panther Party, a radical political organiza-
tion of the 1960s, came into being. 
As my research progressed towards 
present times and the changes our mascot 
has had in the last few decades, I found it 
worthy to note where our panther logo came 
from as well. Mike Schoenfeld ‘73, Middle-
bury’s Senior Vice President and Chief Phil-
anthropic Advisor, revealed that the two 
statues of panthers that we have on cam-
pus were both gi$s from Mr. and Mrs. Phil 
Morse and their daughter Shelly, who gradu-
ated in 1995. !ese statues were donated in 
1997 and were sculpted by the artist Lorenzo 
Ghiglieri, who has had work on display in 
the White House and other famous locations 
around the globe. !ese sculptures became 
the inspiration for our current panther logo, 
which features a panther on a rock. Previ-
ously, our logo had been a simple picture of 
a panther’s head.
Knowing the illustrious history of our 
"erce mascot makes cheering for our pan-
thers all the more exciting. Let’s go, panthers! 
13 October 2011 17campusfeatures
A writer investigates the panther mascot’s history
By Alexandra Strott
Staff Writer
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
!e majestic Middlebury panther, stands guard over the campus, notably the athletic "elds, and the beautiful Vermont landscape. 
18 13 October 2011 advertisements
1-877-508-8455
Call or visit us TODAY
and switch your account
to NBM hassle-free!
fall family
weekend
It’s not just the leaves that are changing!
Your favorite student is growing, taking on new responsibilities. 
Finances can seem overwhelming, so we make banking easy. 
We offer a completely paperless account, Debit card 
and more! Easy access to 2 ATMs right on campus 
plus 2 offi ces in Middlebury, our anytime/anywhere 
mobile banking and online banking. We’re where 
you are, when you need us. We’re your neighbors. 
We’re National Bank of Middlebury.
Don’t just read 
all about it! 
Work for the 
Campus and 
write all about 
it too!
www.middleburycampus.com
hot.
www.middleburycampus.com
www.middleburycampus.com
www.middleburycampus.com
www.middleburycampus.com
ADVERTISE WITH
The Middlebury 
Campus Publications
EMAIL 
campus@middlebury.edu
FOR RATE SHEETS
arts&science 19
The Middlebury Campus
13 October 2011
 
14
Pianist Paul Lewis continues his 
two-year Schubert project, perform-
ing Wandererfantasie, as well as Four 
Impromptus and Moments Musicaux. 
Tickets: $25/20/6. Sponsored by the 
Performing Art Series.
editors’ 14
Current work by the College’s  studio 
art students will be on view to the pub-
lic as part of the town-wide ArtsWalk, 
which is a monthly event highlighting 
local art projects. Runs until 7 p.m. 
Free. 
picks
Paul Lewis
Concert Hall
8 p.m. 
ArtsWalk
Johnson 
Memorial 
Building
5 p.m.
When Nate Woods ’11.5 applied for a summer research position in physics at the Uni-
versity of Florida, he did not expect to be assigned to his !rst choice, a project related to 
the famous Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the world’s largest and highest-energy particle 
accelerator. As it turned out, Woods’s computer-programming skills quali!ed him for the 
job, and he found himself working under the supervision of Assistant Professor Ivan Furić 
on a project called “Higgs Boson Reconstruction from bb-bar Decays at the Compact Muon 
Solenoid.”
Physicists have theorized for decades about a particle called the Higgs boson (named 
a#er scientist Peter Higgs), which, if it existed, would clarify the few remaining inconsisten-
cies in the Standard Model of particle physics. 
“$e Standard Model is our best start right now of a theory of everything,” Woods said. 
It reduces all matter to 16 particles of three types — quarks, leptons and bosons — which 
provide the building blocks for protons, neutrons and electrons. Although the Standard 
Model is extremely well con!rmed, it cannot explain why these particles have mass. With 
the addition of a 17th particle, the Higgs boson, it can.
Over the years, scientists and engineers have built progressively larger and faster par-
ticle accelerators in the quest for this elusive particle, which may explain the fundamental 
workings of the universe. $e LHC, completed in 2008 near Geneva, Switzerland, is their 
best hope. Woods said, “If they don’t !nd it here, they’re never going to !nd it, so this is make 
or break for the Higgs boson.” 
As a result, the LHC and its associated projects 
have attracted a great deal of public attention, a rarity 
in the world of physics research. Woods recalled how 
satisfying it was to be “working on this project that 
people had heard of.”
Finding the Higgs boson is a tricky business. $e 
particle is extremely heavy, so it disappears immedi-
ately a#er it comes into existence, leaving an enor-
mous mess of other particles in its wake. It can decay 
in many di%erent ways, and each decay chain (or pro-
cess) leaves behind a di%erent set of end products. At 
the LHC, a 12,500 ton, 21.5 meter long detector called 
the Compact Muon Solenoid !nds and records these 
products. Although physicists already know theoreti-
cally what the decay chains of the Higgs boson should 
look like, it is extremely di&cult to !nd evidence of 
them in practice. 
Woods’ goal at the University of Florida was to 
aid in the detection of the Higgs boson by closely ex-
amining one of its decay chains, the bb-bar decay. 
“One of the grad students simulated a ton of 
Higgs-to-bb-bar decays, and I just si#ed through that 
simulated data and tried to !gure out if this happened 
in the machine for real, [then] what of the informa-
tion here would I be able to leverage into better detec-
tion of a Higgs boson?”
Although the bb-bar decay chain was particularly 
complicated, Woods concluded that it was still worth 
examining, and developed some possible strategies for 
better dealing with the noise created by all the par-
ticles generated during the decay.
Woods spent most of his time working in a computer lab with four other undergradu-
ates and a few high school students also assigned to the project. 
“I ended up really liking the other students I worked with and I became friends with 
them,” he said. 
Woods also worked closely with a University of Florida graduate student and commu-
nicated daily with Furić. A#er a full day at the computer, Woods o#en spent extra evening 
hours working from his laptop at home because he found the research so interesting. He was 
well aware how lucky he was to be working on the project.
 “It’s really rare for an undergraduate to get to work on the Higgs at all,” he said. 
 Some of Woods’ favorite moments of the summer involved the successful construction 
of some “really cool graphs.” 
He said, “$at was really exciting sometimes, to have this thing that was like, ‘Man, I just 
made this piece of science.’”
Woods’ graphs were on display during a presentation he made on Friday, Oct. 7 for a 
group of students and faculty gathered in a McCardell Bicentennial Hall classroom. His 
was one of three presentations of summer research by students who took advantage of the 
National Science Foundation’s Research Experiences for Undergraduates program. Using 
humorous metaphors and clear PowerPoint slides, Woods made the exciting world of high-
energy particle physics a bit more understandable for all in attendance.       
Searching 
for the 
Higgs Boson
by Leo DesBois - Staff Writer
$is year’s !rst-year show explores 
love’s powers by presenting a journey 
through reality and fantasy.  $e Oct. 
14 peformance will be at 8 p.m. and 
10:30 p.m., and the Oct. 15 perfor-
mance will be at 8 p.m. Tickets $4. 
13 Love SongHepburn Zoo8 p.m Through Oct. 
15
15
Uncle Boonmee has chosen to die in 
the countryside, but the ghost of his 
wife appears to care for him and his 
long-lost son returns in a nonhuman 
form.  Sponsored by the Hirsch!eld 
International Film Series. Free.
Uncle Boonmee 
Who Can Recall 
His Past Lives
Dana Auditorium
3 p.m. and 
8 p.m. 
Photo by  Anna Clements , Photos  Editor
Nate Woods ’11.5 poses by cutting-edge physics project in  McCardell Bicentennial Hall following summer research position.
20 13 October 2011
THIS WEEK 
ON 91.1FM
Video games serve a variety of pur-
poses: relaxation, procrastination, escap-
ism and yes, even socialization. But some 
games decide they’re going to pull out all 
the stops, ignore everything every other 
game this generation has done and never 
apologize. Dark Souls is that game. 
Dark Souls is an open world, third 
person, hack’n’slash RPG with a very 
interesting multiplayer aspect. The game is 
also really hard — easily the hardest game 
of this generation and possibly of all time. 
On paper it sounds like an exaggeration, 
but the combat in Dark Souls is so tight 
that a single mistake will cost your life at 
hands of bosses and normal enemies alike. 
To give you an idea, a couple of my friends 
mistook the game’s strategy guide for one 
of my textbooks. 
Within my first couple of hours, 
I stumbled upon an undead dragon, 
fought (and lost) a giant skeleton, got lost 
multiple times and died even more times. 
Throughout this adventure, I was collect-
ing souls, which function as the game’s 
currency. Souls are used to purchase items 
from merchants or gain experience points 
to level up, among other things. When you 
die, you lose all of your souls. The game 
gives you a chance to recover them by 
returning to the spot where you last died; 
die again in the process and all those souls 
are gone forever. This creates an immense 
tension within the game, coupled with a 
feeling of extreme loneliness. 
Players cannot communicate with 
each other except for the use of messages 
left on the floor that can be made using 
pre-selected text. These messages range 
from incredibly helpful to phrases like 
“Praise the sun!” and “I did it!” (Yeah, 
that’s super helpful, thanks.) One can 
also leave a special white message on the 
ground which allows players to be sum-
moned by others to help them out with 
an area or a boss fight. Screen names are 
never shared or shown so those who you 
help and help you will always remain a 
stranger. In addition to this, one can “in-
vade” other players’ realms to try to steal 
their precious souls. In turn, you can be 
invaded as well. 
Oftentimes there is no music, just 
the sound of your footsteps as you slowly 
push forward, not knowing what horrible 
nightmare is waiting for you on the other 
side, or when the next bonfire will appear 
(bonfires are the save points of the game, 
and players can repair equipment, restore 
their healing items or become human by 
spending humanity). But, like everything 
else in Dark Souls, there is a horrible 
catch: choose to use a bonfire, and all the 
enemies you have previously killed will be 
respawned (with the exclusion of bosses 
and minibosses) so even healing yourself 
becomes a stressful process.
The game also throws all sorts of crazy 
status effects that can remain permanent 
if you don’t fix them. At one point a larvae 
infected my character and turned my head 
into a giant egg, making me consider-
ably slower and unable to equip helmets. 
Another specific effect is the curse, which 
not only kills you instantly, but also causes 
your health bar to restore to only half its 
full capacity when you are revived. Even 
worse still, if you do not get the curse 
lifted, it can stack on another curse. I’ve 
heard many a horror story about charac-
ters being stuck because their health bar 
has been cut down, and they actually had 
to restart their entire game. 
Despite all the negativity the game 
exudes, I cannot stop playing it. The chal-
lenge is incredible, and the moment you 
land a finishing blow on an enemy or boss 
that’s been previously destroying you, it’s 
an absolute rush — a feeling of victory 
very few games with their continuous 
handholding are able to achieve. 
I feel that Dark Souls is just a very 
depressing metaphor for real life: you’re 
alone in a hostile environment, everything 
around you is an obstacle and you must 
rely on your own wits to survive. Some 
people will try to help you, while others 
will try to push you farther away from suc-
cess. When you do reach that success, you 
cannot help to feel proud of yourself. But 
don’t get too confident. There is always 
a bigger obstacle right around the next 
corner.
Dark Souls is not a game I can score. 
While it’s amazing in design and execu-
tion, the difficulty level can and will turn 
many away. If you’re looking for a game to 
sit back and relax with, do not buy Dark 
Souls. But for those who want to brave the 
challenge, know this: Dark Souls will get 
under your skin and make you think twice 
about every decision you make. As one 
NPC in the game explains, “Better watch 
your step, we wouldn’t want anything bad 
happening to you, now, would we?” 
Mann v. Ford producer discusses identity, injustice
WRMC
Audiences at all acquainted with the 
environmental documentary genre will !nd 
familiar faces in Mann v. Ford. "ere are the 
good guys, honest folks whose childhoods 
were !lled with mud pies, chickens and pow-
wows. "ere is a bad guy, a relentlessly corpo-
rate menace that creates a sinister void with 
its “no comment.” "ere is the noble lawyer, 
a plucky, indignant blonde who mixes legal-
ese and Southern twang with little abandon. 
"ere are the government o#cials, diplomat-
ic and insincere, with translucent eyelashes. 
"ere is even the right cast of supporting 
characters: heartbreakingly earnest report-
ers, cynical ecologists and incredulous locals. 
What sets Mann v. Ford apart is how 
close to home it hits, both in terms of its 
production and subject material. "e late 
Donald Axinn ’51 (yes, that Axinn) provid-
ed seed money for the !lm and served as its 
executive producer. Jamie Redford, father of 
Dylan Redford ’14, produced it. Its screening 
in Dana Auditorium last Wednesday, Oct. 5, 
marked the inception of a new series from the 
Franklin Environmental Center, “Parenting 
the Earth,” in which, as Associate Professor of 
American Studies Susan Burch explained in 
her introduction for Redford, “Middlebury 
parents actively involved with the environ-
ment and sustainability are invited to campus 
to share their knowledge and experiences.” 
In addition to appealing to the College’s 
environmental tendencies, Mann v. Ford 
holds geographic relevance to many students. 
"e !lm is set in Upper Ringwood, a commu-
nity located a mere 49 miles from Manhat-
tan. Upper Ringwood is part of a watershed 
that services much of New Jersey, a fact that 
appears suddenly frightening when the crux 
of the !lm, the dumping of toxic chemicals, 
is considered.  From 1967 to 1971, the Ford 
Motor Company used the area as a dumpsite 
for thousands of tons of industrial waste, in-
cluding, among other things, massive quan-
tities of highly toxic paint sludge. Now, the 
area is home to huge quantities of virulent 
substances such as “PCBs, Freon, heavy met-
als, lead and arsenic,” as the !lm’s website re-
counts. However, the land is also home to the 
Ramapough Mountain Indians. Historically 
persecuted and discriminated against, the 
Ramapough have had injury added to their 
many insults by Ford’s waste. Direct contact 
with the paint sludge, as well as prolonged 
exposure to the cocktail of other poisons 
present, has had a devastating impact on the 
Ramapough. 
Mann v. Ford documents the e$orts of 
the Ramapough to make their plight heard. It 
follows the progress of a class action lawsuit 
!led by the residents of Upper Ringwood, fo-
cusing on Wayne Mann, who lent his name to 
the lawsuit and took up the role of spokesper-
son for his community. Vicki Milligan, one 
of the lawyers working on the case, provides 
a charming foil to Mann. Together, they and 
many other members of the community met 
with Environmental Protection Agency o#-
cials, gave tours of the sludge-spattered sur-
rounding woods and cataloged the seemingly 
endless list of medical problems plaguing the 
residents. Although it lapsed occasionally 
into hackneyed David and Goliath diatribes, 
the !lm retained the power to shock. Plot 
twists were provided by the economic crisis 
that still grips parts of our country. 
"roughout the !lm, Redford touched 
on issues of race, class and national identity. 
As Mulligan noted early in the !lm, “the bad 
guy … could not have been more Ameri-
cana.” 
Viewed through the lens of environmen-
talism, these topics take on thought-provok-
ing new dimensions. Unfortunately, these 
allusions are ultimately unful!lled, over-
shadowed by so many tons of paint sludge. 
In the short Q&A session with Redford that 
followed the screening, the conversation re-
volved primarily around the remaining toxic 
waste at Upper Ringwood and its broader 
environmental implications. It seemed that 
story of Upper Ringwood had not lured the 
viewers down from their proverbial ivory 
tower, but had instead only made them ques-
tion its susceptibility to leaky reservoirs. Ulti-
mately, the actors in the tragic movie seemed 
to fall into the unfortunate pattern of so 
many enviromental dilemmas. 
One Life 
Left
by Anna Flinchbaugh
Staff Writer
Something to Talk About
11 a.m. - 12:30 pm 
Saturday
 
Looking for something to talk about? "en tune into 
WRMC every Saturday morning to hear Greg Dorris ’13, 
Adam Benay ’13 and Tom Califra ’13 solve Middlebury Con-
fessional dilemmas and answer the pressing Yahoo Answers 
questions with aplomb and a healthy degree of swagger. You 
will be blown away by their vast amounts of wisdom on 
Something to Talk About.
 
Angry Fans
11 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. 
Sunday
"is week on Angry Fans, friend of the show Damon 
Hatheway ’13.5 will join the team to discuss the upcoming 
Browns — Seahawks game and face o$ in a Rep Yo’ City Triv-
ia Challenge where he will defend Seattle against Spencer’s 
adopted Cleveland. Plus, the team will make their o#cial 
World Series picks. "at and more banter Sunday at 11 a.m..
 
MUSE
2 - 4 p.m. 
Sunday
"is week on MUSE, the theme of the week is families! 
MUSE will be talking to families of all shapes, sizes and all 
kinds of crazy. "ere will be personal stories from students 
with remarkable family histories, interviews with members of 
the Posse family, !eld chats with Fall Family Weekend visiting 
parents and students’ recollections of that special dish that no 
one on earth can cook better than their mom. Tune in and join 
the MUSE family!
Game | Dark Souls
Console | XBox 360, PS3 
Rating | Mature
by Santiago Azpurua-Borras
Be sure to listen in to these stellar shows on 91.1 FM or online at 
http://wrmc.middlebury.edu
campusarts&science
The bad guy ... could not have been 
more Americana.
— Mann v. Ford
campusarts&science          13 October 2011 21
Courtesy
sciencebrief Professor of Chemistry at Dartmouth College 
by Deirdre Sackett
Arts & Science Editor
Dr. Jimmy Wu spoke on Oct. 7 about the bio-avail-
ability and various chemical properties of sulfur. 
Professor of Studio Art Jim But-
ler’s eight students from the spring 2011 
“Sculptural Portraiture” course have just 
opened an exhibit of their final pieces ti-
tled Portraiture in Sculpture.  
The sculptures are displayed at differ-
ent levels of their design, from the initial 
drawings and photographs hung on the 
walls to the three-dimensional construc-
tions that viewers can walk around and 
observe at all angles. A noticeable aspect 
of the exhibit, as a whole, is the striking 
intensity and sophistication of their ma-
terials and construction.  
“I designed this class around … four 
primary materials to be combined to-
gether around the idea of portraiture,” 
said Butler.  “[They were] ceramic, wood, 
plaster and glass.” He went on to explain 
that these materials have a long history in 
art making and they hold a large degree 
of permanency and power.
Many of the pieces in the show are 
based off an assignment to make a por-
trait of the artist’s mother or father, or 
the class’s resource model who worked 
for the class for the entire semester as a 
tangible human reference. 
Tom Ladeau ’11 created an abstract 
sculpture of his mother translated into a 
geometric dress form that begins in a blue 
glass piece at the top and swirls down in a 
color trail through custom glazed ceram-
ic and stained poplar segments, ending at 
blue, parquetted wood pieces that suggest 
feet. 
Butler’s intention for focusing on the 
mother or father figures and the specific 
materials was to have the students experi-
ment with the direct cause-and-effect rela-
tionship in the materials.  
“There is this evolution of how one 
material mutates into another,” he said, 
gesturing to the progression of substances 
in Ladeau’s piece.
The class went to The Hub Consoli-
dated, Butler’s colleague John Chiles’ glass 
supplies and services shop in Orwell, Vt. 
There, they worked as a team with Butler 
and Chiles to make all the glass pieces. 
Blown glass elements are featured in al-
most every student’s piece, from colorful 
forms of the class model’s feet by Hannah 
King ’13 to the purple innards of Mindy 
Marquis ’11’s sculpture of her mother.
There seemed to be a theme of wa-
ter running through some of the pieces. 
One ceramic head was positioned under 
a crashing wave of stacked and shaped 
wood.  
“It’s like the experience of drowning,” 
said Butler, explaining what the student 
was going for.  Another ceramic head was 
attached to a wooded handle to give it the 
effect of a water pitcher in which water 
would pour out of the mouth. Marquis’s 
sculpture was based off a picture of her 
mother being knocked over by a wave.
Edwin Suh ’12, a biochemistry major, 
created a ceramic skull and a fully articu-
lating wooden skeletal arm as a portrait of 
his father smoking a cigar.  Based off the 
skull, he formed several beautiful glass 
steins of the head. 
“That didn’t go so well,” Suh said, “but 
I like how creepy they are.”
Besides the essential techniques of 
how to handle the primary materials, the 
students also learned from the work pro-
cesses of great sculptors like Auguste 
Rodin. Rodin followed models around 
his studio and made watercolors of 
them as they moved, threw the studies 
on the floor behind him as he finished 
and moved to capture their next motion. 
Cleo Cutler ’11’s project, a series of ce-
ramic heads, each with a unique expres-
sion and a corresponding glass blown 
rendition, echoed this loose and impres-
sionistic style.  
“She was very [interested in] the 
particulars of expression,” said Butler.  
He also noticed themes of slicing, 
gradation and variations in repetition 
come through in the students’ work, es-
pecially in Cutler’s series of heads and 
Julia Sisson ’12’s sculpture of her father 
made with slices of wood and glazed ce-
ramic.
On the unique effect of sculptural 
portraiture, Butler said, “When things 
become 3D the physical material either 
holds the viewer on an inchoate level 
or not.  I think in 3D the materiality is 
where it happens.”  
The bodies of work from this class 
show a vast range of ideas and concepts 
through the force of the four main struc-
tural materials. After explaining all the 
works, Butler nailed the effect on the view-
er when visiting the exhibit. “It’s a room 
full of people,” he said. The exhibit will run 
in the Johnson Memorial Building pit gal-
lery through Oct. 15. 
Dr. Jimmy Wu, an assistant professor of chemistry at 
Dartmouth College, presented a lecture on Friday, Oct. 7 
about the chemistry of sulfur. Wu discussed the importance 
of sulfur in modern necessities such as pharmaceutical drugs 
and cosmetic processes, and how replacing common ele-
ments such as carbon or oxygen with sulfur greatly enhances 
the bioactivity of certain compounds. He then went into de-
tail about various compounds. His research at Dartmouth 
College also focuses on the chemistry of sulfur, including 
how to make carbon-sulfur bonds, rather than just focusing 
on traditional carbon-nitrogen bonds.
Wu received his bachelor’s degree in chemistry from 
Princeton University in 1998, then spent two years as an 
associate chemist at Merck Process Research. He obtained 
his Ph.D. in organic chemistry at Harvard University, and 
continued his studies as a postdoctoral fellow at Stanford 
University, where he worked on the synthesis of indoline 
alkaloid communesin B. He joined the Dartmouth College 
faculty in 2007. 
Wu is a recipient of the Faculty Early Career Develop-
ment award, granted by the National Science Foundation. 
He also is the leader of a digital art project that creates short 
animated features designed to educate high school and col-
lege-level students about chemistry.  
Faces, expressions de!ne Portraiture in Sculpture
by Eliza Wallace
Staff Writer
Courtesy
Naomie Scha!er ’11.5 stands by student work in evocative recent exhibit in Johnson Gallery.
!e Middlebury Campus
we spent the last 105 years 
preparing for this one.
Since 1905
As the leaves begin to change and the air 
grows steadily cooler, it is not only the chilly 
nights that are crisp. Vermont’s apple season 
has arrived, and with it, a legacy of literature 
and place that has de!ned New England. In 
visiting lecturer Karen Halttunen’s recent 
lecture, she outlined this relationship, most 
speci!cally in the writings of Henry David 
"oreau. 
Halttunen is a professor of history at the 
University of Southern California. Her lec-
ture centered around the cultural history of 
the apple in New England. In "oreau’s era, 
New England was experiencing an outward 
migration of young people leaving for the 
prospects of the West. While the “decaying 
East” had always seemed to be Great Britain 
in the eyes of Easterners, in the wake of this 
exodus they were discovering that New Eng-
land was no longer the new frontier. "ose 
who didn’t migrate, however, planted deep 
roots in the area. "e symbol of this settled, 
rooted community became the apple, which 
"oreau, among others, used throughout his 
writing to encourage young people to stay 
on New England land. 
"oreau associated the history of apple 
with the history of man. For the !rst time 
in history, they appeared quite close to one 
another and migrated with men from the 
East to the West. To "oreau, mankind was 
symbolized by three di#erent varieties of 
apple. First was the crab apple, an uncul-
tivated native of New England; he associ-
ated this apple with the “uncivilized” native 
populations of North America. Next was the 
“civilized” apple, cultivated by the British 
and brought to North America. "is apple 
symbolized the elite class of people who col-
onized the United States. Finally, there was 
the wild apple, “wild only like myself,” as 
"oreau said, which was not native to North 
American soil, but which had strayed from 
the civilized class into the wild. "is was 
how "oreau thought man should be. Racist 
overtones aside, "oreau believed that men 
should be civilized but then return to their 
wild roots and embrace nature, much as the 
wild apple had le$ the orchard fence and re-
integrated into the wild. 
In 19th-century America, the apple was 
portrayed as a connection with home and 
with land that the young generation was 
lacking. "e act of planting apple trees or 
picking apples was used as propaganda in 
literature and advertisements to keep the 
young people at home. "oreau believed 
this intrinsically, refusing to believe that 
New England was declining. He wrote his 
essay “Wild Apples” largely as an argument 
for staying on the land. 
"oreau’s metaphor for New England is 
beautiful, and underlines the strong connec-
tion that those who stayed there, and per-
haps those of us who have migrated here, 
feel for it. 
!oreau lecture links
apples and mankind
by Amelia Furlong
Staff Writer
For years Wilco party-poopers have 
been pooping on Wilco’s party, claiming 
they’ve settled into the comfortably drab 
and thoroughly unchallenging genre of “dad 
rock.” "is is partly the result of two consecu-
tive releases: 2007’s Sky Blue Sky and 2009’s 
Wilco ('e Album), both of which shied 
away from the bold experimentation of their 
masterpiece, Yankee Hotel Foxtrot, in favor 
of a tamer, more straightforward sound. As a 
fan of those two albums, I denied the whole 
“dad rock” thing, but the title of Wilco’s 
eighth studio album, 'e Whole Love, made 
me shudder. What a corny name! I couldn’t 
help but think of my dad’s a%nity for Cham-
pion sweatshirts and Tom Jones. But then I 
discovered that the phrase “the whole love” is 
detective-speak for a full confession —  a per-
fect title for an LP that reveals the full range 
of Wilco’s talents. 
'e Whole Love is as edgy and moody 
as it is pop-y and fun. Abrupt and powerful 
changes in tone are matched only by some 
of the most brilliant surprises in the Wilco 
catalog. Take for example the wild guitar 
freakouts from the chorus of “Born Alone” or 
the entire seven-minute sprawl of album-
opener “Art of Almost,” which calls to mind 
Radiohead’s King of Limbs. Turn the corner of 
“I Might” and you’re likely to trip over Mikael 
Jorgensen’s carnival-esque organ work; take a 
wrong turn in “Capitol City” and you might 
!nd yourself in a vaudeville act à la "e 
Beatles’ “When I’m Sixty-four.” With so many 
diverse musical approaches, it is no wonder 
Tweedy has confusingly characterized the 
album as a split between “snot-nosed, obnox-
ious pop songs” and atmospheric country.
But 'e Whole Love, like any album, has 
its &aws. For one, the album lacks &ow. Indi-
vidually, the tracks are strong, even brilliant, 
but poor sequencing choices sandwich every 
slow, introspective song between the most 
lively and energetic pop songs on the album. 
It’s disorienting and it kills the grooves that 
tracks like “Dawned On Me” and “Standing 
O” work so hard to establish. "en there’s 
the psychedelic art rock of “Art of Almost,” 
which is an amazing track. But why is it 
there? Frankly, it seems like Wilco wrote 
a great song and needed a place to stick it. 
On the other end, there’s the album-closing 
behemoth, “One Sunday Morning (Song for 
Jane Smiley’s Boyfriend),” a heartbreaking 
tale dealing in religion, paternal pressure 
and death. Sure, it’s an exceptional track, but 
there’s simply not enough musical variation 
to justify the 12-minute run-time. 
All in all, 'e Whole Love is a remark-
able album. Careful attention to detail, like 
the ongoing conversation between Glenn 
Kotche’s precision drumming and John Stir-
ratt’s restless bass, creates a listening experi-
ence that is both unpredictable and tasteful, 
erratic and loveable. Although it is not as 
strong as Summerteeth or Yankee Hotel Fox-
trot, the album dexterously combines the airy 
melodies of the former with the atmospheric 
layers of the latter. So if you’re one of those 
Wilco party-poopers, I suggest you give this 
album a spin. If this is “dad rock,” consider 
my hair gray.
by Zach Blair
Artist | WIlco
Album | The Whole Love
Jose Kozer has written a poem in the 
bathroom every morning since February 
of 2002. “"e poems happen to me, I don’t 
happen to them,” he said to an audience in 
the Robert A. Jones ’59 House last "ursday, 
Oct. 8. 
"e award-winning poet, who has au-
thored 50 poetry books, been translated into 
seven languages and taught Spanish and Lat-
in American literature for over 30 years, gave 
a bilingual reading and led a discussion on 
campus last week to an audience spanning 
the breadth of the college community. 
To this day, he has written 1,629 poems 
in this way. Kozer admitted that he had al-
ways been “very proli!c.”
Kozer also told of how came to the 
United States from his native Cuba in 1960, 
bringing with him many of the peculiarities 
of the Latin country. He continued to rep-
resent his homeland in his poetry, despite 
losing his Spanish in New York.  Luckily for 
him, alcoholism brought it back. 
“"rough drinking, the Spanish that 
was in my stomach came out,” he said ani-
matedly, twirling his hands in his trademark 
manner. “A$er that, I wrote more than 500 
poems in less than a month.” 
But the Spanish he acquired was di#er-
ent from the Spanish he had lost, and this 
change had much to do with his evolution 
as a poet. Growing up in Cuba, he explained, 
never brought him into contact with Do-
minicans and Puerto Ricans, but moving 
through neighborhoods in New York was a 
di#erent experience. 
“"ere, I began to learn many ‘Spanish-
es’,” he said. “I began developing a sense of 
the language of the other, growing emotion-
ally and linguistically.” 
"e reading progressed through eight 
of Kozer’s poems, read !rst in their origi-
nal Spanish and then in translation by Ol-
ivia Grugan ’12.5. Grugan brought the 
poet to campus this semester a$er taking a 
poetry composition class with him during 
the Spanish Language School. “I had never 
written poetry before that class, but felt to-
tally motivated by his passion for writing” 
said Grugan, “I admire Kozer as a poet as 
well as a person and wanted to bring him 
to Middlebury to share that with my friends 
and professors.”
Kozer’s poetry is as distinctive on the 
page as it is out loud: each of his poems is 
essentially one long line, broken by printing 
constraints to !t in a book. His subject mat-
ter ranges from the wildly imaginary to the 
intensely personal. 
Perhaps his most moving poem recalled 
the experience of returning to home to Cuba. 
“In 51 years,” he said, “I was only once 
invited back by the government, allowed to 
visit the house in which I was raised.” 
"e poem moved into a description of 
his childhood home. "e house he depicted 
seemed to encapsulate his youth. He recalled 
speci!c details like a half-eaten peach on a 
blue plate, the familiar smell of shadow in 
the corners and other things preserved in the 
senses for half a century. 
“I see a vision that hasn’t changed,” the 
poetic voice said. 
But despite the familiarity of these de-
tails, the tone of the poem felt somewhat 
detached. In recognizing these day-to-day 
things, Kozer’s voice was also separated from 
them and from the time when they needed 
no comment. He called the poem “Reappar-
tition” to capture this almost phantasmal ap-
parition in his own past, where he is both at 
home and a stranger.  
At the end of his readings, Kozer further 
explained his own colorful life story. 
“From age 20 to 45 I could not go to 
sleep without thinking about Robinson Cru-
soe,” he said, commenting on the enormous 
impact of this book on his young imagina-
tion. 
“Writing is a life-giver,” he said. 
When asked about contemporary reac-
tion to his eccentricities and his obsession 
with writing, he replied with a &ourish, “You 
are crazy for not doing this!” 
Kozer will be on the faculty of the Span-
ish Language School at the College again this 
coming year, teaching an advanced poetry-
writing class. 
“Writing is a life-giver” says visiting Cuban poet
by Emily Scarisbrick
Arts & Science Editor
FOR THE 
 record
22 13 October 2011 campusarts&science
  Have an awesome research project? 
         
             Know a professor doing something cool? 
  
     Want to share your opinion on science at Midd? 
Let us know!
campus@middlebury.edu
13 October 2011  23advertisements
news.
local news.
opinions.
features.
arts.
sports.
it’s all online.
visit
middleburycampus.com
or go/thecampus
today to discuss articles.
campussports24 13 October 2011
Athletes Anonymous
1. Favorite place in the world to run? (or place you’d most like to run?)
Anywhere with crisp, clean air and a view.
!e Gardener. Tallest Man on Earth.
3. Finish the sentence: I couldn’t live without...
Oxygen.
4. Go-to pre-race meal? 
Clif Bar.
5. If you were a cartoon character, who would you be?
Sully. Monsters Inc.
!ere was no doubt about the identity of last week’s 
"eld hockey mystery athlete. !e team knows their 
senior captain far too well for even her “unexpected” 
actions to fool them; while Shaw stated that writing 
a memoir was the most unexpected thing she’s ever 
done, this proved to be a dead give-away for the 
team, all of whom, as it turns out, are familiar with 
the secret literary talents of their goalkeeper. Shaw’s 
response when questioned about her favorite place 
in the world was also incontrovertible evidence as to 
the identity of the “Athlete Anonymous.” Any team member who has been with 
Shaw at a good LNDP can attest to her high spirits, and “leggo” is one of the "eld 
hockey team’s (and Shaw’s) most frequently used expressions. Additionally, the 
team’s knowledge of Shaw’s activities o# the "eld extends to athletics as well, and 
her desire to play the “madinda” was no surprise to those who have o$en heard 
the senior talk about her African musical instruments class. !e captain clearly is 
too much of a personality to hide her true self from her team.
WHO AM I? WHO I AM.
?
THIS WEEK: MEN’S CROSS COUNTRY
!e Middlebury men’s golf team par-
ticipated in the Hamilton College Men’s Golf 
Invitational this weekend, earning a tie for 
third place "nish. !e "rst day of the tour-
nament was held at Yahnundasis Golf Club 
in New Hartford, N.Y., while the second day 
was played at Skenendoa Golf Club in Clinton, 
N.Y. 
Middlebury "nished with a total com-
bined score of 611, six strokes behind tour-
nament winner Manhattanville and only two 
strokes behind rival Williams. SUNY Delhi 
matched the Panthers, earning a tie for third 
place. It was the closest tournament of the year 
for Middlebury, as the top "ve teams all "n-
ished within eight strokes.  
Leading the way for Middlebury was Rob 
Donahoe ’14 with a score of 150, good for sixth 
place overall in the tournament. Right behind 
him were Eric Laorr ’15 (151) and William 
Prince ’13 (152), who "nished seventh and 
10th overall, respectively. Also enjoying strong 
rounds for the Panthers were John Louie ’15 
(159) and Max Alley ’14 (162). Even within the 
team, the scores of individual players were not 
far o#.
Middlebury was alone in third place a$er 
day one of the tournament with a score of 310, 
eleven strokes behind the leader, then Wil-
liams. On day two, however, the Middlebury 
golfers shot a combined 301, closing the gap 
between them and Williams heading down the 
stretch. !ey would ultimately fall two strokes 
short, with Manhattanville sliding into "rst.  
!e women headed to Taconic Golf Club 
in Williamstown, Mass. to play in the Williams 
Fall Invitational, "nishing second with a total 
combined score of 665. Host Williams won the 
tournament with a score of 646 and Amherst 
was third with 691. Unlike the men’s tourna-
ment, this one was hardly close at all.  
Flora Weeks ’12 led the Panthers with a 
score of 151, earning match medalist honors 
for an impressive third consecutive week. She 
won the tournament by a full "ve strokes over 
Williams’ Georgiana Salant. Following Weeks 
was Keely Levins ’13 with a score of 158, good 
for fourth overall. Jordan Glatt ’15 and Mi-
chelle Peng ’15 contributed scores of 178 each, 
while Caroline Kenter ’14 rounded out the 
squad with a score of 183.
“Flora had another outstanding week-
end,” said coach Bill Mandigo. “[She] and 
Keely both had excellent Sundays to lead us 
within two shots.”
Tricky greens led to a great amount of 
di%culty for teams with less experience on 
the course than NESCAC regulars Williams, 
Middlebury and Amherst. !e Panthers 
joined Bowdoin as the only teams to improve 
their scores from Saturday to Sunday by slash-
ing o# eleven strokes. It was the end of the 
short fall season for the women, who will look 
to continue their success next April.
!e men have one "nal tournament this 
fall, the Manhattanville/N.Y.U. Fall Classic. It 
will be held this Saturday at Hudson National 
Golf Club in Croton-on-Hudson, NY. 
Men’s, women’s golf place in 
top 3 in away tournaments
By Kevin Yochim
Sta# Writer 
617-373-3244
gspa@neu.edu
www.msamba.neu.edu
Start Your Career 
in Accounting.
Northeastern’s MS in Accounting/MBA 
for non-accounting majors:
Take the first step.
 Date: 
 Time:
 Location:
www.msamba.neu.edu.
Become our fan on Facebook.
facebook.com/northeasternuniversitymsamba
weigh in
submit a letter to the 
editor or an op-ed to 
campus@middlebury.edu 
and make sure your 
voice gets heard.
advertise with
The Middlebury 
Campus
e-mail campus@middlebury.edu
for rates and information.
13 October 2011 25campussports 
Date Sport Vs. Results Comments
10/08 Football Amherst 48-28 L
Middlebury led in the !rst half but lost the 
lead quickly and never regained it on the 
road.
10/08 Men’s Soccer Hamilton 3-0 W
"e men’s team came out strong against 
newly renewed NESCAC opponent 
Hamilton, 11 years later.
10/08 Women’s Soccer Hamilton 1-0 L
A#er a !ve game winning streak, the 
Panthers dropped games to R.P.I and 
Hamilton.
10/08 Cross Country Open New England Championships
Men’s 4th
Women’s 
6th
A#er !nishing 24rth at the same meet last 
year, the men’s team moved up 20 spots.
10/08
10/09 Field hockey
Hamilton
Babson
4-0 W
6-1 W
Lauren Greer ’13 was named player of the 
week a#er scoring six goals against two 
opponents.
2 Number of consecutive weeks !eld hockey player Lauren Greer ’13 has been named NESCAC player of the week.
73 Number of passes attempted by quarterback Mac Foote ’14 in football’s 48-28 loss to Amherst, one shy of the school record.
19
Number of consecutive passes completed by Arkansas 
quarterback Tyler Wilson in the Razorbacks’ 38-14 win over 
Auburn.
3
Number of Super Bowls won by the Oakland Raiders under 
general manager and owner Al Davis, who passed away last 
Saturday.
7 Place of men’s cross country runner Michael Schmidt ’12 in the Open New England Championships out of 282 runners.
Panthers o$ense delivers
game 6-1. Clarke earned the fastest back-to-
back goals Middlebury has ever seen — the 
pair of goals for the senior was separated by 
just two minutes, 13 seconds. Clarke’s !rst 
of the game came from the quick re"exes of 
Charlotte Gardiner ’13, who immediately 
controlled a rebound and passed to Clarke. 
Shortly therea#er, she snagged her second goal 
from a Greer assist. Following Sunday’s game, 
Greer surpassed Middlebury’s career assist 
record with 28, usurping Channing Weymouth 
’05 who had 25.
But Greer’s hall-of-fame like season would 
not be possible without the support of the 
whole crew. “[Greer] is NESCAC player of the 
week, and I think that’s because of the people 
playing around her,” said tri-captain Liz Garry 
’12. “Charlotte Gardiner, Hannah Clarke … 
people around her are playing really, really well 
and I think they’re all getting in their groove; it’s 
simply good timing.” And the timing could not 
have been better for the Panthers to hit their 
stride, as they near the NESCAC quarter!nals 
at the end of October. 
$e team will play Trinity in a home 
matchup on Sat. Before playing Bates and 
Williams in their !nal two NESCAC games 
before the start of the playo%s. 
Questions Katie Siegner Damon Hatheway Dillon Hupp Alex Edel
Will the football team throw 
more or less than 55 times against 
Williams this weekend?
MORE
Our new QB is the real deal.
LESS
"e Panthers haven’t topped 50 
pass attempts in their last three 
wins.
LESS
Williams is terrible this year. We’ll 
be running the clock out by the 
fourth quarter.
MORE
Dillon, although the Ephs are bad 
this year, we are a passing team. 
Duh. 
Will Lauren Greer ’13 make it 
three NESCAC Player of the Week 
honors in a row?
NO
If Scarlett can’t do it, no one can.
NO
But I will win Editor of the Week 
for the third time running.
YES
It would be stupid to bet against 
her at this point.
NO
 She is amazing but even Dillon 
Hupp hasn’t had 3 Player of the 
Week honors in a row. 
Will women’s soccer bounce back 
with a victory over Trinity this 
weekend?
ABSOLUTELY
We’re coming back with a 
vengeance.
DUH
Trinity’s mascot is a chicken. 
Panthers > Chickens.
HELL YES
Do you really think Katie would let 
me answer any other way?
YES
Absolutely. Duh. Hell yes.
Who will score the !rst goal for 
men’s soccer at home against 
Trinity?
OTIS PITNEY ‘12
 Being a captain is all about 
leadership.
SAM PEISCH ’13.5
He scored last week and he’s a 
junior feb. He also has nice eyes.
TYLER MACNEE ’12
But only because Lauren Greer 
’12 and Scarlett Kirk ’14 weren’t 
available.
TYLER MACNEE ’12
For his team leading 5th goal of 
the season.  
Will the NBA labor disputes be 
settled by the time our next issue 
goes to press?
NO
I don’t see a John Hickam out there 
in the NBA.
NO
And Dillon now has more Bill 
Simmons references than I do. 
"is will change quickly.
NO
Somewhere Bill Simmons is 
sitting in a dark room, crying and 
drinking scotch.
NO
Although it breaks my heart that I 
won’t be able to watch the only pro 
sport I actually understand.  
Career Record 56-74 (.431) 9-11 (.450) 72-60 (.545) 33-36 (.478)
Editors’
Picks
Continued from page 28
Field hockey played stellar defense last week.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
Looking to turn up the heat on their 
season a#er a very successful home weekend 
Oct. 1-2, the Panthers volleyball squad traveled 
to Tu#s last weekend, Oct. 8-9, for a NESCAC 
doubleheader against Connecticut College and 
the host school, long-standing Middlebury 
rivals. Both teams represented a formidable 
challenge to the Panthers’ conference hopes, 
as this weekend went a long way in deciding 
who will host the NESCAC tournament for 
postseason play. $e team was able to carry on 
its positive momentum through Friday night’s 
contest with Conn., but on Saturday the Panthers 
su%ered their second NESCAC loss against the 
Jumbos, who took the match in three straight. 
Friday night it was business as usual for 
Middlebury. Led by the o%ensive prowess of 
Megan Jarchow ’14 and co-captain Jane Handel 
’12, who were killing it all game, the Panthers 
swept the Camels o% the court despite high-
pressure situations in two of the games, which 
were won by narrow margins. Julia Gibbs ’13 
helped out the cause with an impressive 35 
assists. On defense, Caitlin Barrett’s ’13 double-
digit digs helped stave o% any potential Conn. 
College rallies, and the team ended the night 
victorious.
Unfortunately, they were unable to 
continue a !ve-game win streak into Saturday, 
as Tu#s came out strong to beat the Panthers 
and advance to a 6-1 record in the conference. 
$ings were a bit shaky on Middlebury’s side of 
the court, as the team’s serve receive fell apart 
and the Panthers were unable to match the 
intensity of the home team.
“It was hard for us to get into a good "ow,” 
said Jarchow. “We are more than capable of 
beating Tu#s, but Tu#s is a great team and we 
failed to put up a good !ght.”
Indeed, the box score re"ects a lopsided 
match between the two opponents, with 
Middlebury putting up scores of 13, 15 and 12 
in the three games. $is uncharacteristic failure 
to challenge for the match seems indicative 
of an o% day for the team rather than lack of 
ability. $e team is already brushing o% the loss 
and refocusing for a big weekend, with three 
NESCAC matches giving the Panthers more 
than enough chances to get back into the title 
hunt.
“We faltered on Saturday against a strong 
Tu#s team, but have been working hard in 
practice all week to prepare for our three 
NESCAC matches this weekend,” said Meg 
Anderson ’14. “I am fully con!dent that we 
can sweep all three Maine conference teams if 
we work hard and play as a team.” 
Whether or not the Panthers can topple 
Bowdoin, so far undefeated in the conference, 
and take down the less impressive Bates and 
Colby squads depends very much on which 
Middlebury team comes to play: if it’s the 
team that delivered a beating to Amherst two 
weeks ago, the Panthers will be in good shape.  
Volleyball wins and loses 
in three straight sets
By Katie Siegner
Sports Editor
campussports26 13 October 2011
Tennis teams turn in solid 
matches in weekend play
Both the men’s and women’s tennis 
teams were in action once again this week-
end, with the former participating in tour-
naments at Bates College and Dartmouth 
College and the latter hosting the Gail Smith 
Doubles Tournament at home.
On the men’s side, Middlebury compet-
ed against Williams and Dartmouth in both 
doubles and singles play at Dartmouth. !e 
Panthers sent three pairs in doubles play. 
Competing under the familiar doubles su-
perset winner-takes-all format, the team 
of Derrick Angle ’12/Alec Parower ’13 and 
the team of Edward Fitzgibbons ’14/David 
Farah ’12 went undefeated against their 
Dartmouth and Williams counterparts. !e 
Andrew Lebovitz ’14/Brantner Jones ’14 
combo prevailed against Williams but suc-
cumbed to a pairing from Dartmouth.
In singles play against Williams, Zach 
Bruchmiller ’14, Parower, Jones and Fitzgib-
bons were defeated by their opponents, 
while Angle and Farah both won in straight 
sets. However, in the matches against Dart-
mouth, it was Jones, Farah and Bruchmiller 
who prevailed. Bruchmiller’s Dartmouth 
match extended to a super tie-break that 
ended 11-9.
!e rest of the men’s team travelled to 
Bates for weekend play. !ere were four 
singles "ights and two doubles "ights. Most 
notably, James Burke ’14 reached the quar-
ter#nals of his singles "ight while Courtney 
Mounti#eld ‘15/Peter Heidrich ’15 reached 
the quarters of their doubles "ight. Other 
teams in this tournament hailed from Bates, 
Bowdoin, Trinity, Skidmore and Amherst.
!e women’s team competed in Mid-
dlebury’s own Gail Smith Doubles Clas-
sic took place over two days here at home. 
Teams invited to this tournament included 
Amherst, Brandeis, Skidmore, Bowdoin and 
even schools as far as Rochester.
!e Panthers sprinkled six doubles 
teams in the draw. !e pairs of Tori Aiello 
’12/Leah Kepping ’13 and Sally Wilkey ’12/
Lok-Sze Leung ’15 advanced past round 
robin play. Aiello/Kepping faced tough 
competition in the quarter#nals, defeating 
a team from Bowdoin 9-7. !ey were then 
defeated by an Amherst pair, who would go 
on to edge out Middlebury’s Wilkey/Leung, 
8-6 in the championship match. Aiello/
Kepping, however, redeemed their semi-
#nal loss with another close victory over 
Amherst for a respectable third place #nish.
!e women will be travelling to Mount 
Holyoke next weekend for a three-day tour-
nament that will conclude their fall season.
By Danny Zhang 
Sta$ Writer
Men’s cross country steals the show at New 
England Championships, women place sixth
On Oct. 9, the men’s and women’s cross 
country teams travelled to historic Franklin 
Park in Boston, to compete in the Open 
New England Championships, challenging 
many of the best running programs in 
the country. Coming o$ of an impressive 
month of racing, the Panthers looked to 
prove their strength on a more national 
stage, and did not disappoint. 
Only a year a%er placing a lackluster 
24th at the meet, the men’s team stunned 
squads from around New England, as they 
returned with something to prove, and 
delivered, placing fourth in a race that 
#elded 43 schools. 
Co-captain Michael Schmidt ’12 led 
the charge, #nishing in seventh place out 
of 282 athletes. Schmidt completed the race 
with a time of 24:56, a mere 5:04 per mile 
on the eight-kilometer course. Following 
Schmidt were Jack Davies ’13, Patrick 
Hebble ’13, Nate Sans ’14 and co-captain 
Sam Miller ’12, who #nished 33rd, 40th, 
46th and 96th, respectively. 
With 221 points, the Panthers were the 
fastest Division III school, only losing to 
University of Connecticut, Dartmouth and 
Boston University, who scored 149 points, 
192 points and 211 points, respectively. 
With this impressive #nish, the Panthers 
beat Williams College by 56 points, a team 
to whom they lost two weeks ago, and 
beat Boston College by 197 points, a team 
they lost to in the #rst week of the season. 
Middlebury also handily defeated other 
NESCAC schools, Bowdoin, Amherst, 
Wesleyan and Colby, as well as Division III 
powerhouse, MIT. 
“We had a great day,” said Schmidt. 
“[Saturday’s race] was our #rst look at a lot 
of the other NESCAC and New England 
teams, so we were de#nitely excited to race 
them. But we’re in the middle of the season 
so we didn’t gear up as much for this meet 
as we will for the ones in November, so it 
was really encouraging we did so well.”
He added, “A few guys had o$ days 
or got caught up in the [huge crowd of 
runners] but others really stepped up. To 
beat MIT and Williams without our best 
day is a good indicator for what we can do 
in the meets to come if we can get everyone 
#ring on all cylinders at the same time. [We 
are] really pumped for the championship 
races. We have a strong group all the way 
through and should be very competitive in 
every meet for the rest of the year.”
!e women also raced impressively, 
placing sixth in a #eld of 39 teams. Co-
captain Margo Cramer ’12 led the Panthers, 
placing 26th out of 269 competitors, with a 
time of 18:31. Addie Tousley ’13, co-captain 
Chelsea Ward-Waller ’12, Emily Singer ’14 
and Katie Carlson ’15, rounded out the rest 
of the pack, placing 32nd, 41st, 60th and 
61st respectively. 
With 216 points, the Panthers only 
fell to Boston College, Boston University, 
University of Vermont, Williams and 
Dartmouth. Equally notable was the 
women’s junior varsity #nish at the meet, 
as they placed 3rd with an average time 
of 19:27, only 39 seconds slower than the 
average of the varsity team. 
“I think what was most impressive 
[about the weekend] was how well the girls 
JV team ran,” said Singer. “!ey came in 3rd 
but their times were not far o$ of what the 
varsity team ran. It proves that we have a lot 
of depth. !ere’s so much interchangeability 
between everyone on our team. It’s going 
to make it really hard for [Head Coach 
Nicole Wilkerson] to choose who runs at 
NESCACs and Regionals.”
Nevertheless, Coach Wilkerson will 
likely appreciate this depth going forward. 
Especially a%er falling to rival Williams 
College a%er beating them two weeks ago, 
the number one ranked Division III lady 
Panthers know that they have their work 
cut out for them. 
On Oct. 15 the Middlebury runners 
will travel to the University of Albany for 
their #nal tune-up. It will be their last race 
before the crucial NESCAC Championships 
to be held at Amherst on Oct. 29 where they 
will look to sweep the meet for the second 
year in a row. 
By Brandt Silver-Korn
Sta$ Writer
!e men’s cross country team proved their abilities as they moved up from last year’s 24th 
place to their sixth place "nish this year at the Open New England Championships. 
File Photo
Rugby rebounds from loss to 
Northeastern, downs U of A
Redemption was in the air last weekend, 
as Middlebury traveled south to face an 
unbeaten University of Albany team. Coming 
o$ of a 34-3 loss to Northeastern the week 
prior, Middlebury rebounded very well, 
beating Albany 29-22. “It was good to come 
back with a win,” remarked senior co-captain 
Brian Sirkia ’12.5.
Sirkia was a force o$ensively, scoring a 
try and converting #ve of nine penalty kicks 
on his way to 24 points for the day. Albany 
actually found their way past the try line more 
times than Middlebury, but converted only 
one of four opportunities, leaving six points 
on the #eld. !ose might have come in handy 
for the home team, as the score was close late 
in the game. Middlebury, however, played a 
more composed game, largely mistake-free, 
and gave up no penalty points while they 
forced 15 by the opposing Albany squad.
!e Middlebury defense also performed 
better than the score might have indicated. 
Albany enjoyed a distinct advantage in the 
scrum, which resulted in several big runs 
from their eight man o$ of picks and set 
plays. Without those runs, which directly 
contributed to two Albany scores, the MCRC 
would have won by a much larger margin. 
!e backline especially made some nice 
tackles against the Albany attack, with big hits 
coming from Kennedy Mugo ’12, Geo$ Kalan 
’12.5 and Zach Withers ’11.5.
“We did some good work,” said senior 
lock Nick Derrico ’12. “We played a good total 
game this weekend.” Derrico has been playing 
through a shoulder injury but nevertheless 
started the game and played into the second 
half. !e Middlebury forwards have been 
decimated by injuries, making the return of 
senior Feb Danny Powers ’11.5 a welcome 
reprieve. Although the forwards are a young 
group this season, they have been sustained 
by their depth and their versatility.
Unfortunately, all those injuries mean 
that an MCRC team already on the small 
side is now even smaller, and less able 
to compensate for their lack of size with 
their usual experience and technique. !is 
diminished depth of support showed on 
Saturday, as the strained Middlebury pack 
was repeatedly driven back in the scrum. 
However, they managed to make their mark 
on the game in other ways, doing good work in 
the ruck, stealing line-outs and contributing a 
try in the form of lock Sam Murray ’11, who 
was brought on in the second half. Murray’s 
try proved to be the di$erence at the end of 
the day, as Middlebury staved o$ a late rally 
by Albany to hold on and win. 
Hopefully the bye this weekend will give 
the team a chance to rest and recover from 
their injuries. Instead of injuries, this weekend 
should bring some fun for everyone in the 
Parent’s Weekend MCRC 7’s tournament. 
Two weeks from now Middlebury will take on 
the University of Connecticut at home. 
!e MCRC defeated U Albany 29-22.
Sopheak ChheungBrantner Jones ’14 served up a victory.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
By Sam Hathaway
Sta$ Writer
campussports 13 October 2011 27
Rank Team10/6 Dillon’s Discourses
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
8
1
7
—
3
2
4
5
Women’s Soccer
Cross Country
Men’s Soccer
Volleyball
Men’s Rugby
Women’s Golf
Football
!ey’re a  team of streaks—six straight wins and 
two straight player of the week honors for Lauren 
Greer.
We’ll give them a semi-break this week since they had 
to travel to Hamilton for the "rst time since 2002. !at 
place sucks.
!is sport crosses gender boundaries. Both the men’s 
and women’s teams are kicking ass and taking names.
Finally starting to look like the team that went deep into 
the NCAA tournament last fall.
!ey lost to Tu#s, but I’m not about to drop a 10-win 
team from the Great Eight.
More than just a one-man show, despite the fact that 
Brian Sirkia ’12.5 scored 24 of their 29 points at Albany.
Capped o$ a great fall season with a third consecu-
tive medalist "nish by star Flora Weeks ’12.
Field Hockey
When your passing attempts more than double your 
points scored, you’re probably not gonna win.
!e Panthers "eld 
hockey team delivered a 
shutout week, defeating 
Castleton, Hamilton and 
Babson.
Andrew Podrygula, 
Photos Editor
The Middlebury Great Eight
Men’s soccer continues shutout streak
A!er several double-header weekends, 
the varsity men’s soccer team lowered their 
playing load this week with just one game 
at Hamilton on Saturday, Oct. 8. While the 
number of games may have been down for 
the Panthers, the level of play certainly was 
not.
Middlebury started the rout of the 
Continentals just seven minutes into the 
game. Tyler Macnee ’12 placed the ball 
perfectly in the center of the Hamilton penalty 
box for Martin Drolet ’12, who drilled it into 
the back of the net. 
"e #rst half was almost up when 
Macnee was there again, this time crossing 
the ball to Sam Peisch ’14. Peisch dodged 
a defender and scored a short shot against 
Hamilton goalkeeper Eric Boole. "is goal 
was Macnee’s second assist of the game and 
Peisch’s second goal of the season.
Hal!ime did nothing to slow the 
Panthers’ momentum, as 13 minutes in to the 
second half the Panthers struck a #nal time. 
Senior tri-captain Otis Pitney ’12 and Brett 
Brazier ’13 had a two-on-one advantage in 
front of the Hamilton goal, an opportunity 
that the streaking Panthers would not miss. 
Pitney passed le! to Brazier, who scored for 
the third time this year.
"e Middlebury defense proved 
impenetrable to the Continentals throughout 
the entire game. Tri-captain and goalkeeper 
Tim Cahill ’12 made three saves on the day, 
good enough to earn him his sixth shutout of 
the season. 
“"e defense deserves a ton of credit 
for the job they did on Saturday,” said Cahill 
of his defensemen. “Hamilton played a 
very aggressive formation, so it put a lot of 
pressure on our mid#elders and defenders 
to slow them down. "e organization of our 
back four was perfect; they made my life very, 
very easy.”
With a #nal score of 3-0, Middlebury 
claimed the #rst matchup against Hamilton 
in eleven years. Hamilton soccer rejoined the 
NESCAC this season a!er previously playing 
in the Liberty League, also a part of Division 
III. "is sparked controversy over scheduling 
logistics, but ultimately the bene#ts of 
having Hamilton as a full-NESCAC school 
outweighed the costs.
While the Panthers improved their 
record to 5-2-3, it is far from the record of 
8-1-0 that Middlebury held at this point last 
year. 
“"e team had a bit of a slow start by 
Middlebury soccer standards, but things are 
de#nitely looking up now,” said Pitney of the 
team’s prospects. “We’ve got a lot of talent 
and de#nitely the right personalities; it just 
took a few games for us to understand how 
to play with one another. With every game 
that goes by we’re becoming a stronger, more 
dangerous team. I can tell it’s going to be a 
special season.” 
With the win over Hamilton, 
Middlebury has not lost its past six games. 
"is weekend, the Panthers will face another 
NESCAC contender, the Trinity Bantams, as 
they look to collect a few more wins in the 
regular season. Playo$s will begin on Oct. 29 
with the NESCAC quarter#nals. 
Women’s soccer su#ers mid-season setback
A!er ripping o$ #ve straight victories, 
the varsity women’s soccer team hit a skid last 
week, falling to RPI and then NESCAC foe 
Hamilton in successive games. Prior to last 
Saturday’s engagement, the Panthers and the 
Continentals had not met on the pitch since 
2002.
Middlebury took on RPI at home on 
Oct. 4, and struggled to get into their usual 
rhythm for the duration of the game. "e 
Engineers played an extremely disruptive 
style of defense, and were able to keep 
the Panthers o$ balance and o$ the 
scoreboard. Middlebury was #nally able 
to apply some pressure in the second half, 
but missed several key opportunities as 
time ticked o$ the clock and the game 
proceeded into overtime. In the extra 
frame, the Engineers were able to put the 
winner in a!er just three minutes of play, 
ending Middlebury’s impressive winning 
streak.  
Both defenses bared their teeth 
in the opening half of Middlebury’s game 
at Hamilton on Oct. 8, limiting scoring 
opportunities and frustrating attackers for the 
better part of the #rst period. Middlebury had 
an excellent chance late in the #rst half, when 
a Rachel Madding ’13 shot hit the inside of the 
crossbar, ricocheting near the goal line before 
being cleared away by the Hamilton defense. 
Hal!ime came with the score deadlocked at 
0-0.
Hamilton came out #ring in the second 
half, and scored the eventual winner just #ve 
minutes in. Taking advantage of a Panther 
penalty, the Continentals set up a free kick 
and executed, with Alyssa DiCosmo netting 
the goal from the far post. A!er the Hamilton 
score, the Panthers mounted numerous 
comeback attempts, but to no avail. Top scorer 
and wunderkind Scarlett Kirk ’14 attempted 
two shots on the day, but failed to connect on 
either as the Continental defense held strong. 
With time winding down, Panthers forward 
Amy Schlueter ’13 put a nice crossing path into 
the box, but was unable to #nd a teammate for 
the #nish. Instead, the threat was neutralized 
by the Hamilton defense, and the Panthers 
would not come any closer, falling by a single 
score. "e loss drops Middlebury to 6-3-1 
in the standings, with a record of 4-2-1 in 
NESCAC play.
“We’re de#nitely disappointed with our 
last two results,” said captain Lucy Wagner ’13. 
“We didn’t put away our chances against RPI 
or Hamilton. Saturday’s game was especially 
frustrating, because although we maintained 
good possession we didn’t create enough 
scoring opportunities.” 
Middlebury #nishes the season with 
three straight NESCAC games, starting 
at home against 
Trinity this weekend. 
Currently fourth in 
conference standings, 
the Panthers can 
make a serious push 
for good playo$ 
standing by sweeping 
their remaining 
matches. A!er taking 
on the Bantams, 
Middlebury will 
travel to bottom-
feeding Bates before 
the highly anticipated home #nale versus 
third-place Williams.
“Everyone has been working hard,” said 
Wagner of the team’s renewed determination 
going into the #nal stretch of the regular 
season. “"ese two losses are de#nitely 
serving as motivation for us to put in even 
more e$ort as we look forward to Trinity this 
weekend.”
By Dillon Hupp
Sports Editor
By Mike Oster
Sta$ Writer
October sigh
"e NBA season was supposed to start 
on Nov. 1. Instead, David Stern announced 
Monday that the NBA will cancel the #rst two 
weeks of the season and possibly the entire 
season if the Players Union and the owners 
can’t agree to a new Collective Bargaining 
Agreement.
Labor peace is not likely to happen 
anytime soon; the two sides remain about as 
close to coming to a new agreement as the 
sports section of the Campus is to covering 
quidditch. 
"e sides are divided on two decisive 
issues — how to split the Basketball Related 
Income (BRI) and a potential hard salary cap. 
"e previous CBA stipulated a 57-43 BRI split 
for the players, meaning that players received 
57 percent of revenue. "e previous CBA also 
created a so! salary cap, allowing teams to 
spend beyond the cap, but with the penalty of 
a luxury tax. 
"e current stando$ exists because the 
owners are demanding an even 50-50 split of 
the BRI while the players have compromised 
to a 53-47 split — something the union says 
will return more than a billion dollars to the 
owners — but are entrenched there. "e 
owners, meanwhile, are trying to secure a hard 
cap, which would limit the amount of money 
each team can spend on players.
"e players and owners continue to 
quibble and have worked harder to win the 
media’s favor than #nding a solution to their 
problems. Which begs the question, how can 
we convince the two sides to compromise in 
order to save the season?
While watching October Sky the other 
night, I realized that the movie provides the 
answer. As you may recall, Homer Hickam, 
the protagonist and rocket innovator, goes to 
Indianapolis hoping to win a science fair and 
a college scholarship while his hometown coal 
mine is broiled in an ugly strike. To Homer’s 
dismay, his exhibit is stolen while he’s at a 
movie. With the judges primed to make their 
decision, Homer needs a substitute rocket 
nozzle so he can demonstrate his knowledge of 
the material. 
With the mine locked to the workers, 
only Homer’s father, John Hickam — who’s 
trusted by both the workers and management 
— can negotiate labor peace and send Homer 
what he needs. Hickam, who disapproves 
of his son’s obsession with rockets, initially 
refuses to “crawl on his hands and knees” in 
front of the union to help his son. But when his 
wife threatens to leave him if he doesn’t help 
Homer, Hickam acquiesces. 
Homer gets the replacement nozzle and 
goes on to win the science fair, propelling 
him to college and a job in NASA. But lost in 
Homer’s feel-good story is that John Hickam 
ended the labor dispute. He put his son and 
wife’s desires ahead of his pride, quickly and 
e$ectively ending the strike in the process.
You may be wondering how October Sky 
provides the answer to the NBA’s problems. 
Pride and stubbornness are bigger factors at 
this point in the NBA lockout than the issues 
themselves. It’s likely that when the lockout 
ends, whether in a few days or in a few months, 
the players will cave into the owners. At some 
point the younger players in the league will feel 
the a$ects of missed paychecks and the union 
will be forced to negotiate — this time at the 
whim of the owners.  
But who can instill this wisdom in the 
players? "e NBA version of John Hickam is a 
man named William Wesley, though he’s better 
known by his nickname World Wide Wes. Wes, 
who doesn’t have a job title per se, is friends 
and works closely with some of the biggest 
names in the sport. Over the past twenty years 
he has become one of the most powerful and 
respected people in the NBA. In a 2007 article, 
GQ called Wes the “most in%uential man on 
and o$ the court” which has been rati#ed time 
and time again as Wes played a de#ning role in 
LeBron’s decision saga the summer before last.
As a third party, Wes can put the good of 
the league #rst and stop October, and beyond, 
from becoming one long sigh.
Damon Hatheway ’13.5 is a sports editor from 
London, England.
These two losses are definitely 
serving as motivation for us 
to put in even more effort as 
we look forward to Trinity this 
weekend.
— Lucy Wagner ’13
!e Panthers followed one of 
their most memorable performances 
of the past few seasons with one of 
their least. Bob Ritter’s team turned 
the ball over "ve times in a 48-28 
loss to Amherst on Saturday, Oct. 
8, a game that the Panthers had 
numerous chances to win.
Middlebury led for the majority 
of the "rst half, jumping out to a 7-0 
lead with 9:44 remaining in the "rst 
quarter on an 18-yard touchdown 
pass from Mac Foote ’14 to Nick 
Resor ’12. !e touchdown was the 
"nishing touch to an 11-play 92-yard 
drive.
A#er a 24-yard "eld goal, the 
Lord Je$s took advantage of the 
Panthers’ "rst turnover — a fumble 
from wide receiver Zach Driscoll 
’13 on the Middlebury 33-yard line 
— and struck on the "rst play from 
scrimmage to take a 10-7 lead. It 
was one of three touchdowns the 
Lord Je$s converted a#er Panther 
turnovers led to short "elds.
!e Panthers bounced back to 
start the second quarter, however, 
as Foote found Josh Amster ’13 for 
a two-yard touchdown to regain 
the lead, 14-10. On the day Foote 
completed 46 of a whopping 73 
passes for 400 yards and three 
touchdowns. A#er a strong "rst 
half, however, Foote threw three 
second-half interceptions. Resor led 
the receiving core with 13 catches 
for 106 yards and two scores while 
both Billy Chapman ’13 and Driscoll 
totaled more than 90 yards through 
the air. 
Leading 21-20, with 2:45 
remaining the "rst half, the Panthers 
fell apart. Following Resor’s second 
touchdown catch of the a#ernoon, 
the Lord Je$s took the ensuing 
kicko$ return 38 yards to mid"eld. 
Two plays later they were in the end 
zone, with a 27-21 lead and 2:11 
remaining in the half. 
Special teams have been the 
weak link for the Panthers all season, 
and Saturday was no exception. A#er 
struggling in coverage, the Panthers 
fumbled the ensuing kicko$ in the 
shadow of their end zone, setting 
up the Lord Je$s at the 13-yard line. 
Looking to go up by two touchdowns 
at hal#ime, the Lord Je$s elected to 
go for it on fourth and two from the 
Panthers "ve-yard line for a chance 
to take a commanding lead. !e Je$s 
picked up the "rst down and broke 
the plane on the next play, heading 
into the locker room with a 34-21 
lead.
“I [Ritter] thought we were in 
a pretty good position with about 
two minutes le# in the half and then 
a bad special team’s turnover really 
hurt us,” said head coach Bob Ritter. 
“As did all of our turnovers. It’s very 
rare when you lose the turnover 
battle that you win the game. It’s 
even rarer when you play a good 
team and you turn the ball over that 
many times that you can survive.”
Despite the atrocious end to 
the "rst half, the Panthers fought 
back in the third quarter, cutting the 
Amherst lead to six on a four-yard 
touchdown run from Remi Ashkar 
’13. It was the lone bright spot for 
the Panthers running game, which 
failed to develop in large part as 
a result of the de"cit the Panthers 
fought to erase in the second half. 
Ashkar carried the ball just 13 times 
for 35 yards. It marked the "rst time 
this season that the junior running 
back carried the ball fewer than 
25 times as well as the "rst time he 
failed to reach the century mark on 
the ground. 
!e Lord Je$s extended their 
lead on the ensuing drive, marching 
62 yards on seven plays to take a 
41-28 lead at the end of the third 
quarter. !e Panthers comeback 
hopes ended when Foote threw his 
second interception on the team’s 
"rst fourth quarter drive. !e Lord 
Je$s put the "nishing touches on a 
48-28 win with a 40-yard touchdown 
run from Eric Bunker.
 Turnovers and "eld position 
ultimately killed the Panthers. !e 
Lord Je$s had an average starting 
"eld position of their own 47-yard 
line while the Panthers averaged 
just the 20-yard line. !e Lord 
Je$s started "ve drives in Panthers 
territory — something the Panthers 
failed to accomplish once. 
!e Panthers played well 
enough to win at points but the 
incredible discrepancy in "eld 
position and turnovers doomed the 
team.
“We felt very good when we 
made them drive the length of the 
"eld,” Ritter said. “Our defense 
did a very good job and we felt 
con"dent that we could move the 
ball on o$ense. But they’re also good 
enough that they caused some of 
those turnovers.”
Special teams, not surprisingly, 
will be the primary focus for the 
Panthers this week. “It’s going to be 
more of an emphasis in practice this 
week,” said Ritter. “We have to "nd 
ways to put our guys in a position to 
succeed.”
!e Panthers return home this 
weekend to take on NESCAC rivals 
Williams (1-2). !e Panthers lost 41-
17 to the Ephs last year and have lost 
their last 10 games agaisnt the Ephs.
games to watch
Football vs. Williams 
Saturday, Oct. 15 at 1:30 p.m.
Soccer and field hockey vs. Trinity
Saturday, Oct. 15 at 2:00 p.m.
Men’s soccer
The Panthers remain unscored 
on in their past five games, 
page 27.
Cross country
The Panther men took down 
all Division-III teams in New 
England, page 26.
sports 2813 October 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Field hockey sweeps three games
In their most recent showdown 
on the road to the NCAA Division 
III national "eld hockey title, 
Middlebury shut out the Hamilton 
Continentals 4-0 in an impressive 
performance on Oct. 8. !ree 
days prior, the Panthers similarly 
dominated Castleton State on their 
own turf. Middlebury put on a clinic 
in this non-conference match-up, 
beating the home team in every facet 
of the game. !e Panthers outshot 
Castleton 39-12, and overtook the 
Spartans in penalty corners, 17-7, to 
end the game 5-0. 
!e team also played sti%ing 
defense, creating endless turnovers 
and successfully pushing the ball up 
to the o$ense. Madeline Brooks ’13 
turned in a shutout in her "rst start 
of the season between the pipes, 
stopping six shots that were able to 
permeate the tight Panther defense. 
Middlebury’s Lauren Greer ’13 
continued her stellar season, scoring 
all "ve Panther goals. !e current 
NESCAC player of the week two 
times running is averaging two goals 
and 1.6 assists per game. 
Last Saturday, the Panthers 
were back on track, as they 
traveled up to Hamilton to face 
the Continentals. !e Middlebury 
defense seemed to have never 
le# the “zone,” keeping the same 
pressure on the Continentals that 
they put up against the Spartans. But 
this time, the defense allowed only 
one shot, which was saved by tri-
captain Becca Shaw ’12. Madeline 
Brooks ’13 subbed in for Shaw on 
the 55th minute, to combine for the 
Middlebury shut out, 4-0 at the "nal 
whistle. 
Once again Greer sparked the 
Panther o$ense, scoring the "rst two 
goals in the 16th and 21st minutes, 
one from an unassisted drive and 
the other from a Heather Karpas ’12 
through ball. Katherine !eiss ’14 
and Hannah Clarke ’12 also blasted 
two goals to the back of the cage in 
the 31st and 55th minutes of the 
match to solidify the win. 
!e very next day, Middlebury’s 
mettle was tested again as they faced 
a non-conference match-up against 
Babson College. !e scoring came 
very early in the game, as Babson 
forward Kelly Walsh sniped a ball 
through Shaw in the "#h minute. 
But that would be the last time a 
Babson ball crossed the line, as Shaw 
and Brooks combined again to save 
six other tries between the pipes. !e 
Middlebury defense took control 
a#er this early slip-up, limiting 
the Beavers’ shots and creating 
opportunities for the o$ense. 
Middlebury outstandingly 
outshot Babson 33-7. Margaret 
Souther ’13, Clarke and Greer each 
tallied two goals apiece to end the 
Charlotte Gardiner ’13 celebrates one of six Panther goals vs. Babson.
Football turns over game 
to Lord Je!s in 48-28 loss
Middlebury crew 
hosts !rst home 
race vs. UVM
By Vincent Mariano
Sta$ Writer
See Panthers, page 25
By Damon Hatheway
Sports Editor
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
!e Middlebury club crew program has been building for several years, 
and continues to take strides forward in their fall 2011 season. Last weekend, 
on Oct. 8 and 9, set against the gorgeous backdrop of a crystal clear day on 
Lake Dunmore, the crew team hosted their "rst-ever home race against the 
University of Vermont. !e event was part of an on-going friendly rivalry 
between the only two schools with crew programs in the state, in essence a 
“Vermont Cup.”
“Excitement is the word that sums up this past weekend,” said co-captain 
Nick Zhao ’12. “It was exciting to be a part of the "rst ever home race and just 
shows how far this team has come in the last few years. We, as a team, have 
high expectations, and the quality of our opponents shows the direction that 
we want this team to be heading in.”
 While Middlebury failed to win the dubious honor of being the “best 
crew team in the state of Vermont,” several of the races were very close this 
year, and some of the men won their contests in the smaller boats. 
Given the size disparities in the two schools, it is a source of great pride 
when the Panthers do pull o$ a win against UVM, which has happened in 
past years. However, the team remains positive about the regatta, and noted 
that in comparison to past years of racing on UVM’s home course — regattas 
characterized by inclement weather and poor racing conditions — this 
contest was far more enjoyable. As the many students who frequented the 
shores of Lake Dunmore during last weekend’s unseasonably warm weather 
would agree, there are few better places to be on days like that.
— Katie Siegner, Sports Editor
Courtesy
sportsbrief
