Thursday, October 20, 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Vol. 110, No. 6 Since 1905
th
is
 w
ee
k Asking Tony
Read about Tony and the Vermont 
Children’s Hospital Miracle Network,
page 14.
Poetry at Mead
Former poet laureate Billy Collins 
gives a reading to the College,
page  17.
The flavors of Vermont
Get the scoop on Vermont’s ice 
cream celebs, Ben and Jerry,
page 6.
Recca elected SGA 
president  in runoff 
Occupy Wall St. hits Middlebury
Alcohol task force 
members chosen
Over thirty members of the College community marched in solidarity with the Occupy Wall Street protest Oct. 13.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
Sopheak Chheng
Josh Taylor ’12 tackles snitch Chris Johnson ’12 to end the game during the first annual Middlebury 
Classic on Sunday, Oct. 16, on Battell Beach. Read more about snitches, quaffles and injuries on page 3.
StudentS deScend on Middlebury in queSt for Snitch
Orientation trips’ future is unclear
By Adam Schaffer
News Editor 
See Occupy, page 2
By Paul Warnke
Staff Writer
See Mandatory, page 3
By Kyle Finck 
News Editor 
See Mutothori, page 2
By Kara Shurmantine
Editor-in-Chief
Vin Recca ’12 is this year’s Stu-
dent Government Association (SGA) 
President, defeating Nathan LaBarba 
’14 in a run-off election 452 votes to 
231 on Oct. 14.
“This election demonstrated that 
students want an experienced leader 
that will make the SGA do what it’s 
supposed to do,” Recca said. “This is a 
mandate on experience.”
None of the five presidential 
candidates won more than 50 percent 
of the votes, prompting a run-off be-
tween the top two vote getters. 
While Recca and Mugo Muto-
thori ’12 received top votes in the first 
election — 380 and 212 respectively 
— Mutothori was disqualified for 
campaigning after polls opened, vio-
lating Section VI Articles 4 and 5 of 
the campaign rules.   
In an Oct. 12 email, the SGA an-
nounced the first-year senator elec-
tion winners and Mutothori’s dis-
qualification. 
“Several allegations were made 
to the Elections Council about Mugo 
soliciting votes after the designated 
campaigning period ended,” said the 
Council in a statement. “As a Council 
we felt that not only was this in direct 
violation of the rules, but also it gave 
him an unfair edge over the candi-
dates who refrained from breaking 
the rules.”
Associate Dean of Students for 
Residential Life and Student Life Pol-
icy Doug Adams said he first received 
the campaigning violation on Mon-
day, Oct. 10. 
“I sent it to the elections coun-
cil, which is where it’s supposed to 
go, and the elections council met on 
Tuesday to discuss it, and again on 
Wednesday,” he said. “Officially the 
elections chair can make the call, but 
since the regulations were so new she 
[Caroline Regan ’12] didn’t want to 
make it by herself so they called the 
meeting.” 
Mutothori said his dismissal 
stemmed from text messages he sent 
to his friends. 
“I just told people to vote 
through a text message and they 
[SGA] used that as grounds for dis-
qualifying my candidacy,” he said. 
Mutothori said candidates have 
done far worse in the past. 
“Last year, we all got an email 
telling us to vote for a certain can-
didate, and the year before, we all 
got Facebook messages to vote for a 
certain candidate. How come they 
weren’t disqualified?” he said. “No-
body stops talking to their friends 
The Student Government As-
sociation (SGA), Middlebury Moun-
tain Club (MMC) and Old Chapel 
are reworking the funding for a first-
year pre-orientation trips program.
Since the College cut Middlebury 
Outdoor Orientation (MOO) and its 
successor, MiddView, from its budget 
in 2008, the Middlebury Mountain 
Club (MMC), with funding from the 
SGA, assumed the management of 
its own student-run orientation trips 
program, Outdoor Introduction for 
New Kids (OINK). But the three-year 
contract the SGA had with the MMC 
has come to an end, putting the exis-
tence of an orientation trips program 
in jeopardy.  
MMC and SGA conceived of 
OINK as a transitory operation that 
provided incoming first years the 
opportunity to explore Vermont’s 
natural beauty while giving the ad-
ministration time to devise a new 
orientation program.
In its essence, OINK was a 
“band-aid solution,” said Joanie 
Thompson ’14, senator and Speaker 
of the Senate.
“SGA stepped in to fund OINK 
not wanting to set the precedent 
that it would become a permanently 
funded SGA operation,” said Nathan 
LaBarba ’14, the SGA’s liaison to 
OINK.  
Last winter, Anne Runkel ’11, 
senior class senator, submitted a bill 
to the administration proposing the 
formation of a new mandatory trip 
program embedded in orientation. 
Dean of the College and Chief 
Diversity Officer Shirley Collado rec-
ognized the importance of orienta-
tion trips, and noted that the admin-
Students and faculty joined 
together Oct. 13 to march in soli-
darity with the Occupy Wall Street 
protests in New York. Entering its 
fourth week of protests against 
economic inequality and injustice, 
the Occupy Wall Street movement 
has spread to over 100 cities in the 
United States and throughout the 
world. 
The march at the College, 
which was followed by a panel 
discussion of the broader implica-
tions of the movement on Oct. 14, 
stemmed from a loosely organized 
group on Facebook called Occupy 
Middlebury. Though not engag-
ing in any long-term occupation, 
the group seeks to show solidarity 
with the Occupy Wall Street pro-
tests through conversation and 
action.
Last week’s Occupy 
Middlebury events were orga-
nized by a group of five students 
— Hanna Mahon ’13.5, Kristina 
Johansson ’14, Adam Jones ’13, 
Grace Wildermuth ’14 and Jessica 
Munyon ’13 — who traveled to 
New York to see the protests first-
hand. However, they emphasize 
that the movement belongs to the 
students. 
“We’re not trying to be the 
leaders of a movement,” Wilder-
muth said. Johansson added that, 
like the Wall Street protests, they 
want this to be a “real grassroots 
democracy … [without] people 
behind the scenes making deci-
sions for everyone to follow.” 
Sparking conversation, not hand-
ing down an agenda from the top, 
has been the goal so far.
The conversation at the soli-
darity march began with a few 
comments by the student orga-
nizers, emphasizing the general 
premise of the protests.
“Right here and right now we 
are using our agency as human 
In a campus-wide email sent 
Monday, Oct. 17, Dean of the Col-
lege and Chief Diversity Officer 
Shirley Collado announced the 
names of appointees to the recently 
formed Task Force on Alcohol and 
Social Life.
Dean of Students Katy Smith-
Abbott and Bob Ritter, head coach 
of varsity football and assistant 
coach of varsity men’s lacrosse, will 
co-chair the committee, which is 
comprised of seven students, three 
faculty and three staff members.
“We wanted to be thoughtful 
about how we could get students 
from all walks of life on the task 
force,” said Collado. “I think we have 
a good assortment of people who 
bring with them different expecta-
tions of the social life at Middlebury.”
The task force represents the 
culmination of a yearlong effort 
on the part of the administration 
to address the role alcohol plays in 
student life. In her email to the Col-
lege community, Collado described 
the task force as “a working and 
action-oriented group” and enu-
merated the questions to which she 
expects it to devote its energies, such 
as “review[ing] the quality and va-
riety of social options on campus, 
assess[ing] the positive and negative 
role that alcohol plays in the student 
social experience” and proposing 
policies and presenting new ideas 
to address student, faculty and staff 
concerns.
Student appointees expressed 
their enthusiasm for working on 
the task force and for bringing their 
own unique perspective to bear on 
its mission.
“I’m excited to be a part of the 
[task force], and I’m looking for-
ward to the first meeting,” Becca 
Shaw ’12, a varsity field hockey 
and ice hockey player and a Super 
Block member, wrote in an email. 
“I am eager to represent two athletic 
teams, the social houses and the rest 
of the students.”
See Task force, page 4
campusnews2 20 October 2011
TRIVIA
thursday //  9 p.m. // Crossroads 
Cafe // 21+ two forms of ID // 
Bring $10 to sign up for Dance 
Marathon
HAUS PART DEUX TICKET 
PRESALE
Ongoing // Concert Oct. 29 // go/
obo
WHAT’S 
HAPPENING 
AT MIDD?
MCAB PRESENTS
by Melanie Haas
Staff Columnist 
Despite the disapproval from the Euro-
pean Union, Russia and the United States, a 
Kiev courtroom sentenced Yulia V. Tymosh-
enko, a former Ukrainian prime minister 
famous for her opposition to the current 
administration, to seven years in prison Oct. 
11 for “abuse of office.” Experts report that 
Tymoshenko’s arrest illustrates the govern-
ment’s intention to distance itself from West-
ern influence, following the Russian political 
model instead. 
Then-Prime Minister Tymoshenko is 
accused of acting against Ukrainian interests 
in a 2009 negotiation with Russia.  Prosecu-
tors accused her of striking a deal with Rus-
sian Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin that 
hurt Ukraine’s economy when she agreed to 
pay an unreasonably high price for natural 
gas, reported The New York Times.
A $190 million fine will accompany 
Tymoshenko’s seven years of incarceration. 
Most importantly, the ruling will prevent the 
Ukrainian leader and activist from participat-
ing in the political realm for the next 10 years.
The European Union has publicly ex-
pressed outrage over the court’s ruling, in-
sisting that the heart of the issue lies, not in 
Tymoshenko’s actions, but in the current ad-
ministration’s political objectives. 
Over the past four years, the European 
Union (EU) and Ukraine have been working 
toward a free trade agreement.  The EU’s dis-
appointment over the court ruling may have 
derailed any hopes of such an agreement, re-
ported the Times.
Ukraine’s current president, Viktor Ya-
nukovych, does seem interested in collabo-
rating with Europe. Soon after the verdict, 
he assured reporters that the decision made 
in court on Tuesday was not final, reminding 
reporters that the court of appeals will make 
a decision “within the bounds of the law,” 
which will have “great significance.”  
Experts believe that Yanukovych will 
seek to demonstrate his commitment to the 
EU by exerting his influence in Tymoshenko’s 
case, according to the Times.  He may even 
be able to clear her of all charges should he 
choose to decriminalize the article that the 
court has convicted her of violating. 
Obama’s administration has condemned 
Tymoshenko’s treatment and the imprison-
ment of the Ukrainian president’s other po-
litical rivals, reported the Times.  The U.S. is 
encouraging the Ukrainian government to 
allow Tymoshenko to run in the country’s 
primaries next year. 
Along with Western condemnation, 
Russian officials have expressed frustration 
with Tymoshenko’s sentence. While Yanu-
kovich’s administration has received criticism 
for patterning its government’s operation 
off of Russian example, the Russian Foreign 
Ministry has accused this trial of representing 
Ukraine’s “anti-Russian sentiments.” 
Prime Minister Putin commented, “I 
don’t really understand what they gave her 
seven years for,” in a statement. 
The Times reported that Tymoshenko 
spoke over the judge as he read the verdict on 
Tuesday.  Facing the television cameras, she 
said, “This is an authoritarian regime. Against 
the background of European rhetoric, Yanu-
kovich is taking Ukraine farther from Europe 
by launching such political trials.” 
The current administration must exer-
cise care as Tymoshenko’s case moves to the 
court of appeals.  While some citizens seek to 
blame Ukraine’s current troubled economic 
climate on the former prime minister, others 
insist that her arrest, along with the arrest of 
other political leaders, may indicate that Ya-
nukovich wants less opposition in the next 
election.
beyond
the bubble
Occupy Middlebury stirs debate
Mutothori elimated for 
campaigning violations
about campaigning. For them to reign down on 
me and throw the book at me was a bit surpris-
ing.”
He believes he faced increased scrutiny be-
cause of his status as an international student. 
“I’m the first international student to have 
gotten that far and I thought they would have 
been a bit more careful with it, but they were 
not,” he said. 
But the Council said the evidence against 
Mutothori was undeniable. 
“We were also presented with texts as well 
as an email that Mugo himself sent out after 
voting began,” it said in a statement. “Mugo was 
given a fair chance to defend himself, but the 
evidence was too strong against him.” 
Recca acknowledged that it is sometimes 
hard to avoid subtly campaigning while polls 
are open. To avoid any viola-
tions, Recca said he slept while 
polls were open.
“I took a nap that Monday 
from two to five p.m.” he said. 
“I didn’t want anyone to talk 
to me, I didn’t want anybody to 
come near me.” 
While Recca said the rule 
against campaigning was detri-
mental to elections, he agreed 
with the Council’s decision. 
“The rules governing cam-
paigning after the polls open are 
pretty counterproductive; they 
lower turn out and they lower 
the excitement level,” he said. “Mugo’s right, it’s 
a stupid law and people do skirt it. But unfor-
tunately, he’s the one who broke it and I totally 
agree with the Election Council’s decision.” 
Mutothori said that while people have told 
him to fight the decision, he decided to focus 
on the future. 
“A lot of people are expecting me to fight 
this decision,” he said. “But I want to look at the 
future. I will let it slide and move on because I 
have so many things on my plate.” 
Mutothori said he will turn his focus to the 
New Dawn High School he co-founded in Ke-
nya for destitute kids. He plans to take a group 
of Middlebury students to the school in the 
summer of 2012 to build a library. 
After conceding the election, Mutothori 
put his full support behind Recca. 
“If anyone can do the job best, it’s Vin,” he 
said.
Continued from page 1
Recca assumed the SGA presidency following runoff elections.
Courtesy
Continued from page 1
Organizers Hanna Mahon ’13.5, Jessica Munyon ’13 and Adam Jones ’14 (left to right) talk 
to protesters before the march, explaining the premise and context of their actions.
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
beings to challenge the system that contin-
ues to fail people worldwide, moment after 
moment, and day after day,” Munyon said 
to the crowd. 
Mahon followed, reminding the partic-
ipants that this protest was not something 
new, but rather the 
continuing of a tra-
dition of civic action 
at the College that 
has included such 
actions as protests 
against apartheid in 
South Africa and the 
suspension of all ac-
tivities for one week 
in solidarity with kill-
ings at the 1970 anti-war protests at Kent 
State.
“We stand here together now to prove 
that the Middlebury community still has a 
political conscience,” she said. “We stand 
here together … knowing that there has to 
be a better option.”
Following these remarks, protesters 
with hand-painted signs in tow, marched 
up Storrs Walk towards Mead Chapel. To 
the surprise of many onlookers and the 
boos of several, the 40 protesters chanted 
slogans on their tour through campus, such 
as “this is what democracy looks like” and 
“we are the 99 percent.” The 99 percent 
slogan has become a rallying point for pro-
testers throughout the country who seek to 
challenge the one percent of the popula-
tion that holds a disproportionately large 
amount of wealth and power. The march 
concluded by joining a lecture on Vermont 
migrant workers at the Franklin Environ-
mental Center at Hillcrest.
Some students, however, were wary of 
what effect protests at an isolated Vermont 
school could have.
“Students have no agency, no agency 
at all” in effecting meaningful change, said 
Hubert Adjei-Kontoh ’14, who was working 
on creating a video critiquing the nascent 
student movement.  Because both political 
parties are indebted to the “one percent” 
the protest are trying to counter, the gov-
ernment will likely never enact the changes 
the protesters demand, he added.
He was echoed by Nick Smaller ’14 
who was filming.
“There’s almost just a feel of doing it 
because they feel like they need something 
to protest against,” he said.
Other students focused on the move-
ment’s lack of tangible goals, and ques-
tioned why the protesters were not imme-
diately targeting the one College’s major 
influence on Wall Street: the nearly one bil-
lion dollar endowment.
“You can march around on campus 
and make a spectacle of yourself,” said Matt 
Birnbaum ’12, but “why aren’t we looking 
inwards toward an institutional critique, 
and saying, ‘well, our endowment is in-
vested in all of these companies that [we’re] 
standing [here] protesting,’ but no one is 
making mention of those sort of things.”
Birnbaum continued this critique at an 
Oct. 14 panel discussion on Occupy Wall 
Street, arguing that the movement should 
specifically work with and strengthen the 
student-led Advisory Committee on So-
cially Responsible Investing (ACSRI), 
which has some — though minimal — in-
fluence on how the endowment is invested.
Of the $4 million committed to these 
“investments that generate long-term so-
cial, environmental, and economic value,” 
Vice President for Finance and Treasurer 
Patrick Norton wrote in an email, $2.4 mil-
lion has been invested.
Organizers were open to the idea of 
partnering with ACSRI, though resisted 
forcing an explicit agenda from the start. 
The movement should be “getting people 
together and seeing what people are actu-
ally saying,” Mahon said. 
Interested students met Oct. 17 in 
Crossroads Café to continue a discussion of 
where the protests were to go, and several 
attended the SRI meeting on Oct. 18. 
What effects the protests at the College 
will have remains unclear, even to experts 
in the field.
“The internet complicates matters,” 
wrote Leng Professor of Political Science 
Allison Stanger in an email. “We just have 
to wait and see.” 
There’s almost a feeling 
of doing it just because 
they feel like they need 
something to protest against.
— Nick Smaller ’14
campusnews 20 October 2011 3
overseas
briefing
by Chelsea Edgar ’13
BUENOS AIRES — Buenos Aires 
boasts some of the world’s most ac-
complished pickpockets. This is the city 
where, despite the Secret Service’s best 
efforts, Lauren Bush had her wallet sto-
len (the guy who pulled it off enjoyed 
a brief period as a symbol of national 
pride). 
To date, I have not had my pockets 
picked, although I think I might have 
thwarted a would-be-thief with the 
stink eye when I saw his hand reaching 
for my pocket on the subway. I’ve been 
in Buenos Aires long enough to know 
how to avoid those kinds of situations 
(don’t put anything valuable in your 
pockets, don’t carry around your debit 
card, don’t take out expensive gadgets 
in public, don’t stand in front of your 
apartment fumbling for your keys at 
4 a.m.). But what I learned from that 
subway incident — and from the mis-
fortunes of Lauren Bush — is that in 
Buenos Aires, you’re never totally out of 
the woods. From the minute you leave 
your apartment, you become, in effect, 
a nice prosciutto and gruyere sandwich, 
and this city is full of people looking for 
free lunch.  
That realization produced some 
interesting side effects. For one thing, 
I don’t think I’ve ever had as many bi-
zarre and vivid dreams as I did during 
my first few weeks here. These dreams 
ran the gamut from the disarmingly 
weird, like the one where I left my 
apartment to find every building in the 
city plastered with large yellow posters 
advertising some kind of gummy candy 
with the tagline, “¡Ahora con más ni-
ñez!” (Now with more childhood!), to 
the profoundly unsettling, like the one 
where some disembodied voice told me 
that if I did not get on the unicycle and 
start pedaling, my limbs would begin to 
act of their own accord.
This seems logical to me now: my 
waking life demanded constant vigi-
lance to prevent bad things from hap-
pening, and my subconscious wasn’t 
immune to that persistent, low-fre-
quency fear. By the end of my first 
month, I had begun to wonder whether 
it was going to be possible for me to 
switch off survival mode and experi-
ence real joy. I had gotten used to crisis 
management, but successfully control-
ling all your variables does not translate 
to happiness at the end of the day. It ex-
hausts you.
Late one Tuesday night in Septem-
ber, I took the subway home from the 
university. I had managed to get to the 
station before the last train left, and 
there was nobody else in my car except 
for an old man with fluffy white hair. 
I took a seat across the aisle from him 
and reflexively hugged my backpack to 
my chest. The train started to move. 
The old man began tapping his 
feet and nodding his head in time to 
the clickety-clack rhythm of the train. 
Abruptly, he stood up, holding onto a 
pole for support, and extended his arms 
as if to embrace an invisible waltz part-
ner. Then he looked at me and said, 
“May I have this dance?” 
I was stupefied. “I’m a terrible 
dancer,” I said. 
“Listen,” he told me. “Nobody’s a 
terrible dancer. Even I can dance, and 
I’m just an old bag of farts.” 
What did I do? I left my backpack 
on the seat and waltzed down the aisle.
Mandatory orientation trips considered
College hosts first Quidditch Classic
The College held the first annual 
Middlebury Quidditch Classic on Sunday, 
hosting 20 teams from 13 schools across 
North America. All proceeds from the 
event went toward the Vermont Disaster 
Relief Fund to aid those affected by Tropi-
cal Storm Irene.
The Middlebury Classic was created as 
a means of maintaining a strong relation-
ship within the Middlebury community 
after the Quidditch World Cup became too 
big to be held on campus and was moved to 
New York City in 2010.
“The World Cup was great because it 
really helped town relationships. People 
would come with their families from the 
town of Middlebury and have a great time 
[…] interacting with the students,” said 
CEO and President of the International 
Quidditch Association (IQA) Alex Benepe 
’09, placing emphasis on giving back to the 
community for its support to the College 
and the IQA.
Representing the Middlebury commu-
nity were American Flatbread and Noonie’s 
Deli, selling freshly prepared foods from a 
portable brick pizza oven and refrigerated 
table. The College’s sketch comedy group 
Otter Nonsense provided commentary on 
the games.
While the event had no admis-
sion fee, a five-dollar donation was 
suggested to help raise money for 
the Vermont Disaster Relief Fund. 
Middlebury Classic and official 
IQA T-shirts were sold to help 
benefit the disaster relief fund, as 
well.
In addition to maintaining a 
community-oriented atmosphere, 
the Middlebury Classic aimed to 
keep the game of Quidditch light-
hearted and fun, in spite of the in-
creasingly physical state of play.
Middlebury Quidditch tri-
commissioner Marianne Guarnieri 
’14 said that the goal of the Clas-
sic was not to reshape the way the 
game is played, but rather to allow 
for Quidditch to be played two ways – in 
a more fun-loving, casual atmosphere, and 
in a less aggressive manner, much like what 
was seen at last year’s World Cup.
Fellow tri-commissioner Phil Palmer 
’12 echoed Guarnieri’s statement, “[The 
Middlebury Classic is] supposed to foster 
silliness and keep the athletic atmosphere 
as well.”
“There’s part of it that’s setting a prec-
edent for the style of play that we want. We 
want it to be more fun loving. It’s pretty 
brutal now,” Palmer added.
In spite of the Classic’s attempt to be 
less violent, three major injuries brought 
players to the hospital on Sunday. A UVM 
student was brought to the hospital for a 
broken collar bone, a McGill player was 
taken away on a stretcher after exacerbat-
ing a pre-existing ankle injury and one of 
the snitches required stitches in his lip after 
a collision with a seeker. Several other inju-
ries sustained during Sunday’s games were 
less serious.
The game’s increasingly physical na-
ture can be attributed to a lack of rulebook 
specificity, among other factors.
“The rules governing physical contact 
aren’t necessarily clear,” said Wonnacott 
CRA Stanis Moody-Roberts ’11.25, who 
played for the Battell Snitches, one of the 
College’s seven Quidditch teams on Sun-
day.
Moody-Roberts’ sentiment was shared 
by several of the College’s other Quidditch 
players, agreeing that the game has grown 
increasingly physical over the years and is 
most violent at the World Cup.
Benepe sees increased aggression as a 
somewhat natural progression and devel-
opment of the game.
“It’s gotten more physical since the 
beginning … You’re starting to see some 
more serious athletes playing,” said Benape, 
alluding to Chestnut Hill College’s men’s 
lacrosse team playing in the Brotherly Love 
Cup on Oct. 15 in Philadelphia.
The College was not the only school to 
field more than one team, as schools were 
encouraged to bring multiple squads to 
add more depth to the tournament. The 
College does not yet have a set team that 
will be competing at the World Cup, but 
Sunday’s tournament will play a major role 
in determining the athletes that will play in 
New York come November.
The Classic began with pool play in 
the morning and was intended to shift 
to a bracket round in the afternoon. Due 
to complications with the creation of the 
bracket itself, there was no Middlebury 
Classic champion.
“We held a captain’s meeting and ev-
eryone voted to scratch the bracket and 
continue playing pool play for the sake of 
playing Quidditch,” said Guarnieri. “I was a 
little upset that there wasn’t 
going to be a winner [but] 
it made me really happy 
to know that [the teams] 
came up to Middlebury 
just to play the game.”
The Middlebury Clas-
sic is expected to return to 
the College next fall and 
will likely serve as a World 
Cup preview. The World 
Cup will be moved to the 
spring for the 2012 aca-
demic year.
Middlebury will com-
pete at the Quidditch 
World Cup in New York 
City on November 12-13.
Continued from page 1
By Emily Singer
Staff Writer
istration will consider the mandatory program 
proposal. The President’s Staff will hear the pro-
posal on Tuesday, Oct. 25.
“Every first-year, in my opinion, should 
have an opportunity to do an outdoor trip if 
they d like to, and if not, they should have other 
choices to do other things,  she said.   We want 
to make sure that this is something that we 
could actually do for everyone. 
Although the proposed program would 
cost approximately $150,000 — $100,000 more 
than OINK — it would be free for first-years 
and would have a more comprehensive design.
“Part of the increased expense would come 
from the diversity of options to accommodate 
people who aren’t psyched about backpacking 
or kayaking,” said Thompson.
Members of the SGA acknowledged the 
drawbacks of OINK, pointing to the program’s 
inadequate accommodation and poor timing. 
For the 2011 program, MMC received 230 ap-
plicants for only 166 spots. Of the participants, 
139 actually attended their respective trips. 
Collado and LaBarba both said making 
sure every student gets an opportunity to go on 
an orientation trip is a priority.
“I see huge value in the visits and the trips, 
and that being part of the orientation experi-
ence, so I’m glad that students have organized, 
and I’m also really pleased that SGA is helping 
with the funding of this, that they’re valuing 
what first-years are doing when they get here,” 
said Collado.
“The model we have now clearly is not 
what we want,” said LaBarba. “We don’t want 
less than 25 percent of the incoming first-year 
class to be participating in this program that 
practically everyone is paying for in some re-
spect.”
The proposed model of a mandatory trips 
program embedded in orientation would rule 
out some of the deficiencies attributed to OINK.
“[Trips will be] intimate, facilitated small 
group experiences that foster feelings of be-
longing and social support in an often stress-
ful transitional time are possible,” said Derek 
Doucet, director of outdoor programs and club 
sports.  
Nick Mallchok ’14, the MMC’s representa-
tive for the legislation, believes the mandatory 
model that exists at many of peer institutions 
will fulfill an essential facet of orientation. “I 
think it will effectively create a cohesive student 
body,” he said.   
The program also has the potential of 
complementing the commons system, a unique 
feature at the College.
“In a way this program will bridge the gap 
created by the commons system, which a lot of 
students love, but certainly the main complaint 
is, ‘I don’t meet many people outside of my 
commons,’” said LaBarba.  
This new model, which may require an ex-
tended orientation, hinges on the functionality 
of the small group experience. The trips would 
ideally land at the end of orientation, creating 
a positive interplay between large orientation 
events on campus and intimate excursions off 
campus.
“We hope that trips will happen at the end 
of orientation so people can break down into 
smaller groups,” said Thompson.  
Echoing this sentiment, Doucet empha-
sized the significance of an intimate experience 
shared among timid freshmen. 
“The important part is the immersion in, 
and engagement with, these communities and 
landscapes, ideally in the context of a small 
group experience,” he said.
The SGA has pledged to provide up to 
$75,000 for the proposed program for its inau-
gural year, an increase from the $47,000 it al-
located to OINK. 
But according to LaBarba, while the SGA 
values its financial involvement in orientation 
trip programs, a fiscal commitment of this mag-
nitude is unsustainable for the SGA’s budget.
“Pledging to fund an orientation program 
indefinitely is something we can’t afford, nor is 
it something that our budget or the source of 
our funding was designed for,” said LaBarba. 
Nevertheless, both the SGA and the ad-
ministration prize a financial partnership be-
tween the school and a student-organization. 
The assurance of $75,000 from the SGA for the 
first year would serve to facilitate a smooth con-
struction of a program model the school has 
never implemented before.  
“For the administration to collaborate 
with students around funding that they already 
have, that’s a win-win,” said Collado.
But MMC and SGA are concerned with the 
school’s deliberation over the legislation and 
the constrictive time frame for trip planning 
that may result from a postponed verdict. 
“Our next step is to get official word on 
the legislation because this has been an official 
bill since spring,” said Thompson. “Planning 
for this kind of undertaking needs to happen 
within the month.”
Collado said the administration under-
stands the time constraints.
“I am very interested in supporting the 
initiative, but we want to think carefully about 
long-term funding, getting the program right 
and equity,” she said.
Both parties are eager to reach an agree-
ment within the next few weeks in order to 
promptly formulate the optimal program for 
next year’s orientation.
Above, players prepare to start their game on Battell Beach.
Sopheak Chheng
4 29 September 2011 campusnews
Task force to address alcohol abuse
Community Council update
by Hannah Bristol, Staff Writer
Community Council begins year with discussions 
of dorm damage and town/gown relations
In the Oct. 10 Community Council 
meeting, the council brainstormed topics 
for this year’s agenda, including the role of 
Public Safety on campus, the commons sys-
tem and the relationship between the Col-
lege and the town.
The Council also appointed members 
to various positions. Viviana Lozano ’14 
was appointed as the primary student rep-
resentative to the Judicial Appeals Board, 
and Mehdi Prevot ’12 was named secondary 
representative. Community Engagement 
Coordinator Ashley Calkins was appointed 
chair of the Subcommittee of Academic In-
terest and Social Houses.
The Oct. 17 meeting focused on nar-
rowing the topics from the Oct. 10 meeting, 
including dorm damage, landscape dam-
age, communication among different areas 
within the community and alcohol use and 
abuse. 
The issue of dorm and landscape dam-
age is carrying over from last year, when the 
Council discussed the rising damage costs 
in recent years. The annual costs have near-
ly doubled since the 2006-2007 school year.
The Council hopes to help develop 
better relationships among students, dining 
staff, public safety and the custodial staff. 
To achieve these ends, they discussed po-
tentially holding town hall-style meetings 
to improve communication between the 
college community and the Council and 
provide students with a forum to address 
concerns.
Plans to discuss alcohol and Public 
Safety coincide with the creation of the Task 
Force on Alcohol and Social Life, which was 
formed this year. They plan to talk about 
Public Safety during the meeting on Nov. 7.
They also discussed the Social House 
pledge process and plan to review pledge 
plans based on the new hazing policy cre-
ated for this year.
“I think the council is prepared to 
think creatively this semester in order to 
tackle these issues,” said Student Co-Chair 
Janet Rodrigues ’12. “The Council is pre-
pared to address tough questions and arrive 
at some constructive solutions.”
The next meeting will take place on 
Oct. 31 when the Council will review and 
approve the pledge process for Social Hous-
es.
Suggested 
dining hall 
serving sizes
eliminated
Middbrief
by Elizabeth Fouhey, Staff Writer
Samuel Tolzmann ’14 wins Ward prize for 
outstanding writing talent in first year courses
Each year, the Paul W. Ward ’25 
Memorial Prize competition recognizes 
first-year students who have shown out-
standing talent in their writing in that ac-
ademic year. On Friday, Oct. 14, the prize 
was awarded to Samuel Tolzmann ’14. 
Professors nominated 31 members 
of the Class of 2014 across all disciplines 
based on essays written in the fall, winter 
and spring terms.
The ceremony on Friday honored all 
nominees and awarded prizes to the first 
place winner, two runners-up and four 
honorable mentions. 
MaryEllen Bertolini, Associate Direc-
tor of Writing at the Center for Teaching, 
Learning, and Research (CTLR), is one of 
the many faculty and staff members who 
make the Paul W. Ward ’25 Memorial 
Prize possible each year.  In her address 
at the award ceremony, Bertolini empha-
sized the impressive breadth of topics that 
were seen in this year’s papers.
“That range is especially gratify-
ing because when Middlebury College 
committed itself to requiring writing in 
courses throughout the curriculum, and 
not only in English courses, we commit-
ted ourselves to an idea about the place of 
writing in a liberal arts education,” said 
Bertolini.
Tolzmann wrote a paper titled, “Im-
ages as Historical Narrative: Visual Repre-
sentations of War Death in Two American 
Works” for his Winter Term course, The 
History of Everyday Objects with Assis-
tant Professor of American Studies Holly 
Allen. 
Tolzmann described the paper as 
completely self-directed. 
“I got to choose what I was investi-
gating and how I went about doing that, 
so I am excited about that aspect of the 
essay,” he said.
In regards to winning, Tolzmann 
said, “It’s of course a big honor and I am 
very grateful.”
In addition to the prestige of the 
award, the prizewinner is awarded $500, 
which Tolzmann says he is using to cover 
his book fee for the current semester. 
All of the nominees are invited to 
train to become peer writing tutors and 
writing and academic mentors for first-
year seminars.
These students work very closely 
with Bertolini, who trains all peer writ-
ing tutors and academic mentors, in the 
CTLR.
“What I find exciting is meeting these 
exceptional student writers in their soph-
omore year and then seeing them grow as 
tutors, mentors and students during the 
rest of their careers at Middlebury,” said 
Bertolini.
Tolzmann, like many of the nomi-
nees and prize recipients, intends to train 
as a peer writing tutor and possibly a 
first-year academic mentor as well. 
To the surprise of many students, dining 
hall meals were briefly accompanied by recom-
mended serving sizes last week in an effort to 
reduce food waste. The change was spearheaded 
by members of the College’s Environmental 
Council, who, after seeing students returning 
half-eaten plates of food, sought the support of 
Dining Services to provide recommended serv-
ing sizes.
Director of Dining Services Matthew Biette 
explained that the issue was students’ inability to 
gauge appropriate portions for food, erring on 
the side of serving themselves too much.
“The idea was from a waste standpoint,” 
Biette said “People don’t know how to portion 
their food, they go through and just keep piling 
it on their plate, they don’t eat it, they throw it 
out. It’s a waste. At home, someone hands you 
your plate with your dinner already on it. Here, 
you serve yourself and there’s all this food — and 
it can be hard to know [how much to take]. Peo-
ple definitely take more than they need.” 
After meeting with members of the Envi-
ronmental Council, Dining Services decided to 
start advertising recommended portion sizes to 
help make students more aware of the volume 
of their food. Students who have suffered from 
eating disorders were upset by the change and 
objected to the introduction of portion sizes on 
the ingredient placards. The recommended serv-
ing size labels were quickly removed. 
 “While I understand Dining Service’s desire 
to cut down on food waste, I do not think indi-
cating the serving sizes for each dish would have 
had the desired effect,” wrote Jordan Weiss ’12, 
who has struggled with an eating disorder, said 
in an email. 
“When students take more food than they 
end up being able to eat, it isn’t due to lack of 
information,” she added. “The only people that 
this implementation would influence are the stu-
dents who are already conscious, perhaps overly 
so, of their food intake.  As somebody who has 
struggled with an eating disorder throughout 
my college experience, I can say that providing 
serving sizes would probably cause me to limit 
my caloric consumption even further and would 
definitely cause extreme mental discomfort at 
mealtimes.”
Gus Jordan, Executive Director of Health 
and Counseling Services, echoed Weiss’s feelings.
 In particular, for people who are struggling 
with eating disorders, having too much informa-
tion in front of them can be daunting and can 
be difficult to work through,  Jordan said.  For 
someone who is struggling to manage portions, 
it can be challenging to face that information as 
they walk into the dining hall. 
Biette expressed regret that the initiative 
had caused students to feel uncomfortable.
“People reacted in a way I had not anticipat-
ed. I heard what they were saying from a waste 
standpoint, but for people who have eating is-
sues, putting that information out caused more 
hurt than help and so of course we pulled it right 
away.”
By Kelsey Collins
Staff Writer
Suggested serving sizes were quickly removed 
after concerns were raised about their effects.
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
Nathan LaBarba ’14, a senator in the 
Student Government Association, noted his 
desire to foster “an environment in which it 
is acceptable to enjoy small-group situations, 
including alcohol, where the threat of Public 
Safety knocking on your door does not exist 
to encourage rapid, dangerous, and non-social 
drinking habits.
“Most students wish there was an envi-
ronment conducive to alcohol use that varies 
greatly from the de facto system,” he added.
Nial Rele ’12, a First-Year Counselor and 
international student, echoed LaBarba’s con-
cerns, writing in an email, “I understand the 
limitations that Vermont state law can create 
when it comes to managing student under-
age drinking, but we desperately need some 
system that rewards safer drinking and dis-
courages students hiding in their dorm rooms 
[and] taking a bunch of shots before they head 
out for the night.”
Rob LaMoy ’12, another student with 
a background in residential life, spent a se-
mester at Swarthmore College on a domestic 
exchange program and carries the firsthand 
experience of how a peer institution’s alcohol-
related policies function.
“I hope that the task force will clearly de-
fine what aspects of student life at Middlebury 
can be improved and how they can be im-
proved,” he wrote in email. “The relationships 
between alcohol, student life and student hap-
piness are complex.  The task force will need 
to figure out how appeals to individual re-
sponsibility and the College’s current policies 
either augment or contradict one another.”
Staff members were also selected to join 
the task force. Ellen McKay, administrative 
program coordinator for the Charles P. Scott 
Center for Spiritual and Religious Life, wrote 
in an email that she is “looking forward to 
working with a creative group of people from 
all parts of the College on ways to improve so-
cial options for Midd students.”
The faculty members serving also ex-
pressed enthusiasm for their involvement with 
the task force. Professor of Mathematics Pris-
cilla Bremser wrote in an email that she feels 
“honored to be asked to serve.”
“My vision for the task force is that we will 
first understand how and hopefully why stu-
dents are misusing alcohol,” wrote Associate in 
Science Instruction in Biology Susan DeSim-
one in an email. “From this understanding I 
think we will be able to develop policies and 
programs that will help the student commu-
nity move towards more healthy consumption 
of alcohol and thereby provide them with a 
more effective learning environment. Having 
graduated from a small liberal arts college, 
through teaching here and having a daughter 
currently in college, I bring diverse experience 
to the conversation as I have the advantage of 
having observed and participated in alcohol 
use from many perspectives.”
At the end of the year, the task force will 
submit a final report to Collado and President 
of the College Ronald D. Liebowitz with rec-
ommendations for policy changes.
Continued from page 1
Samuel Tolzmann ’14 accepted the 
Ward prize at a ceremony on Oct. 14.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
20 October 2011 5campusnews
college
shorts
by Jeremy Kallan, Staff Writer
Students spend rainy 
night in Zuccotti Park 
Education leaders seek 
cross-border collaboration
On Friday, Oct. 14, 25 Columbia Uni-
versity Democrats joined a crowd of pro-
testors in New York’s Zuccotti Park. The 
park serves as a home base for the Occupy 
Wall Street movement, an ongoing protest 
against corporate greed. In response to the 
park owners’ threat to evict the activists in 
order to clean the park on Friday morning, 
a large crowd gathered in the park over-
night.
Over 1,000 people had rallied in the 
park by the time the announcement was 
made that the park cleaning had been de-
layed. The protestors responded with a vic-
tory march in which 15 arrests were made. 
— UWIRE
The lack of international education 
opportunities for students in North Amer-
ica was a focus of last week’s North Ameri-
can Higher Education Conference, held 
in Puebla, Mexico. Representatives from 
many North American countries sought a 
solution to the difficulties in educational 
exchange for students south of the border. 
Many hypothesize that this could be the re-
sult of budget cuts or discrimination based 
on Mexican involvement in drug violence.  
The conference also focused on ex-
panding e-learning possibilities. Internet-
based programs may be the only possibil-
ity for providing affordable education to a 
significant portion of the population. The 
University of Arizona has already begun ex-
ploring options for cross-cultural e-learn-
ing programs.
— Chronicle for Higher Education
DATE TIME INCIDENT DESCRIPTION LOCATION DISPOSITION
10/13/11 4:10 p.m. Property missing Bike McCullough Referred to DOC and Commons Deans
10/14/11 4:00 p.m. Property missing Bike LaForce Referred to DOC and Commons Deans
10/14/11 11:30 p.m. Drug violation Paraphernalia Sidewalk Referred to DOC and Commons Deans 
10/14/11 8:50 p.m. Fire alarm General cooking Weybridge Referred to Facilities Services
10/14/11 11:27 a.m. Theft Dining employee ipod stolen Ross Commons Dining Referred to DOC and Commons Deans
10/14/11 11:14 p.m. Drug violation Marijuana Kelly Referred to DOC and Commons Deans
10/14/11 2:00 a.m. Theft Property stolen from dorm room Starr Hall Referred to DOC and Commons Deans
10/15/11 12:28 p.m. Fire alarm General cooking Atwater A Referred to Facilities Services
10/15/11 1:10 a.m. Alcohol possession Minor non-student Palmer Referred to DOC and Commons Deans
10/16/11 1:03 a.m. Alcohol Open container Ridgeline Pathway Referred to DOC and Commons Deans
October  11 - 16, 2011
The Department of Public Safety reported giving 18 alcohol citations between Oct. 11 and Oct. 16, 2011.
public safety log
DO YOU 
HAVE A 
TIP OR AN 
IDEA FOR 
A STORY?
GO/THECAMPUS
SEE 
SOMETHING
SAY 
SOMETHING1 2 SENDSOMETHING3
local 20 October 2011
  The Middlebury Campus
6
Dance, dance baby
Craving a job that allowed her to move, Liz Cleveland teaches 
Zumba classes at the Middlebury Town Gym during the week,
page 6.
Middlebury welcomes tasty store 
!e Red Clover Farm Market recently moved to the 
town and sells local produce, as well as jam and honey,
page 7. 
by Kaylen Baker Local News Editor
Kaylen Baker
Touring the Ben and Jerry’s Factory, located in Waterbury, is a must for all students at the College before they graduate. 
Along a mountainous, winding road over the Lincoln 
gap, through rich, auburn fall foliage, past a dark, hidden 
lake, and into the scintillating sunshine of Waterbury, freshly 
watered from an a"ernoon shower, stands the colorful yet 
surprisingly humble original ice cream factory of two genius 
entrepreneurs, Cohen and Green#eld. You probably know 
them better as Ben and Jerry.
Once upon a time, only several years ago, the College 
stocked its dining hall freezers with reject tubs of Ben and 
Jerry’s ice cream. Although those glorious days are over, 
making a trip to the Waterbury factory is a must do for every 
student at the College. !e one hour and 15 minute car ride 
and three-dollar tour should never stop an ice cream enthu-
siast. Plus, there is a free sample at the end.
A typical tour starts in the central gathering space, as a 
tour guide, sometimes named Kevin, ushers the crowd into 
a “20-step” staircase, enclosed by walls painted with pastoral 
Vermont farm scenes, while the sound of mooing cows is-
sues from unseen speakers. It does not form a life-like rendi-
tion, but at Ben and Jerry’s that is not the point.
“Everyone settle down,” Kevin calls loudly over the 
heads of 30 senior citizens and a group of #ve college stu-
dents, upon entering the screening room. Titters spread 
through the silent room. 
Lights darken and a movie begins, explaining the his-
tory of the Ben and Jerry’s company. !e twosome opened 
their #rst ice cream shop in 1978, in downtown Burlington. 
Immediately popular for creating $avors that incorporated 
candy bits, the business began roadtripping around the 
country in its infamous Cowmobile, o%ering free ice cream 
scoops along the route. Although the Cowmobile burnt to 
the ground on its return to New England, this tragedy caught 
the nation’s attention.
Ben and Jerry’s ice cream business took o% quickly. !e 
Waterbury factory is now one of many factories across the 
country and the rest of the world – the business has expand-
ed as far as Israel. !e Waterbury factory is the only U.S. fac-
tory that gives guided tours.
Next on the tour is the production phase, and Kevin 
leads the group into a wide hallway with windows for walls 
that overlook the downstairs factory room. Ice cream mak-
ing starts in the #rst corner, in large, metal tanks, where 
milk, cream and natural stabilizers blend together.
“All the milk used for the ice cream comes from RBGH-
free, Holstein cows from local Vermont dairies,” said Kevin. 
“!at is, all the ice cream made in this factory,” he con#rmed, 
“although the factory in Israel also gets milk as locally as pos-
sible.”
!e second step is the pasteurizer and homogenizer, 
which doubles the pasteurization of the already pasteurized 
milk, just to be safe. A"er this the mixture is taken to the 
tank room, where it sits and chills, literally, over the course 
of several days to thicken and become cold.
So far this mixture is either vanilla-based or chocolate-
based. So the next step is to add all-natural $avoring in the 
$avor vats, such as peppermint or peanut butter, if the #nal 
ice cream product — perhaps Cluster$u% or Mint Chocolate 
Cookie — requires it. 
!e ice cream is then transferred to freezers, basically 
giant so"-serve machines, where it swirls and spins, prepar-
ing for the chunk feeder.
“Here the chocolate chips, fudge chips, chocolate rum 
balls or malt balls — what have you, are waiting, as the ice 
cream is pushed through, to make your ice cream nice and 
chunky,” said Kevin.
Just before the ice cream is packaged, it is brought to the 
swirl machine, where swirled $avors such as fudge or marsh-
mallow are swirled into the ice cream. !is is the machine 
that gives Bonaroo Buzz, for example, its whisky caramel 
swirl.
!e automatic #ller loads up pairs of pints, two at a time, 
packaging them into the colorful cartons found in most gro-
cery stores across the country. 
“Everybody look at me,” said Kevin in a serious tone. “If 
you buy a pint of ice cream, you need to buy two of the same 
$avor or you’ll be separating twins at birth.”
As the ice cream #nally emerges from its long assembly 
line, it $ips over in the air before getting sealed.
“It loses ten calories,” Kevin joked, referring to the ter-
ri#cally high caloric content in each pint which give the ice 
cream its decadent, creamy and ultra-sweet personality.
Kevin and other factory workers re$ect the ice cream’s 
sugary traits themselves, perhaps from working in close 
quarters with the dessert for so long. !e Waterbury factory 
employs over 100 workers from nearby Vermont towns, and 
gives away three pints of ice cream to every employee each 
day. 
At the end of the tour, Kevin brings everyone into the 
tasting room and tells jokes while everyone licks, bites and 
slurps their scoop-sized sample of Triple Caramel Chunk. 
!is $avor is pretty new, invented by the $avor gurus down 
in South Burlington. !is team is made up of members of 
the original Ben and Jerry’s team, who produce #ve to six 
new $avors each year, debuting in February. Seasonal $avors 
this year included Peach Pie in the summer, and Pumpkin 
Pie this autumn. 
!e ice cream sample, the corny jokes and the smiling 
faces all make a journey to the Ben and Jerry’s ice cream fac-
tory a tasty experience — one could say it’s udderly delicious. 
WHAT'S T HE SC OP?
Kaylen Baker
College students enjoyed the factory, picking Red Velvet 
Cake and Bonnaroo Buzz as their favorite !avors. 
!ree years ago, Liz Cleveland took her "rst Zumba class, and she 
has been hooked ever since. Tired of working at a desk, she is now 
a certi"ed instructor and leads classes at the Middlebury Town Gym 
several times a week. 
“Zumba is good in that you aren’t doing the same moves over and 
over and over,” she said. “Every dance moves a di#erent part of the 
body. It really is a cardio workout.” 
!e founder of Zumba, Beto Perez, moved from Colombia to 
Florida about 10 years ago, where he taught aerobics classes. One day 
he forgot his music, so opted to use the tape in his car to lead the class. 
!e group responded positively to the Colombia tunes, Perez was in-
spired and Zumba was born. While Zumba’s roots are Latin in nature 
and o$en stem from dances like the salsa, the meringue and the cha-
cha, Cleveland said instructors are encouraged to branch out — to "nd 
original music and to cra$ innovative choreography.
Since Perez’s founding of the class, the world of Zumba has ex-
ploded and there are classes for all ages, shapes and sizes to enjoy. 
ZumbAtomic is speci"cally catered to kids, Zumba Gold is for “decon-
ditioned” individuals and Zumba Toning aims to sculpt certain areas 
of the body. 
“Most of the work is coming up with choreography,” said Cleve-
land, who dances around the kitchen and house at all hours of the day. 
She loves all kinds of music, and employs an “eclectic mix” of tunes 
for her classes. Her children send her music, but it is o$en her students 
who speci"cally request a certain song or artist. One such student re-
cently asked Cleveland to choreograph a dance to one of Katy Perry’s 
songs. She chose “Firework” because she said she “can’t sit still to it.”
Watching music videos is another way to garner inspiration for 
her dances. !ough this is helpful, Cleveland attributes many of her 
ideas to her fellow instructors. She said they are “wonderful,” as they 
all “support and promote” one another. Lindsey Hescock and Brye Per-
reault also teach at the Town Gym with Cleveland. !ere are countless 
other instructors in the Middlebury and greater Addison County com-
munity, and each shares their choreography with fellow teachers.  
“We take each other’s classes,” Cleveland said. She o$en asks her 
co-workers if they can teach her a particular move that she can later 
use in her choreography. 
Laughing, Cleveland said Perreault once taught a Monday morn-
ing class, blasting a Christina Aguilera tune, while leading burlesque-
inspired technique.    
 Cleveland has always enjoyed moving and dancing, but said she 
did not excel in dance class. 
“I wanted to run, run and leap,” she said, and felt the ballet classes 
she took as a child restrained her, as most of the dancing was done at 
the bar. “I was more of a tomboy, climbing trees.” 
An avid Rolling Stones fan, Cleveland said her niece recently sug-
gested she listen to Maroon 5’s new song, “Moves Like Jagger.” Excited 
by the title, as she remembers seeing the Stones in concert, Cleveland 
drew inspiration from Jagger’s original moves that she once saw on 
stage, and incorporated these into her choreography.  
“It was so much fun; I went crazy,” she said. “I listened to the song 
over and over, strutting around the house doing Mick Jagger moves.”  
A$er living in Yellowstone National Park for 13 years, Cleveland 
said she was “ready for change,” as Wyoming was “pretty isolated.” She 
has now lived in Middlebury with her husband, Bo, the executive chef 
at the College, and her three children, for seven years. Her youngest, 
Addie ’13, is currently in Massachusetts, training for her yoga certi"-
cation, while her other two children, Rachel and Wyatt, both reside 
on the west coast. Rachel is set to embark on a month-long journey 
through and around the Grand Canyon.
A religion major at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, 
Cleveland is also the secretary at St. Stephen’s, the Episcopal Church in 
town. While in college, she sang in a punk rock band, !e Jump, which 
she described as “pretty wild and fun.” She continues to sing today and 
is part of a jazz band, Little City Jazz Band, based out of Vergennes.  
Cleveland said she most enjoys relaxing with her family and eating 
her husband’s delicious home-cooked meals. A unique braised meat-
ball of lamb, pork and duck was on the evening’s menu. 
Zumba classes are o#ered to all College students on Sunday af-
ternoon from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the McCullough Social Space, and 
the hour-long session is free of charge. Cleveland also taught a Winter 
Term class for P.E. credit last year, which she hopes to do again.  
“It is great for students because everyone works so hard,” Cleve-
land said. “!ere is no pressure to perform. !is is not a dance class 
where you have to get all the moves correct. Ideally everyone is doing it 
[the moves] in his/her own way. You get to be in the moment.”  
Additionally, classes are o#ered Monday through !ursday morn-
ings from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. and on Monday, Wednesday and 
!ursday evenings from 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. at the Middlebury 
Town Gym. !e "rst class is free, but Cleveland encourages interested 
students to purchase a $40 punchcard, which can be used for up to 
six classes. Cleveland and fellow instructors have also been organizing 
a monthly “Girls’ Night Out.” !is is an 8 p.m. Zumba class, usually 
on the "rst Friday of the month, and there is a drawing with selected 
prizes. 
Cleveland is also excited for the upcoming Dance Marathon at the 
College where she will lead parts of the 12-hour event. She feels it is a 
“fun way to contribute.” !e festivities will take place on Friday, Nov. 1 
starting at 8 p.m. and will continue until 8 a.m. on Saturday. All money 
raised will bene"t the Vermont Children’s Hospital at Fletcher Allen in 
Burlington. 
“What you can do with Zumba is you can modify the moves,” she 
said. “Anyone can come and join.” 
20 October 2011 7
one in 8,700
 where the personalities of middlebury proper are celebrated
By Charlotte Gardiner
Local News Editor
localnews
What’s Opera, 
Doc?
by Davis Woolworth
Davis Woolworth ’15 is from Seattle, 
Washington.
Charlotte Gardiner
Zumba instructor Liz Cleveland draws inspiration for her choreog-
raphy from daily life. 
Ever since I "rst saw Bugs Bunny mas-
sage Elmer Fudd’s head to the tune of a 
Rossini opera in ,e Rabbit of Seville, I’ve 
been a fan of classical music. Classical is 
everywhere, as a soundtrack to iconic "lm 
scenes, sampled in hip-hop beats, alluded 
to in literature and as an in%uence to nearly 
every type of music. 
In this column, I’ll review local shows, 
point out upcoming concerts, and hope to 
break down some barriers and raise inter-
est in the fantastic arts scene here. Classical 
music is not hard, nor is it inaccessible. One 
of the most in%uential composers of all 
time, Igor Stravinsky, once said, “I haven’t 
understood a bar of music in my life, but I 
have felt it.” So let’s get listening. 
Conductor Paul Gambill and the 
Champlain Philharmonic performed at the 
Town Hall Theater on Sunday, Oct. 2.  
Gambill talked to the audience of how 
he often listened to Bonnie Raitt’s Nick of 
Time album while driving down a forest 
road in Maine to teach at a summer music 
camp. Ever since then, the smell of pine 
trees and the opening strain of that album 
have been associated in his mind — when 
Gambill hears the album, he can almost 
smell the pine trees. 
“We all have associations like that,” 
said Gambill. “But there’s a deeper level 
of engagement, which we are here today 
to experience. Our goal is not instant asso-
ciation, but to feel something unexpected. 
Great art takes us somewhere new.” 
Gambill’s comments perfectly describe 
why classical music should still deserve at-
tention. Too o$en music is relegated to a 
secondary role in our activities, as a back-
ground hum while we work out, study or 
talk with friends. As Gambill explained, lis-
tening to classical music poses a challenge 
to "nd something new; the more we en-
gage, the more we discover not just what is 
on the canvas, but what is inside ourselves. 
Sunday’s program opened with Ca-
mille Saint-Saëns’ Cello Concerto No. 1 in 
A minor, a hallmark of the cello repertoire. 
!e soloist was Champlain Philharmonic 
co-founder, Vermont Symphony player, 
Applied  Music Faculty and local cellist 
Dieuwke Davydov. 
Con"dent within the bounds of Saint-
Saëns’ %uid three-movement structure, she 
brought her own rhythmic %uidity, skill-
fully speeding and stretching the tempo 
organically. 
!e Saint-Saëns was followed by per-
haps the most famous piece in the classical 
repertoire, Beethoven’s Symphony No. 5 in 
C minor. !is masterwork was done jus-
tice by the robust Philharmonic — though 
perhaps more similar in size to a chamber 
orchestra than a larger symphony, it pro-
duced a mature and well-rounded sound. 
Notable throughout the concert was 
the attention paid by the musicians to 
Gambill — his reserved conducting, cou-
pled with the musicians’ respect for him 
proved essential for the melodic shaping he 
imported. 
!e melodic second movement 
danced with excellent direction and sec-
tional playing from the cellos and violas, 
complemented by superb ensemble blend-
ing in the winds. In the third and fourth 
movements, the power of the full orchestra 
was "nally released as Gambill measured 
the transition, keeping tempo perfectly in 
check leading into the bombastic entrance 
of the trombones and the grandiose "nale.
(c) 2011 Mr. Robin Knapp.  All rights reserved.
Lake ChampLain Bridge Community Commemorates two-
year anniversary of the Bridge’s CLosure
    On Sunday, Oct. 2, crowds gathered at the Crown Point State Historic Site in Crown Point, N.Y. for what 
they called, an “Almost a Bridge” celebration. The Lake Champlain Bridge closed for construction on Oct. 2, 
2009, and is now set to open in May 2012. The festivities included a barbecue catered by the Crown Point Bar-
becue Company and live music from Loose Connections entertained all in attendance.
    “With some sadness we’ll recognize the two-year anniversary of the old bridge’s closure, but we’re celebrat-
ing all the accomplishments that have been made over the last 24 months and look forward to the imminent 
opening of the replacement bridge,” said Karen Hennessy, co-chair of the Lake Champlain Bridge Community, 
in a press release.
Drive down Route 7 and hidden upon a small hill sits the Red 
Clover Farm Market. !e building is small, but packed full of treats 
ranging from raspberry preserves to children’s wooden toys. !e store, 
which opened this past June, is a wonderful addition to the Middlebury 
area, as it o"ers much for the community and the College. 
Beth Corey and her husband, Earl, recently moved back to Ver-
mont from Concord, Mass., and together they opened the market. 
Corey, originally from Florida, has spent many summers in Vermont. 
When her husband, a Massachusetts native, decided to retire, the cou-
ple was inspired to travel back to Vermont. !ey now reside in Salis-
bury. !e two befriended Mike Merrill, who ran a farm stand, and 
learned about local produce. 
“Our #rst summer we worked for our mentor, Mike Merrill, at a 
small farm stand on Route 30 in Cornwall,” said Corey. “!e following 
year we ran the stand ourselves.”
Once the couple was familiar with Vermont’s produce, they were 
o"ered the space where Red Clover now stands, and they quickly capi-
talized on the opportunity. !ey moved in and have been successfully 
running since the summer. !e shop sells fresh fruits and vegetables 
during the growing season and additional Vermont products and gi$s 
all year round. 
“We are particularly well known for our exceptional sweet corn 
and Pennsylvania peaches,” said Corey.
All of the produce is hand-picked by Merrill, who is currently the 
store’s principal supplier. While, the Red Clover Farm Market mainly 
o"ers shoppers local products, there are additional items that travel 
longer distances. Peanuts and peanut butter from Virginia, peaches 
from Pennsylvania and cheeses from the Monks of New Skete in New 
York, arrive weekly. 
“Every place has their specialty, and we strive to bring our custom-
ers the best of the best,” said Corey. 
Beyond food, the shop sells toiletries, including a new item that 
hails from SallyeAnder Soaps in New York: a block of shampoo. !e 
majority of this shampoo is water. !e block lathers as well as any nor-
mal shampoo and leaves the scalp exfoliated and clean. Students at the 
College, who are looking to save water and a few dollars, are encour-
aged to seek out the expertise of Corey, who uses the product herself.
She is currently working to transition away from produce and 
move toward specialty Vermont products and gi$s. In the spirit of fall 
the store is o"ering clientele local, free-range turkeys for !anksgiving, 
as well as wreaths and custom gi$s for the upcoming holiday season.
“We would like to become the go-to place for College families to 
call for custom care packages for their students,” said Corey. 
For the hard working “Midd Kid,” Corey suggests the Red Clover 
homemade fudge. Corey cra$s the treat in her kitchen and brings it 
to the shop fresh each morning. !e fudge is made in myriad %avors, 
including chocolate peanut butter and fruit #lled %avors. !ere are also 
cookies, chips and salsa for sale. 
Since opening, Corey has found that she really enjoys the com-
pany of her customers.
 “We have a very loyal following that we look forward to seeing 
each week,” she said.
!e store’s environment is a welcoming one and Corey is helpful to 
customers, getting to know each one intimately, so she can o"er sincere 
advice. She believes the store’s goal is to bring the very best products 
to Middlebury residents, and the couple intends on continuing to do 
just that.
!e Farm Market is closed from January to May, but until then 
promises free delivery on care packages sent to College students. Stu-
dents can call 802-388-2427 and stop by the store to explore. 
 localnews 
local
lowdown
Corn maze and pig roast
Oct. 23, 12 p.m. – 4 p.m. 
Leicester is among many other towns in 
Addison County to celebrate its 250th an-
niversary. As part of the festivities, all are 
encouraged to meet at Foxcro$ Farm, lo-
cated at 898 Delorm Road, for music, food 
and pasture bingo. A lunch of pork, bread 
rolls, apple crisp and apple cider will be 
available. Donations would be greatly ap-
preciated and all proceeds will go towards 
the Vermont Disaster Relief Fund. Hats 
and visors, celebrating “Leicester Shines 
at 250” will be for sale, as will pumpkins. 
Call (802) 247-3375 with questions.
Invasive plant cleanup 
Oct . 21, 9:30 a.m. – 2:30 p.m.
A fan of nature and preserving the en-
vironment? !e Nature Conservancy is 
looking for people to help control invasive 
plant species in the Snake Mountain 
South area. Spend a morning or a$ernoon 
helping to maintain this important area in 
Addison County. To sign up or get more 
information, email dprince@tnc.org or 
call (802) 229-4425, ext. 111.
8 20 October 2011 
Old English ballads 
Oct. 26, 7 p.m. – 9 p.m.
Lyn Edler hosts “A Song for Every Season” 
at the Lincoln Library, just in time to cel-
ebrate Halloween and Samhain, a Gaelic 
harvest festival. Elder, a musician, early 
music scholar and folklorist, specializes 
in building historical instruments. Bring 
your friends, but these old tales are rec-
ommended for ages 15 and up. Call (802) 
453-2665 for more information.
By Devin MacDonald
Local News Editor
Owner of Red Clover Fresh Market, Beth Corey, is excited for College students and their families to visit the store, situated on Route 7. 
 Devin MacDonald
Bake and rummage sale 
Oct. 21, 9 a.m. – 5 p.m.
Head to the Middlebury United Method-
ist Church this Friday morning for some 
homemade baked goods and other great 
items. !e bake sale is being held in the 
kitchen until 1 p.m. and downstairs will 
feature clothing, shoes, household goods, 
books, knick-knacks and more. Proceeds 
support missions both local and beyond. 
!is sale continues on Saturday as well. 
For more information, call (802) 388-
6016.
Haunted Forest
Oct. 22, 6:00 p.m. – 8:30 p.m.
Come dressed and ready for Monkton’s 
annual Haunted Forest. All should meet 
at Monkton Central School to embark on 
the Halloween trail cra$ed for families 
and children of all ages. !e Monkton Boy 
and Cub Scouts would appreciate dona-
tions. Baked treats, warm apple cider and 
a #re will greet all those in attendance. For 
additional information, please call (802) 
870-3133. 
 Bollywood screening 
Oct. 21, 7 p.m. – 9 p.m.
Middlebury’s own Bollywood dance 
troupe, the Hadippa Dancers, will per-
form at the Town Hall !eater’s before the 
screening of the Bollywood #lm Mohab-
batein. !e #lm, Love Story in English, 
features three young men who attend a 
prestigious private school in India, and 
learn about friendships, education and 
above all, love. Tickets are $6 at the box 
o&ce or call (802) 382-9222.
Red Clover Farm Market adds local !are
Mind Over Time
(Keep It Simple, Do It Well)
Personalized coaching to create balance, 
calmness, efficiency, productivity, and 
quality in your life and work
Ron Rubin
Middlebury, Vermont
rlrubin@myfairpoint.net
ronrubin.wordpress.com
The 
Middlebury 
Campus
invites you to 
advertise your local 
business here
email campus@middlebury.edu
for more information
news.
local news.
opinions.
features.
arts&science.
sports.
it’s all online.
visit
middleburycampus.com
I came into Middlebury with aspirations of becom-
ing a pediatrician. My girlfriend at the time gawked at 
me; she couldn’t see me as a doctor. My parents told me 
they would be very proud having a physician son. A job 
in medicine seemed like something I wanted: a dynamic 
field of study, a comfortable salary and, most important-
ly, the knowledge that I could make a tangible, concrete 
difference in people’s lives. 
In my first semester, I took some pre-med cours-
es and performed pretty well. A neuroscience major 
seemed like a good inter-departmental choice. My first-
year advisor and psychology professor told me I would 
make a great doctor. Even if they were just being encour-
aging (or even facetious), I took it to heart.
I will graduate from Middlebury College this Feb-
ruary as a history major with minors in religion and 
economics.
This switch seemed natural to me since I loved 
studying history and religion in 
high school. Yet it was tough to 
justify reading books when all 
of my friends from home were 
majoring in finance, account-
ing, business management and 
the like. It seemed like everyone 
was preparing for a career or 
trade and I was dilly-dallying in 
an archaic and antiquated field 
of study.
When I tell people I’m a 
history major, it often elicits the 
familiar response of, “So are you 
thinking of teaching?” My re-
sponse is ‘yes’ but only because I 
have had wonderful experiences 
teaching in summer schools. 
Many people think that history 
is a study that only begets more 
study of history and teaching as 
a future profession. The fear that 
what I was doing wasn’t market-
able caused me a lot of anxiety 
initially before I stopped caring what others thought. 
Ultimately, I think my degree isn’t really quantifiable in 
the sense of future earning potential.
For me, taking classes in history, religion, econom-
ics and literature was about broadening and inform-
ing my outlook on the world and life. I think this is the 
benefit of an education in the humanities: an informed 
perspective that might not make you marketable as a cog 
in a corporate machine, but will guide you to become a 
contributing individual in society. 
History is about informing your perspective so you 
can see why things are the way they are. This sounds 
vague and heady but I mean it very literally. 
This past summer I taught a course called Aca-
demic Writing. On the first day we looked at writing 
samples and I was shocked at how rough some of them 
were. I thought, “How can these kids be so insightful in 
discussions but have such poor writing skills?” A few 
years ago, I might have dismissed some of my students 
as lazy or stupid. But having taken courses on educa-
tional inequality and U.S. history, their problems made 
a bit more sense. Many of my students were minorities 
from inner-city areas and their struggles in education 
were not necessarily a result of personal inadequacy, but 
rather the consequence of our past. American history is 
far from the patriotic propaganda that is often spewed at 
us. Our nation has a dark past of government-mandated 
inequality and the withholding of basic rights to some 
of its inhabitants. Some of my students were products 
of this political and socioeconomic inequality and were 
disadvantaged from their birth. Some of us get to run 
downhill in life while others, as a result of practices and 
institutions of our past, have to run uphill. I think many 
of my friends who majored in finance might fail to see 
things this way.
Studying history has given 
me a lens through which I can 
analyze the institutions and 
ethos of our culture today and 
objectively comment on it. And 
I’m not saying that all non-his-
tory majors are bigots or dull-
ards. There are plenty of ways 
to reach an informed perspec-
tive, but I really value the tools 
that my major gave me in terms 
of viewing the world. Plenty of 
people can reach this insight 
without paying $200,000, but 
college was a path that worked 
for me. I no longer have the ap-
prehension of not being busi-
ness-ready after college. I think 
there are more important things 
than being groomed for a cushy 
career with a comfortable salary.
Studying history has made 
me a more open person. I feel 
more compassionate, understanding and informed hav-
ing taken classes in the humanities. I’ve learned that 
the struggles of our past often manifest themselves in 
today’s society. I’ve learned that if we address the origins 
of our current problems, we can be better equipped to 
impact the future trajectory of our society. I’ve learned 
that I want to help eliminate inequality and intolerance, 
and will likely make my imprint through teaching and 
education. I want to help right some injustices of the 
past. I’ve realized that I wanted to help people, and that 
my dream of being a pediatrician wasn’t too far off.
campus policies and information
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus provide a forum for constructive and respectful dialogue on substantive issues. With 
this in mind, The Campus reserves the right to deny publication of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This includes, but is not 
limited to: the making of assertions based on hearsay; the relation of private conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable events; 
the use of vulgar language or personal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article that contains any of the aforementioned will be re-
moved before publication. Contributors will be allowed to reference prior articles published in the Opinions section or announcements 
for the public record. If a reference is made to prior articles, the submission will be considered a letter to the editor.  The Campus will 
not accept or print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, 
editorial comics and other commentary, are views of the individual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Submit works 
directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To 
be considered for publications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all submissions.
opinions 9
The Middlebury Campus
The Middlebury Campus
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the student newspaper of Middlebury 
College, is published by The Middlebury Campus Publications. Publication is 
every Thursday of the academic year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and business offices are located in Hep-
burn Hall Annex, Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is produced 
on Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by 
the Press Republican in New York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middlebury, 
Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribution con-
cerns to the Business Director. First class postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753. 
 20 October 2011
Editorial
The staff editorial represents the official opinion of 
The Middlebury Campus as decided by the editorial board.
 Kevin Carpenter ’11.5 is an Opinions Editor 
from Avon, Ct.
heardoncampus“The rules governing physical 
contact aren’t necessarily clear. 
— Stanis Moody-Roberts ’11.25, CRA 
Notes from the desk: Kevin Carpenter
What’s past is prologue 
he iddleb ry a p s
Managing Editor
Dana Walters
Editor-in-Chief
Kara Shurmantine
Business Manager
Ethan Schmertzler
  News Editors
Jess Berry
Kyle Finck
Adam Schaffer
  Local News Editors
Kaylen Baker
Charlotte Gardiner
Devin McDonald
  Opinions Editors
Kevin Carpenter
Isabel Shaw
Ian Trombulak
  
Features Editors
Cedar Attanasio
Shannon Fiedler
Allison Forrest
  Arts Editors
Santiago Azpurua-Borras
Deirdre Sackett
Emily Scarisbrick
  Sports Editors
Alex Edel
Dillon Hupp
Katie Siegner
Damon Hatheway
Photos Editors   
Anna Clements
Paul Gerard
Andrew Podrygula
Jiayi Shu
  Online Editors
Hannah Bristol
Kaireth Kim
Sarah Pfander
Ian Thomas
Design Editor   
Ian Stewart
Social Media Editor
Emily Pinto
  Online Manager
Lea Calderon-Guthe
History is about 
informing your 
perspective so 
you can see why 
things are the 
way they are. 
This sounds 
vague and heady 
but I mean it 
very literally.
The inherently short institutional memory of four-year colleges 
like Middlebury — in which there is a 100 percent turnover in the 
student body every half decade — occasionally facilitates an equally 
swift and complete turnover in the ways campus clubs and programs 
are designed and implemented. 
In the case of outdoor orientation trips for incoming first-years, 
members of the class of 2012 are now the last students on campus 
who remember any pre-OINK manifestations of an outdoor orienta-
tion program. At this critical juncture, when Dean of the College Shir-
ley Collado is meeting with the SGA and Middlebury Mountain Club 
to gather information necessary to make a decision regarding the fu-
ture of OINK, we are compelled to present a case for a pre-orientation 
trips program modeled after the MiddView program of 2008.
MiddView itself was not an uncontroversial program. A replace-
ment for the Middlebury Outdoor Orientation (MOO) program, a 
two-decade long tradition at Middlebury, MiddView expanded the 
pre-orientation activities offered beyond MOO’s focus on hiking, 
biking, canoeing and the like. MiddView included trips and activities 
such as meditation, working with local children, going to the Vermont 
state house and more, in addition to the usual options of hiking on 
the Long Trail or rock climbing in the Green Mountains. The result 
of the vast expansion in available pre-orientation options was, un-
surprisingly, the highest participation rate of any first-year class in a 
pre-orientation trips program at the College. 
Perhaps the biggest difference between MiddView and the OINK 
trips that the other 75 percent of the student body have experienced 
is the timing: MiddView trips ended the day first-year orientation be-
gan, while OINK trips take place during the weekend after the first 
week of classes. This timing is, by all accounts, less than ideal: the first 
weekend at college is one that many are loathe to miss out on, even if 
it is for a good reason like an OINK trip. Pre-orientation trips allowed 
students to begin orientation already feeling a sense of group unity 
and with connections on campus. Middlebury is currently the only 
NESCAC school that does not have a pre-orientation trip program. 
MiddView’s one-year lifespan was mostly due to the untimely re-
cession in 2008, which necessitated cutbacks, rather than expansions, 
for orientation programs. The SGA agreed to a fund OINK for three 
years — a contract that ended this year. A leading proposition for 
replacing OINK would have pre-orientation trips be mandatory, solv-
ing the problem of students paying fees for trips they themselves do 
not actually go on.
At the Campus, we are encouraged to see that the pre-orientation 
trips program has vocal supporters that will ensure its continued ex-
istence. These trips are important parts of the orientation experience, 
and many participants can speak at length about the value of their 
individual experiences. Keeping a trips program in the form of OINK 
was a triumph on the part of the SGA, but only if the tradition is not 
broken for the class of 2016.
Of course, funding considerations may necessitate following a 
program model that is different from OINK, MiddView and MOO. 
Although no MOO participants remain on campus, the senior class 
remembers MiddView fondly and encourages the designers of the 
new program to look there for inspiration. The scope of its opportu-
nities and its optimal pre-orientation timing make it the ideal model 
for an outdoor orientation trips program. 
”
Middlebury College does not produce 
socially active beings. It does not nurture so-
cial consciences, nor espouse ideas of holistic 
civic engagement. Certainly, it teaches, pro-
tects, feeds and houses; it produces educated 
individuals with respected credentials and 
supports them in initiatives that align with 
mainstream environmentalism and neoliber-
alism. But any notions that students here are 
empowered to challenge the dominant para-
digm or to champion ideals of justice, equal-
ity and community must be discarded, for they 
are optimistic interpretations of an institution 
that claims to provide a 
21st century education, 
without addressing any 
of the issues that will 
likely define the 21st 
century. 
For four years, we 
are immersed in the ide-
ology of able-bodied, 
heterosexual, cisgender, 
English-speaking, white 
people with U.S. citi-
zenship and no crimi-
nal background. Unless 
we are lucky enough to 
cross paths with a select 
few professors, issues of 
institutionalized racism 
and ableism, the prison 
industrial complex, the 
military industrial complex, the gender binary, 
patriarchy, imperialism or capitalism are not 
discussed, nor are we moved to confront our 
own roles in the perpetuation of class, gender, 
race, sexual orientation and ability-related bi-
ases and bigotries. 
We are continually socialized into em-
bracing the idea that the only entity to which 
we are accountable is our homework. The 
notion that we should make deep, personal 
sacrifices to engage in local, state or national 
politics, to instill a greater sense of inclusivity 
for the disenfranchised along the lines of race, 
gender, class, ability or sexual orientation in 
our own community, or to question the ways 
in which Middlebury as a for-profit institution 
perpetuates dangerous economic norms is al-
most unheard of. Suggestions that our time be 
devoted to faraway politics, the institution of 
a living, breathing code of ethics for our com-
munity or to a responsible reallocation of our 
endowment are few and far between. 
And while I will admit the great hy-
pocrisy and travesty this represents, I do not 
believe that our social obligation is conse-
quently diminished in any way. Because, while 
Middlebury does not teach us stand up and be 
counted, it does not stand in our way. More 
than “does not,” it simply cannot. 
It cannot stop us from assembling and 
exploring every available avenue for change. 
It cannot prevent us from asking provoca-
tive questions that challenge the dominant 
paradigm, nor can it obstruct us from taking 
a long, hard stare inwards and pulling those le-
vers for change in which we have the greatest 
conviction. It cannot preserve fractures in our 
community that we have set out to bridge nor 
defend oppressive in-
stitutions for which we 
have found alternatives. 
What can stop us 
is an acceptance of the 
passivity and complic-
ity we are taught; an 
embracing of the no-
tion that nothing could 
possibly compete with 
our academic priori-
ties. What can stop us 
is a belief that attend-
ing meetings and lec-
tures with social and/
or political undertones 
or that spewing a steady 
stream of social cri-
tique without action to 
back it up qualifies as 
civic participation. What can stop us is even 
the slightest hiccup in a continuous rising of 
expectations for each other, for our professors, 
for our administrators and most of all for our-
selves. 
So, to hell with surrounding ourselves in 
an ideology that disenfranchises diversity of 
perspective and that accepts injustice and in-
equality as given. To hell with an endowment 
that, for all we know, is invested in weapons 
and environmental destruction, and an educa-
tion that isolates us in the intense demands it 
places on our time only to teach us complic-
ity in place of critical thinking. To hell with a 
non-confrontational four years, during which 
issues of privilege and bias go unmentioned, 
and incredible potential for the cultivation of 
leadership goes untapped. 
And, in the process, to hell with excuses: 
yours and mine. There is so much work to be 
done and none of it is our homework. 
9
campusopinions10  20 October 2011
We are 
continually 
socialized into 
embracing the 
idea that the 
only entity to 
which we are 
accountable is 
our homework.
”
The Id and the Eco: Rhiya Trivedi
To hell with excuses
Rhiya Trivedi ’12.5 is from 
Ontario, Canada.
can i have another name?? #librarypubliccolorprint-
erlocatednearthenorthwallofthemedialab220probs
stressed i have literally 35 more mins to go apple 
picking for a new fb album before fall ends
why am i suddenly in my fav sexual position while plug-
ging in my computer charger under this libe table??
WAIT NO DON’T TAKE ME BACK IM SO MUCH FUN IN THIS 
HADLEY SUITE #dininghallbowlprobs
dear prof - hooked up with a drunk freshman football player 
who subsequently peed on my computer #extension ?
kill eff marry: proctor atwater & ross???
just found out my friends parents are taking us to 
Trending this week:
#momstop
#wheredidgrandmago?
#parentalpregame
#invinwetrust 
#holypita
#bluechaircomatose 
#printerprobs
#foliageprofpic
#lostinross
#bisexualityhall
#frankyoufrank 
#fruckyoufrank
#modapalostmyvirginity 
week in tweets
Back to the Future: Maya Goldberg-Safir 
1973 – 1974: The frat battle goes cold
A quick recap from last column:
1. Middlebury wants to buy the frater-
nity houses (then owned by the national 
fraternities.)
2. The fraternities freak out! 
3. The fraternities refuse administra-
tion’s proposal.
4. Old Chapel scratches its metaphori-
cally bald head.
5. Everyone waits breathlessly for some 
kind of decision (except for the approxi-
mately 75 percent of students who were not 
affiliated with fraternities.)
The truth is, 
there was no dra-
matic-Harry-Potter-
themed final battle 
over the Middlebury 
fraternities in the 70s. 
Instead, the frats ex-
perienced a slow yet 
steady deterioration 
— beginning with the 
explosive 1973 con-
troversy over frater-
nity property. By fall 
of 1974, Middlebury 
administration was 
deep in negotiation 
with the fraternities. 
Their proposals were 
as complicated as any 
given “Intro. to the 
Universe” reading — 
and since getting a 
two on my Environ-
mental Science AP, 
I’ve broken up with 
“science” for good, so 
bear with me… 
Here’s the simple version of the nego-
tiations (designed even for those who study 
in Axinn!): frat-eaters wanted a rebate 
(covering the cost of the Proctor meal plan) 
from the College. The College said no.
Furthermore, said the College, we lose 
too much money when people eat off-cam-
pus. And we can’t. We just can’t. 
By refusing to rebate students who ate 
at the frats, the College slowly pushed the 
frats into deeper and deeper sh*t. It makes 
sense, of course — the entire world was fro-
zen into the Cold War, so why not stage a 
privileged-liberal-arts version of détente at 
Middlebury? Stayin’ classy, Old Chapel!
As Seth Steinzor wrote in an op-ed 
from ’73, “I sorrowfully predict that we’ll 
see a lot of discussions, a lot of petitions, 
a few tears, tons of mealy-mouthed double 
talk, and that in more or less normal course 
of events, Old Chapel will have its way. Be-
cause, around here, push never comes to 
shove, although that’s what it takes.”
Okay, okay, perhaps we’re better off 
without the frats. But a shout-out to those 
“Middlebury radicals” of the ’70s, who 
wrote outraged and sometimes absurd pro-
tests in the Opinions section and hung “Not 
for Sale” signs from the balcony of DU. And 
a shout-out to the “Middlebury radicals” of 
today — like Jay Saper ’13 — who cause a 
ruckus. It’s easy to be complacent — I do 
it all the time. We hush each other in the 
library stacks, in civilized class discussions, 
at the gym, when someone makes an offen-
sive joke at a party. So here’s one more very 
special shout out — to Chris DiOrio ’12. 
Thank you for spicing up my Monday night 
(especially after eating Proctor chicken) 
with your all-student, 
all-faculty email. I ad-
mire you. 
But back to the 
’70s — there was a 
lot more going on at 
Middlebury than bor-
ing meetings and wild 
keggers. In January of 
’74, a midnight intrud-
er frightened women 
across campus: “Like, 
I just opened my eyes 
and there was a man 
standing over my 
bed. I just screamed.” 
Thank God all we have 
is the Forest pooper, 
right?
Though local 
business still run their 
ads in the Campus, this 
was an era of a whole 
different kind of ad, 
including my favorite 
from the Bakery Lane 
Soup Bowl: “Rich-
ard Nixon does not eat at the Soup Bowl,” 
which I still find hilarious! How could that 
place ever have gone out of business?
Most importantly, the Vermont Bar As-
sociation passed a resolution in 1974 recom-
mending marijuana be sold to anyone over 
18 in Vermont State Liquor Stores. Wishful 
thinking, my friends! But, for just a mo-
ment, let’s all imagine what our lives would 
be like if the Vermont Bar Association had 
taken over the world … well, Middlebury 
would be pretty much the same. 
But let’s say you were doing a requisite 
chatting with your best friend in the library 
café when he suggested, “Let’s go to Boston 
for Fall Break!”
And you’d say, “For sure, and let’s stop 
on the way at the New Hampshire Liquor 
Outlet for some GRADE A BUBBA KUSH.”
Now back to the future! 
Shout-out to those 
“Middlebury 
radicals” of 
the ’70s, who 
wrote outraged 
and sometimes 
absurd protests 
in the Opinions 
section and hung 
“Not for Sale” 
signs from the 
balcony of DU.
Maya Goldberg-Safir ’12.5 is from 
Oakland, Calif.
“Try being a senior who 
still has to take gym, 
of all the ridiculous 
sh*t, because it’s a ‘for 
real’ requirement for 
graduation.
 — Seth Steinzor ’74 in a Letter to the 
Editor (1972)
fro
m
th
e
a
rc
h
iv
e
”
              campusopinions       20 October 2011  11
Two weeks ago, the Supreme Court heard a case that will 
have lasting implications for religion in the United States. 
The case, Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and 
School v. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, in 
which a female teacher at a religious elementary school was 
fired, questions whether or not teachers at religious schools 
— providing both religious and secular teaching — are sub-
ject to the “ministerial exception” clause of the Constitution. 
In so doing, it also opens up a number of other questions, 
namely, whether or not the exception should exist at all.
The “ministerial exception” to prohibitions against dis-
crimination in hiring, which was established in 1961, pre-
cludes government from interfering in church hiring prac-
tices. The clause, derived from the Free Exercise Clause in 
First Amendment of the Constitution, exists to maintain 
separation between church and state and to preserve the free 
exercise of religion as it relates to using church doctrine in 
hiring practices. It permits employment in religious contexts 
to function autonomously from the rest of the employment 
world; if a church or religious organization wants to hire or 
fire a minister, they are not responsible for providing justifi-
cation for that decision in a legal sense. This case, however, 
questions that principle.
The details: Cheryl Perich — the teacher who was fired 
— took time off from her job because of a chronic sleep 
disorder. When she came back to the school after getting 
doctor’s clearance, the school had already replaced her and 
asked her to resign. Angry, she refused to work through the 
church’s reconciliation process for teachers, instead, threat-
ening to sue in civil court. At this point, the school fired her, 
purportedly for violating church doctrine against Christians 
suing fellow Christians. Her position within the school, con-
tractually designated as a “called teacher,” included religious 
instruction. Because of this, the school claims that they are 
free to choose religious leaders for its students, making the 
hiring and firing of teachers part of the ministerial exception 
clause. Perich, claims otherwise. Because her job included 
secular teaching, she — along with the EEOC — holds that 
she is entitled to the same employment protection as a nor-
mal teacher. 
These details bring about many questions for the court. 
First, the court, in taking the case, has already obligated itself 
to rule on something that has always been left to churches 
to decide: what is it that constitutes a minister? In order to 
decide the case, the justices have to declare whether or not 
Perich’s role as a “called teacher” is religious enough to in-
clude her as a minister, or whether the fact that she also 
taught secular subjects bars her from it. This is dangerous 
ground for the government. By making these rulings, the 
court is defining church roles; this muddles the separation 
between church and state.
Further, the Department of Justice also decided to weigh 
in on the case. Filing an opposition brief, the department ar-
gues that the ministerial exception clause should be applied 
to those who perform “exclusively religious functions.” If this 
were the case, any religious minister performing any secular 
function — say, overseeing lower ministers or interns, which 
would be classified as an administrative function — could 
not be an exception to hiring and firing regulations under 
the clause. Noting this, Chief Justice Roberts pointed out 
that, under this logic, not even the Pope — as a head of state 
and administrator of a global organization — would qualify 
as an exception. 
The implications of the court’s decision will shape 
government-church relations for years to come. If the court 
chooses to bar religious teachers from the exception, it will 
be doing so through a narrow interpretation of the clause. 
This, however, is tricky — if the court excludes teachers in 
religious schools, they will be opening the way for larger 
questions about religious autonomy. Moreover, if the gov-
ernment has its way, the exception will effectively cease to 
exist. Would religious schools be then barred from discrimi-
nating against teachers with different religious beliefs, even 
if the teacher is performing religious functions in the school? 
Would this even be limited to schools? Questions abound.
The fact that the government can bar private organi-
zations from unjust hiring and firing practices at all comes 
from the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which sets its foundation 
in the Commerce Clause of the Constitution. There are ben-
efits to having these regulations; because of them, no person 
can be hired or fired on the basis of a slew of potentially dis-
criminatory factors, such as age, race or sex. However, this 
tenuous application of the commerce clause — though it of-
ten has positive benefits — would, in this case, give way to an 
explicit violation of the free exercise clause. Should the jus-
tices side with Perich, they will be imposing the government 
even further into a place that it does not belong: the church. 
Order in the Court: Kelsi Morgan
Equal opprotunity in the eyes of God
Kelsi Morgan ’14 is from Owasso, Kan.
This is dangerous ground 
for the government. By 
making these rulings, the 
court is defining church 
roles; this muddles the 
separation between 
church and state.
I would argue that everyone should be 
suspicious of a movement, whether political 
or social, that relies heavily on euphemisms 
and ambiguous terms to advance its cause. It’s 
legitimate to ask why these movements don’t 
clearly state, using pictures if necessary, exactly 
what they wish to have made into law or ap-
proved among the general public. The abortion 
rights movement is no different, except that the 
consequences of its words are tens of millions 
of deaths since 1973 in 
the United States alone.
Consider the em-
phasis on “choice” to 
begin with. Those who 
wish to advance or de-
fend abortion access 
speak heavily of a wom-
an’s “right to choose.” A 
politician running for 
my state senate district 
described herself as 
fully pro-choice. Ter-
ribly ambiguous, isn’t 
it? Is this the right to 
choose to have a career 
or to buy a certain car 
model? Nevertheless, 
those who desire abor-
tion rights cloak their 
overall purpose in a 
phrase that says practi-
cally nothing.
Of course, the ar-
gument that abortion should remain legalized 
to ensure a “right to choose” is utterly absurd. 
No one today would consider a state’s “right to 
choose” slavery legitimate, nor would we hon-
or a parent’s “right to choose” child abuse or a 
school district’s “right to choose” courses with 
only white students. Some choices are utterly 
immoral and evil; the fact that someone chooses 
them, or wishes to choose them, does not gain 
them any status whatsoever.
Just as absurd are the references to a wom-
an’s body among abortion advocates, who say 
that abortion gives a woman control over her 
body, or that women have the right to do what 
they want with their bodies. But women’s bod-
ies are not the ones being aborted! Little, if 
anything changes to her body except for the re-
moval of another life. It is not the woman who is 
killed in abortion, but a wholly separate human 
growing inside her. This reference to women’s 
bodies makes sense in a tanning booth or a hair 
salon, but is inapplicable to abortion.
The abortion rights movement has many 
more euphemisms at their disposal. Abortion 
is presented, or simply disguised, as a form of 
“family planning” or a “women’s health” cause. 
Consider the name “Planned Parenthood” also. 
Again, these terms are senseless when consid-
ered more deeply, and none of them refers di-
rectly to abortion. Abortion, in destroying hu-
man life, makes parents childless and prevents 
families from form-
ing; it prevents, rather 
than supports, parents 
and families. To call 
abortion a form of 
healthcare turns preg-
nancy into a disease 
and presents abortion 
as a cure; once again, 
by no means does this 
language justify killing 
a human in his or her 
earliest stages.
These words and 
euphemisms used 
among abortion advo-
cates are not merely in-
tellectual errors or ex-
amples of bad rhetoric. 
They have killed some 
50 million people in 
the United States alone 
in the last 28 years. 
Such phrases as “right 
to choose” will continue to kill innocent life un-
til (and I am positive this will happen) we, as a 
country, reject these false defenses of abortion 
and end the deadliest practice in our nation’s 
history, just as we have with slavery and other 
crimes against humanity.
The pro-life movement does not need its 
own set of misleading language to advance its 
cause. It simply needs to show what abortion 
truly is. At a conference in London yesterday, 
those in attendance witnessed utterly gruesome 
pictures of aborted fetuses: some on top of one 
another, others with detached limbs, one whose 
head was floating in water — all victims of the 
abortion movement. These revolting images 
show what abortion truly is. They require no 
rhetoric or spin. If you see them, you will un-
derstand.
Op-Ed: Kenneth Burchfiel
The deadly euphemisms of Pro-Choice 
Kenneth Burchfiel ’13 is from 
McLean, Va.
Just as absurd are 
the references to 
a woman’s body 
among abortion 
advocates, who say 
that abortion gives 
a woman control 
over her body, or 
that women have 
the right to do what 
they want with their 
bodies.
I am pro-life. Not only have I had the 
privilege of spending the majority of my aca-
demic career devoted to learning how to live 
the most fulfilling life I can, but more than 
that, I have taken care not to introduce new life 
to the world until I can be the best mother I 
can be. I am actively anti-capital punishment, 
anti-war, anti-genocide, anti-holocaust, pro-
gun control, anti-crime, anti-grieving, anti-
Law and Order: SVU. It is for this reason that 
my blood actually boils when I hear the term 
“pro-life.” Feel my pulse; I am agitated. It is 
because of this agitation that I absolutely con-
demn the meaningless rhetorical signifiers that 
have come to define the debate surrounding 
U.S. abortion policy. Not only do they invent 
a moral high ground in situations that do not 
concern morality, but they also create a pathet-
ic discourse wholly separate from fact. 
Speaking of such idiotic signifiers, H.R. 
358 known as the “Protect Life Act” and the 
“Let Women Die Bill” by supporters and dis-
senters respectively, passed in the House this 
past Thursday, Oct. 13. As the most recent in a 
series of anti-abortion legislation passed in the 
last year, it has received much deserved criti-
cism as a marked leap backwards concerning 
the reproductive and medical rights of women. 
Sponsored by Representative Joe Pitts (R-PA) 
and supported by House Majority Leader Eric 
Cantor (R-VA), the bill would “prohibit federal 
funds from being used to cover any part of the 
costs of any health plan that includes coverage 
of abortion services.” 
Most heinously, the bill, if put into action, 
would allow hospitals and other medical care-
givers that morally oppose abortion to deny 
women the procedure, even in life-threatening 
circumstances. Among those outraged at the 
bill’s passing was Eleanor Smeal, president 
of the Feminist Majority, who stated in a Ms. 
Magazine news brief, “While our country des-
perately longs for a jobs bill, the House Repub-
licans yet again took up an anti-abortion bill. 
This one is especially mean-spirited, irrespon-
sible, and misogynistic, and would result in 
some young women dying without treatment 
from bleeding from either hemorrhaging or a 
tubal pregnancy that has erupted.” 
Supporters of the bill argue that it simply 
seeks to prohibit American tax dollars from 
funding the practice, but this prohibition has 
the potential to make abortions unavailable to 
the poorest Americans — those who arguably 
need federal aid and family planning assistance 
more than anyone. Yes, the passing of the bill is 
infuriating. It’s actually taken me several days 
to build the requisite composure that would al-
low me to write fully formed sentences rather 
than a collection of angry gibberish scrawled 
on a page. But, the super sad, true vendetta 
against both my uterus and yours gets worse. 
Certain GOP leaders are not only seeking 
the right to refuse life-saving care (care that 
could save lives, may I remind you, that already 
exist), but also, this past February, Indiana 
Rep. Mike Pence launched a full-fledged attack 
against the largest provider of reproductive 
health services in the country, Planned Par-
enthood. He condemns the organization for 
listing abortions as one of the organization’s 
many services — and even though Planned 
Parenthood is the only reproductive health 
organization that receives Title X funds, Pence 
attempted to choke the organization of every 
federal penny it receives, without offering a 
contingency plan for the 1.85 million low-in-
come women reliant on Planned Parenthood’s 
services. His efforts were eventually directed 
towards H.R. 3, or the “No Taxpayer Fund-
ing For Abortion Act,” which would eliminate 
tax breaks for private employers who provide 
health coverage if their plans offer abortion 
services, and would forbid women who use a 
flexible spending plan to use pre-tax dollars for 
abortions. As of today, both H.R. 3 and H.R. 
358 currently await debate in the Senate where 
many argue they don’t stand a chance. 
Ultimately, however, this debate needs to 
stop being an issue of partisanship and start 
being an issue of empathy and common sense. 
There is nothing that infuriates me more than 
someone like Mike Pence or Dick Doerflinger 
or Joe Pitts with no uterine wall to speak of 
who pretends to understand, but subsequently 
dismisses the dire need for full female repro-
ductive rights. I refuse to be treated like I am 
a character in a Victorian novel of oppression 
and childbearing — I will never be a vessel out 
of which your legacy pops. So, in closing, I say 
to all men, women and children, except for 
my own future ones when I am sure that I am 
ready for them: STAY OUT OF MY CERVIX 
UNLESS YOU HAVE A GYNECOLOGICAL 
DEGREE AND I HAVE PLACED MY FEET IN 
YOUR STIRRUPS.
That Thing Down There: Joanna Rothkopf
Thoughts concerning H.R. 358
Joanna Rothkopf ’12 is from 
Washington, D.C.
Returning to campus this fall, students wishing to reunite 
and reminisce with old friends were confronted with a pleth-
ora of new installments to what has become the administra-
tion’s anti-partying policy. Beginning with the housing pro-
cess last spring, the College has designed a housing plan for 
the Middlebury campus that inhibits large social gatherings by 
means of relocating special interest houses, tightening regula-
tions on Super Blocks and revamping the !re code to reduce 
the maximum capacities of existing social houses.  
"ree areas struck hardest by these changes are the Mods, 
the large-block houses along Ridgeline circle (Palmer, 
Prescott, Brooker and Tavern) and Jewett.  
"e Mods are no longer designated as senior hous-
ing and now house small, themed superblocks approved 
by the Middlebury housing administration. "is new 
o#ering, aimed at creating a small focused community 
— as described on Dean of the College Collado’s blog, 
One Dean’s View — o#ers housing and social space for 
four small groups, united around their particular inter-
ests.  Upon moving in, all Super Block tenants attended 
a mandatory superblock training session in which the 
administration warned that any social gatherings ex-
ceeding given capacity limits would warrant a swi$ and 
pitiless response from the administration.  In this same 
meeting, tenants of the Mods, whose capacity was new-
ly limited to 25 persons were informed that in no way, 
shape or form would there be a “Mod-a-palooza.” Historically, 
Mod-a-palooza has been a cohesive e#ort by all four Mods to 
throw a joint party. Previous Mod-a-paloozas have been well 
attended by all members of the student body and have proven 
to be pinnacle events within the Middlebury social scene. 
Up the hill from the Mods, the large houses of Palmer, 
Prescott, Brooker and Tavern, whose tenants also attended 
the Super Block instructional meeting at the beginning of 
the year, witnessed a sharp cut to the maximum capacities of 
their social spaces. "e maximum capacity for the basement 
of Palmer House has been cut to 100 persons. Palmer inhabit-
ants, however, have been told that if they exhibit “good behav-
ior,” their capacity might be increased.  
While the College must adhere to state and federal man-
dated building capacity regulations, the administration retains 
the power to reduce the number of persons allowed in campus 
buildings if they feel these social spaces are being used in un-
safe or harmful manners.     
Another change realized by the revamped housing system 
declares Jewitt house, at the bottom of campus, a special inter-
est Super Block. Originally a prized entity of the housing draw, 
housing two small blocks of four and eight persons, Jewett 
now houses Katsuhama, a Super Block centered on traditional 
Japanese cooking. Katsuhama frequently hosts dinner events 
in which they serve traditional homemade Japanese cuisine 
for all members of the Middlebury community.  In holding 
their !rst event, Katsuhama also has felt the woes of the new 
!re code. Given the furniture arrangements and the relatively 
small square footage of the Jewett living room, its capacity is 
limited to 33 persons. "is limitation proved very troubling 
when 75 guests showed up to the house’s !rst event and were 
forced to wait in a line outside, only to be admitted in 30 per-
son intervals.  
It is clear that these new policies a#ecting the Middlebury 
social life come from a rational response to increasing ac-
counts of disrespect and unhealthy drinking behavior. By 
making changes to the spaces Middlebury social groups in-
habit, the administration wishes to further control 
the use of social spaces on campus. But the student 
body has by and large rejected the administration’s 
design for party registration, thus limiting the ad-
ministration’s constructive role in event planning.  
"e real question at the heart of this issue is 
how this new architecture will a#ect the nightlife 
of Middlebury students. A concurrent theme af-
fected by these policy changes is the disbursement 
of all large student initiated gatherings. Prevented 
from convening in large social gatherings to pursue 
their weekend exploits, Middlebury students will 
adapt to these new policies and take their drinking 
elsewhere. "ere will be more o#-campus parties. 
"e incidence of clandestine binge drinking in un-
derclass dorms will %ourish. "e Atwater suites, a 
perennial headache to Public Safety o&cers, will become the 
prominent weekend venue on campus, and, the College com-
munity will no longer commune as a single student body, but 
rather will be divided into interest groups and scattered to the 
far corners of campus.       
      20 October 2011  11 campusopinions            12 20 October 2011
Op-Ed: Terry Fromson
Sexual assault policy
I read with interest Jess Berry’s Oct. 
13 article on Middlebury’s new sexual as-
sault policy (“SAOC puts new policy into 
practice”). My interest in how Middlebury 
addresses sexual assault is two-fold. I am a 
parent of a Middlebury student. I am also 
managing attorney of the Women’s Law 
Project, a public interest law firm in Phila-
delphia that works to advance the rights and 
status of women. In that capacity, I have 
represented young women who have been 
sexually assaulted in college and devoted 
considerable time researching and evalu-
ating college responsibilities in addressing 
sexual assault. After reading last week’s ar-
ticle, I also read the new policy. I commend 
the SOAC for its thoughtful and careful re-
vision of Middlebury’s sexual assault policy. 
Sexual assault is a serious problem on col-
lege campuses and addressing it poses com-
plex challenges.
Studies estimate that 25 percent of fe-
male students will experience an attempted 
or completed rape on campus. Men are vic-
tims of sexual assault as well. Offenders are 
often repeat offenders. Victims suffer physi-
cal and emotional injuries that may be long 
term. 
Despite the prevalence of sexual assault, 
only five percent of campus assaults are re-
ported. Victims do not report for a host of 
reasons, including fear of retaliation and 
fear of reactions by law enforcement, friends 
and family. On college campuses, student 
misunderstanding of sexual assault and lack 
of knowledge of available resources and 
procedures, as well as the small community 
in which the assaults take place — where 
everyone knows everyone else — further re-
duce reporting.  
Sexual assault is a crime, and criminal 
laws apply to campus assaults. Colleges, 
however, also carry responsibility under the 
law to address and prevent sexual assault. 
Title IX, the federal law prohibiting sex dis-
crimination in federally-funded educational 
programs, requires colleges and universities 
to take immediate action to address sexual 
assault on campus by taking immediate 
action to eliminate its occurrence and ad-
dress its effects. Colleges must institute and 
publish procedures for addressing sexual as-
sault. The Clery Act also requires colleges to 
disclose campus crime and safety policies.  
There is no question that addressing 
and preventing sexual assault on campus 
is a complex and difficult charge. Typically, 
colleges have done so through judicial sys-
tems that function like courts with compli-
cated evidentiary requirements and burdens 
of proof that only lawyers are trained to un-
derstand. Yet students are not lawyers, and 
legal representation is not permitted. How 
can a victim, who is cross-examined by the 
student she or he has accused of sexual as-
sault, not be traumatized by the process it-
self? The Center for Integrity’s 2009 inves-
tigative series on sexual assault on campus 
reveals how campus responses have left 
victims feeling victimized and silenced. See 
http://www.publicintegrity.org/investiga-
tions/campus_assault/.
Middlebury’s new policy aims to ad-
dress this complexity, in much the way that 
recent guidance from the Office of Civil 
Rights of the Department of Education, 
which enforces Title IX, has said schools 
should do so. Middlebury has acknowledged 
that it does not have the capacity to operate 
a court of law. Instead, it has developed an 
investigation process that seeks to reduce 
the trauma while promising a careful, thor-
ough and fair assessment of a complaint by 
a well-trained investigator, along with av-
enues of appeal. It has removed mediation 
from the equation, a process that is inap-
propriate for sexual assault cases, and states 
that the process will treat the parties equally 
and hold perpetrators accountable. Very 
importantly, the new policy recognizes that 
steps may need to be taken to protect a vic-
tim from having contact with the accused, 
on campus, in class or in a dorm. Hopefully, 
such accommodations will be made with-
out burdening the victim. The policy also is 
clear up front that students are encouraged 
to pursue legal remedies outside of the col-
lege and provides a complete list of legal and 
non-legal resources. 
It is my sincere hope that the written 
word translates into a process that students 
understand and feel comfortable using and 
that helps them find justice and healing. 
Training of staff and education of students, 
as well as a commitment from the top, will 
be crucial.
Terry Fromson P’12 is managing attor-
ney of the Women’s Law Project from 
Swarthmore, Pa.
Op-Ed: Barkley Jenny
Too many people and too much fun
Middlebury students will adapt 
to these new policies and take 
their drinking elsewhere. There 
will be more off-campus parties. 
The incidence of clandestine 
binge drinking in underclass 
dorms will flourish.
Barkley Jenny ’12 is from Sheridan, Wyo.
But Then Again: Addi DiSesa
“Want to” lists
Don’t you like to feel good? Yes, so do I — 
so much so that I go to great lengths to achieve 
a state of quasi, unpracticed, unrefined nirvana. 
Do you want to know my secret? I do what I 
want. Such is my privilege; such is my right.
DISCLAIMER #1: I do not hurt people or 
take, break or handle items that are not mine. I 
do what I want with an eye to personal satisfac-
tion. It is an introspective sort of thing. Here is 
my best advice about how you can do this too.
When you wake up tomorrow, make a list 
in your mind of activities you “have to” do. 
Then, make a list of the activities you really 
“want to” do. Compare the two and look for ar-
eas of overlap.
DISCLAIMER #2: 
When creating these 
lists, particularly the 
latter, try not to think 
exclusively of long-
term goals for future 
“achievements” or ex-
clusively of short-term 
activities of instant 
gratification. That is, 
try to find a nice blend 
of “live in the moment” 
activities and “I wish I 
had done that when I 
was in college” activi-
ties. This is difficult, so 
take your time.
After discovering 
(or not) areas of overlap in your lists, challenge 
yourself to err on the side of the “want to” strain. 
Heeding disclaimer #1, reevaluate those activi-
ties you have heretofore enumerated and pick 
one or two of the most immediately appealing. 
Do these things.
Difficult though this may seem — let’s be 
serious, this is a cinch — I think you will find 
yourself satisfied with your day and life if you 
behave as you would like. For example, I de-
cided that today would not be the day that I 
began work on a take-home midterm exami-
nation (due in class by the time this writing 
goes to press), and instead it would be a day of 
football watching (by the way, the Eagles won), 
relaxation, some touch-up work on my thesis 
prospectus, more relaxation, a few beers and a 
couple of hours in the electronic music studio 
for fun and assignment completion — I hesitate 
to say “work” because it is pretty damn fun and 
interesting.
DISCLAIMER #3: I am not now, nor have 
I ever been a pre-med student, math major, 
workaholic, socialite, misanthrope, loner, loser, 
jock or nerd. If you would like to qualify me as 
one of these things or otherwise, “eff” you, I do 
not subscribe.
I think a few smart people will read this col-
umn and think, “Hey, this guy is an idiot.” You 
may be correct in saying so. Some of the most 
incredible people in this world have become 
who they are or were and served humanity and 
themselves immensely through interminable 
toil and dedication. Without these people our 
world might not feel as safe as it does to me, 
many of us might not be as healthy as we cur-
rently are, Barack 
Obama might not be 
the president and two 
percent milk might not 
taste so good (I can’t 
stomach whole). Hard 
work gets the world 
some things I consider 
very, very desirable.
But this is exactly 
my point: how do we 
get our “have to” lists to 
look like our “want to” 
lists? How can we make 
our lives feel so good 
and free, while still 
making available to 
ourselves many of the 
21st century amenities 
we use daily? I think we probably must begin by 
exploring both lists all the time. 
Try having a “want to” day or better yet, 
several consecutive “want to” days and then 
try channeling the positive energy you bring to 
those days and apply those feelings to your “have 
to” days. I believe we can achieve some sort of 
nirvana on the “have to” days once we whet our 
appetites for feeling good. I for one hope to do 
big things for the world, but probably won’t get 
there if I can’t make my “have to” days feel like 
“want to” days.
The issue at the heart of this piece, I be-
lieve, is anxiety and how we manage it. Achiev-
ing “want to” satisfaction on “have to” days boils 
down to overcoming the guilt we feel when al-
lowing ourselves to be idle. In the meantime, 
get back to work, or not, but try to do what you 
want.
Find a nice 
blend of “live 
in the moment 
activities” and 
“I wish I had 
done that when I 
was in college” 
activities.
Addi DiSesa ’12 is from 
Wynnewood, Pa.
      20 October 2011  13              campusopinions
The Occupy Wall Street movement seeks to protest the 
greed of the 1 percent. In the words of Professor Cornel 
West (one of the protestors), “We are tired of seeing Wall 
Street’s greed getting rewarded … anytime they make any 
profits they are privatized, and when losses come up the 
government decides to socialize them (through the bailouts) 
… Obama has failed working class America.”
We believe that the Occupy Wall Street is a movement 
that has grown due to the crème de la crème of the United 
States. It is rumored that George Soros, Forbes richest man 
having made his money from Wall Street, funded Occupy 
Wall Street in its preliminary stages. Most protestors, name-
ly the ones ‘in it for the long haul,’ are direct beneficiaries of 
the corporate forces that Occupy Wall Street condemns. The 
Movement is thus hypocritical because they are protesting 
against the hand that feeds them; it goes without saying that 
most of these protestors going to Occupy Wall Street, much 
like Occupy Middlebury, are ‘trustafarians’ who have little 
to no first hand experience of what they preach. Rather, it is 
merely a call for solidarity that is fun and exciting to attend 
and worth experiencing.
Those truly overlooked by corporate forces should be 
the protesters. Where are they? They are most likely working 
their 9 to 5 jobs, making ends meet and, unless they sacrifice 
their vacation time used for loved ones, family and friends, 
they will have no time for around-the-clock protesting. A 
recent article comparing the Slutwalk to Occupy Wall Street, 
put it perfectly: “To get people to join your movement, they 
need to see themselves reflected in it,” referring to Occupy 
Wall Street. This idea brings us to our main argument: the 
movement is taking away agency from the people who re-
ally need to be protesting and as a result, perpetuating mar-
ginalization and powerlessness. Mahatma Gandhi was once 
asked by a well-meaning British citizen what he could do 
to help the Indian independence movement. Gandhi as-
serted, “Nothing!” He understood that for independence to 
be realized for the Indian people they needed to do it for 
themselves. This same critique is applied to the “in it for the 
long haul” protesters who are benefactors of the system they 
criticize.
Have you actually explored the website “We are the 99 
percent”? Those who have been subject to the greed of the 
few upload a picture of themselves, with a hand-written 
statement about what they have suffered and must make 
sure they write, “I am the 99 percent.” The protestors are 
perpetuating what Zizek refers to as ‘cultural capitalism’: 
“in the morning he grabs the money and in the afternoon 
he gives half of the money back to charity.” In the case of 
the protesters, they have “grabbed” the leisure of time and 
money that in turn they put this time and money towards to 
a protest. Occupy Wall Street is a pat on the back for those 
attending and supporting. 
This façade of a people’s movement might actually hin-
der the potential for a successful movement consisting of 
the proletariat toppling the corporate greed that is control-
ling their immediate lives. The Declaration of Occupy Wall 
Street cites, “We write so that all people who feel wronged 
by the corporate forces of the world can know that we are 
your allies.” Occupy Wall Street protesters are indeed allies 
and are not all people. Banality of evil can help us explain 
where to go from here. We are all accountable. We have all 
used the oppression of marginalized groups in order to 
achieve success. We must acknowledge our role in the white 
noise we created and use our privileges accordingly.  
Op-Ed: Janet Rodrigues and Mugo Mutothori
Why Occupy Wall Street will not succeed
Janet Rodrigues ’12 is from Brooklyn, N.Y.
Mugo Mutohori ’12 is from Nairobi, Kenya
The movement is 
taking away agency 
from the people who 
really need to be 
protesting and as a 
result, perpetuating 
marginalization and 
powerlessness.
COLUMBIA PICTURES PRESENTS IN ASSOCIATION WITH RELATIVITY MEDIA A CENTROPOLIS ENTERTAINMENT PRODUCTION “ANONYMOUS” RHYS IFANS VANESSA REDGRAVE JOELY RICHARDSON
DAVID THEWLIS XAVIER SAMUEL SEBASTIAN ARMESTO RAFE SPALL EDWARD HOGG JAMIE CAMPBELL BOWER AND DEREK JACOBI MUSICBY THOMAS WANDER AND HARALD KLOSER
EXECUTIVE
PRODUCERS VOLKER ENGEL  MARC WEIGERT  JOHN ORLOFF WRITTENBY JOHN ORLOFF PRODUCEDBY ROLAND EMMERICH  LARRY FRANCO  ROBERT LEGER DIRECTEDBY ROLAND EMMERICH
A ROLAND EMMERICH FILM
The Middlebury Campus
we spent the last 105 years 
preparing for this one.
Since 1905
“Battell is the only place I ever lived 
on campus,” said Stanis Moody-Roberts 
’11.25, as he was talking to me about his 
experience as the Commons Residential 
Advisor (CRA) in Wonnacott Commons, a 
position open to Middlebury graduates who 
come back for another year to live on cam-
pus and take care of the current students. 
My interview with Moody-Roberts 
was an hour-and-a-half long conversation 
about languages, geography, traveling and 
life. Even before I sat down, he offered me 
apples, tea and candy, and also a tour of the 
me a Korean song he enjoys listening to. 
How did this career-long residence in 
Battell begin?
“I applied [for First Year Counselor 
(FYC)] on a whim,” he said. “I turned in 
the application late. They were still look-
ing for more applications. I hadn’t thought 
about being an FYC at all before that.
 “I’ve been involved in residential life 
for a long time,” he continued. “I was an 
FYC my sophomore year and I had the 
best hall, the best group of kids and I really 
enjoyed it. I really liked the role of being 
a mentor, caring for people and building 
community. Then I went abroad my junior 
year. When I came back as a senior — as 
crazy and busy as senior year can be — I 
really, really liked being an FYC, so I did 
it again.”
“The challenge about being an FYC is 
that you have so many different things you 
want to do with your hall and dorm but you 
still have to deal with academics, sports, 
jobs and other commitments,” said Moody-
Roberts. 
“The idea of being able to do what I 
love to do full-time appealed to me the most 
about being a CRA,” he said. “And there 
was also something about Middlebury. I 
felt like I have yet to experience it to the 
fullest.” 
Moody-Roberts had a very unusual 
living experience when he went abroad his 
junior year. While studying in Berlin, not 
only did he move to a new place every few 
weeks, but he also had the chance to stay at 
a youth hostel.
“I didn’t want to live in a dorm,” he 
said. “It was cheaper to live in the city any-
-
site where you can put up your apartment 
for rent while you go on a vacation for a 
few weeks. So I just moved from place to 
place depending on which apartment was 
open for certain periods of time, which was 
really cool because I got to see a lot of dif-
ferent places and people.” 
“Then I ended up stopping at a youth 
hostel and I got to know the owner pretty 
well,” he continued. “He knew I was look-
ing for a place to live so he asked me to 
work for him and live there. I switched 
rooms every night to whichever one had a 
bed for me. I lived in a room with eight to 
10 other people on bunk beds. There wasn’t 
too much private space though.” 
As an FYC or CRA, it is part of the 
job description to take care of people, but 
Moody-Roberts rephrases this terminology 
“I don’t really take care of people,” he 
said. “When they get drunk I take care of 
them. But I just like doing things for peo-
ple. I don’t think the students consider me 
as someone who’s part of the ‘staff,’ but 
more of someone who they can come and 
talk to till really late at night, or come in my 
room and watch movies or play games.”
Moody-Roberts has love and pride for 
his commons and the people in it, feels 
good about helping others, bakes and is al-
ways down for a good late-night conversa-
tion. While most students can’t wait to get 
out of Battell, he keeps coming back for 
more. He’s the kind of CRA we should all 
be lucky enough to have!
Last !ursday you might have no-
ticed the dozen or so students who walked 
around with tee-shirts that said “Ask Tony,” 
or the chalking up and down the pavement 
that said “Ask Tony,” or maybe you even had 
a "yer passed to you with “Ask Tony” print-
ed in bold letters on the front. Still haven’t 
found out who Tony is? Well, we found him 
for you, and we sat him down for an inter-
view.
Tony Granger is 13 years old. He’s 
an eighth grader who loves to play video 
games, explore the outdoors, play football, 
ride his bike and even, upon occasion, read 
for fun. At a glance, Tony is your regular 
middle school kid going through regular 
middle school kid things. But that’s just on 
the surface. Tony Granger is much more 
than average. In fact, the more I talked to 
him, the more I realized how incredible and 
extraordinary this young teenager really is. 
Tony’s mother, Tina, was seven months 
pregnant when she found out that her 
son had a kidney problem, which she lat-
er learned was polycystic kidney disease 
(PKD), a genetic disorder that causes non-
cancerous cysts to develop on the kidneys. 
A#er spending the $rst three months of 
his life in a hospital where doctors thought 
he might not survive, Tony was $nally able 
to go home. But the treatment did not end 
there. Since birth, Tony has been in and 
out of the Vermont Children’s Hospital for 
regular check-ups and surgeries, and he still 
takes medication daily. 
In 2008, Tony was fortunate enough to 
be given the chance to go through a kidney 
transplant when his older sister donated 
her kidney. Since his transplant, Tony’s sit-
uation has been much more stable, but he 
must still take his daily medication and visit 
the hospital for routine blood work each 
month. It’s a process that Tony’s mother 
calls, “Day to day.” 
Tony Granger has not had the easiest 
childhood. Yet, despite the obstacles he has 
faced, he has never let them deter him from 
living life to the fullest. 
“I don’t really ever feel down about 
what I’ve gone through because I know it 
could be a lot worse than it is,” said Granger. 
Tony’s sense of magnanimity and con-
$dence has been noticed by many. In Janu-
ary of this year, Tony discovered that he 
had been awarded the title of Children’s 
Miracle Network Champion for the state of 
Vermont. Each year, worthy children from 
across the country are selected as Champi-
ons to promote the Children’s Miracle Net-
work Hospitals. To date, this organization 
has raised over four billion dollars towards 
research, equipment, care and other forms 
of assistance aimed at improving the lives of 
children at more than 170 hospitals. Cham-
pions like Tony promote the Children’s 
Miracle Network Hospitals and host events 
to raise awareness for its cause. 
!e goal of the Children’s Miracle Net-
work Hospitals is to save and improve the 
lives of kids like Tony Granger, and they can 
use all the help they can get.
Tony is currently promoting an event 
taking place at Middlebury this fall: the 
Middlebury College Dance Marathon. !is 
dance party is a 12-hour event that will be-
gin on Nov. 11 at 8 p.m. in the McCullough 
Social Space. Registration fee is $15. All 
money raised will go directly to the Ver-
mont Children’s Hospital at Fletcher Allen 
in Burlington. 
Every year, colleges across the country 
host Dance Marathons to raise money and 
awareness for their local Children’s Miracle 
Network Hospitals. !is will be both Ver-
mont’s and Middlebury’s $rst time hosting 
a Marathon, so it is sure to be an antici-
pated, exciting and fun event. And, in the 
words of Tony Granger, “It’s gonna be loud.”
So, if you like dancing or, more im-
portantly, like helping out kids in need, the 
Middlebury Dance Marathon is an excel-
lent place for you to be. Remember to regis-
ter online via go/dancemarathon.
A writer asks Tony what his story really is
By Jackie Park
Staff Writer
By Alexandra Strott
Staff Writer
Campus Character: Stanis Moody-Roberts
20 October 2011
Dance Marathon Fundraiser
(For  Vermont Children’s 
Hospital at Fletcher Allen in 
Burlington)
McCullough Social Space
Nov. 11 at 8:00 p.m. – 
Nov. 12 at 9:00 a.m.
Visit go/dancemarathon 
by Nov. 11 to register or by 
Dec. 11 to donate
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
Moody-Roberts in his CRA apartment, always ready to chat with anyone who wants a friend
Courtesy of Galen Anderson
!e dance marathon comittee all wearing their “Ask Tony” t-shirts to support the cause
!e Center for the Comparative Study of 
Race and Ethnicity (CCSRE) and the Educa-
tion Studies Program are co-hosting a "lm 
and dinner-discussion series on race, ethnic-
ity and education this fall. Two events are 
upcoming:
!e Lottery is a controversial documentary 
which spotlights the "erce contests over pri-
mary education in the United States through 
the lens of parents, politicians and teachers. 
Professors Susan Burch from American Stud-
ies and Tara A#olter from the Education 
Studies Program will co-facilitate the post-
screening discussion.
Internationally acclaimed French drama !e 
Class (La Classe), directed by Laurent Cantet, 
explores a class of high school juniors across a 
tumultuous year. Haunting, vivid, and engag-
ing, this complex "lm raises important ques-
tions about society, learning, and identity in 
France and beyond. Sociology professor Lau-
rie Essig and Economics professor Bob Prasch 
will co-facilitate the conversation following 
the screening.
Watch. Discuss. REpeat.
friday nov. 11, twilight auditorium, 4:30-7:30 p.m.
monday, nov. 28, axinn center 232, 4:30-7:30 p.m.
features14
On Saturday, Oct. 15, as families !ood-
ed the campus for parents weekend, two 
career panels occurred simultaneously: 
Careers in the Common Good and Careers 
on Wall Street. Each event encouraged 
Middlebury students to engage in conversa-
tions with Middlebury parents concerning 
internships and jobs; the careers on Wall 
Street panel was led by Middlebury parents 
and the Careers in the Common good panel 
was led by Middlebury students. 
“"ere is always an academic view of 
#nance and I wanted to help give a practical 
view,” said Andy Williams P ’12, Advisor of 
Asset Management.
But, unlike the Careers in the Com-
mon Good panel, the Careers on Wall 
Street panel was interrupted. "ree outspo-
ken Middlebury students marched into the 
forum, seized the room’s attention and ex-
plained that they had something to say. 
“We are not dreamers, we are awaken-
ing from a nightmare,” one of the protesters 
asserted, as a stern expression mounted his 
face. "ey held an American !ag and note 
cards from which they read their talking 
points. 
"e planned disruption gave life to 
the media’s recent hot topic: Occupy Wall 
Street. "ese three men proved that the 
movement is not aimed at cities — it is 
aimed at America’s general inequality.
It is important to note that these 
Middlebury students targeted the Wall 
Street panel and not the Career in Common 
Good panel. It is also important to consider 
that the college scheduled these panels at 
the same time. Students had to choose to 
attend one or the other. "is reality invokes 
a few questions: Can you not have a career 
on Wall Street and still be considered to be 
working for the common good? Are these 
two career paths so completely separate 
that they attract completely di$erent indi-
viduals? "e Middlebury protesters seemed 
to think so. 
“We want you to think about things 
you do a on a daily basis that a$ect people 
around the world,” was one of the state-
ments from the Middlebury protesters 
which bounced through the silence-#lled 
room. 
In the face of the disruption, the Wall 
Street panelists continued on. Some re-
marks throughout the panel did refer to 
the student protestors and the Occupy Wall 
Street movement, but conversation around 
this topic remained limited.  And the pro-
testers did not stay for the question-and-
answer portion of the panel in order to en-
gage in a dialogue. 
“I have some sympathy for what these 
guys have to say. But we can talk about that 
at a di$erent time,” explained John Birdsall, 
head of emerging market sales at Hapoalim 
Secutities. Birdsall served in the Peace 
Corps, which spiked his interest in foreign 
exchange as it seemed like a tactile concept. 
A%er the Peace Corps he engaged in work 
that allowed him to get involved in foreign 
exchange. 
But Birdsall and a number of the other 
Wall Street panelists did not delve into the 
topic of American inequality. Instead, they 
encouraged Middlebury students to get 
their foot in the door if they wanted to work 
in #nance.
“Don’t look for the job you want, look 
for the job they want you to do,” Birdsall 
forewarned.
Michael Micahelcheck, founder and 
chairman of Mariner Investment Group, 
Inc. echoed this sentiment in stating, “My 
best advice is that the most important thing 
is to get a job.”
Another topic that the speakers of the 
Wall Street panel confronted was money. 
“You will succeed if you #nd something 
you are passionate about; generally you can’t 
stay driven by money,” explained Charles 
Hadley, a partner at the venture capital #rm 
Cardinal Partners. But there is no escaping 
the fact that most all of the summer intern-
ships in #nance are well-paid.
"e students and panelists alike were 
cognizant that money is a part of this ca-
reer discussion.  And when large amounts 
of money are involved, so are principles.
“I wish I could tell you there was some-
thing about our job that forces ethics and 
fair play, but I will say that nothing pre-
cludes it,” noted Hadley.
Tucker Johnson ’12 explained senti-
ments similar to those of Hadley. He ex-
plained that, “It is one thing to make a prof-
it but it is another to make a pro#t o$ the 
market by being irrational.” 
Johnson hopes to #nd a job in invest-
ment management when he graduates. If 
that does not work out he plans on teaching 
for a year and then applying for jobs again. 
"e Careers in the Common Good 
panel discussed money in a di$erent way: 
the six student panelists all gave testimonies 
about unpaid experiences. "ey had all re-
ceived grant funding. 
“I feel that one of my life goals is to 
serve people,” Quan Pham ’12 stated with a 
smile. He spoke about his experience work-
ing for Unite for Sight in Ghana during the 
summer of 2011.  He was able to seize this 
opportunity a%er receiving two grants from 
Middlebury’s Center for Education in Ac-
tion.
"e Center for Education in Action has 
doubled the amount of monetary support 
they are now able to give out to students 
who #nd opportunities that are unpaid. But 
at the same time as this funding for unpaid 
opportunities is rising, Middlebury stu-
dents are becoming more and more inter-
ested in #nance. 
At the Career on Wall Street panel, Don 
Kjelleren articulated that in his 10 years at 
the College he has not seen so many stu-
dents interested in #nance.  "e sheer num-
bers from the two panels demonstrate this 
reality: there were about 30 people at the 
Careers in the Common Good panel, while 
there were about 80 people at the Careers 
on Wall Street panel. 
While the College encourages all types 
of careers, Fall Family Weekend demon-
strated that more students are vying for #-
nance careers over unpaid “common good” 
professions.  What this means for the Oc-
cupy Wall Street protesters and the next few 
decades in America remains unknown. 
15 20 October 2011 campusfeatures
Finance: is it for the common good?
By Kylie Atwood
Staff Writer
“Just so 
you know, I’m a 
damn good lay.” 
"is phrase 
is exactly what 
you don’t want 
coming out of 
the mouth you’re 
trying to kiss. If 
you’re like me 
— and I hope 
you’re not — it’s 
also the moment 
in the evening  when you bite your lip 
and try very hard not to laugh your way 
out of the restaurant, dance !oor or bed-
room. 
Let me backtrack and o$er mad 
props for Mr./Ms. Braggadocio. "ey are 
up-front, and that’s a good thing. I have 
an inkling — based on the dissatis#ed 
groans of frustrated chastity from guys 
and women alike — that sexual satisfac-
tion would increase on campus if every-
one could be so clear about what they 
want.
But I remain disturbed by the un-
fortunate truth this statement betrays: 
anyone who actually believes this about 
themselves has no idea what great sex is 
actually about. 
Unlike stringing tennis rackets, 
memorizing French verbs or robbing a 
bank, practice and diagrams don’t guar-
antee excellence in sex. I’ll even go out 
on a limb here and say that no one in 
the world is actually good at sex. I once 
heard that good sex requires good listen-
ing. 
I would take it one step further: to 
have good sex, you must want to have a 
conversation. You must understand the 
lulls between words, laugh at your own 
awkwardness, and be aware that the oth-
er person has a story to tell with you. 
I won’t pretend that you won’t have 
better and better sex as you have more of 
it, or that there are multitudes of virgins 
a romp away from becoming full-!edged 
Casanovas.  Rather, I’m arguing that the 
reason most people’s sexual experiences 
improve as time goes on is that they 
learn the necessity of communication. 
"e guy — or girl — at Two Brothers 
boasting about what a good time they’re 
planning on showing me in the sack lat-
er this evening is missing the literal and 
physical dialogue implied in good sex. 
I don’t want to be shown anything 
in bed.  I want to discover the person 
I’m sleeping with, not pick up some new 
tricks I can show my friends.  When you 
start looking at sexuality as a way to get 
to know someone, and yourself, you will 
have incredible sex. Period.
"e mistake to be made when ap-
proaching sexuality this way is in think-
ing it only works with monogamy; a%er 
all, in hooking up with someone, the 
familiarity associated with having a con-
ventional closed relationship is exactly 
what you’re trying to avoid.  
But like it or not, if you’re sleeping 
with someone, you’ve created an intima-
cy with them that requires its own lan-
guage to function. If you want to keep 
having #lthy hot phone sex with the bru-
nette who sits behind you in history, tell 
her. But if you don’t want to !irt in class 
or start dating, tell her that, too.  Or, if 
you keep bumping into that curly-haired 
sophomore who used to shyly smile at 
you in Axinn, but hasn’t since you made 
out in that tree, ask him what’s going on. 
It doesn’t matter how much sex you’ve 
had, or with whom: none of us are psy-
chics when it comes to desire. 
Lust, at 
Least 
Claire Sibley ’13 is from Dover, Del.
“Are you folks related?” said o&cer Hatch, 
of the Vermont State police, peering into the 
window of the blue pick-up truck. On the pas-
senger’s side sat Danilo and Antonio, two un-
documented Mexican farm workers. While we 
can’t con#rm the identity or appearance of the 
driver, we can say he was an American named 
Will. I’m ready to guess that he didn’t look like 
a relative of the two short, dark-haired men 
on the right side of the truck cab. One minute 
and thirty seconds earlier, Will was speeding 
(88mph in a 65mph zone) in his blue pickup 
truck down I-89 near Middlesex. A%er being 
questioned by o&cer Hatch, Danilo and An-
tonio admitted to being undocumented im-
migrants, were detained and were handed o$ 
to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment (ICE). Antonio was deported to Mexico, 
but Danilo challenged his deportation, and is 
currently on bail awaiting a trial.  Last "urs-
day, Danilo traveled to Middlebury College to 
share his story.  “I was detained by state troopers 
riding shotgun in a car, just because of my skin 
color,” he said, through a translator. “Right now, 
I am free thanks to the e$orts of my friends, 
who protested [in front of the governor’s o&ce] 
my behalf.” Complaints to the governor also 
resulted in an inquiry into the o&cer’s conduct 
during the stop. According to an Oct. 12 article, 
also by the Burlington Free Press, o&cer Hatch 
was cleared by a citizen’s review panel, which 
found that had followed the department’s bias-
free policing policy. Danilo showed video and 
audio clips decrying the treatment of undocu-
mented migrants. In one clip, his friend Anto-
nio describes the poor treatment in ICE deten-
tion centers. According to Danilo, deportation 
can take up to three months, all of which are 
spent in ICE jails. 
"e lecture started at 4:30 in the Orchid 
room of Hillcrest. A half hour into the presenta-
tion, participants from the Occupy Middlebury 
protest march #lled past the east windows 
shouting slogans. "en they entered the room 
quietly and politely. "e speakers paused and 
Fajado welcomed them in. 
“Everybody’s grievances trickle down,” 
he said. “It’s like they said in the presentation. 
Migrant workers are getting paid less than 
minimum wage [or] just at minimum wage. It’s 
like when you don’t have enough money to go 
around to everyone, when everyone is #ghting 
over those crumbs [from the one percent of the 
wealthy], we’re #ghting for social an economic 
justice, so [it made sense to be here].”  
"ere was a country-wide protest called by 
a national organization for 4:30, but some par-
ticipants of the protest wanted to attend the talk, 
so the organizer agreed that they would do both.
"e talk was chaperoned and somewhat 
choreographed by Natalia Fajado, a coordina-
tor at the VT Migrant Solidarity Project. She 
supplemented Danilo’s story with anecdotes 
about migrants around the country. Making 
every e$ort to tie Danilo’s deportation story to 
macroecomic policy issues and foreign policy, 
she also used the talk as a soapbox for political 
reform in immigration politics: E-Verify (bad), 
NAFTA (bad), Secure Communities (bad), ICE 
detention (bad), amnesty  (good). 
She sympathized with Vermont farmers. 
“We certainly know that the farmers are 
not getting rich,” she said. 
She and the coalition propose a sort of 
“fair-trade” certi#cation that rewards dairies 
that have good working conditions and pay fair 
wages. Her group also proposes that Vermont 
police avoid enforcing federal immigration laws 
(immigrations violations are civil, not criminal 
o$enses), and expand a healthcare plan for un-
documented migrants. 
“I’m trying to stop my deportation, but also 
help my buddies avoid a similar situation,” said 
Danilo.
"e audience was very active during the 
question-and-answer session. One member 
asked Danilo how Vermont compared to other 
states. 
“Vermont ... es que es muy blanco,” he said, 
in Spanish. Before the translator could translate 
the phrase (Vermont … is very white), the room 
erupted into laughter. Danilo laughed as well, 
and continued his answer. “When [a migrant] 
goes out, it’s very easy to recognize that they 
are undocumented [because they are di$erent]. 
We don’t know how many exactly, but it’s about 
four people per month who [get deported], for 
no good reason. "is might not seem like a big 
number, but if you consider how few of us there 
are, it’s very serious. “
Vt. migrant worker explains struggles 
By Cedar Attanasio
Features Editor
 Olivia Wold
Danilo speaks to students at the lecture.
Don’t worry about a thing. ‘Cause every 
little thing’s gonna be alright. Singin’ don’t 
worry about a thing …
!e music of Bob Marley echoed 
throughout the space in front of Crossroads 
Café on Wednesday, Oct. 12. About 60 stu-
dents clustered in small groups passed col-
ored beach balls through the air in a circle, 
trying not to knock over drinks. 
“!is is just a game of smiling and 
breathing,” said an announcer over the mu-
sic. 
!is was the beginning of a talk by the 
Chief Operating Optimist of Life is Good, 
Roy He"ernan ’76 and his associate, Antho-
ny Toombs. 
“Hi, I’m Roy He"ernan. Life is good.” 
Before the presentation started, Hef-
fernan walked through the audience greet-
ing every person with the same introduc-
tion. !is presentation, sponsored by the 
Middlebury Venture Community, had two 
parts. !e #rst was about how the company 
Life is Good got to be the successful business 
that it is now and the second was about the 
newly established, non-pro#t Life is Good 
Playmakers sub-organization of the Life is 
Good Foundation. 
A$er the beach ball game, the audience 
was instructed to take their seats again, and 
the presentation began with He"ernan, who 
works with the for-pro#t business portion of 
Life is Good. 
“What you’ll #nd is that Life is Good 
and the Life is Good Kids Foundation is a 
complete open book,” said He"ernan. “I can’t 
imagine what you could ask that I wouldn’t 
answer. And not all for-pro#t companies are 
like that.” 
You may be familiar with the Life is 
Good t-shirts and apparel, sporting quotes 
such as, “Not all who wander are lost,” and 
“!ink outside the box,” along with a simple 
colorful picture. !e smiling stick-#gure, 
also known as Jake, eats ice cream, plays the 
guitar, rides a bike and does everything else 
that shows life at its best. 
All of this started with two guys in Bos-
ton selling shirts to artists out of a van which 
grew into the company we know today with 
a foundation based on “simplicity, humility, 
and a sense of humor.” !e company now 
has over 1.1 million fans on Facebook and 
reached the $100 million marker in 2010. It 
has expanded to include a larger variety of 
merchandise and to include events such as 
pumpkin festivals and music events. 
Life is Good makes an e"ort to donate 
money in the form of humanitarian relief ef-
forts in response to events such as Hurricane 
Katrina and 9/11.
As Ben Chute ’13.5, co-president of the 
Socially Responsible Investment Club at the 
College noted, “Business is about commu-
nity and serving people. Sometimes it seems 
like there’s such an adversarial relationship 
between the two and the more that you can 
tear those barriers down and fuse those goals 
the better. It’s good to see a company like this 
trying to do that.”
He"ernan’s main message is stated sim-
ply in one of the company’s slogans, “Do 
what you like. Like what you do.” 
“I think that we spend so much time 
working in our lives that if you can enjoy 
what you’re doing and also make a living, it’s 
just such a peaceful place to be in,” said Hef-
fernan in an interview a$er the presentation. 
He noted that children live in joy but as we 
grow up, we tend to not be as open to joyful 
things. 
Referring to his current position at Life 
is Good, He"ernan noted that, “!ere isn’t a 
meeting that occurs where we don’t take out 
a Frisbee at some point. It doesn’t mean that 
we don’t do real work  — we do.” 
He highlighted the crucial role of opti-
mism and joy in business, service and one’s 
personal attitude. 
“You also go to a school that believes 
this … that we as a group, as a Middlebury 
College family, are here to build something,” 
He"ernan told his audience. “Optimism can 
take you anywhere.” 
 “It’s that week when stu" gets real on 
campus,” said Chute, “and it’s great that these 
guys can get work done but also be light-
hearted and have fun. And I think that’s re-
ally the Midd Kid spirit. It’s good to see that 
that exists in life a$er you graduate.”
He"ernan gave the stage to Anthony 
Toombs (but you can call him Ant) to talk 
about another portion of the Life is Good 
Foundation — the Life is Good Playmakers. 
!e Life is Good Playmakers was formally 
added to the Foundation in 2010. Spewing 
quotes from the Talmud, Sigmund Freud 
and Mike Tyson one a$er the other, Toombs 
revealed the mission of the Life is Good 
Playmakers: to provide training and support 
to childcare providers in order to help chil-
dren overcome life-threatening challenges 
such as poverty and abuse. 
“We believe that playfulness is the single 
most important trait that you can nurture 
in a child to help them overcome all adver-
sity,” said Toombs. “Could it really be that 
simple?” 
Toombs then gave four ingredients as a 
recipe for playfulness. !e four necessities 
are joyfulness, social connection, internal 
control and active engagement. As Toombs 
sees it, you can be serious and still be playful 
and you can approach anything with play-
fulness.
 “Washing dishes can be playful,” he as-
sures us. “All I do is get my playlist on my 
iPod, hook it up in the kitchen, and now I’m 
not washing dishes  — I’m bustin’ suds!”
Toomb’s last question to the audience 
was, “What’ SUP with you?”
 SUP standing for Subjective Units of 
Playfulness. How playful have you been in 
the past month? In order to better a person’s 
playfulness score, he introduced a customiz-
able “playfulness plan,” consisting of a series 
of questions such as, “What are you going to 
do to bring more joy to your life?” and “Who 
are you going to play with?” 
!ese questions did inspire students to 
begin to reevaluate their lives at Middlebury. 
“I’m going to try to do more spur-of-
the-moment things,” said Alex Guynn ’12, 
the Midd Venture Community vice presi-
dent of marketing.
For He"ernan and Toombs, the glass is 
always half-full. In fact, it’s full to the brim, 
and maybe even over%owing. And perhaps 
amidst the whirlwind of classes and activi-
ties we’re all a part of here at Middlebury, 
we should think about what the founders of 
Life is Good had to say. Maybe we all need 
to remember to occasionally stop and smell 
the roses or, as Toombs playfully put it, stop 
to “smell the %ower and blow the bubbles.” 
16 20 October 2011 campusfeatures
Tas t e   Cheese 
W it h Chops t icks
“Hi all, we are 
having the meet-
ing tonight at 8,” 
said the email, in 
the midst of my 
academic frenzy.
As midterms 
came along, the 
time I could spend 
on my extracurric-
ular activities di-
minished dramati-
cally. I felt guilty 
not attending the 
weekly meetings, even a$er sending out 
the email telling the president. 
But when I would talk to the presi-
dent of the club, o$en times, he or she 
would greet me with a big smile and say, 
“no worries, we all know Midd Kids have 
a lot to do, it’s totally #ne for you not to 
come.” Later on, I discovered that the 
president wouldn’t blame me even if I 
gave no explanation for my absence!
Well … so, I’m not needed? 
I remember in my school, Foshan 
No.1 Middle School in Guangdong, 
China, which is about the same size of 
Middlebury, the attendance of clubs 
doesn’t work this way. I was involved in 
(rather large) Physics Club. If I said I 
would be busy during the meeting time, 
the president would try his best to adjust 
the meeting time to make sure everyone 
could come. When I really could not go 
to the meetings, the president would al-
ways arrange another meeting for all the 
students who could not make it or tell me 
what happened at the meeting and what 
were my missions for the following week 
in person. Everyone in the club felt that 
they belonged in the club. 
But wait. Yes, in my high school we 
had a high attendance. Yes, we had a lot 
of students in our clubs. But I don’t think 
we were very productive. In fact, I can-
not recall how many times I went to the 
meetings just because I didn’t want to 
disappoint the president, and how many 
times I really had no time to #nish the 
missions (like building a ramp to demon-
strate the friction between a model car’s 
wheels and the wood of the slope). How 
can a club be productive if students in it 
are not actually interested in it? 
If you are interested in salsa dance, 
you will come to the practice on Monday 
at McCullough Social Space anyway, even 
though there is a quiz you need to study 
for tomorrow. But if you are not inter-
ested, there is no point for you to spend 
your time spinning in circles; it’s more at-
tractive to spend the time chatting with 
your friends or something. So maybe the 
presidents in Midd are smart to decide 
that they will give freedom to their mem-
bers so that the students who come to 
the meetings and activities are the ones 
that are really interested in them. !ose 
are the ones who can contribute a lot and 
who can be depended on. 
Mmm, that sounds perfect! So every 
club can be productive with even a small 
amount of Midd Kids. However, a small 
amount always means the workload per 
person is high … Besides, it’s still better 
to have more students involved.
President should tell participants 
their importance. Saying “you are a valu-
able part of our club,” still leaves room for 
them to choose.  If not for the president 
of my high school environment club giv-
ing me all the chances to learn and plan 
environment related activities, I probably 
wouldn’t realize how much I love nature.
We should strike a balance between 
persuasion and encouragement. 
“Hi all, we are having the meeting 
tonight at 8. If you can’t come, please let 
me know and I’ll forward you the meet-
ing notes to get you involved. =]”
!e good, the great and the beautiful
By Isabella Stallworthy
Staff Writer
Courtesy Life is Good
!e Life is Good mascot, Jake,  plays guitar.
Jiayi Zhu ’14 is an environmental studies major.
&
Always carry an umbrella  
—  those storms don’t always 
give warning!
losers
Friendly neighbors
Nothing beckons a study break 
like an open door.
!e lunch rush, with your cute 
lab partner, has invaded Atwater.
Your suitemate just decided to 
teach himself guitar ...
Fall foliage
Now we all remember why we 
chose Vermont.
Proctor crush
With three dining halls, it’s harder 
to plan your stalking ... ahem, ad-
miring, at the panini machine.
Atwater amor
Fall rain Loud neighbors
winners
e-mail campus@middlebury.edu
do you have a story idea?
email campus@middlebury.edu
arts&science 17
The Middlebury Campus
20 October 2011
 
26
Video game composer and digital 
media artist Ben Houge will perform 
a selection of electronic pieces, along 
with Christian A. Johnson Professor 
of Music Peter Hamlin and other mu-
sical guests. Free. 
editors’ 26
Award-winning playwright Charles 
Mee presents an emotional comedy 
about Greek brides who are betrothed 
to their American cousins against 
their will. Saturday performance will 
be at 2 p.m. Tickets: $12/10/6
Director Cláudio Medeiros ’90 intro-
duces the upcoming play Big Love and 
leads a discussion about the production. 
Members of the cast and crew will share 
insights on their work. Lunch will be 
provided. Free. 
27picks
Ben Houge
MCFA Concert 
Hall
8 p.m. 
Big Love
Wright Memorial 
Theatre
8 p.m 
Through Oct. 29
20
Students from Visiting Assistant Pro-
fessor of Studio Art Sanford Mirling’s 
fall 2011 class, “Sculpture I: Com-
municating in !ree Dimensions,” 
exhibit works focused on the limitless 
possibilities of welded-steel rod.
Line In Space
Johnson 
Memorial 
Building
Through Oct. 28
 
Discussion: 
Big Love
Wright 
Memorial 
Theatre
12:30 p.m.
Former Poet Laureate of the United States Billy Collins read to an audience in Mead Chapel last Saturday Oct. 15. His hour-long address was introduced by D. E. Axinn Professor of English 
& Creative Writing Jay Parini and followed by questions 
from the audience. Parents, faculty, students and commu-
nity members delighted in the occasion, which featured 
a selection of recent and classic poetry from the proli"c 
writer. 
“Hearing a former Poet Laureate speak with such 
charm and humor was a really unique experience,” said 
Zach Blair ’12. 
!e event was sponsored by the Department of Eng-
lish and American Literatures, the Academic Enrichment 
Fund and the Alumni Program, and was followed by a re-
ception and book signing in the Crossroads Café. 
In his introductory address, Parini noted the long-
standing connection between the College community and 
poetry, particularly that rarity of popular poets. Robert 
Frost, he recalled, le# a legacy of numerous readings in 
Mead Chapel. Parini also spoke fondly of his personal 
connection to Collins’ poetry, describing it as “everyday 
life, ampli"ed.”
When Billy Collins took to the Mead Chapel pulpit he 
established the casual atmosphere that would de"ne the 
evening. His "rst poem, “You, reader,” poked at the very 
relationship it was beginning to establish in the room, be-
tween reader and poet. 
Lassoing the audience with an early poem partly about 
themselves, Collins progressed through a series of his 
newer poems.  “Sandhill Cranes of Nebraska” lamented 
the experience of just missing certain beautiful natural 
phenomena.  “Drinking Alone, A#er Li Po” played with 
the tradition of recreating a classic poem in another voice, 
and instead "xated on other things that might have hap-
pened “A#er Li Po.”
Collins read with distinctly dry humor and a deadpan 
voice that had the audience in uproar and applauding per-
haps over-enthusiastically before he moved onto his even 
more overtly comical poems. In keeping with the spirit 
of Fall Family Weekend, Collins read, “To My Favorite 
17-year-Old American high school girl,” sardonically la-
menting the lack of achievement of the speaker’s daughter 
at the age of 17 by comparing the achievements of Joan 
of Arc, Judy Garland and Lady Jane Grey, historically ac-
complished youths, to her penchants of playing with her 
food and twirling her hair. 
Collins delved further into the world of female adoles-
cence in the brief punchy, poem, “Oh My God,” before 
starting to explore the world of younger children. He 
prefaced his poem “Lanyard” with his own camp memo-
ries, noting the incredible attitude of childhood that al-
lowed camp goer to truly believe a homemade lanyard is 
an adequate thank-you for years of doting motherhood. 
Collins’s poems have a deceptively simple narrative 
style and clean imagery; they are entertaining "rst reads 
as well engaging puzzles you can revisit. 
!roughout his reading, Collins punctuated the poten-
tial for the philosophical or pompous in poetry with light 
humor. It’s obvious that he doesn’t take himself too seri-
ously. In fact, the one piece of advice he o$ered to young 
writers was, “have a dog come into your poem,” saying 
that dogs o#en relieve art of its sense of self-importance.
 Emily Scarisbrick
Arts & Sciences editor
Former Poet Laureate reads to crowd
Courtesy
“I ask them 
to take a 
poem
and hold 
it up to the 
light
like a color 
slide ...
or 
press 
an ear 
against 
its 
hive.”
from “Introduction to 
Poetry” by Billy Collins
campusarts&science
Author | Richard Peck
Book | Secrets at Sea
by Molly Talbert
Booking It
Students walk and bike for ArtsWalk
In academia (and once you’re 
past the age of 14), young adult novels 
are often overlooked as fluff (thanks, 
Twilight). But Richard Peck’s books are 
proof that many novels for young read-
ers are gems. If you can tear yourself 
away from Ulysses and other “serious” 
doorstoppers, read one of his 41 books 
(A Year Down Yonder, one of my fa-
vorites, won the Newberry Award). His 
body of work also earned him the first 
National Humanities Medal awarded to 
a children’s author.
Secrets of the Sea, Peck’s newest 
book due out in October, might remind 
the reader of another Newberry Award-
winning novel, The Tale of Despereaux. 
Peck’s book is also told from the point 
of view of a mouse, Helena Cranston, 
the oldest sibling in an orphaned mouse 
family. The Cranstons have lived for 
generations in the same house on the 
east coast of the U.S., and they are in a 
predicament: the “Upstairs Cranstons” 
(their human family) are moving to 
England because their oldest daughter, 
Olive, can’t find a suitable husband. But 
in England at the turn of the 20th cen-
tury there are plenty of broke families 
with ancient titles that would love the 
Cranstons’ newfound American wealth. 
So, both the Upstairs Cranstons and the 
Cranston mice pack up and set sail for 
England.
What ensues is a funny tale with 
some desperate moments (involving 
close calls with the ship’s cat!) that are 
classically Peck. Every detail is extreme-
ly well thought out and appropriate, 
creating a very real world, even if the 
protagonists are mice. Although there 
are some overused jokes (mainly about 
cheese, water and cats), the book reads 
smoothly, quickly and nicely. There are 
also illustrations that help readers un-
derstand mouse life aboard a ship and 
depict characters such as the dashing 
mouse Nigel or how the Duchess mouse 
is able to write letters with human pens.
Secrets of the Sea depicts interesting 
cultural differences between new Amer-
ican money (with that classic can-do 
attitude that comes with it) and uptight, 
socially ossified Victorian England, 
both of which Peck knows much about 
personally. For children, it is a fun way 
to be introduced to the origins of class 
ideas and the cultural differences and 
similarities found on either side of “the 
pond.” For an “adult” reader, it is an 
interesting way to ponder and explore 
these ideas in a different light. Before 
reading this book, I had not thought 
much about wealthy American families 
going to England to “buy” royal titles, 
and I hadn’t really thought about the 
plight of poor English aristocrats who 
were desperate for money. They are 
two groups of people who have slipped 
through the cracks of fiction, but Peck 
brings them to life in a quirky, humor-
ous, thoughtful way.
So, I challenge you —  you are all 
smart (partly because you’re reading 
my column) and have read a lot of 
important and moving books — to pick 
up this kid’s book and have fun. See 
what you can learn, but please don’t get 
academic about it.
On the second Friday of each month, over 
40 venues in downtown Middlebury display 
art, play music and provide food as part of 
Middlebury ArtsWalk.  Stores remain open 
from 5 to 7 p.m., transforming into galleries 
displaying the work of area artists.  Many lo-
cal establishments participate in this event, 
including 51 Main, Belladonna and Noonie’s 
Deli.  
!is past Friday, Oct. 14, was a special time 
for the College arts community as two of its 
students, Danny Briggs Loehr ’13.5 and Bian-
ca Giaever ’12.5, held a viewing of their pho-
tography project, !e War Invoice Project, as 
part of this month’s ArtsWalk. !e event took 
place at 51 Main, which was transformed into 
a thriving art gallery "lled with students, resi-
dents of the town and parents visiting for the 
weekend. 
Loehr and Giaever embarked on a bike trip 
this summer in order to interview war veter-
ans and have them share personal stories of 
war. !e pair biked from San Francisco to San 
Diego, and then from New Orleans to Phila-
delphia.  !e trip lasted from June 10 to Aug. 
15.
Creativity struck when Loehr and Giaever 
realized how few personal connections they 
had to war, considering how long the United 
States has been involved in wars during their 
lifetime. 
“!e goal was to talk about things that you 
wouldn’t hear about on the news, so that we 
can develop closer connections to war,” said 
Loehr. “!e reason we wanted to bike is be-
cause we "gured that we would run into more 
people, tell them about our project and make 
more connections.”
Most of the veterans that the pair inter-
viewed were people they had recently met 
through the course of the trip. Some of the 
interviews with veterans were prescheduled, 
while some were not. Interviewees’ ages 
ranged from 19 to 78, 
!e duo also learned about post-traumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD), a mental disorder that 
develops a#er experiencing a horri"c or trau-
matic event. 
According to Loehr, “It was interesting to 
hear more what PTSD is like. We noticed a 
huge trend that once [veterans] retired, they 
experienced symptoms of PTSD … almost 20 
years a#er they served.  It seems that things 
come back in old age.” 
 Despite the personal challenges that carry-
ing a diagnosis of PTSD brings, Giaever and 
Loehr found that these veterans would  par-
ticipate regardless. 
 “It’s interesting to hear this $oating notion 
that no matter how bad it is, it’s something 
that we need to do,” said Loehr. 
If they had the chance, Loehr and Giaever 
would embark on the journey again.  !ey 
said that the trip was very stressful in terms of 
"nding places to stay and biking everyday, but 
that overall it was fun and meaningful. !e 
project has an accompanying website, www.
warinvoice.org, which contains about 15 ed-
ited stories about veterans’ experiences.
by Anthony Stepney
Staff Writer
Lingji Hon ’11 displayed graphite pencil, colored pencil, among others last Friday, Oct. 14.
Courtesy
sciencespotlight
General relativity remains robust despite contentious evidence 
 
Recently published controversial data 
have challenged fundamental principals of 
general relativity. !e research investigates 
the speed of subatomic particles called 
neutrinos. While scientists have some ex-
perience with neutrino particles, their be-
havior remains bizarre and poorly charac-
terized. 
Neutrinos are intrinsically di%cult to 
study because they interact weakly with or-
dinary matter. !ey do not have an electric 
charge, so they are neither attracted nor re-
pelled by electric forces in the atomic nu-
clei. For example, when you try to measure 
them, they will go right through the thing 
with which you are measuring them. !is 
makes them hard to get a handle on.
 !e latest experiment conducted by 
CERN, Organisation Européenne pour la 
Recherche Nucléaire, at the Large Hadron 
Collider has cleverly taken advantage of 
that feature. !e European research group 
produced neutrinos on the French-Swiss 
boarder using high-energy particle colli-
sions. 
!e Oscillation Project with Emul-
sion-tRacking Apparatus (OPERA) de-
tected these particles 700 km. away in Italy. 
!e neutrinos generated near Geneva go 
right through the earth and typically right 
through the detector in L’Aquila, Italy; 
however, once in a while, if you’re lucky, 
one neutrino will hit the detector on the 
other end. 
  !e experiment relies on control at 
both ends of this project. !e experiment 
uses the precise time when the neutrinos 
are produced in Geneva, the exact time the 
neutrino hits detector in L’Aquila, and a 
very precise measurement of distance be-
tween the two locations — that being the 
distance through the earth. !is distance is 
calculated with GPS technology. 
By dividing the exact distance through 
the earth by the change in time between 
the high-speed collision, which generates 
the neutrino, and the time that it hits the 
detector, they are able to describe its speed 
(distance/time). 
!e European researchers recently 
measured neutrinos that travel in excess of 
the speed of light — a physical speed limit 
for the universe set forth by the theory of 
relativity. Such data raised controversy and 
criticism of both relativity and the scien-
tists’ experimental design. 
 Associate Professor of Physics Noah 
Graham, who teaches 
courses on space, time, 
measurement and quan-
tum mechanics, had a 
chance to explain the con-
tentious data. 
When asked to ex-
pound on what the im-
plications of particles ex-
ceeding the speed of light 
may be on the fate rela-
tivity, Graham said, “As 
bizarre as relativity may seem, it has been 
very well veri"ed in lots of situations. So 
I think it’s fair to say that no matter what 
comes of this, its not that we are going to 
forget relativity, its not like we are going to 
say Einstein is out the window.” 
Graham pointed out that there are 
many precise predictions where a phenom-
enon happens and relativity gets it spot on 
and something else, or at least the ideas 
that came before relativity, would have 
falsely predicted what happens. 
“So relativity does have a huge arsenal 
of correct predictions on its side,” said Gra-
ham. “Part of what holds relativity together 
is this idea of the speed of light as a univer-
sal constant and a universal speed limit.”
   “Relativity predicts, and rightly so, 
that things behave very strangely when 
they are moving; things get heavier, the 
clock and all the processes associated with 
it run more slowly and lengths get changed, 
but all of that "ts together.” He added, “You 
cannot make a contradiction to catch it in 
a paradox. But one thing that always pro-
tects that consistency is that you can never 
exceed the speed of light.”
According to relativity, particles can 
get arbitrarily close to it, or something like 
light itself can go right at the speed of light, 
but nothing can go from less than the speed 
of light to more than the speed of light. 
 “If something could travel faster than 
the speed of light, that 
would require some 
major augmentation 
or rethinking,” said 
Graham. “But the chal-
lenge would really be 
not to throw relativity 
out the window, but to 
say how can relativ-
ity be correct in all 
these respects, but ac-
commodate this weird 
thing that normally it doesn’t allow.” 
While reconciliation of this new evi-
dence with the theory of terminal velocity 
seems most optimal, it will not be that easy. 
Many physicists believe it is overwhelm-
ingly likely that neutrinos are not going 
faster than the speed of light. 
Despite this skepticism,  Graham be-
lieves that it is worth investigating because 
if, by some chance, neutrinos were going 
faster than the speed of light, the payo& 
would be incredible. 
Whatever comes from the "ndings, 
whether it is an entire revision of Einstein’s 
relativity theory or a more nuanced way 
to understand the behavior of subatomic 
particles, physicists will continue to skep-
tically question leading hypotheses — old 
and new alike.
by Daniel J. F. Powers
Staff Writer
As bizzare as relativity 
may seem, it has been 
very well veri!ed in 
lots of situations.
— Noah Graham, Associate 
Professor of Physics
18 20 October 2011
campusarts&science
“!ere’s nothing romantic about 
baseball.” 
!is mantra, trumpeted by Brad 
Pitt’s Billy Beane throughout Moneyball, 
is the idea the "lm is constantly trying to 
disprove. Based on Michael Lewis’s book 
of the same title, the "lm chronicles the 
story of the early 2000s Oakland A’s led 
by Beane and his decision to change the 
way small-market teams analyze players to 
compete with the big spenders. Top-notch 
writers Steve Zaillian and Aaron Sorkin 
manage to infuse drama into this seem-
ingly dry story through strong character 
work and the personal emotional drama of 
Beane’s narrative. 
Similarly to last year’s !e Social 
Network, the depth of the main charac-
ter drives the popular non-"ction story. 
Beane’s personal story, which begins with 
him being dra#ed in the "rst round as a 
“can’t-miss prospect” and ends with his 
career petering out and transitioning into 
scouting and upper management, informs 
his interests and decisions in the way 
he manages his team. In a particularly 
poignant moment in the "lm, Beane asks 
Peter Brand, his assistant general manager 
who teaches him how to mathematically 
analyze a player’s true ability beyond a 
scout’s “instinct,” in what round would he 
have dra#ed Beane. Brand embarrassingly 
responds “the ninth.” Beane feels that, as 
a player, he was analyzed incorrectly and 
lied to by scouts, and it is this feeling of 
failure that drives Beane to his obsessive 
need to "nd an exact metric for which to 
assess talent. 
However, this story doesn’t pay o$ 
soon enough, and much of the "lm plays 
very journalistically — full of overly expo-
sitional, explicit dialogue, broadly drawn 
caricatures and rapid “headline” style 
editing designed to push the pace. Brand, 
played by the usually comic Jonah Hill in 
an extremely restrained performance, is 
basically a vessel used to guide Beane to 
his important realizations, both personal 
and professional. Chris Pratt gives the 
team some heart with a sweet and comical 
performance as undervalued journeyman 
Scott Hatteburg, and Philip Seymour Ho$-
man gives a solid, if underutilized, perfor-
mance as the dull manager, Art Howe.
Stylistically, director Bennett Miller 
adds little to the writing, staging scenes in 
static situations giving little life to the dia-
logue beyond the page. To reference !e 
Social Network once again, where director 
David Fincher added style and substance 
to Sorkin’s quick wit, Miller slows down 
this same dialogue to create a sometimes 
excruciatingly slow pace.
!ough in the end, the "lm comes 
down to the character of Billy Beane and 
Pitt’s performance. For much of the "lm, 
the attempt to be about “more than just 
baseball” falls %at. However, the "lm’s 
third act brings together Beane’s character 
to a satisfying payo$. A#er not winning 
the championship despite an impres-
sive regular season, the overly personally 
critical Beane gets an o$er to manage the 
Boston Red Sox and to become the highest 
paid GM in sports. A#er being given a 
taste of the big budget baseball that has 
made him an outsider in Oakland, Beane 
is faced with a tough decision. However, 
the root of Beane’s angst is the decision he 
made when he was 18 to turn down an op-
portunity for money, a mistake he will not 
make again. Eventually, with help from 
Brand and a song by his daughter, Beane 
decides to stay in Oakland and make it 
work. 
Of course, "tting into the tragedy of 
his life, Beane’s style of player analysis 
goes on to in"ltrate the league and lead 
other franchises to the Promised Land. 
Pitt manages to capture this personal 
struggle through an emotional and vulner-
able performance that gives the "lm all of 
its heart and its most satisfying content. 
While Beane insists upon removing the 
romance from the game he loves, Money-
ball insists that baseball and numbers can 
create a romantic, human story. 
THE REEL 
CRITIC
Moneyball
Internationally acclaimed British pia-
nist Paul Lewis visited the College on Fri-
day, Oct. 14, in a performance of works 
for solo piano by Franz Peter Schubert, the 
third program in a series of "ve Schubert 
concerts Lewis is currently presenting in 
a number of cities across the globe. !e 
concert, presented by the Performing Arts 
Series, marked the "rst classical musician 
scheduled this year.
!ough the median age of the concert-
goers may have skewed closer to 60 than 
20, the audience remained appreciatively 
diverse, including students, faculty, com-
munity members and parents.
!e program opened with Schubert’s 
Four Impromptus Opus posthumous 143, 
a collection perhaps less well known than 
Schubert’s more romantic Opus 90 Four 
Impromptus. Leading with a robust tempo, 
Lewis commanded control of the quasi-so-
nata from the opening pronouncement. 
In tempo control and technical mastery, 
Lewis was absolutely impeccable. Demon-
strating incredible knowledge of form, Lew-
is gave the entire set of impromptus a cohe-
sive feel through subtle style and reserved 
physical presence, creating an overall phras-
ing arc. Gentle yet nuanced playing in the 
second and third impromptus gave way to a 
devilishly quick Allegro scherzando fourth.
!e audience shouted its approval, call-
ing Lewis back with applause three times 
before the intermission and the subsequent 
piece on the program, Schubert’s Moments 
Musicaux Op. 94.
With the six Moments, Lewis again pre-
sented an incredibly well-considered read-
ing. !e works were diverse; the "rst half 
included a stately opening, a tempestuous 
second and a charming third, but Lewis 
managed to present the six with cohesive-
ness. !e pianissimo section of the fourth 
movement assumed a prayer-like sighing 
quality. !e driving "#h and melancholy 
Allegretto "nale wrapped a fabulous inter-
pretation of the six Moments.
!e "nal piece on the program was 
Schubert’s demanding “Wanderer” Fantasy 
in C Major. Its complexity is set in history 
by one occasion when Schubert himself 
performed the piece (by famously jumping 
up and exclaming, “Let the devil play the 
stu$ !”). 
Retaining the incredible control he 
demonstrated in the other two pieces, 
however, Lewis exhibited technical supe-
riority. In particular, emphatic passages 
in the lower register, Lewis emitted a gut-
tural grunting sound, but the e$ect was 
never distracting. In fact, the result of the 
grunting combined with occasional le# 
foot stomping and vigorous headshaking 
brought the “Wanderer” Fantasy to a thun-
derous conclusion that brought the audi-
ence to its feet within seconds.
If Lewis seemed overly reserved in the 
"rst two pieces, one only needs to consider 
the concert as a whole, as Lewis’s phras-
ing and form suggested. Not only did each 
movement of each piece contain wonder-
ful phrasing and arc, but each movement 
as a whole and even the entire concert was 
given shape by the patient and master-
ful architecture Lewis laid. !e strongest 
fortes were reserved for the ‘Wanderer’ 
Fantasy ending and the so#est, most tor-
tured pianos for the Moments Musicaux. 
Lewis’s greatest strength perhaps lies in 
the clarity of interpretation he is able to 
provide. Technically beyond compare 
and musically sublime, Lewis presented a 
concert superlatives can only begin to de-
scribe. 
Lewis will return to the College on 
May 4, 2012, for the penultimate Schubert 
concert in his series.
by Brad Becker-Parton
Acclaimed pianist performs Schubert collections
by Davis Woolworth
Staff Writer
Pianist Paul Lewis performed selections from 
his Schubert collections on Friday, Oct. 14. 
Courtesy
Photos by Andrew    
Podrygula, Photos 
Editor
!e  annual 
"rst-year 
show, Love 
Song, ran in 
the Hepburn 
Zoo from 
Oct. 13 to 
15. Writ-
ten by John 
Kolvenbach 
’88 and 
directed by 
directed by 
Tara Gior-
dano ’02, 
Love Song 
explores 
themes of 
human love 
through 
the lens of 
a comedy, 
traversing 
reality and 
fantasy. 
A FIRST-YEAR LOVE SONG
         20 October 2011 19
Above: Alia Khalil ’15 & Stephen Paolillo ’15 assess the current situation.
Below: Emma Eastwood ’15 & Matt Ball ’14 exchange dialogue.
campussports20 20 October 2011
!e Middlebury men’s golf team placed 
second in the Manhattanville/N.Y.U. Clas-
sic at the very challenging Hudson National 
Golf Club in Croton-on-Hudson, N.y. !eir 
overall combined score was 631 strokes, 
nine behind tournament winner Manhat-
tanville and eight ahead of third-place 
Farmingdale State. Rounding out the top 
"ve were Skidmore (640) and N.Y.U. (659). 
!e second-place "nish was the best 
of the year for Middlebury. Previously this 
season they had "nished 5th once, 4th 
twice, and 3rd twice. Skidmore (321) was 
only two strokes behind Middlebury (319) 
a#er the "rst day of the tournament, but the 
Panthers turned in an impressive 312 on 
Monday to secure second place.  
Rob Donahoe ’14 and Chris Atwood 
’14 led the Panthers, each with combined 
scores of 156. !ey tied for fourth place 
overall in the tournament. Atwood’s "rst-
round 77 was tied for second on the day 
whereas Donahoe’s second-round 75 tied 
for the best score on Monday. Eric Laorr ’15 
had another solid tournament with a score 
of 158, tied for sixth overall. Max Alley 
’14 followed him with a score of 161 (11th 
overall) and Charlie Garcia ’15 shot a 167, 
demonstrating Middlebury’s depth.   
“We played pretty well on a very dif-
"cult golf course. We were pretty happy 
about beating Skidmore as they are a top-
ten team in the country,” said Atwood.  “[It 
was] a good way to end the season moving 
towards NESCAC Championships in the 
spring.”
Coach Bill Beaney could not make it to 
the tournament and was "lled in for by Ja-
mie McKenna ’09, an assistant coach on the 
men’s hockey team.  
!e tournament was the last of the 2011 
for the Panthers, who will resume their sea-
son in the spring. With all "ve of Middle-
bury’s participants in the tournament being 
freshman and sophomores, the future of the 
men’s golf program looks extremely prom-
ising.  
!e women’s team have also "nished 
their 2011 season and will resume again in 
the spring.
By Kevin Yochim
Sta$ Writer
Men’s Golf takes second 
place in Mannhattanville
co-ed soccer
men’s soccer
wiffleball
IntraMuralupdate
Co-ed IM soccer is arguably the sports 
league with the best-named teams in all 
of college sports. With playo! time near-
ing, featured match-ups include Goals R’ 
US vs. the Lumberjacks, Simba’s Pride vs. 
More than a Feeling and Messi & Friends 
vs. the Hepburners. My money’s on those 
who boast a connection to the best soccer 
player in the world.
Yes, there is an IM wi"eball team! De-
spite the fact that the league has only two 
uncreatively named teams (the Champs 
and the Wi"eballers), attendance ap-
pears enthusiastic, and sportsmanship 
thriving  — shout-out to Spencer Ellis ’12, 
winner of the mid-season Sportsmanship 
Award.
With a three-way tie for #rst place, the 
men’s soccer league is a contentious place 
these days. Defending champs Lamb-
shank is currently battling it out for the 
top spot with Palmer FC and United FC, 
two legit-sounding teams that are un-
doubtedly out for blood, fame and (of 
course) the hugely coveted IM Champi-
ons T-shirt.
With all the starpower in the IM foot-
ball league, the commisioners might want 
to consider tryouts for their players to 
move into the varsity game. 
Highlights: Player of the Week Will 
Baine ’12 of “Big Country” catching a 
buzzer-beater tipped ball in the endzone 
to win the game and maintain his team’s 
undefeated record, and #rst-half MVP 
Michael Joseph’s ’13 prowess at QB. 
football
…banking shouldn’t be.
We understand that, in today’s economy, 
deciding on a career can be a gamble. 
That’s why we make banking easy. We offer 
a completely paperless account, FREE debit 
card and more! You can access 2 ATMs right 
on campus, come in to one of our 2 offi ces 
in Middlebury (or swing by our drive-thru), 
use our anytime/anywhere mobile banking 
or visit us online. We’re where you are, 
when you need us. We’re your neighbors. 
We’re National Bank of Middlebury.
1-877-508-8455
Call or visit us TODAY
and switch your account
to NBM hassle-free!
life’s
gamblea
weigh in submit a letter to the editor or an op-ed to 
campus@middlebury.edu 
and make sure your 
voice gets heard.
20 October 2011 21campussports 
3
Number of matches won by women’s tennis player and D-III 
ITA singles champion Lok-Sze Leung ’15 in the small college 
championships in Mobile, Ala.
5 Number of rushing touchdowns given up by the Panthers football team in their 48-28 loss to Williams.
8
Number of games won by the volleyball team in a three game 
weekend: two in a loss to Bowdoin, and three each in wins over 
Bates and Colby.
2
Number of World Series appearances by the Texas Rangers in 
the last two years. !ey previously had zero appearances in 
the history of the franchise.
3
Number of Red Sox pitchers accused of habitually drinking 
beer in the clubhouse during regular season games, even 
during Boston’s epic September collapse.
Volleyball !nishes Maine weekend with two wins
!e Middlebury volleyball team 
traveled to Colby over the Oct. 14-15 
weekend to take on a trio of Maine-based 
conference opponents, with matches against 
league leader Bowdoin along with Bates and 
Colby squads. !e Panthers fell in a tight 
match Friday night against Bowdoin, who 
preserved their undefeated record in the 
NESCAC, before downing the Bobcats and 
the Mules on Saturday. Middlebury now 
"nds itself tied with Williams for fourth 
place, with two more conference matches 
le# before the postseason tournament Nov. 
4-6. 
Friday’s contest against Bowdoin was a 
big match-up, as Middlebury had defeated 
the Polar Bears twice last season and 
maintains a history of close competition 
with their Maine rivals. Bowdoin took the 
"rst game by a slim margin of 26-24, but 
the Panthers jumped right back in the game 
with a dominating 25-5 win in the second 
set and another close 25-23 win in the third. 
In a game so heavily determined 
by momentum swings, it appeared that 
Middlebury was in a good position over the 
Polar Bears, but they dropped the next game, 
allowing their opponents to tie the score. !e 
tiebreaker went 17-15 in Bowdoin’s favor, 
and the Panthers lost a heartbreakingly close 
match in which three of the "ve games were 
won by two-point margins.
Despite the frustration of Friday’s 
hard-fought loss, the Panthers rallied their 
spirits on Saturday and took care of business 
against Bates and Colby. Middlebury came 
out on top in the Bates match 3-1, with Amy 
Hart ’14 leading the team in kills and "ve 
Panthers contributing double digit "gures in 
digs. Co-captain Jane Handel ’12 led with 16 
digs, and Hart also contributed on defense 
with "ve blocks, turning in an outstanding 
game on both sides of the net.
!e stat line for Saturday was 
impressive in terms of the numbers put up 
and the depth of the squad that the various 
contributions revealed. !e Panthers swept 
Colby in three games during their second 
match. In just three games, Megan Jarchow 
’14 was able to capitalize with 17 kills, and 
Caitlin Barrett ’13 paced the team with 21 
digs. !e team is taking a sanguine view of 
the weekend, preferring to emphasize their 
successes rather than dwell on the Bowdoin 
loss.
“Despite spending more time on a bus 
than actually playing volleyball, we ended 
the weekend with a respectable 2-1 record, 
losing only to a strong Bowdoin team in a 
tough "ve-game match,” said Meg Anderson 
’14.
!e Panthers return to action this 
weekend, as they participate in the Hall of 
Fame Classic hosted by Mount Holyoke. With 
the NESCAC championship tournament 
just two weeks away, the team will look to do 
some "ne-tuning as they prepare to be at full 
strength for postseason play.
By Katie Siegner
Sports Editor
Megan Jarchow ’14 led the team with 17 kills in the Panthers match-up against Colby.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
Date Sport Vs. Results Comments
10/15 Football Williams 48-28 L
!e Panthers had excellent o"ensive output, 
but were unable to stop the Ephs en route to 
a 20-point loss.
10/15 Field Hockey Trinity 5-1 W
Field hockey won their eighth straight 
game behind two goals from Lauren Greer 
’13.
10/15 Women’s Soccer Trinity 1-0 W
!e girls kept the Bantams o" the 
scoreboard and scored a key conference 
win.
10/15 Men’s Soccer Trinity 1-0 L
!e boys’ result was a mirror of the girls’ 
game, with the Panthers coming up one 
goal short in the loss.
10/15 Cross Country Albany Invitational
2nd 
(women)
3rd (men)
Both cross country teams had excellent 
showings at the University of Albany 
against some D-I competition.
Questions Katie Siegner Damon Hatheway Dillon Hupp Alex Edel
Who will lead the football team in 
tackles against Bates?
ZACH ROEDER ’12
Here’s to senior leadership.
JOHN WIET ’13
 Dude’s a beast.
ZACH ROEDER ’12
He’s also got our only interception 
of the season. How do we only have 
one interception?
JOHN WIET ’13
Because he is great and Damon 
knows more about the football 
team than the players do. 
What will be the score of 
volleyball’s Hall of Fame Classic 
game versus Wellesley?
3-2 MIDDLEBURY
I have little respect for all-girls 
schools.
3-1 MIDD. 
We can’t lose the Hall of Fame 
Classic! I’ve heard Misty May will 
be in attendance. Which means I 
will be too.
3-2 MIDDLEBURY
!ere’s a volleyball hall of fame?
3-2 MIDDLEBURY
!e girls always pull through and 
will be looking for revenge a#er a 
tough loss to the Polar Bears.
Will $eld hockey make it nine 
wins in a row against Bates?
YES
Bates has one win in the NESCAC. 
Dillon’s just trying to pad his 
record with this one.
YES
Put it in the bag. Just like my $rst-
place ranking in the editor’s picks.
YES
Katie, I think it’s your record that 
needs the padding...
YES
!ey are so good. !anks Dillon 
because I’ll admit my score needs 
padding. 
Who will score the $rst 
Middlebury try of Rugby’s $nal 
home game versus UConn?
BRIAN SIRKIA ’12.5
He seems to be doing almost all of 
the MCRC’s point-tallying.
BRIAN “VC” SIRKIA ’12.5
Not sure what the VC stands for 
but he does score a lot of tries.
ROWAN KELNER ’12
Because the forwards are the real 
men.
BRIAN SIRKIA ’12.5
He scores all the time, so I’m 
guessing he will be $rst. 
Which cross-country team will 
$nish higher at the NESCAC 
championships: men’s or 
women’s?
WOMEN’S
!ese girls win championships like 
it’s their job.
NEITHER. 
One can’t $nish higher if they both 
$nish $rst!
THEY’LL BOTH FINISH FIRST
I don’t discriminate.
BOTH. 
!e men have been killing it this 
year and the women are always 
really good.   
Career Record 59-76 (.437) 13-12 (.520) 75-62 (.547) 36-38 (.486)
Editors’
Picks
campussports22 20 October 2011
Cross country teams !nish in top three at Albany 
Women’s soccer defeats Trinity 1-0 
to secure NESCAC playo" ticket
Men’s soccer shut out by Trinity, 1-0 
Last weekend on Oct. 15, the cross-
country team traveled to the University of 
Albany to race in the 45th Annual Albany 
Cross Country Invitational, their !nal meet of 
the season before NESCAC championships. 
Competing against teams from all di"erent 
divisions, the men’s and women’s cross coun-
try teams came out shining in third and sec-
ond place respectively. 
Both teams showed their strength as top 
Div. III teams, as both the men and the wom-
en’s team !nished !rst out of the Div. III teams 
racing. 
“We had a great showing against some 
very good teams,” said Jack Davies ’13. “We 
don’t see most of these teams all year outside 
of this meet, so it’s hard to compare this meet 
to others we’ve run, but we’re very proud of 
our showing. And we were the !rst D3 team, 
which is always a point of pride.”
Competing against 23 other teams, the 
Panthers placed fourth, followed by Univer-
sity of Albany in third place and McGill Uni-
versity in fourth place. University of Albany 
led the competition with runners placing !rst 
through fourth. Margo Cramer ’12 !nished 
!#h with a time of 17:54.9, a time that helped 
the team to their second place !nish. Addie 
Tousley ’13 !nished in 18:06.9, securing her 
tenth place overall. Co-captain Chelsea Ward-
Waller ’12 followed only six seconds later in 
an 11th place !nish. 
Finishing out the top seven racers for the 
Panthers were Emily Singer ’14, Katie Carlson 
’15, Emily Atwood ’14, and Katie Rominger 
’14. Ranging from 18th to 27th place, these 
four runners only !nished ten seconds apart.  
$e boys also impressed with a third 
place !nish, losing only to University of Al-
bany and Binghamton University, both Div. I 
teams. Jack Davies ’13 led the Panthers with a 
sixth place !nish in 25:46.0. 
Kevin Wood ’15 and Nate Sans ’14 fol-
lowed just twelve seconds apart in 13th and 
19th place respectively. Finishing just two sec-
onds a#er Sans, Sam Miller ’12 placed 22nd 
followed by Greg Krathwohl ’14 in 29th to 
round out the top !ve runners for Middlebury. 
$e College was followed by University 
of New Hampshire and Brandeis University. 
Both the men and women’s teams were the 
only NESCAC teams involved in this compe-
tition. 
“Being the only NESCAC team at Albany 
is nice because it lets us go out and just enjoy 
racing, and not have to worry so much about 
beating certain individuals on speci!c teams,” 
said Davies. “It’s one of the few times all year 
we get to do that, and I think we run easier 
and better when we have this opportunity.”
Both teams will travel to Amherst over 
this Saturday, Oct. 29 to compete in the NES-
CAC Championships. Depending on how the 
teams do at NESCACs, they will then move on 
to Eastern College Athletic Championships, 
or ECACs to be held at Williams.
 From there the teams can qualify for the 
NCAA regional and NCAA Championships 
which will take place at Bowdoin and West 
Oshkosh respectively. 
“We know we’re capable of running very 
well at the NESCAC, ECAC, and regional 
meets,” said Davies. “So we just have to go out 
and do it.”
$e men’s cross country team took third place out of 21 teams at the Albany Cross Country 
Invitational on Oct. 15, defeating several Division I teams in the process.
Courtesy of Greg Krathwohl
$e Middlebury men’s varsity soccer 
team entertained dozens of parent spectators 
with a hard fought game against Trinity on 
Oct. 15. Facing overcast skies with patches 
of heavy rain, the Panthers failed to protect 
their six game unbeaten streak as they fell 
1-0 to the Bantams.
Trinity struck just four minutes into the 
game to take the lead 1-0. Dan Mayernick 
drove up the right side, slipping past the de-
fenders, and drilled the ball past Middlebury 
goalkeeper Tim Cahill ’12. 
$e early score did not crush the Pan-
thers’ determination, however, as the ball re-
mained on the Trinity side of the !eld for the 
majority of the game. Yet despite the !ght le# 
in the Middlebury men, the score at the end 
of the game failed to re%ect their domination 
of the Bantams.
Middlebury put up attempt a#er attempt 
to even the score, but the home team never 
found a way to get the ball into the back of 
the net. One of the Panthers’ most dangerous 
chances came 13 minutes in, when Robbie 
Redmond ’12 fed a free kick to Tyler Smith 
’14, who narrowly missed the goal with a 
header. Jack Freeman ’13 failed to capitalize 
on another Panther attack early in the sec-
ond half, missing a short shot that went just 
wide. $is was followed shortly therea#er by 
Brett Brazier ’13 missing le# again in the 51st 
minute.
“We were able to control the game 
throughout the !rst half and into the sec-
ond half with good possession but we simply 
weren’t dangerous enough in the !nal third 
of the !eld,” said Sam Peisch ’13.5. 
Playing down to the !nal whistle, Mid-
dlebury’s last noteworthy attempt came in 
the waning minutes of the game when Bra-
zier was there again to pass to Redmond for 
a shot. Redmond drilled the ball, but Bantam 
keeper Schonberg blocked it for his sixth 
save of the game.
Saturday’s loss was the !rst time Trinity 
Middlebury used their heads in a close win.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
Sam Peisch ’13.5 fends o" a Bantams defender.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
By Alex Edel
Sports Editor
has beaten Middlebury since 1999. With a 
record of 2-3-3, the 2010 NESCAC Cham-
pion Panthers now rank seventh in the 
conference. As only the top eight teams ad-
vance to postseason play, the pressure is on 
the Panthers to conclude their season with a 
pair of wins against their !nal 
two conference opponents. 
Assuming the team solidi!es 
a berth, the Middlebury men 
will doubtless be ready to 
compete when championship 
seasons rolls around.
“$e only times we’ve 
struggled this season have 
been when we’ve failed to 
translate our control of the game into goals, 
but I believe if we can solve that puzzle we’ll 
be a very tough team to beat in the NES-
CAC playo"s,” said Peisch. 
 $e playo"s are a week and a half away 
and it is now certain that Middlebury will 
be away. In the meantime, however, the 
Panthers must look to take care of business 
against Bates and Williams to ensure a spot 
in the tournament. Middlebury will look to 
!nally convert its high shooting percentage. 
into a high scoring percentage. 
By Mike Oster
Sta" Writer
Kirk ’14, but were unable to connect for an 
early lead. Kirk took a team-high eight shots 
on the day, but the team leader in scoring 
did not !nd the back of the net against the 
Bantams and !nished with zero points. $e 
teams went into hal#ime tied at zero apiece.
Elizabeth Foody ’14 replaced Remmert 
in goal in the second half for Middlebury, 
having recently recovered from an injury and 
playing in just her third game this season. 
$is time, it was the Panthers with the early 
pressure, and they were !nally able to come 
through. Six and a half minutes into the 
second period, Amy Schlueter ’13 redirected 
a corner kick from Lucy Wagner ’13 past the 
Trinity goalkeeper, giving the Panthers the 
1-0 lead. $e goal was Schlueter’s !#h on the 
season. 
Both teams created chances as the 
second half ticked along, but only Schlueter’s 
strike was good enough to !nd pay dirt. 
Foody made two saves in her half of action, 
and Middlebury held on for the one-goal 
win, their second straight and eighth on 
the season. It was also the Panthers’ fourth 
shutout of the year.
Middlebury travels to perennial 
bottom-feeder Bates this weekend before a 
crucial matchup at home versus Williams the 
following week. A win in either one of those 
games would guarantee the Panthers a home 
game in the !rst round of the NESCAC 
tournament, which begins on Oct. 29. If 
the Panthers maintain the level of play they 
demonstrated against 
Trinity, and manage to 
connect on a few more of 
their chances, they will 
be a force to be reckoned 
with come tournament 
time. 
$e team has 
certainly demonstrated 
persistence and 
determination in their 
ability to bounce back 
a#er a mid-season mini-
slump. “It has only made us that much 
hungrier for these last two regular season 
games, and of course for NESCACs,” said 
Perkins. “I’m excited to see what we’ll bring 
to each game from here on out.”
Continued from page 24
We simply weren’t 
dangerous enough in the 
final third of the field.
 — Sam Peisch ’13.5
We have to show up to every 
game and prove that we’re 
better than the team sitting 
on the other bench.
— Devin Perkins ’12
campussports 20 October 2011 23
World Series
Damon says ... Don’t know who to 
root for in the World Series? Like most 
of the student body, odds are you’re a fan 
of the Red Sox or the Yankees, whose sea-
sons have crashed and burned in a mess of 
fried chicken, beer, and AJ Burnett’s bleach-
blonde hair — not to mention his $80 mil-
lion contract. If you haven’t tuned baseball 
out completely, let me help you with your 
World Series pick: the St Louis Cardinals. If 
you don’t know the story of Tony La Russa’s 
club, it’s nothing short of incredible. More 
phoenix than cardinal, this St Louis team 
has emerged from the ashes of adversity, 
playing through gruesome injuries to their 
two best players — a season-ending Tommy 
John surgery to ace Adam Wainwright be-
fore he threw a regular season pitch and a 
broken wrist for three-time MVP Albert Pu-
jols — to a !ery September during which the 
team came from 10.5 games back to clinch a 
miraculous playo" birth. Since then all the 
Cardinals have done is dismiss the 102-win 
Phillies, staving o" two elimination games in 
Philadelphia before clinching the NLCS in 
six wild games where the Cardinals bullpen 
recorded more outs than its starters. Accord-
ing to Jayson Stark of ESPN.com, only one 
team in the history of the MLB playo"s has 
won a playo" series in which the bullpen 
pitched more innings than the starting rota-
tion before these Cardinals. #e birds have 
been counted out time and time again only 
to beat increasingly insurmountable odds in 
what would be the most unlikely World Se-
ries victory in the history of baseball — no, 
really. Only the collapse of the Red Sox has 
managed to diminish the magnitude of what 
the Cardinals have achieved. #e story of the 
2011 St. Louis Cardinals is one of the best 
in recent memory. #e Cardinals have gone 
23-9 since Aug. 25 and are now just four 
wins away from completing their amazing 
transformation from ashes to airborne for 
one last transcendent $ight. 
Dillon says ... It’s easy to make a case for 
the Cardinals as the more intriguing rooting 
interest in this year’s World Series matchup. 
#ey have the best player of the last !ve years 
in Albert Pujols. #ey have a sure-!re Hall-
of-Fame manager in Tony La Russa. And 
yes, they rode a tidal wave of momentum 
and the tears of Braves fans into the 2011 
playo"s. But for all their underdog appeal, 
for all their rally squirrel merchandise, 
a true fan can see the reality behind the 
Busch-sponsored mist. #is year’s rash of 
media attention thrust upon the “underdog” 
Cardinals is really a cheap façade hiding a 
far less marketable virtue that the St. Louis 
Cardinals are the National League version 
of the New York Yankees, possibly the most 
hated franchise in all of sports.
Which is exactly why your choice 
for World Series champion this October 
should be the Texas Rangers. If you’re a fan 
of the underdog, you need look no further 
than the A.L West champions, who are 
making their second straight World Series 
appearance also their second straight in 
franchise history. I’m no math whiz, but I’d 
say that’s a few less than the Cardinals’ 17. 
#ese Rangers don’t possess the modern-
day version of Babe Ruth, or the mystical, 
genius manager at the helm. #ese Rangers 
feature a streaky out!elder who went one 
for 15 in the Divisional Series and then 
exploded for six home runs in the ALCS and 
a manager more famous for allegations of 
cocaine abuse than his knack for calling the 
right relief pitcher from the bullpen. #ese 
Rangers aren’t associated historically with 
colorful characters like Dizzy Dean and the 
Gashouse Gang, or the murderous e%ciency 
of Bob Gibson— the all-time Rangers squad 
has a distinctly Texas $air, and features 
names like Nolan Ryan, Juan Gonzalez and 
Pudge Rodriguez.
So root for these Rangers in the World 
Series, America’s true underdog. #ey might 
not have risen from the !ery ashes like the 
Redbirds from up north, but they’ve been 
sweltering in the hot Lone Star sun without a 
championship for long enough.
Damon Hatheway ’13.5 is from London, 
England and Dillon Hupp ’12 is from Little 
Rock, Ark. 
Football falls at home to Williams
ond, a Remi Ashkar ’13 fumble, came on second 
and goal at the Williams one-yard line.
Both Ashkar and Mac Foote ’14 bounced 
back from the early turnovers, however, posting 
their best statistical performances of the season. 
Ashkar rushed for 132 yards and two touch-
downs while adding four catches for 47 yards 
in a near 200 total-yard e"ort from the junior 
running back. 
Foote, meanwhile, spread the ball as usual, 
throwing for 409 yards — the second straight 
contest he’s topped the 400-yard mark — and 
two touchdowns a&er the !rst quarter inter-
ception. Nick Resor ’12 led the Panthers with 
11 catches for 130 yards and a touchdown, fol-
lowed by Billy Chapman ’13 and Zach Driscoll 
’13, who combined for more than 200 yards re-
ceiving and a touchdown. 
Intent on neutralizing the Panthers’ deep 
threat Driscoll, the Ephs did all they could — 
both inside and outside of the rulebook –– to 
keep the junior wide receiver under wraps. 
Driscoll !nished the game with 123 yards re-
ceiving, but was clearly held on a couple crucial 
plays that the o%cials did not $ag, drawing the 
ire from the Panthers sideline and crowd alike.
#e Panthers scored on back-to-back sec-
ond quarter drives to even the score at 14, once 
on a 14-yard connection from Foote to Chap-
man and then an Ashkar one-yard touchdown 
run. 
#e Panthers o"ensive line once again suc-
cessfully neutralized a talented defensive line, 
allowing just one sack, while sprining Ash-
kar for a couple long runs including a 41-yard 
touchdown run.
“#e o"ensive line did a very good job pro-
tecting the quarterback and I thought we did a 
much better job running the ball,” said Ritter. “I 
was pleased with the play of the line.”
Much like their loss to Amherst however, 
the Panthers failed to hold the Ephs in the wan-
ing minutes of the !rst half and the start of the 
second; Williams took advantage of touch-
downs on either end of the intermission to jump 
out to a 27-14 lead.
Despite some early exuberance, a bevy of 
second-half mistakes sunk the Panthers.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
Women’s tennis !rst-year takes title
#e women’s tennis team completed 
their fall season this past weekend at Mount 
Holyoke College, participating in the New 
England Women’s Intercollegiate Tennis 
Tournament (NEWITT), hosted by the 
United States Tennis Association (USTA). 
Meanwhile, standout !rst-year Lok-Sze 
Leung ’15 competed in the ITA National 
Small College Tennis Championship, taking 
the singles title.
#e NEWITT tournament featured an 
interesting format in which schools sent 
multiple teams of two players to compete in a 
three-match mixed singles and doubles round 
robin. 
In other words, there are two players 
on each team. #ey would play one doubles 
match against another team. #en, the two 
players would play separate singles matches 
against the players from the team they just 
faced. It was essentially a “best-of-three” 
format, except with a little twist.
#e Panthers sent four duos to the 
tournament. #ree of those duos, Tori Aiello 
’12/Leah Kepping ’13 (2nd seed), Dorrie 
Paradies ’14/Katie Paradies ’15 and Sally 
Wilkey ’12/Sarah Macy ’15 – played in the 
Gail Smith A $ight while DeeDee Myers ’13/
Alyssa Puccinelli ’12 were seeded 2nd in the 
Chris Davis B $ight.
Aiello/Kepping received a bye into the 
second round of the tournament, in which 
they overcame a team from Wheaton. In the 
third round, Aiello/Kepping defeated a pair 
from Williams, with an overall score of 3-0. 
However, in the semi-!nal round, another 
team from Williams ended their run in 
dramatic fashion, beating Aiello/Kepping 9-7 
in the superset doubles match.
#e Paradies sisters reached the 
quarter!nals of $ight A, disposing of duos 
from Clark and Wheaton by scores 3-0 and 
2-1, respectively. In the quarters, Williams 
once again eliminated the pair from 
Middlebury.
#e team of Wilkey/Macy su"ered 
a !rst round loss in $ight A, 2-1 to Tu&s. 
Nonetheless, they entered the consolation 
draw and subsequently triumphed in three 
consecutive matches to claim the consolation 
championship. In the process, they defeated 
teams from Amherst, Clark and Babson.
In $ight B, the pair of Myers/Puccinelli 
also received a bye in the !rst round. #ey 
then went onto beat MIT by a score of 3-0, 
Amherst by a score of 2-1 and Babson by a 
score of 2-1. At this point, they were in the 
!nals, facing the !rst seed team from Williams 
College. On the last day of play, Myers/
Puccinello succumbed to Williams.
“It was a neat format and everyone 
competed really well,” said coach Mike 
Morgan. “#ere were three or four matches 
where we came back from 2-5 down. You 
know, you love to see that as a coach.”
Since this tournament marked the end 
of the fall season, coach Morgan added a few 
thoughts on his team’s overall performance in 
the past six weeks, saying,  “I was very happy 
with it. #ey performed and worked together 
as a group the entire fall. As a coach, that’s all 
you can ask for. “
“All of the singles matches were very close 
and de!nitely showed the other teams that 
we are a force to be reckoned with this year,” 
commented Puccinelli, a $ight B !nalist.
“We had four new !rst-years come in 
this fall, and they have added so much to the 
team and already made a huge impact on the 
program,” said Wilkey, Puccinelli’s teammate. 
“I think we’re all very happy about the fall 
season as we saw a lot of our hard work pay 
o".”
Another highlight of the weekend came 
from down south in Mobile, Ala., where !rst-
year athlete Lok Sze Leung ’15 claimed the 
Division III Intercollegiate Tennis Association 
(ITA) Small Colleges Tennis Championship. 
A&er having won the ITA Regionals 
at Bates, Leung advanced to the national 
championship, this past weekend. She 
defeated Sonja Meighan of Washington and 
Lee University in a three-setter in the !rst 
round, 6-1, 4-6, 6-1. Her next win came in 
straight sets fashion, 6-2, 6-2, over Kristin 
Lim of Claremont-McKenna-Scripps. 
In the championship match, Leung 
captured the !rst set 6-3. However, she 
su"ered a twisted ankle when she chased 
down a running forehand, up 4-1 in the 
second set. Leung landed on her le& ankle and 
shoulder and had to take an injury time out. 
Despite this setback, Leung won that game in 
which she was down triple break points, then 
eventually the set and the match, 6-3, 6-2.
“As usual, I played better as I progressed 
deeper into the draw,” said Leung. “#e 
semi!nal and !nal matches this tournament 
were some of my best tennis. I was able 
to not only play my game with my heavy 
groundstrokes and serves, but also to step 
out of my comfort zone and go for shots that 
I usually don’t hit when I was back in Hong 
Kong.”
Both the men’s and women’s teams have 
now concluded their fall seasons. #ere will 
be no more tennis until mid-March, when the 
spring season will begin.
By Danny Zhang
Sta" Writer
Continued from page 24
Rank Team10/13 Alex’s Assertions
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
1
5
—
8
4
—
7
2
Women’s Soccer
Field Hockey
Men’s Golf
Men’s Soccer
Cross Country
Volleyball
Football
Lok-Sze Leung ’15 won the ITA small college 
national championship; that pretty much says it all. 
 "ey came back strong a#er  two tough losses and are 
back on a winning streak  with two wins last week.
"e girls are killing it. "ey advance to 10-2 overall this 
season with an eight game winning streak. 
In an odd Sunday, Monday tournament, the golfers were 
able to come out second at Mannhattanville. 
I have faith, but they drop to number eight a#er losing 
to Trinity for the !rst time in 12 years. 
"e men and women both placed top three at the 45th 
Annual Albany Cross Country Invitational.
A#er a long drive into Maine, the team was able to 
come out with two wins and a loss a#er a full weekend 
of play.
Women’s Tennis
Losing to Williams for the 11th straight year really hurts. 
#e Panthers !eld hockey 
team defeated a top-20 
NESCAC opponent by a 
solid 5-1 margin.
Andrew Podrygula, 
Photos Editor
The Middlebury Great Eight
Caption...
Turnovers and special teams con-
tinue to haunt the Panthers, who lost 
their second straight game, dropping 
to 1-3 with a 48-28 loss to Williams 
on Saturday, Oct. 15. Despite outgain-
ing their opponent — something the 
Panthers have done in every game 
thus far this season — turnovers and 
lopsided !eld position loomed large 
once again in the Panthers loss. While 
Middlebury turned the ball over just 
twice — a considerable improvement 
from the !ve-turnover debacle against 
Amherst, the Panthers failed to force 
a takeaway for the third time in their 
four games this season. Unsurpris-
ingly, the Panthers are 0-3 this season 
when they’ve lost the turnover battle 
and are a dismal minus seven in total 
takeaways this season. 
“"e turnovers have been a frus-
tration and the timing has also hurt,” 
said head coach Bob Ritter. “"e com-
bination of several turnovers, giving 
up some big plays on defense and not 
getting our special teams in order has 
really made it di#cult for us to over-
come good teams.”
Turning the ball over on o$ense, 
allowing big plays on defense and 
struggling on special teams is a pretty 
good recipe for how to lose football 
games. "e Panthers gave up six plays 
of more than 20 yards, four of which 
were plays of 40 yards or longer. 
"e Ephs did most of their dam-
age on the ground, as the team ran for 
280 yards on 48 carries. Wide receiver 
Darren Hartwell beat the Middlebury 
secondary deep twice for touchdown 
catches of 56 and 42 yards, the lat-
ter cementing the win for the Ephs 
midway through the fourth quarter. 
"e Panthers kicko$ unit struggled as 
well, averaging just 28 net yards per 
kick-o$.
And despite all the mistakes, the 
Panthers had a puncher’s shot at steal-
ing the game. "e Panthers squan-
dered a chance at an early lead with 
two punts and two turnovers on their 
!rst four possessions. "e turnovers 
in particular were costly as both came 
deep in Williams territory — the sec-
this week in sports
games to watch
Men’s Rugby vs. UConn, Oct. 22, 1 p.m.
Watch the MLB World Series over Fall Break!
Women’s Tennis
First-year Lok-Sze Leung ’15 cap-
tures national title, pg.  23.
Cross country
Both the men’s and women’s 
team performed well in Albany, 
pg. 22.
sports 2420 October 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Field hockey beats Trinity to 
continue their winning streak
"e Middlebury varsity !eld 
hockey team is a rolling stone. In 
just a two-and-a-half week span, 
the Panthers have sped through 
eight games and won them all, 
gathering momentum with each 
passing victory. 
Saturday’s matchup against 
Trinity, which the Panthers won 5-1, 
was just the latest installment of the 
Panther lights show: Middlebury 
scored three of their goals within 
the !rst 10 minutes of play.
"e Panthers have swept 
through the heart of their season 
with hardly a hiccup, dominating 
their opponents by lopsided scores 
and racking up an impressive 
array of honors and recognition. 
Lauren Greer ’13 has scored 18 of 
her league-leading 22 goals during 
the eight-game win streak, earning 
NESCAC Player of the Week 
honors twice, and the Panthers 
have improved to 10th in the D-III 
national rankings.
"e Oct. 15 game against the 
15th-ranked Trinity team was an 
important victory for Middlebury, 
as the notoriously feisty Bantams 
were responsible for knocking 
the Panthers out of the NESCAC 
tournament last season, and had 
been having a successful season so 
far this fall. "e Trinity game thus 
represented more of a challenge 
for the host Panthers, but the team 
came out !red up on Saturday and 
quickly put the game out of reach. 
“We went into the game with 
a winning mentality,” said Greer. 
“Believing we can win just isn’t 
enough, it was the knowing we can 
win that proved itself on Saturday. 
"e momentum we have built in 
our successes has been a great way 
to create team energy, and I believe 
we channeled that right into the 
!rst half of the game. Scoring early 
and quickly has been key for us, and 
gets the entire team !red up.”
Greer, Hannah Clarke ’12 
and Charlotte Gardiner ’13 led 
the team to a three goal lead early 
on, scoring at the 2:36, 6:48 and 
9:06-minute marks, respectively. 
Although Trinity responded with 
a goal 14 minutes in, the Panthers 
largely controlled the play in the 
!rst period, and scored their fourth 
of the game o$ a Catherine Fowler 
’15 blast. 
"e four diverse Middlebury 
goal-scorers re%ect the true team 
e$ort that has characterized this 
season’s squad, as everyone has 
stepped up and built o$ of the 
positive momentum the team has 
generated.
While the !rst half belonged 
to Middlebury, the second half was 
much more of a back and forth 
game. Trinity stepped up their play 
and challenged the Panthers on 
both sides of the ball, limiting the 
home team to just one tally deep in 
the period. 
"e game !nished with a 
solid 5-1 win for the Panthers, 
who only seem to become more 
fearsome with each passing game. 
Middlebury improved to 10-2 on 
the season and is currently part of 
a three-way tie for second place 
in the conference with two games 
remaining in the season. "e 
Panthers seem well-poised for a 
long postseason run should they 
keep up this torrid pace. 
“We have great momentum 
right now, which has just helped 
everyone believe that we are a 
really good team,” said tri-captain 
Liz Garry ’12. “Having so many 
games in such a small amount of 
time also really only allowed us to 
look at a few aspects of our game, 
making small adjustments without 
overanalyzing things. In each of 
our games we have seen numerous 
people step up — it’s great to see 
such depth in our roster.” 
"e Panthers look to continue 
their winning ways this Saturday, 
when they travel to Lewiston, Me. 
to take on Bates, who is 1-7 in 
conference play.
Football su!ers second 
consecutive 20-point loss
By Damon Hatheway
Sports Editor
Women’s soccer back 
on track with 2-0 week
What a di$erence a week 
makes. Seven days a&er losing 
to Hamilton and jeopardizing its 
playo$ standing for the NESCAC 
tournament, the Middlebury 
varsity women’s soccer team came 
roaring back to defeat Trinity 1-0 
last Saturday, Oct. 15, and put 
themselves in excellent position 
to host a tournament game when 
the regular season comes to a 
close.
“I think our team has and 
will continue to rebound from 
the two-game slump we had two 
weeks ago,” said senior center 
mid!elder Devin Perkins ’12. “It 
was a good time to be reminded 
that we have to show up to every 
game and not just know that we’re 
a good soccer team, but prove 
that we’re better than the team 
sitting on the other bench.”
Middlebury was faced 
with an early threat against 
the Bantams, and could have 
found themselves in a !rst-half 
hole were it not for some timely 
goalkeeping by Jocelyn Remmert 
’13, who made an excellent save 
against an attacking Trinity player 
to keep the score tied at zero. 
Remmert played only the !rst half 
for the Panthers but kept a clean 
sheet, making four saves in her 45 
minutes of play. 
Middlebury had several 
chances of their own in the !rst 
half, including decent shots by 
Julia Favorito ’14 and Scarlett 
By Dillon Hupp 
Sports Editor
Scarlett Kirk ’14 attacks the goal in the Panthers 1-0 win over Trinity.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
Field hockey won their eighth straight game to improve to 10-2.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
Despite Remi Ashkar’s ’13 132 rushing yards, the Panthers were unable to 
overcome the o!ense of the Ephs, losing by 20 for the second straight week.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
See Football, page 23
See Women’s Soccer, page 22
By Katie Siegner
Sports Editor
FIELD HOCKEY
Saturday, October 15
Middlebury
Trinity
5
1
