Starting in the fall of 2016, 
Arabic language learners will 
have an alternative destina-
tion to study abroad in the Ar-
abic-speaking world: Morocco. 
Middlebury C.V. Starr Schools 
Abroad will add its 17th coun-
try when it opens a new School 
in Rabat, Morocco. Partnering 
with the Mohammed V Uni-
versity, this program joins the 
School in Amman, Jordan as 
the second official Middlebury 
study abroad site in the Arabic-
speaking world. 
The program will be open to 
students who have studied at 
least two years of college-level 
Arabic. According to Dean of 
International Programs Jeffrey 
Cason, in addition to Modern 
Standard Arabic and the local 
Moroccan dialect classes, stu-
dents will also have the option 
to take classes in Moroccan cul-
ture, politics, history, literature 
or religion, all of which will be 
taught in Arabic to provide as 
much immersion and integra-
tion in the local culture as pos-
sible. There will also be a vari-
ety of extracurricular activities 
to engage in along with their 
Moroccan peers. 
With the suspension of Col-
lege’s program in Alexandria, 
Egypt in 2013, the College be-
gan exploring other options 
for students wanting an Arabic 
immersion experience abroad. 
According to Cason, the past 
few years have witnessed an in-
crease in students enrolled in 
Arabic language classes. 
“Middlebury’s School Abroad 
in Jordan draws students from 
across North America; in the 
last two years, students from 
28 different Colleges and Uni-
versities have studied on our 
program in Jordan…We expect 
that in addition to Middlebury 
students, we’ll be able to attract 
other students from outside 
Middlebury on our new pro-
gram,” said Cason. 
With this increased demand 
in mind, the College considered 
many other potential locations 
for a new School, including four 
different universities in Moroc-
co and one in Oman. 
“We were looking for a good 
university partner that under-
stands our educational mission 
and a city where we think stu-
Middlebury has joined 83 other 
colleges and universities in form-
ing the Coalition for Access, Af-
fordability and Success, a new ap-
plication system that was created 
in hopes of making the college ap-
plication process easier for disad-
vantaged high school students.
The coalition—which includes 
all eight Ivy League schools, all 
NESCAC schools save Trinity Col-
lege, and many prominent state 
universities—requires that its 
need of accepted students and 
have a six-year graduation rate of 
at least 70 percent.
The initial version of the pro-
gram will be available to freshmen, 
sophomores and juniors in high 
school beginning in April 2016. 
The coalition application will open 
in summer 2016. However, Mid-
dlebury is considering to delay its 
rollout until 2017, following the 
University of North Carolina’s de-
cision to do so.
Dean of Admissions Greg Buck-
les said that the coalition formed 
from informal talks among admis-
sions deans about an alternative to 
the Common Application.
-
matic standpoint: we needed to 
have a backup plan for the failure 
of one system,” he said. “Soon, 
deans began to see it as something 
more than a simple alternative—
they had the hope of achieving a 
nobler set of goals like access and 
equity.” 
been in discussion with the origi-
nal group of organizers, and that 
Middlebury had indicated its in-
terest in participating early on.
The online application will in-
clude a ‘virtual college locker,’ in 
which students can securely and 
privately store classwork, awards, 
journals, and notes for their appli-
have access to a student’s locker 
unless the student asks for help 
The locker was designed as an op-
tional tool to help students, espe-
cially under-resourced students 
who do not have access to college 
counseling or college planning 
tools, prepare and organize for the 
college admissions process.
Students could opt to share 
(privately, if they desired) some 
or all of their portfolio with people 
who might provide advice. Colleg-
es could, at students’ invitations, 
provide feedback as early as fresh-
man year of high school.
The coalition has partnered 
with CollegeNET to produce their 
platform of tools, which are de-
signed to be used on tablets and 
mobile phones. CollegeNET is a 
Portland-based technology de-
veloper with expertise in creating 
The College’s endowment 
yielded a 6.9 percent return on 
year that ended June 30, 2015, 
beating national averages. 
Despite the $19.1 million 
increase, the endowment grew 
less than last year’s 16.5 percent 
rate of return.
Vice President for Finance and 
Treasurer of the College, Patrick 
Norton, said the endowment 
performed better than the 
MCSI All Country World Index, 
a global equities benchmark, 
which increased only 1.2 percent 
in the same period.
“The 6.9 percent return was 
actually a strong annual return 
given the performance of the 
global markets,” said Norton. 
“Our active management has 
outperformed the passive 
benchmark by 180 basis points 
(bps) a year over ten years. That 
is substantial outperformance.”
The endowment increased 
by $19.1 million during the 
billion on June 30. Explaining 
this growth, Norton cited the 
net increase in endowment 
from investment return, new 
gifts to the endowment and 
annual endowment spending 
for Middlebury’s operating 
and capital expenditures. Last 
year, the endowment grew 16.5 
percent and increased by $113 
million.  
The College uses a passive 
benchmark to see how a 
portfolio would have done if it 
only invested ‘passively’ in broad 
had invested according to our 
’15 return would have been 1.9 
percent rather than our actual 
6.9 percent,” said Norton.
The benchmark assumes 75 
percent is invested in the MSCI 
ACWI Index and 25 percent in 
the Bank of America Merrill 
Lynch US Treasury 7-10 Year 
Index.
Each year, the endowment 
funds faculty compensation, 
aid, among other College 
expenses.
Norton said, “The budgeted 
College Joins 
Coalition for  
Accessibility
   October 22, 2015 | Vol. 114 no. 6 | middleburycampus.com
AFTER 25 YEARS 
MIDDLEBURY 
AIRPORT RUNWAY 
EXTENDS
PAGE 4
BEHIND THE VEST 
EXPLORES
RIDGELINE 
CONSTRUCTION
PAGE 10
COCOON 
STORYTELLING 
EVENT EXPLORES 
THEME OF ‘ROOTS’
PAGE 16in
sid
e
by Ethan brady
Senior Writer
SEE COALITION, PAGE 3
Endowment Results Show 
Growth in Fiscal 2015 Year
SEE MOROCCO, PAGE 3
Middlebury to open 
school in Morocco
by Emma Dunlap
Senior Writer
by Henry burnett
Contributing Writer
SEE ENDOWMENT, PAGE 2
Alumni gathered in Atwater Dining Hall on Saturday, Oct. 17 for a panel titled “Why I Give Back to 
college  communications 
COLLEGE ALUMNI RETURN FOR HOMECOMING
cordelia provost And Philip Bohlman
The Middlebury College Phi Beta Kap-
pa chapter inducted ten seniors into the 
honors society on Saturday, Oct. 3 at a 
ceremony that coincided with Fall Family 
Weekend. A committee of faculty selects 
the students based on their academic tran-
One of the inductees, Kate Hamilton 
’15.5, a political science major, believes the 
most important aspect of academic life is 
maintaining a balance. 
“I like to look at my week in advance 
and make sure I am leaving time for 
schoolwork, but also extracurriculars, 
running, outings with friends and long 
dinners. I think we all do better, more pro-
ductive work when it’s not all we are do-
ing,” Hamilton said.
Hamilton embraces the serendipitous 
value of a liberal arts education, as she de-
liberately chose to not have a minor. 
“I have really enjoyed being able to dab-
ble in a lot of other disciplines. I feel like I 
have spent a good deal of time in History, 
Economics and Psychology classes in ad-
dition to Political Science,” Hamilton said.
Tom Hyeon-Seok ’16, another inductee, 
stumbled upon his major while attending 
a Middlebury event. 
“I chose my [economics] major after 
conversing with the department chair and 
Charles A. Dana Professor of Econom-
ics, Peter Matthews at a piano concert. 
Economics, combined with statistics, I 
learned, enables us to explain nearly every 
aspect of our lives with stories backed by 
numbers that are often much more objec-
tive than words,” he said. 
In a few months, the inductees will 
embark on their postgrad plans, carrying 
with them the honor of membership in a 
national society of academics. Hamilton, 
a Truman Scholar, said she plans on law 
school. 
“My ultimate goal is a law career fo-
cused on expanding democratic partici-
pation. I would love to work for the Civil 
Rights Division of the Department of Jus-
tice, either in the Voting Section or the 
Educational Opportunities Section,” she 
said.
Hyeon-Seok will work at a consult-
“hone [his] quantitative skills and get ex-
posed to the business and legal sectors.”
With such an accomplishment, the two 
inductees share their secrets of success. “I 
think it’s really important to take classes 
that genuinely interest you, because you 
are so much likely to do well when you are 
engaged in the material,” Hamilton said.
that membership in Phi Beta Kappa should 
not be seen as the ultimate measure of 
success. “While I consider a membership 
in PBK as a great honor, I do not equate 
that to a sign of success. After all, there are 
many smarter, talented, and interesting 
individuals on this campus,” he said. 
His tip for academic success at Middle-
bury is to develop relationships with peers 
in and outside the classroom. 
“I found debates and arguments I had 
outside of classrooms with my friends on 
topics from lectures immensely helpful in 
course,” Hyeon-Seok said. 
On Oct. 13, the 2015 First Genera-
tion Mentorship Program launched with 
a dinner in Atwater Dining Hall. Now in 
its third year, the program is designed to 
life at the College. This year the program 
to date. 
 “[The program’s participants] are 
sometimes hesitant and unaware of things 
-
gram’s director. “We cannot call our par-
ents for help or insights on majors, classes 
or assignments. It is like living in a parallel 
universe on campus.”
Present at the kickoff dinner were 15 
generation college graduates. The faculty 
advisers are a new addition to the pro-
gram this year and are meant to serve as 
resources for students in the program. Ad-
ditionally, the program assigns each of its 
This year, a majority of mentors were for-
mer mentees.
“There are some things that they can’t 
-
tant to me that I’m there to help them get 
acclimated to life at Middlebury,” said 
Lev Khodaverdy ’17, a mentor and former 
mentee.
According to Zorica Radanovic ’19, a 
mentee, the mentors are available to “an-
swer questions we don’t even know we 
have yet.” 
-
leges in the country, and the assumption 
is that people do not expect us to be here,” 
students get to colleges like Middlebury 
through self-reliance. When we encounter 
a challenge, we feel like asking for help is a 
sign of failure. Though Middlebury offers 
tutoring, advising and writing, we don’t 
feel entitled to this academic and emo-
tional support… We hope this program 
changes that.”
For the past two years, the program’s 
structure relied mostly on individual pair-
ings of mentor and mentees to establish 
their own relationships. Altamirano noted 
that the suggested meeting schedule con-
sisted of bi-weekly one-on-one meals. This 
year however, the program hopes to orga-
involving faculty. 
In previous years the training session 
for mentors consisted of a single half-day 
session, this year the training will be split 
up into shorter yet more frequent sessions 
in collaboration with the Anderson Free-
man Resource Center.
| October 22, 20152 NEWS
By Nick Garber
Community Council
Correspondent & Staff Writer
Community 
Council
Update
Ten Students Inducted to Phi Beta Kappa
First Generation Mentoring Enters 3rd Year
by Grant Olcott
Contributing Writer
by Will DiGravio
Contributing Writer
College Announces Endowment results
endowment draw into operations for 
will support 23 percent of the operating 
costs of Middlebury College, two percent 
of the operating costs of the Middlebury 
Institute, and 16 percent of the operating 
costs of the Middlebury Schools.”
He added the endowment is globally 
classes: 33 percent global equity, 29 
percent alternative equity, 32 percent 
[and] one percent cash.
When deciding how to manage the 
endowment, the administration has 
considered student initiatives such as the 
call for divestment from fossil fuels.
“The College has worked very closely 
several other clients to invest a portion 
of our endowments with managers 
Governance criteria into their investment 
process,” said Norton. “We estimate that 
as of June 30, 14 percent of the endowment 
is invested with such managers.”
While students are taken seriously, 
the College cannot accommodate all such 
requests. In an August 2013 Statement 
on Divestment, then-President Ronald D. 
was “second only to 
Columbia,” he wrote. 
“Investure invests 
money in large funds 
run by independent 
managers, whom 
Investure selects based 
on the strategies and 
performances of those 
managers over time. It is 
unlikely that any of the 
150 fund managers who 
today invest Middlebury’s 
endowment in their 
commingled funds would 
adopt a policy of fossil-
He added, “This is the answer to the 
often-asked question of why Middlebury, 
or any institution with a large endowment, 
cannot easily divest an endowment of 
fossil-fuel stocks. In Middlebury’s case, 
Investure would have to reinvest more 
than half of its portfolio. And it would 
have to gain the agreement of the other 12 
institutions it represents to do so.”
As for the current 
investment scheme, 
Norton said in a news 
release that the College 
“continues to be pleased 
with the performance of 
our endowment under 
Investure’s management. 
As always, we’re grateful 
for the critical support 
from Middlebury 
alumni, parents and 
friends. Thanks in part 
to their generosity, 
the endowment has 
continued to grow.”
From left: Ben Harris, Elise Cabral, Ben Clark, Aneleisa Gladding-Hinton, Brian 
Rowett, Katherine Baughman, John Loebs, Kate Hamilton, Hyeon-Seok (Tom) Yu. 
College Communications
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
“It is unlikely that 
any of the 150 fund 
managers who today 
invest Middlebury’s 
endowment in their 
commingled funds 
would adopt a 
policy of fossil-free 
investing.”
RONALD D. LIEBOWITZ
Former President of the College
On Oct. 12, Community Council began to 
the academic year. When all was said and 
done, the Council generated 51 different 
topics which its members hoped to cover to 
some degree.
Issues raised by College staff included 
increased awareness of the dangers 
of drinking and driving, a possible 
discontinuation of Winter Carnival and 
increasing campus accessibility for disabled 
persons.
on spousal hiring policies, a more 
comprehensive plan for faculty housing and 
shortening the add/drop period, which can 
be disruptive in a 12-week semester.
Students raised a number of issues, as 
well. Enabling faculty and staff to eat at 
dining halls for free was met with much 
enthusiasm, as did the institution of a living 
wage for all staff workers. Others pointed 
to the necessity for more gender-neutral 
bathrooms, the renovation of older campus 
and establishing a space on campus for 
Issues of race and class were frequently 
mentioned; some pointed to the pronounced 
lack of diversity in the Feb class, while others 
the town of Middlebury, and whether such a 
problem could be mitigated. 
The most popular topic, however, was 
stress. Though the topic was raised by 
its prevalence throughout the College 
community. While various events – such 
suggested as potential “de-stressers,” the 
Council agreed that a larger discussion was 
needed.
The Council’s next meeting on Oct. 
19 was dedicated entirely to the topic of 
stress. Brainerd Commons Dean Natasha 
Chang, SGA Representative Emma Erwin, 
Associate Director of the Center for Careers 
and Internships Tracy Himmel Isham and 
Parton Counseling Director Ximena Mejia 
attended as guests to weigh in on the issue.
“[Stress] is a multifaceted issue,” said 
Clair Beltran ’16. “When it’s brought up in 
conversation it’s meant academically, but 
it also ends up affecting you personally, 
emotionally and in other aspects.”
“There’s this culture of exceptionalism 
that exists on campus,” said Emma Bliska 
’18, “and from a student perspective, it 
different pressures.”
Campus Horticulturalist Tim Parsons 
pointed to Middlebury’s relatively short 
semesters as a cause of student stress, saying 
that they result in faculty being forced to 
“cram more coursework into less time.”
The Council’s guests discussed how their 
of stress. Mejia discussed the belief that with 
the right attitude, stress can be “your friend 
and ally.” Making meaning of our stressful 
experiences, she said, is oftentimes more 
important than the simple levels of stress 
which we face.
Chang brought up the way stress is 
deeply embedded in campus life. “Students 
will report to me that they have a feeling of 
competition around who’s most stressed,” 
she said. Productive conversations about 
stress can be impossible, she noted, when 
wellness.
Gurland suggested that combatting day-
to-day stress may be a matter of choosing 
our battles wisely. “Figuring out the things 
that are important to us, and embracing the 
reality that we cannot do everything, are 
necessary tasks,” she said. “You may need to 
pick one class that you’re simply not going 
to give 100 percent to.”
dents will have opportunities for im-
mersion outside the classroom, and we 
found that in Rabat,” said Cason. “Rabat 
is an interesting and vibrant city with a 
lot for students to do,” he said. The de-
cision was also made after discussions 
with the faculty advisory board for the 
School in Jordan, but the expectation is 
that after some redistribution, the over-
all numbers for students in both Jordan 
and Morocco will increase.
According to Cason, about half a 
dozen students have already expressed 
interest in studying in Morocco. Despite 
differences between the local dialect and 
Modern Standard Arabic, Adiza Moham-
med ’18 hopes to study abroad in Rabat. 
Daniel Buchman ’18.5 noted that Moroc-
co exists at an interesting intersection 
between Europe, the Middle East and 
Sub-Saharan Africa. 
“I think that I am of an age where I 
am capable of going into another cul-
ture that is drastically different than my 
own,” said Buchman. “[I’m ready to] put 
myself out there, which is what I think 
study abroad is supposed to be about…
to give you the tools to engage with the 
discomfort and to grow from it,” he said.
Middlebury launched the application 
for the School in Morocco on Oct. 19th for 
the 2016-2017 academic year. 
dependable, student-oriented programs and 
applications.
The coalition application will not replace 
the Common Application. Colleges and uni-
versities using the new application will nei-
ther expect nor require the use of other co-
alition tools, either as part of the Coalition 
Application or other application systems ac-
cepted by that institution.
In the wake of Common Application 
glitches that prevented students from apply-
ing on deadline days, many administrators 
have become critical of it. Technical failure 
is especially problematic for the any schools 
that completely rely on the Common App. 
Each year, about 860,000 students use it to 
submit more than 3.5 million applications.
According to Aba Blankson, director of 
communications for the Common Applica-
tion, 32 percent of the 860,000 applicants 
who used the Common Application last year 
these students enroll at colleges that, in part 
because they serve many disadvantaged stu-
dents, don’t have the graduation rates to be 
eligible for the coalition, she said.
Currently about 13 percent of Middlebury 
students receive federal Pell grants, which 
are given to low-income students. The New 
York Times ranked Middlebury 51st based 
on college access index in a list released in 
November 2014. As of that same month, 43 
percent of the student body received any 
package to those students was $41,870, in-
cluding subsidized and unsubsidized loans. 
The average per-undergraduate-borrower 
cumulative principal borrowed was $17,975. 
On the other hand, 57 percent of the student 
body pays full tuition, which increased by 3.9 
percent from last year to $61,046.
The coalition has described its efforts 
to improve the admission process as being 
grounded in research that shows that many 
students do not aspire to college or get hung 
up in the complexity of the process. The co-
alition intends to get these students thinking 
about college earlier in order to create the 
expectation “that college is for them” and 
affordable, and that the “top schools in the 
country want students like them.” Many of 
these students, the coalition’s website reads, 
high school and they may even be actively 
discouraged from aiming for college.
“The coalition, in my opinion, paves the 
way for students to spread out the stress of 
a one year application process across four 
years of high school,” said Natalie Figueroa 
’18, an International and Global Studies ma-
jor withLatin American focus. “I see this as a 
tool to become more inclusive and effective 
in widening the applicant pool to include 
multiple ethnicities and people who iden-
otherwise would be discouraged about the 
stress of a one-year application process.”
college student revolved around my old 
brother’s disadvantages that he wish he 
knew about pre-college process. He went to 
if he knew now then maybe he could have 
achieved more and been able to strive for 
more,” she said.
While the coalition aims to help disad-
vantaged students, many of the high schools 
it is intended to help have not been deeply 
involved in its development. Many counsel-
ors at low-income schools could not afford to 
attend the National Association for College 
Admission Counseling (NACAC), the yearly 
conference of admissions deans and high 
school counselors. Held from October 1st to 
4th in San Diego, members of the coalition’s 
core group announced the program’s rollout. 
According to Buckles, by not reaching high 
school counselors in underprivileged dis-
tricts the coalition may not be as effective as 
intended.
Though Buckles noted valid concerns 
among some admissions deans about the 
coalition, he applauded its overall goal of ac-
cess.
“I’m excited out the potential of this. It’s 
a huge undertaking, but it’s one of those 
rare opportunities to serve the needs of the 
greater good and not just Middlebury,” said 
Dean Buckles. “That’s a worthy thing to do in 
higher education.”
October 22, 2015 |  3        News
College to Add School Abroad in Morocco
80 Elite Schools Form Coalition for Access
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
The College will open a school abroad for Arabic language students in Morocco.
Mohammed V University
Despite understanding that using a phone 
while driving is dangerous, many people 
routinely give into the temptation to send 
a quick text while on the road. And despite 
state laws banning the use of phones while 
driving, the practice is still dangerously com-
mon. Middlebury students Terry Goguen ’16 
and AnnaClare Smith ’16 have created a new 
way to discourage texting and driving that 
rewards drivers for keeping their eyes on the 
road. Their mobile app, JoyRyde, incentiv-
izes safe driving by tracking drivers’ phone-
free miles and rewarding them with points 
that can be redeemed for discounts, coupons 
or charitable donations.
“In my experience, having a positive out-
look on things instead of a punishment is the 
best way to go,” Goguen said, describing the 
logic behind their model of rewarding users 
for driving safely. JoyRyde lets users “in-
centivize and motivate themselves to do the 
right thing.”
Smith explained the unique nature of 
JoyRyde, in that “there are other apps that 
try to prevent texting and driving, but none 
of them have the same incentive system.”
It appears that this system may be key to 
creating safer roads by accomplishing what 
current campaigns and legislation cannot: 
changing drivers’ behavior. In a survey con-
ducted by Smith and Goguen, 86% of people 
reported that legislation punishing those 
who text and drive does not affect the way 
they drive. As a result of this conclusion, the 
pair decided to go a different route, and al-
low users to, in Goguen’s words, “be their 
own agent of change.”
JoyRyde is simple and user-friendly. A 
driver starts a new ride and the phone be-
gins tracking the driver’s miles. If the user 
leaves JoyRyde to go to a different app, Joy-
Ryde will stop tracking and the driver will 
no longer receive points. When the user next 
opens the app, they will see an x indicat-
ing a violation. Three violations terminate 
the ride. Users can currently redeem points 
for discounts and coupons at Cumberland 
Farms, B. Good Restaurant, and the brands 
Skida and Sword and Plough, both founded 
by Middlebury students. Part of Goguen and 
Smith’s current vision involves establishing 
new corporate partnerships and expanding 
JoyRyde’s connections with charities. 
JoyRyde recently partnered with non-
that increases awareness of the dangers 
of texting and driving. Users can use their 
points to purchase a donation to Text Less 
Live More. While this is currently the only 
charity partnered with JoyRyde, the app will 
partner with additional charities to provide 
users with even more opportunities to turn 
their phone-free miles into donations. 
Goguen and Smith attribute much of Joy-
Ryde’s success to the opportunities available 
to young entrepreneurs at Middlebury. When 
Goguen contacted Middlebury’s Programs 
for Creativity and Innovation. Staff at the 
PCI informed him of a J-term class titled 
Midd Entrepreneurs, in which students work 
with representatives from the Vermont Cen-
ter for Emerging Technologies to turn their 
business ideas into reality. JoyRyde won a 
grant last spring from MiddChallenge, a PCI 
competition. The app also won the most re-
cent Fresh Tracks Road Pitch Riders Choice 
Award, a competition administered by mo-
-
tise who ride to small towns to hear pitches 
from various entrepreneurs. The resources 
Smith and Goguen took advantage of at the 
College gave them the practical knowledge 
necessary to successfully present their app to 
these investors and pitch competitions. 
Neither of the founders see JoyRyde’s 
success slowing anytime soon. The app cur-
rently has 150 users, and at the time of the 
pair’s interview with The Campus, the app 
had reached 1200 drives in the previous 12 
days. Goguen plans to continue his work 
with JoyRyde after graduating, and to con-
tinue to increase the app’s corporate partner-
ships and improve its software.
To download the app, drivers enter their 
email on the JoyRyde website and then re-
ceive an email with a link to download. 
Goguen and Smith estimate that the app will 
be available on the App Store within the next 
couple of months. JoyRyde is free, and al-
ways will be, assures Goguen.
“We think that’s the best way to do it 
because the more people using it, the more 
lives we’re going to save,” Goguen said.
STUDENTS CREATE APP FOR SAFE DRIVING
by Elizabeth Sawyer
Contributing Writer
Fed. Reserve
Econ Lecture
by Claire Abbadi
Editor-in-Chief
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
On Thursday, Oct. 15, guest speaker Dr. Ju-
lie Hotchkiss presented a talk in Twilight Au-
ditorium titled “Can We Really Believe Every-
thing We Read About the U.S. Labor Market?” 
Her presentation came as a part of the D.K. 
Smith ’42 Economics Lecture series.
The David K. Smith ’42 lecture series was 
established in the early 1990s after beloved 
alumnus and Economics professor D.K. 
Smith. A gift from the Schaffer family, the lec-
ture series brings a distinguished guest lectur-
er to the College to give an Economics talk each 
semester. Past lectures have addressed income 
inequality, the wage gap between men and 
women and other economic and social issues.
Hotchkiss comes to the College as a re-
search economist and senior policy adviser at 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. As a labor 
economist, her work focuses on earning differ-
entials between different groups, employment 
and earnings trend over long periods of time 
and policy changes and their effect on the labor 
supply. 
David K. Smith’42 Chair in Applied Eco-
nomics Phanindra Wunnava was responsible 
for bringing Hotchkiss to campus.
-
omists of my generation. I have known her for 
over twenty years,” said Wunnava.
In her lecture, Hotchkiss argued that cur-
rent labor market growth is “on track,” despite 
assertion from the media and press that the 
U.S. labor market is in peril. She offered in-
sight to address several “misleading” headlines 
often found in news outlets. 
For example, Hotchkiss stated that labor 
participation being at 62.6% — marking a 32-
year low in U.S. history — should be associated 
with changes not in population but in willing-
ness to work among different age groups. In 
particular, she noted that labor force partici-
pation is decreasing for young people and in-
creasing for old people, countering arguments 
that lowering participation levels are due to 
massive drop-offs from older workers.
 Hotchkiss also challenged headlines stat-
ing that “recovery has created more low-wage 
jobs than better-paid ones.” She stated that, 
between 2010 and 2014, more full-time jobs 
were created than part-time ones
Likewise, there have been many headlines 
and studies asserting that the American labor 
force is shrinking to the point that there will 
-
able jobs. She countered this with data that 
demonstrated that the U.S. is actually produc-
ing more college graduates than available jobs. 
Student reception to Hotchkiss’s presenta-
tion has been both positive and engaging. 
“Hotchkiss gave a compelling case as to 
why labor force participation has been so low 
and helped dispel some of the common mis-
conceptions with labor participation,” said 
Olena Ostasheva ’16. 
 “It inspired me to look beyond the head-
lines when it comes to economic policy issues,” 
added Marcos Barrozo Filho ’17. ”
Seldom known to Middlebury Col-
lege students, there is, in fact, an airport 
right here in Addison County. Located 
south on Route 7 in East Middlebury lies 
the Middlebury State Airport that sees 
only about one plane per hour.  Every 
town plan for Middlebury since 1989 has 
proposed the extension of the runway at 
this small, regional airport, but no ex-
pansion has happened.  However, that 
may change soon, given recent funding 
pledged by the Federal Aviation Admin-
istration (FAA) and the support of many 
Middlebury residents.  Despite general 
support for the runway expansion among 
town administrators, some residents, 
specifically those who live near the air-
port, have reservations about the expan-
sion.
Recent support from the FAA has 
served as the necessary push to make the 
decades-old idea a reality.  
“The FAA is going to support 90 per-
cent of the cost for the extension of the 
runway, and the state is going to cover 
the other ten percent of the cost,” said 
Jamie Gaucher, Executive Director for 
the Office of Busi-
ness Development 
for Middlebury. 
He said this sort 
of external fund-
ing has not been 
available for years, 
so previously, the 
cost would have 
had to come from 
local sources. 
According to 
Guy Rouelle, Aero-
nautics Adminis-
trator for VTrans 
Aviation Division, 
the project is mov-
ing forward now 
because of strong 
leadership and fa-
vorable relation-
ships.
“The relation-
ships of the town 
have been good 
with the state, but 
they [historically]
have not been so good that we could 
move this ahead,” Rouelle said.  Recent-
ly, relationships have been better, which 
is why the project is taking off now.
The runway has been functioning 
for so long without this extension, which 
raises the question of whether the im-
provement is really necessary.  Safety, 
modernization and economic growth 
seem to be the main reasons to extend 
the runway.
“That’s the primary driver: an in-
crease in safety,” Gaucher said.  He cited 
the extension, widening and repaving of 
the 2500 foot runway and the straight-
ening of the taxiway as examples of im-
provements to increase flight safety.
Rouelle elaborated on how the run-
way extension would increase safety and 
year round accessibility of the airstrip.  
In the summer, he explained, “the 
useable runway length is actually quite 
less because of the pressure and density 
of a hot day.” 
“During the winter months, when the 
runway is slightly contaminated [with ice 
and snow], the runway length is signifi-
cantly shorter,” Rouelle said. Having a 
longer runway will allow flights to come 
and go more consistently, no matter the 
season.
As two state senators and nine state 
representatives noted in a letter in 2006, 
expansion of the airport offers increases 
in safety to the community at large. 
“Increased runway length will … 
make the airport more useable by a wider 
variety of safety related flights including 
air ambulance, forest fire support, search 
and rescue and disaster response,” they 
wrote to Jason Owen, Aviation Project 
Manager for VTrans.
Currently, the Middlebury Airport 
does not have jet fuel, GPS technology or 
lights on its runway.  While those addi-
tions are not part of the slated extension 
of the runway, there are hopes that such 
modernizations would be the next step, 
bringing the airport into the 21st century.
“I have been approached by a pri-
vate entity that has expressed interest in 
underwriting the cost for a modern fuel 
system and GPS instrumentation and 
making those things publicly available,” 
Gaucher said.  Such technologies would 
also improve safety.
Investment in the runway expansion 
is an investment in public infrastruc-
ture.  Representatives from the town and 
from VTrans see this as a way to bring 
economic activity to Middlebury by in-
creasing accessibility and by creating the 
opportunity for 
development and 
innovation cen-
tered on aviation 
and technology.
“The city it-
self will greatly 
benefit from a 
runway extension 
in that more peo-
ple will use the 
airport. ,” Rouelle 
said. “We have 
a lot of second 
home owners who 
fly in,” Rouelle 
said.  While many 
residents will 
likely not use the 
airport, more air 
traffic increases 
the ease of getting 
to Middlebury for 
those who come 
by plane.  
“Airport users 
will come in more 
and they’ll spend their money in the local 
economy,” Rouelle continued.
Gaucher, who works to bring eco-
nomic development to Middlebury, sees 
the economic benefits beyond attracting 
people who will spend money locally. 
In Middlebury, Gaucher explained, 
“[there is a] lack of infrastructure for in-
novation-based economic development.” 
He aims to leverage new infrastructure 
for economic development.
“[Airports] are very similar to hos-
pitals in that they lend themselves to 
many different technologies,” Gaucher 
said. He does not see any other airport 
in Vermont taking advantage of research 
and development opportunities related 
to aviation, which is a niche that the 
Middlebury airport could fill if expand-
ed.
“Whether those technologies are 
transportation technologies or manufac-
turing technologies or signal processing 
or artificial intelligence or nano-coatings 
or fuel efficiencies or battery powered 
flight or biofuels,” Gaucher said, “I want 
to create an opportunity to take advan-
tage of that, and I see the airport as a way 
for our community to take advantage of 
that.”
Gaucher hopes that the airport up-
grade will bring new businesses to the 
airport area, and Rouelle noted that it 
will help the two existing businesses al-
ready operating there.
Town officials, including the Select 
Board, are in favor of the runway ex-
tension. Rouelle noted that the Addison 
County Regional Planning Commission 
(ACRPC) and Addison County Econom-
ic Development Corporation (ACEDC) 
also support the project.  Back in 2006, 
the executive directors of ACRPC and 
ACEDC, eleven state legislators and the 
former owner of Otter Creek Brewing, 
Inc. all wrote letters of support for the 
runway extension for many of the same 
reasons: safety, expanded access and 
economic activity.   Some organizations 
and private donors even pledged fund-
ing, but clearly nothing happened de-
spite widespread support.
However, not all Middlebury resi-
dents are so happy to see the project 
making headway.  Many residents, es-
pecially among the 600 plus households 
within two miles of the airport, have con-
cerns about the project’s effect on the 
aquifer and noise level.  
Rouelle acknowledged that concerns 
of this sort are natural and that VTrans is 
doing everything possible to address the 
concerns, including sound studies.  
“This airfield has historically only 
seen about 7500 
operations [annu-
ally] … If you av-
erage that out, it’s 
about one flight 
per hour year 
round,” Rouelle 
said.  The Envi-
ronmental Pro-
tection Agency 
requires that 
federally funded 
projects meet 
standards for 
noise tolerance. 
However, the EPA 
does not typically 
consider noise a 
problem with fa-
cilities that see 
fewer than 10,000 operations per year.  
Sound experts have collected data on 
noise disturbance on the airway, which 
average 42 to 58 dnl, a measure of sound. 
The FAA considers something noisy that 
is close to 70 dnl, according to Rouelle. 
VTrans has still agreed to monitor noise 
levels off the airfield, closer to where 
people live.
Those planning the expansion were 
unapologetic about the negative side of 
living near the airport, which is a region 
zoned for aviation purposes.
“The airport is considered an airport 
district, so folks that have moved up to 
Vermont in the past several years and 
bought a home in an airport district or 
near an airport district should have been 
well aware that there is an airport near-
by,” Rouelle said.  
Gaucher likened the concerns about 
noise to people who move in next to a 
dairy farm and are upset by the smell of 
cows.
The airport sits on a designated aqui-
fer, which citizens worry will be contami-
nated by increased plane traffic or closed 
off by the increase in impervious surface 
from the runway expansion.  
“We’re increasing the total amount 
of impervious surface … by 1.3 percent,” 
Rouelle said, trying to show that the 
risk to aquifer recharge would be mini-
mal.  “We are doing everything we can, 
and will continue to make sure that we 
don’t have any fuel spills on the airfield, 
that property users on the airfield are not 
dumping oil out behind the hangar.”
However, some residents are con-
cerned with who this will benefit, not just 
who it will harm.  
“Are we just funding a project for 
some private individuals who are lucky 
enough to be able to afford a plane?” 
Ruth Hardy said to VTDigger.  Yet, those 
planning the expansion argue that the 
community as a 
whole will feel the 
economic benefit.
C o n s i d e r i n g 
differing opin-
ions, ambivalent 
leadership and 
lack of fund-
ing, it comes as 
no surprise that 
this project has 
stalled for so 
long. As Lawrence 
Miller, former 
owner of Otter 
Creek Brewing 
Inc., wrote even 
back in 2006, the 
project “has been 
discussed for de-
cades.”
Given the recent support from the 
FAA and the state, the dream of having 
funds for this project has become a re-
ality.  As Rouelle noted, leadership has 
recently come together in a concerted ef-
fort to bring this project to fruition.
As it stands now, 65 percent of the 
plan will be presented in a community 
meeting on Dec. 6.  After that, the project 
will go out to bid mid-March and apply to 
the FAA for grant money by May 1.  
“We will most likely start clearing 
trees next fall,” Rouelle said.  “Then we’ll 
come back in the spring and start con-
struction on the project.”
After Several Decades, Efforts to 
Extend Airstrip Make Headway
By Alessandria Schumacher
Many Middlebury residents expressed appreciation for the revenue the College provided.
Local Editor
Aviation Agency of Transportation
“Whether those technol-
ogies are transportation 
technologies or manu-
facturing technologies 
or signal processing or 
nano-coatings or fuel 
-
els ... I want to to create 
advantage of that. ” 
Jamie Gaucher
Economic Development for MIddlebury
we can, and will contin-
-
are not dumping oil out 
Guy Rouelle
VTrans Aeronautics administrator
local
From 10,000 feet in the air, the 
Malone Parachute Club is just a small 
white box, indistinguishable from the 
neighboring hangars lining the airport. 
That is the altitude to which first time 
jumpers ascend for skydiving, and the 
height that Dave Malone took a local edi-
tor last Sunday for a tandem jump.
 Dave is the son of Dick Malone, the 
pilot of the plane and one of the older 
members of the not-for-profit club. The 
club itself has been around for over 40 
years, when a group of skydivers first 
purchased the assets from a New York 
company. Both father and son have been 
jumping for decades.
Last Sunday, the inside of their han-
gar was loud with the chatter of their 
friends, experienced jumpers coming in 
early to sign up on the daily schedule. 
The weather looked foreboding, but 
most were confident that the sky would 
clear up for a few “hop and pops” – quick 
ascents to altitudes below 10,000 feet. 
As the flurries of snow died down, 
they would begin to playfully tease the 
slower packers. One younger jumper, 
slower to pack his bag, joked that he’d 
slap the target with his hand when he 
landed. 
Eventually, the crew left the heated 
hangar and squeezed into a small red 
and white airplane. Minutes later, they 
jumped, plummeted to earth for several 
seconds, and then glided down gracefully 
‘under canopy’ after deploying their para-
chutes.
For first time jumpers, the club is re-
assuring, professional and friendly. Dave 
walks a newbie through the safety proce-
dures slowly and deliberately.
He starts by explaining that the forms 
you are required to sign, waivers ensur-
ing you understand the risk involved, are 
there for a reason.
He explained that skydiving involves 
a certain amount of risk, and that some-
thing could go wrong. But he also empha-
sized that there is risk in lots of sports, 
and that he is taking the same risk. 
“We are in this together,” he said 
confidently.
Next, Dave went through the equip-
ment piece by piece, explaining what the 
various harnesses did, how the altimeter 
works, what hand signals to pay atten-
tion to and how the jump would feel. He 
explained how the jumpsuits worked and 
how to put on the helmet, which looked 
like a football helmet out of the early 
1950’s.
Tandem jumpers are attached to an 
instructor at four points, two at the hips, 
and two at the shoulders. Each joint is de-
signed to hold the weight of the student 
should the others fail. 
There are several backup parachute 
systems, and one even designed to deploy 
should both jumpers somehow become 
unconcious. For first time jumpers, this 
is reassuring.
Next he reviewed the different posi-
tions that the student will assume after 
exiting the airplane. The student starts 
in a cannonball pose, acting as the weight 
of the duo, and later assumes the same 
spread position as the instructor. 
“Think of it like a badminton bird-
ie,” he explained. “I’m the feathers, and 
you’re the ball.”
After clambering aboard the plane 
and ascending for several minutes, Dave 
began to review the procedure for exiting 
the plane. The door swings open, and the 
tandem pair climbs out together under-
neath the inner part of the wing. 
For a few brief seconds, the view from 
10,000 feet above the ground is spectacu-
lar. The club is located just minutes from 
the Canadian border, overlooking Lake 
Champlain in Swanton, Vermont. 
Then, both jumpers tuck and roll 
backward, falling back off the wing and 
flipping as they shoot earthward.
At around 6,000 feet, Malone de-
ployed the parachute and steered the two 
riders safely to the ground. Upon exiting 
the plane to touching the ground, the en-
tire jump takes around just sixty seconds.
Although first timers are required 
to do tandem jumps, the club also of-
fers static line jumps to those who are 
interested. These are solo jumps, but the 
parachute will trigger automatically at a 
certain height.
Most of the jumpers present on Sun-
day were veterans, and had racked up 
jump counts into the high thousands. 
They were thrilled to be sharing the expe-
rience with a new jumper, and were con-
tratulatory when the duo arrived back to 
the runway.
Back at the hangar, the veterans 
traded jokes about their equipment in a 
language too difficult for a newcomer to 
parse. In fact, the most impressionable 
part of Malone Skydiving Club was was 
the feeling of fraternity among the sky-
divers. As the day wore on, they filmed 
the jumps on GoPro cameras, and took 
the footage into the back office to watch. 
They ribbed one jumper about his poor 
landing, and in another video, about the 
skydiver’s profanity while gliding down 
through a small flurry of snow.
Unfortunately for the skydiving com-
munity there,  the cold weather means an 
end to the season. Malone Skydiving Club 
will reopen in April. 
In the meantime, the group made 
contingency plans. Among them: a group 
jump in Mexico.
October 22, 2015 |   5Local
Harry Cramer
The Malone Skydiving Club owns one small plane, which operates in Swanton, Vermont.
Malone Skydiving Club Thrills New Jumpers
By Harry Cramer
Local Editor
New Film Showcases Historic Morgan Horse
By Harper Baldwin
Contributing Writer
The Fighting Breed: Heroic Horses 
of the Civil War is a new documentary 
that premiered in July 2015. It focuses 
on the immense role that the Morgan 
Horse played in the Civil War, and is the 
third part of a six-part documentary that 
chronicles the roles of the Morgan Horse 
in American history. The subsequent 
parts are still in production. The film is 
directed by Steve Murphy and produced 
by Douglas Lazarus, a Middlebury resi-
dent. Their project team consists of oth-
er Morgan horse historians. 
The inspiration for this documentary 
was the creation of “a unique documen-
tary of the story of America told through 
this breed’s involvement with that histo-
ry,” according to Lazarus. Morgans have 
been present in American history since 
1789, and are used to this day by farm-
ers, pleasure riders and even in equine 
therapy. 
Because of their unique role in his-
tory, Lazarus and his team hope to dis-
tribute the movie quite widely as an edu-
cational and historical aid that will raise 
awareness for the breed. The impacts of 
this breed are innumerable. According to 
Lazarus, “wherever you look in American 
history, you find Morgans.”
The film will be screened at the In-
ternational Museum of the Horse in 
Lexington, Kentucky with an audience 
of about 200,000 people. Lazarus hopes 
to continue this connection throughout 
each of the six installments of the docu-
mentary. Eventually, the team hopes to 
expand the documentary to an hour-long 
show to be used by PBS, The History and 
Learning Channels and other education-
al TV channels. 
Each of the six segments focuses on 
a different portion of the history of the 
Morgan Horse: the first on the origin of 
the breed, the second on how Morgan 
Horses earned their fame and their in-
volvement in the Pony Express and the 
Oregon Trail, the third on the horses’ 
involvement in the Civil War and the 
importance of the Vermont Cavalry in 
the Civil War, the fourth on the impor-
tance of Morgans in the Indian Wars, 
the fifth on the transition from horses to 
automobiles and how the Morgans’ in-
fluence lived on even as technology ad-
vanced, and finally, the sixth on the role 
of equine therapy for veterans from Viet-
nam. The last episode also addresses the 
Morgans’ continuing role in the culture 
of the United States.
The Morgan Horses’ history actually 
began in Central Vermont, where Justin 
Morgan first popularized the breed. Be-
cause Morgan did not want the horse but 
could not sell it due to its small stature, 
he began to loan the horse to other farm-
ers. The farmers were impressed with 
the intelligence, strength and adaptabil-
ity of this horse, so they began to breed 
him with their mares. Thus, the Morgan 
Horse was born.
Due to the genetic dominance of 
Morgan Horses, the breed can be mat-
ed with almost any other mare and the 
offspring will have essentially Morgan 
characteristics. Morgans were thus ir-
replaceable to the farmers of Vermont, 
and breeding Morgans became a thriv-
ing business. They were sold to southern 
farmers, although this trade ended with 
the beginning of the civil war.
As a result of the importance of the 
Morgan Horse in the history of Vermont 
and the United States, there is a mu-
seum in downtown Middlebury focused 
solely on the Morgan Horse called The 
National Museum of the Morgan Horse. 
According to the website of the muse-
um, its mission is to educate the public 
about the Morgan horse, urge for more 
research into the history of the Morgan 
and to collect and display artifacts about 
the Morgan Horse. 
Another essential part of the culture 
of the Morgan Horse in Vermont is the 
University of Vermont Morgan Horse 
Farm. The U.S. government originally 
created this breeding farm when the 
population of Morgan Horses was dan-
gerously low due to the number of horses 
killed in battle. In subsequent years the 
farm was turned over to the University 
of Vermont, and to this day this “line 
of Morgan Horse is considered one of 
the best in the world,” according to the 
farm’s website. Morgan Horse breeding 
is the second largest agricultural indus-
try in Vermont, and the impact of the 
Morgan Horse on the Vermont economy 
is approximately $27 million per year. 
As these statistics attest, the Morgan 
Horse has played an integral role in the 
history of Vermont and the U.S., which 
Lazarus hopes to celebrate in his docu-
mentary. He sums up the Morgan Horse 
as “a horse that did it all.”
The Morgan horse, pictured above, played a crucial war in both war and peace in America.
PhotoFunBlog.com
Harry Cramer
Old signs adorned he walls of the hangar.
As the last trees on campus dramatically 
change from green to gold, it is hard for 
members of the Middlebury community to 
lose sight of their natural surroundings. In 
fact, such a pristine 
backdrop makes it 
clear why the College 
was inspired to found 
-
gram in Environmen-
tal Studies, a pro-
gram that celebrates 
its 50th anniversary 
this year. As we attend these celebrations 
and take in our beautiful surroundings, we 
would do well to consider the ways in which 
Middlebury can continue to be a leader in 
-
ciples and stated aims, we as an editorial 
withdrawal of College funds from indus-
tries of environmental degradation – a pro-
cess known to many as divestment. Upon 
reviewing the evidence, we have concluded 
that drawbacks are scant compared to the 
way. A number of our editors remember 
hearing divestment discussed around cam-
pus over the years, but few recall a moment 
action.
In 2012, Divest Middlebury started a 
campaign calling on the administration to 
remove our investments from the top 200 
fossil fuel compa-
nies. Groups such 
as the Socially 
Responsib le 
Investing Club 
and Sunday 
Night Group 
endorsed the 
move, but 
their cause 
did not gar-
ner enough 
support for 
the admin-
istration to 
alter Mid-
d l e b u r y ’ s 
investment 
s t r a t e g y . 
Instead, the 
College stuck 
with Investure, 
an endowment 
manager, which in-
vests 1 percent of our 
endowment in top 200 oil and gas compa-
nies.
This portion of our endowment sits with 
money from Trinity College, Barnard Col-
lege, Dickinson College, Smith College and 
the University of Tulsa, with whom we re-
side in a consortium of investors. While it 
is unlikely that the College breaks its ties 
to investiture because of the returns and 
structure it provides, we propose that Mid-
dlebury, along with other schools within 
the consortium where divestment move-
ments are equally relevant, form a group 
within the fund that is divested. While this 
poses a logistical challenge, we do not be-
lieve it is insurmountable. Our consortium 
makes up six of Investure’s 13 clients, a 
to meet our demands to avoid losing half 
of its clients. While coordinating with so 
many separate institutions may prove dif-
-
vesture divest.
Furthermore, Middlebury should lead 
-
tainability. We recently celebrated the 
50th anniversary of our program in Envi-
ronmental Studies. Middlebury’s webpage 
decades, Middlebury has left an indelible 
mark on the environment and sustainabili-
ty in higher education. Today, the College is 
-
vironmental thought, research, 
and action…” 
But we see a 
disparity in what the College proclaims as 
our environmental mission and in our ac-
tions taken.
Middlebury loves to tout its goal of 
carbon neutrality by 2016, yet how can 
we stand by this pledge when the carbon 
footprint from our investments renders 
it meaningless? The College claims to be 
a “leader in environmental… action,” but 
how can we say this if we cower behind the 
bureaucracy of Investure and do not at-
tempt to leverage our case on divestment?
-
tion back to the students, where the divest-
ment movement began and where its suc-
cess depends. Divest Middlebury has made 
limited progress in persuading the Board of 
Trustees thus far, but we believe that this 
results from the lukewarm support of the 
student body. While many of us have ap-
peased our peers by signing their petitions 
for divestment, or perhaps we have even 
read an op-ed from Divest Middlebury, a 
lack of enthusiasm for the campaign across 
Many of us on the editorial board – and 
we expect that a number of our classmates 
could say the same – had not given much 
thought to divestment, but felt instinctively 
doubtful of it. We feel that some of the tac-
tics employed by Divest Middlebury in the 
shared by many students that divestment 
would negatively affect the College’s bot-
tom line.
Therefore, the Campus would like to 
set the record straight once and for all and 
proclaim our undeviating support for the 
cause. While divestment might seem too 
good to be true for Middlebury, it is not. 
According to the investment man-
-
vesting from the entire oil, gas and 
consumable fuels industry has a 
0.0034 percent penalty on returns 
and a 0.0101 percent increase in 
risk, quelling the fears of those 
-
cial losses.
Choosing to divest has politi-
beyond the cause’s short-term 
gains. Middlebury’s decision to 
withdraw funds from fossil fuel 
industries will likely spur our 
peer institutions to do the same. 
Furthermore, it will encourage 
environmentally-conscious appli-
cants – a demographic that only 
grows with new generations – to consider 
our College more seriously for its role as a 
bellwether of divestment.
The College’s own website celebrating 
“50 Years of Environmental Education & 
Leadership” states, “As we prepare for our 
50th anniversary celebration, we ask our-
selves – as we ask our students – not what is 
reasonable but what is possible. Not what is 
easy but what is right. And not what is now 
but what is next.” We call on the College to 
heed its own admirable words. To embrace 
the right choice, not the easy choice. Di-
vestment may not be “what is now,” but it 
could — and ought — to be next. Let’s live 
up to our reputation.
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor.  The 
Campus will not accept or print anonymous let-
ters. The opinions expressed by contributors to the 
Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, edi-
torial comics and other commentary, are views of 
the individual contributors and do not necessarily 
reflect the opinions of the newspaper. The Campus 
welcomes letters to the editor at 250 words or less, 
or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Sub-
mit works directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 
30, campus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web 
site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To be consid-
ered for publications, submissions must be received 
by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
Time to Divest
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Claire Abbadi
MANAGING EDITOR
Leah Lavigne
BUSINESS MANAGER
Wyatt French
NEWS EDITORS 
Christian Jambora, Eliza Teach, Phil Bohl-
man, Caroline Agsten 
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Kate Hamilton, Erin Van Gessel, Sara 
Hodgkins, Francesca Haass 
SPORTS EDITORS 
Joe Macdonald, Alex Morris, Emily Bustard 
Andrew Rigas
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Alessandria Schumacher, 
Annie Grayer
FEATURES EDITORS 
Emilie Munson, Hye-Jin Kim, 
Jack Apollo George
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Elizabeth Zhou, Toby Aicher, Oakley Haight 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel Frank, Anahi Naranjo, Michael 
O’Hara, Anthea Viragh 
DESIGN EDITOR
Cordelia Prouvost
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Maggie Cochrane, Jerrica Davy 
COPY EDITOR
Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOST
Nathaniel Wiener
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR
 Nathaniel Wiener
VIDEO EDITOR
Jason Zhang
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
JENA RITCHEY
Divestment: It’s Not Just Our Turn,
 It’s Our Obligation
One year ago, the Rockefeller Brothers 
Fund divested $860 million from the fossil 
fuel industry. Now it’s our turn.
The philanthropic fund bears the well-
known name of John D. Rockefeller, phi-
lanthropist and founder of Standard Oil, the 
company we now know as ExxonMobil. His 
heirs’ uncoupling from the fossil fuel indus-
try and entrance 
into the ranks of 
over 450 institu-
tions that have 
divested from 
fossil fuels works 
to fundamentally 
shift the way we 
think and talk about the fossil fuel economy. 
Steven C. Rockefeller and the other trustees 
of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund have estab-
lished that it is simply not enough to promote 
green innovation; it is imperative to chal-
lenge our implicit support of an industry that 
communities. 
It is well established in climate science and 
public discourse that there exists an excess of 
fossil fuels on this planet. Our atmosphere 
and well-being as a globe will be compro-
mised beyond remediation long before the 
planet’s fossil fuels are depleted. What isn’t 
often enough remembered is that the fossil 
fuel industry knew ¬¬well before the general 
public that their product was destroying the 
planet. Indeed, ExxonMobil executives made 
strategic decisions as early as 1981 based on 
the established connection between fossil 
fuel extraction and climate change.
Instead of using early knowledge of cli-
mate change to propel research into clean en-
ergy or create an awareness of the large-scale 
dangers of an extractive economy, ExxonMo-
bil chose to fund climate change deniers in 
people across the world labored to extract oil 
and gas, the majority of the company’s prof-
its funneled back into the United States. 
This is where we come in. Not necessarily 
because we want to be involved, but because 
we must be involved. We as a nation have 
been drawn into this conversation by burning 
oil from across the planet and exporting the 
effects of our consumption back across the 
globe.  The United States comprises about 
four percent of the world’s population and 
as of 2008, we emit about 19 percent of the 
world’s carbon dioxide. As an institution, we 
pride ourselves on our efforts towards “sus-
tainability.” With our carbon neutrality goal, 
we eschew consuming fossil fuels on campus 
and yet when considering our endowment, 
fossil fuels are not seen as detrimental to our 
“greenness” but as diversity in our portfolio.
Here in Vermont, we do not yet feel the 
most dramatic effects of climate change. 
Rising sea levels affect island and low-lying 
nations, volatile “booming” and “busting” 
economies affect those communities closest 
to extraction sites, pipelines commonly cut 
across the lands of those without the resourc-
has called climate change “the human rights 
challenge of our time” and he’s right.  While 
we, Middlebury students, reach for “global 
our consumption. As we reinforce “our com-
mitment to integrating environmental stew-
ardship,” as outlined in our mission state-
ment, what do we overlook?
Middlebury is seen as an example of sus-
tainability around the world. We have the 
luxury to build a biomass plant or go carbon 
neutral independently from the national en-
ergy infrastructure. “Go green yourself” is 
our message to the world, but our solutions 
are not accessible to most. The fossil fuel in-
dustry is so entrenched in our national and 
global infrastructure that it prevents a green 
and just transition for the vast majority of 
the world’s population. Middlebury’s accom-
plishments in green technological innovation 
are laudable, but as a privileged leader on the 
global stage, it is our obligation to not only 
improve our own energy consumption but 
to challenge the credibility of the industries 
that exploit and perpetuate our global depen-
dence on fossil fuels.
Reader 
Op-Ed
Maeve Grady ’16.5 
is from Littleton, MA.  
Open Letter to the President and Trustees
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Steven C. Rockefeller has had a career 
as a scholar and teacher, an environmental 
conservationist, and a philanthropist. His 
research, writing, and teaching have been 
and ethics. He has had a special interest in 
the transition to a sustainable future and the 
a global ethic for building a just, sustainable 
Professor Rockefeller is professor emeri-
-
mont, where he taught from 1970 to 1998 
and also served as dean of the college and 
chair of the religion department. He re-
ceived his bachelor of arts degree from 
in 1963, and his doctorate in the philoso-
Religious Faith and Democratic Human-
the Bodhisattva (SUNY, 1987) and Spirit 
-
gious Issue (Beacon, 1992). His other publi-
Professor Rockefeller and Professor John 
Elder organized and directed at Middle-
-
lic television. In the mid-1990s, Professor 
Environmental Council. Under his leader-
ship, the Council prepared and submitted to 
-
mental report on the state of the college with 
22 recommendations. Professor Rockefeller 
served as president of the Demeter Fund, 
-
Champlain and the Adirondack Mountains. 
He is the founding president of the Otter 
-
mont. 
-
er has served as a trustee of the Rockefeller 
Brothers Fund, an international founda-
tion with grantmaking programs in demo-
cratic practice, sustainable development, 
and peacebuilding. From 1998 to 2006 he 
chaired the RBF board of trustees. Among 
the other boards and commissions on which 
he has served are the National Commission 
-
the Asian Cultural Council, and the Council 
Costa Rica. He is a member of the Council on 
Foreign Relations. 
Over the past two decades, Professor 
the Earth Charter Initiative, which in and 
through extensive worldwide, cross cultural 
articulate shared values that provide an 
ethical foundation for the emerging global 
the Earth Charter international drafting 
committee for the Earth Charter Commis-
declaration of global interdependence and 
principles for creating a just, sustainable 
Earth Charter Commission at the Peace 
to 2010, Professor Rockefeller served as 
co-chair of the Earth Charter International 
Earth Charter has been translated into over 
IUCN. 
Professor Rockefeller lives with his wife, 
Professor Barbara Bellows Rockefeller, in 
Pound Ridge, New York.
| October 15, 2015 7opinions
 Every culture, no matter what country or 
government, develops traits that distinguish 
the socially privileged from the impover-
ished. Usually, they’re ridiculous societal 
quirks. Cars in Manhattan are a fantastic 
one, which means you’re driving to show 
something. Implicitly, you’re screaming to 
the world that you 1) have time to wait on 
infested streets honking your horn inces-
santly and 2) have enough money to invest 
in a useless chunk of steel that has no utility 
where you live. Another good example are 
fur coats in Moscow, where noses mysteri-
ously upturn at anyone who isn’t wearing a 
dead animal around their neck.
In Las Vegas, I encountered this in stark 
clarity. The status symbol of the Nevadan 
bourgeoisie isn’t an expensive car, nor is it 
a luxurious fur coat. It’s membership in the 
Literary Society, an aggrandized book club. 
They meet in whatever ritzy venue they de-
sire and discuss their chosen prose, inviting 
the author to share a gourmet “brunch.” 
They also invite (for philanthropic rea-
sons, I assume) local English teachers and 
their students. I was one of those students 
last January. I remember wealth, lots of it, 
worn on the necks of lawyers and casino-
crats. Many appeared bloated with botox 
and hairspray. None of them really struck 
me as especially intriguing, except one – the 
invited author. He was a Pulitzer Prize-win-
an easy grin and a book called “Deep Dark 
Down: The Untold Stories of 33 Men Buried 
in a Chilean Mine and the Miracle that set 
Them Free.” His name was Hector Tobar.
It’s safe to imagine that the 33 Chilean 
miners don’t possess the status symbols of 
their society. I doubt they had excessive cars 
or extravagant fur coats in their ten-week 
vacation in Hades, either. Their narrative is 
one the world has forgotten. In 2010, a few 
months after an earth-shattering quake, the 
San Jose copper-gold mine in the Atacama 
Desert collapsed on them. Their supervisor 
– who probably does have an excessive car 
and extravagant fur coat or two – happened 
to be absent. They were trapped in the abyss 
for sixty-nine days. Everything was dark-
ness, literally and metaphorically. The only 
brains with every grumble of the cavern. 
In the words of Jose Ojeda: “we were a 
pack of sheep, and the mountain was about 
to eat us.” And that trauma understandably 
bled into the sunlight and the “good” years 
that have passed since. One, for example, 
washed up drunk and suicidal enough to 
For a group as celebritized as the miners, 
you would think they would have been of-
fered the best psychological assistance avail-
able on Earth.
 They sure were buried in mountains of 
other stuff. They were offered planned trips 
– although most ended up not happening 
– to Britain, Jamaica, the Dominican Re-
public, Israel, Spain and Greece and a new 
motorcycle from Kawasaki Chile. As noted 
in El Segundo, each miner was promised 
approximately 19 million pesos ($38,000) 
in “vacations, clothing, and donations.” Not 
only did they not receive major psychologi-
cal help, they also were skimped that com-
pensation.
A CNN article published in August point-
ed out that “today, many of the miners have 
trouble making ends meet, some living off 
of government pension, which pays about 
$500 a month. That’s roughly half of what 
they made working at the San Jose mine.”
Others have returned to mining. Hector 
Tobar’s transcription of one victim’s story, 
Luis Urzua, is heart-wrenching: “to have 
yourself obliged to work underground in a 
second mine, with the same boss who once 
left you behind” is the “life of a miner.” A 
few years ago, we were the ones who lauded 
them with gifts and celebrity that most of 
them publicly stated they didn’t want.
 We treated them like the Kardashians. 
Then we threw them out, back into normal-
cy, back into the mines.
 But there’s still hope. If you go into town, 
see advertises “The 33” for November 13th.
 It’s a movie adaptation of the Chilean 
miners’ story, starring Antonio Banderas. At 
-
cally pointed out that ticket sales transitive-
ly fund the miners. The movie is a charity. 
And that’s great. . . until you think about it 
more deeply. While the miners themselves 
cycle through traumatic depression and 
impoverished wages, we in the First World 
can garble popcorn and watch portrayals of 
their suffering on gigantic silver screens. It’s 
exploitative, but it’s their last hope.
It’s their last possible way of reaping 
compensation for the tragedy that they ex-
perienced.
For this reason, I urge readers to book a 
ticket for November 13th.
Don’t come away from this article think-
ing the exploitation entitles you to skip it. 
You have the privilege to skip the portrayal 
of the miners’ suffering, but they don’t. 
They’re living it; they’re experiencing it right 
now.
Let’s make “The 33” sell out.
  8 October 15, 2015| opinions
Hope for “The 33”
Poverty Prose
Travis Sanderson ‘19 
is from Las Vegas, NV
staff writers 
We treated them like the 
Kardashians. Then we threw 
them out, back into normal-
cy, back into the mines.
To the Editor,
The Campus opinion pages have in-
cluded a number of references as of late 
to the Center for Careers & Internships 
(CCI) and its perceived role in not only 
adding stress to students’ lives as they 
consider summer plans and/or life after 
Middlebury, but also for doing too little 
in offering students opportunities, 
programming and advice beyond fi-
nance.  I would like to offer my own 
thoughts on this as well as to correct a 
few factual errors. 
First the facts: 24 percent of those 
employed in the Class of 2015 (56 per-
cent) went into financial services, not 
24% of all graduating seniors. Also, 
the MiddNet alumni volunteer net-
work does not have zero volunteers in 
the fields of government, communica-
tions and the arts but instead 237, 521 
and 271, respectively.  In addition, CCI 
programming brings hundreds of alums 
back to campus in every field, with our 
Field Guides, UpNext, Career Conver-
sations, @Middlebury, the Preparation 
& Possibilities Sophomore Conference 
and more.  Also worth noting is the fact 
that 350-400 Midd alums and parents in 
every field are posting jobs and intern-
ships on MOJO. 
Ironically, on the day that the Campus 
editorial appeared urging us to “expand 
our offerings to include more opportuni-
ties that deviate from the finance track,” 
here’s what we had on tap for just that 
one week:
· “Sushi and Social Change: Careers 
with Social Impact in the Common 
Good,” where 75 students, parents and 
alums joined in a wide-ranging conver-
sation on what matters to them in their 
current and future work.
· 
“Google @ Middlebury,” a two-day event 
with five alums and 130 students at-
tending the pizza social info session on 
Google opportunities in design, legal, 
PR, HR, marketing, tech and more.  An-
other 100 students took advantage of 
alum resume reviews the following day.
· “Design Your Senior Year,” a pro-
gram low on stress and high on thinking 
outside the box on how to plan for life 
after Middlebury.
· “JumpStart Your Job Search:  Ca-
reers in Education,” held on two days for 
seniors whose passion is education.
·“Self-Assessment Workshops for Se-
niors” to help students refine their ideas 
about what types of work might be most 
compatible.
· “Symposium on Careers in the Law,” 
with Midd alums talking about their 
paths to law school and how they ended 
up in such diverse legal careers.
The editorial urged “students to be 
in charge of their own futures” – we 
couldn’t agree more.  The fact is that 
most Midd grads want or need to 
work, and we’re here to help with that 
process of exploration.
  CCI’s work is all in the service of 
2500+ students who are very diverse 
in their four-year paths to their post-
graduate pursuits.  We’re looking for 
students to be partners in the process, 
to be engaged with CCI early and of-
ten, to understand that it is their fu-
ture to embrace and that while planning 
for it needs to be as much a part of their 
undergraduate journey as choosing their 
major, studying abroad, playing a sport 
or volunteering, it is never to be at the 
expense of being a student of the lib-
eral arts but instead a complement.  To 
ensure that a liberal arts education re-
mains relevant in the 21st century, not 
only do we need to remain committed to 
a rigorous curriculum as the foundation 
of this education, we must also complete 
it with equally strong expectation and 
opportunity for our students to become 
full partners in a truly global community 
– and engage the world.
I write this after just returning from 
an inspiring lunch we co-sponsored 
with Chellis House, spending an hour 
with WAGS (now GSFS) major Lauren 
Curatolo ’06 and 30+ students as she 
talked about her path from Middlebury 
to Goldman Sachs to law school to her 
current position, working for the Brook-
lyn-based Legal Aid Society, the coun-
try’s oldest and largest not-for-profit 
legal services organization dedicated to 
providing quality legal representation to 
low-income New Yorkers.
Students, whatever your calling – law, 
acting, journalism, conservation biology, 
medicine, writing, teaching, social jus-
tice, dancing, Wall Street, international 
development – and even, and perhaps 
especially, if you don’t have one yet – the 
CCI team is working hard to engage you 
to make this process less stressful, more 
intentional and part of the undergradu-
ate adventure.
Peggy Burns, Director
Center for Careers & Internships
Letter to the Editor
This Monday night will be the first 
official “10 o’clock Ross.” (Translation: 
continental food will now be available in 
Ross Dining Hall from 10 pm to 11 pm 
every Monday-Thursday night.) We are 
very excited that the folks in Dining Ser-
vices were willing to work with us on this 
initiative. If you see Dan Detora around, 
thank him! From the beginning, Dan lis-
tened to students and was enthusiastic 
about turning ideas into action. 
But, to be sure, enacting change does 
not end with administrators. Ultimately, 
it is on us, the students, to foster our 
campus culture and sense of community.
Like many other colleges and uni-
versities around the country today, we 
have been participating in a dialogue 
surrounding stress. While some of us 
may be looking to the administration 
for tangible changes that address cer-
tain pressures, (and there is, of course, 
legitimacy in that), we believe that stu-
dents can play a role too. In this spirit, 
we hope students will take advantage of 
10 o’clock Ross in the following weeks.
What would it look like if we, as a stu-
dent body, committed to one hour of no 
academic stress? What if we, instead, 
spent that hour together, exchanging 
meaningful conversation over a bowl 
of cereal or playing bananagrams with 
new friends while drinking a cup of tea? 
What if we made a concerted effort to 
not let our conversations be dominated 
by recounting all of the papers we have 
to write and exams for which we have to 
study, and instead discussed that inspir-
ing reading we did or performance we 
saw?
10 o’clock Ross presents a unique op-
portunity. It is not yet defined, and all of 
us have the power to set the tone. Let’s 
take ownership over our community and 
our culture. Instead of letting 10 o’clock 
Ross turn into a room full of computers 
and readings and problem sets, let’s use 
it to catch up with our friends, grab some 
ice cream (or perhaps hot chocolate), 
and end our nights as a community, to-
gether. 
REaDER OP-ED
Ilana Gratch ‘16 is the SGA 
President from Larchmont, NY.
Tiffany Chang ‘17.5 is the Student 
co-Chair of the Community Council 
from Larkspur, CA.
Claire Abbadi ‘16 is the Editor-in-
Chief from McLean, VA.
Student Leadership on 10 O’Clock Ross
“Ultimately, it is on us, the 
students, to foster our cam-
pus culture and sense of 
community.”
“The editorial urged ‘students 
to be in charge of their own fu-
tures’ – we couldn’t agree more. 
The fact is that most Midd grads 
want or need to work, and we’re 
here to help with that process of 
exploration.”
 9advertisementsOctober 22, 2015   
10features | october 22, 2015
by Josie Trichka
If you’ve passed through the Ridge-
line area recently, you’ve noticed the rap-
id development occurring on the Ridge-
line townhouses. Ridgeline “woods” now 
looks like a giant sandbox demarcated 
by bright orange netting. Last Thursday 
morning, sporting a fashionable yellow 
hard hat, I crossed over the orange tape 
into the construction site. 
I met Tom McGinn, the College’s 
project manager for Ridgeline residence 
construction, and Kevin Burke, Superin-
tendent for Naylor & Breen Builders, Inc. 
at the job trailer near the pottery house on 
Ridgeline Road. 
Burke pulled out some of the archi-
tectural plans for the building so I could 
see how the designs would be translated 
into physical structures. There were at 
least thirty separate, incredibly intricate 
-
ent wall types to be implemented, where 
the shear walls for stability in a wind-
every room. 
“Right now, we’re doing the site’s en-
tire infrastructure,” said Burke. 
This means installing new sewer 
lines, water lines and electrical lines fol-
lowing site excavation. This also means 
keeping track of many pipes. 
“The biggest job for me is to make 
sure everything is coordinated,” he said. 
“If I give a set of plans to the plumber, 
[say] he goes out 
there and puts 
in whatever he 
wants to put in 
his plumbing 
wall. Maybe that 
wall is a four inch 
wall and they’re 
putting a six inch 
pipe in it … It’s 
not big enough. 
So I try to make 
sure that every-
thing gets put 
time. If every day 
is like ‘Well, you 
have to rip that out and redo it,’ then mo-
rale goes down and everybody doesn’t 
give a damn anymore.”
McGinn mirrored Burke’s attitude.
“Changes are the worst thing, because 
then you have to stop,” he said. “The most 
expensive part of any construction job is 
time. If you fall behind, you have to try to 
buy time and you work overtime – that 
gets really expensive … You just want to 
get going and do it in one fell swoop.” 
Right now, there are about thirty 
workers on site. But when construction 
really gets underway, there will be as 
many as one hundred people on site. 
On a typical day, Burke meets with 
his foremen and goes over what needs to 
be done each day along with any changes 
that need to be made to previous work. 
“Each foreman for each crew has a 
his guys and or-
ders the materi-
al, and I basical-
ly oversee him 
and make sure 
he’s got it in the 
right spot and 
that he’s built it 
right.” 
A l t h o u g h 
Naylor & Breen 
is the main con-
tractor in charge 
of Ridgeline 
construct ion, 
they also “sub 
out”, or out-
source tasks through a bidding process if 
another contractor can do the work for a 
lower price than Naylor & Breen can do it 
themselves. 
“Like on this job,” said Burke. “We 
subbed out concrete and we’re going to 
sub out some of the framing. The site 
work we’re mainly doing ourselves.”
underway, I was curious how the inevita-
ble heavy snowfall and intense Vermont 
-
cess.  
“We just need to get going before the 
cold weather,” said Burke. “Once it gets 
cold, we have to put additives in the con-
crete, and then we have to heat it, and 
that costs a lot of extra money.  So we re-
ally jumped right on it.” 
Snow days are also an unlikely option 
for the construction workers. 
“I’ve only gone home one day in my 
life, when it was snowing so hard we 
couldn’t even see. On this job, we have 
to be done by August 15 no matter what,” 
said Burke. 
Then he smiled, “So we’re the guys 
who are rain or shine, snow or sleet – not 
Burke walked me around the site and 
-
es, including the use of explosives. 
“The ledge right here, this rock – they 
drilled down through all that rock and 
then blasted it out.  We dug it all out and 
put it in that pile right there and have to 
explosive, was used to blast through the 
rock. 
“It looks like a sausage tube with 
some wires inside, just like you seen on 
TV … We went around with this machine 
[the drilling rig], and probed down to see 
what the height of the ledge [rock] was,” 
Burke said. “We’ll then take the plastic ex-
plosive and put them [the blasting mats] 
When the blast happens, the mats will go 
The presence of the ledge on the site is 
-
move. “It slows things down when there’s 
a lot of ledge,” he said. “These guys spent 
two days just drilling all of this, and it’ll 
take another day to hammer it all out.”
speeds up the process, it cannot be used 
to remove the ledge in the area of the site 
closest to Tavern due to a pre-existing wa-
ter line. Burke explained that they would 
have to use the drilling rig and rock ham-
mer to remove the rock formation. 
me drive the excavator. I clambered up 
into the vehicle, where he showed me how 
-
ent parts of the machine, and how they 
worked in tandem to scoop up dirt.  There 
was no better way to end my construc-
tion site tour than living out my child-
hood dream of driving a “dump truck” in 
what may now look like a giant sandbox, 
but will soon be luxurious upperclassmen 
housing.  
behind the Vest: From Quiet 
Woods to Giant Sandbox
A construction worker labors on the foundation of the new Ridgeline Townhouses.
How is it Still a 
(Midd) Thing? 
by Charlie Ascher
“I’ve only gone home one 
day in my life, when it was 
snowing so hard we couldn’t 
even see. (...) So we’re the 
guys who are rain or shine, 
snow or sleet — not the post 
kevin burke
superintendent for naylor  & Breen  builders, inc
It has been 285 days since the Col-
lege unveiled its new logo. Each and ev-
ery one of those days could have been 
just a tad bit better if the new logo never 
existed.
looks like the College proudly unified 
with DeVry University to create one com-
prehensive institution. I look forward to 
our inevitable rebranding to MiddVry 
University and the opening up of stu-
dent enrollment to the acclaimed DeVry 
School of Small Business Management 
Seriously, our new logo sucks. Yes, I 
know we complained about it plenty last 
year, but I did not write this column last 
year and it still fits the theme, as the logo 
is still a thing when it should very much 
not be.
If you haven’t yet watched the re-
lease video for the new logo, I highly rec-
ommend you do. The background mu-
sic sounds exactly like the music you’d 
imagine an accounting firm would play 
in the background of its recruiting video. 
On top of the accounting background 
music, the logo video does an incredible 
job at blatantly avoiding explaining why 
the College decided that emojis were 
probably the best things to include in 
the logo. Nothing says “esteemed global 
institute of higher learning” like a globe 
emoji and a book emoji, right guys? 
Guys?
Also let us not forget that the video 
tells us for a solid three quarters of its 
duration just how exciting it is that all of 
our institutions now have the same iden-
tifying logo and that this is a BIG DEAL.
And then the last quarter of the video 
arrives. PUMP FAKE. We actually have 
different logo to embrace its “indepen-
dent history and West Coast location.” 
So apparently we don’t have a compre-
hensive logo for everything … I’m just as 
confused as you are.
-
sire to have one logo for all of the Col-
lege’s entities. The problem is how the 
logo came into being. The logo release 
video proudly tells you that the logo went 
through screening after screening from a 
wide variety of people and then edit after 
edit until everyone was happy. The whole 
point of the logo is to apparently include 
as much as possible about what the Col-
lege has to offer. The College shouldn’t 
have to do that.
We are not a for-profit institution 
functioning as a corporate entity at-
tempting to brand our way into rel-
evance. We are a 215-year-old, highly 
respected institution of higher learning. 
By putting the logo through focus group 
after focus group, we’ve been left with 
something that can only offend someone 
with its mediocrity.
Rather than representing a unique 
institution “that is more than the sum of 
its parts,” as the video proudly declares, 
the logo actually feels less than Midd. We 
can do better. Let’s get rid of the emojis 
and the focus groups and try again.
Josie Trichka
Josie Trichka
After the trees were cleared, machines leveled the land for the Townhouse construction.
11featuresOCTOBER 22, 2015   
Carbon Countdown: Heating Up the College
The largest contribution to the Col-
lege’s carbon emissions comes from 
heating and cooling buildings. When the 
Climate Action Plan (CAP) was imple-
mented in 2008, heating and cooling 
constituted 89 percent of the College’s 
emissions. Most of the emissions came 
from the combustion of  no. 6 fuel oil to 
heat and cool buildings; the College was 
burning about two million gallons per 
year, which released 23,877 metric tons 
of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCDE) in 
2006-07. Another 2,009 MTCDEs came 
from the combustion of no. 2 fuel oil, 
and 623 from propane. The CAP clearly 
stressed the need to use carbon neutral 
fuel sources to heat and cool the campus 
if the College is to reach carbon neutrality 
by 2016.
The College’s biomass plant, opened 
in 2009, was a major step toward making 
the College carbon neutral. 
There are two important questions 
when considering the biomass plant. 
How does it function, and how does this 
correlate to reduced net emissions? The 
College’s plant uses a process known 
as biomass gasification, where wood-
chips are superheated with a controlled 
amount of oxygen so that they do not ac-
tually combust. The resulting gas, called 
syngas (synthetic gas), is then combust-
ed and the heat is used to make steam, 
which is piped throughout campus to 
heat, cool, make hot water and cook. This 
method of combustion is very efficient, 
and is carbon neutral because the same 
amount of carbon dioxide is released as is 
absorbed by the trees that are consumed 
in the process.
While the net emissions from the bio-
mass plant are zero, this does not mean 
it has no emissions. The emissions from 
the plant are not significantly lower than 
those from burning fuel oil, but the bio-
mass facility utilizes a filtration system 
to clean up the exhaust, removing 99.7 
percent of particulates. The emissions 
resulting from chipping and transporting 
the wood to the biomass facility are not 
factored into the assessment of carbon 
neutrality.
Another important aspect of bio-
mass is where the fuel comes from. The 
College joined with the State University 
of New York College of Environmental 
Science and Forestry (SUNY-ESF) on a 
project to test the feasibility of willow 
shrubs as a source of wood chips for the 
biomass plant. Willow shrubs are fast 
growing, and could be planted on unused 
farmland to generate additional income 
for local farmers. After the first harvest 
in 2010, it was determined that willow 
shrubs are not an effective fuel source for 
the College’s biomass plant. The College 
continues to source their chips from log-
ging operations within 
a 75-mile radius.
In addition to the 
use of biomass to gen-
erate steam, heating 
and cooling emissions 
can be reduced by im-
proving building effi-
ciency. When the CAP 
was assembled, a sur-
vey of buildings at the 
College indicated that 53 percent of the 
square footage on campus performed well 
below current energy code standards.
Since the report, the College has in-
deed made strides to improve the per-
formance of its infrastructure. In 2008, 
Franklin Environmental Center at Hill-
crest received Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum 
certification, the highest possible certifi-
cation. More recently, the squash center 
also obtained LEED Platinum certifica-
tion, and the College is seeking LEED 
Gold certification for the new field house.
Unfortunately, the new townhouses 
being constructed in Ridgeline will not 
be required to be LEED certified. The 
College’s agreement with Kirchhoff Cam-
pus Properties, who is building the new 
dorms, does not require the company to 
seek LEED certification for the complex. 
Given the recent progress with the squash 
center and Virtue Field House, this is a 
disappointing step in the wrong direction 
for the College.
All of the Col-
lege’s developments 
have contributed to a 
66 percent reduction 
in net emissions from 
stationary combustion 
sources, such as boil-
ers, heaters and ovens. 
From 2013 to 2014, the 
College emitted only 
8,996 MTCDEs due to stationary com-
bustion, as compared to 26,509 MTCDEs 
in 2006-2007.
Recent improvements have con-
tributed to reduced net emissions and 
reliance upon fossil fuels, but have not 
solved the College’s heating and cooling 
problem. The biomass plant eliminated 
the need for one million gallons of no. 2 
fuel oil each year, leaving another million 
gallons to address.  What has the College 
done about the next million gallons of 
fuel oil and what can still be done? That 
is the “million gallon question.”
At a Campus alumni gathering last 
weekend, a former editor brought along 
several old issues of the Campus from the 
70s. As well as being astonished by the 
amount of work that was accomplished by 
a far smaller editorial board with far less 
tech at their disposal, we were particu-
larly intrigued by one column. Each issue 
this paper’s history and this year we have 
decided to revive that idea, bringing you 
Falling back on the sound theory that it 
each, than for one person to pay three dol-
lars, the Soph Hop committee has decided 
to make the annual class dance a Dutch-
In order to keep the price of the eve-
ning down, corsages will be banned; thus, a 
man can make a date for the Hop, knowing 
full well that he can dance to a good orches-
tra all evening for not more than a dollar-
cents) … With this share-expenses  idea, 
many a problem will undoubtedly arise in 
the mind of an undergraduate. Can he, with 
propriety, invite a girl to a dance and ask 
time?
Men, banish your fears. Recent labo-
ratory tests have shown that the women 
of Middlebury are not only able, but ready 
and willing to share the costs of Soph Hop. 
by Grace Levin
Contributing Columnist
by Forrest Wallace
Contributing Columnist
In 2008, healing and 
cooling constituted 
89 percent
 of the College’s 
emissions. 
grace levin
A schedule of Homecoming weekend posted in the Middlebury Campus in 1941.  
GREEN PEPPERS
Official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
ft
(802) 388-3164
OCTOBER 22, 1941
CORRECTION: In our October 15, 2015 piece “Alum Creates Podcast on Bernie Sanders’s Grassroots Campaign,” it was incorrectly implied that Sanders himself was the leader of “Ber-
| October  22, 2015 12 Features october 22, 2015 | 13features
1. How 
would you 
summarize 
your show?
This show is about 
love, lust, small claims 
disputes, and a red-hot 
attitude. This is the authorized 
soundtrack to Judith Sheindlin’s 
courtroom. Two words: CASE 
DISMISSED.
2. What is the genre of your show?
Comedy talk sounds like a good descriptor. We 
also intersperse our talk with audio clips of real-
life small claims disputes aired on Judge Judy.
3. Do you ever have guests on the show?
It is normally the two of us, though we might invite a few 
guests over the course of the semester. We are working on 
getting Judith herself to come on air.
4. What was your hot case of the fall?
Our favorite case we happened to cover involved two blonde frenemies 
getting into a scuffle by the pool. Water-logged iPhone 6 = high profile 
televised small claims court case. Blonde frenemy #1’s only point of defense: 
“It was an accident!” Sorry chica. Don’t shove your friend into the piscina en el 
futuro. CASE DISMISSED.
1. How would you summarize your show?
Your birthday is the best day of every year “so why not 
join us as we explore body image and vulnerability 
through some sweet tunes and convos in our birthday 
suits! We’ll be baring a lot more than our souls.
2. What is the genre of your show?
Our show has a different theme each week (for 
example last week’s was powerful women) so the genre 
varies a lot, but we always find a way to connect it to 
vulnerability and feeling good in our skin.
3. Do you ever have guests on the show?
It’s just us two hosting, but the show’s been going for 
about a year now and we’ve had a lot of (naked) guests 
on the show to share stories/music. 
4. What was your hot track of the fall?
Sonsick by San Fermin
Why?: Rhythms in Revolt started out with Austin and I asking the 
same question: why are there no shows on WRMC that dialogue 
with the struggles of workers and other popular movements 
in Vermont? From there, we've embarked on a process of 
musical and political discovery, showcasing some of the 
most incisive and radical voices in the auditory arts. 
Ultimately, we're hoping to infuse Addison County's 
airwaves with some movement music while also 
informing listeners on how to get involved 
right here and now.
Genre: Tunes to provoke our souls and 
our politics.
Who can we expect to hear?: 
From Ana Tijoux to Blue 
Scholars; prison work 
songs to Angolan 
socialist hymns; 
Silvio Rodríguez 
to Las 
Cafeteras. 
Why?: Sari I'm not Sari started two years ago. My co-DJ (who 
has since graduated) and I would construct a playlist with 
Bollywood and Indie songs, our tagline was a little Indie, a little 
Hindi. We would match pairs of songs based on either sound, 
meaning or just free association. Once she graduated, I did the 
show alone playing only Bollywood songs. I try and do different 
themes with my show and also explore Indian culture. I did a 
playlist with songs about Indian festivals which was super fun. 
Other themed playlists include songs about rain, songs which 
have the same actor in it, songs from a particular year and so on. 
I always do it in the morning so my parents can listen and it's a 
great way to start my day. 
Genre?: Bollywood + Indie
Who can we expect to hear?: Arijit Singh, Mohit Chauhan, 
Sunidhi Chauhan, AR Rahman, Shreya Ghoshal.
Why?: The idea for our show came from trying to figure 
out what genre we wanted to focus on this semester. We’ve 
had a show together for the past three semesters, but we’ve 
never had the same theme. I like the blues and blues-inspired 
rock and Kristen is really into alternative music. We couldn’t 
decide on just one genre, so we decided to find the overlap 
between our music tastes. We also played a Nirvana cover of 
a Lead Belly song during a show last spring. That’s where the 
name came from. We try to trace chains of influence from 
a blues or folk artist to modern rock and alternative artists. 
So each show is brief history of the development of a certain 
kind of sound.
Genre?: Blues. It has two levels of meaning because Nirvana 
actually did sing the blues, but also the kind of music that 
most people associate with Nirvana has its roots in the blues. 
Who can we expect to hear?: Howlin’ Wolf, Robert Johnson, 
the Allman Brothers, Nirvana, the White Stripes, and 
Courtney Barnett. 
The Campus: How would you summarize your show’?
Isabella Carey: Eclectic arrangement of Russian and English songs that have inspired me in 
the past week.  
The Campus: What inspired you to host this show? 
IC: This summer, my friend and I attended Russian language school at Middlebury. 
We decided it would be fun and different to do a radio program entirely in 
Russian, and discover Russian music. It turned out to be the best hour of 
our week and the highlight of language school experience. When school 
started, I decided to continue with it alone (Emma isn’t a Middlebury 
student) to continue sharing the awesome music we discovered. 
The Campus: What’s the most interesting song you’ve played?
IC: Last week, I played a new song I found that was really 
intense, but hadn’t had time research it. While the song was 
playing, I googled it. It turned out to be a Pagan rock 
song... 
The Campus: Looking forward, what can listeners 
expect next week? 
IC: This week listeners can expect some 
of my favorite artists and a few cultural 
songs.
The Campus: Why should people 
tune in? 
IC: For super sweet tunes in 
both Russian and English! 
The 
Campus: 
How would 
you summarize 
your show? 
Cole Merrell: My 
show's purpose is 
basically to give myself a 
venue to annoyingly ask people 
probing questions about their 
personal lives.
The Campus: What makes your show 
unique? 
CM: My show is unique because few other 
radio morning shows are about love and intimacy 
and have me hosting them. There are some, but they 
are few. 
The Campus: What’s the most interesting topic you’ve 
discussed so far? 
CM: We've only done one episode so far, and I wouldn't so 
much call it "interesting" as "something that happened" but I 
did talk to Aashna Aggarwal, WRMC's content director about her 
relationship history and love of Taylor Swift.
The Campus: What can listeners expect to hear next week? 
CM: Next week we will be interviewing failed Bachelorette contestant Ali 
Fetodowsky when she is in town visiting her cousin Greg. 
The Campus: Why should students tune in?  
CM: You should tune in if you don't have much of a social life and enjoy living 
vicariously through others.
ON THE AIR
Naked Radio with Julia Shum-
lin and Grace Farese 2-3 PM on 
Wednesdays
Nirvana Sings the Blues 
with Lea LeGardeur 
and Kristen Regenauer 
1-2 PM on Sundays
Sari I’m not Sari 
with Aashna Aggarwal 10-11 
AM on Mondays
Love and Intimacy 
with Cole Merrell 
10-11 AM on Thursdays
Cold War Gets Hot 
with Isabella Carey 
4 - 5 PM on Tuesdays
Rhythms in Revolt 
with Lee Schenkler 
and Austin Khan  
12:30-2 AM 
on Fridays
with Ethan Brady and Matthew Gillis
8:30-10PM on Fridays
WRMC  91.9 FM Making (Sound) Waves
Graphics by 
Emma Hatheway and 
Cordelia Prouvost
Research and Reporting by 
Emilie Munson, Jack George, 
and Hye-Jin Kim
 14advertisements   | OCTOBER 22, 2015
JOIN OUR PACK
WRITE FOR THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE INTERESTED, EMAIL CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
CARTOONS
By Reason Swayed: Hamlet, Act I, 
Scene V
From Top:
Emily Cox
Win Homer
Boone McCoy-Crisp
Vaasu Taneja
Kaitlynd Collins
Nolan Ellsworth
Contrary to popular belief, vocal ac-
robatics, flawless dance contortions and 
state-of-the-art technology are not al-
ways necessary for an entertaining show. 
Sometimes, all it takes is one voice. Live 
storytelling is more than simply a tac-
tic to lull young children to sleep or to 
pass time during long car rides; it is an 
art that helps to celebrate, validate and 
make sense of the many layers of human 
experience. Such was the purpose of the 
third annual Cocoon, a storytelling event 
organized by the Middlebury Moth-UP in 
collaboration with Director of the Mah-
aney Center for the Arts (MCA) Liza Sa-
cheli on Saturday, Oct. 18. Featuring six 
members of the College and broader Ver-
mont community, the night centered on 
the theme of “roots.” August Hutchinson 
’16.5 and Celia Watson ’17, producers of 
the Middlebury Moth-UP, served as co-
organizers and hosts of the event.
As per Moth-UP tradition, there were 
only three rules to the Cocoon: all stories 
had to be true, speakers could take no 
longer than ten minutes and they were 
not allowed to bring any notes onstage. 
The resulting performances were de-
lightful in their honesty and polished in 
their delivery, spanning a wide spectrum 
of ages, backgrounds and experiences. 
The lineup consisted of Alexa Beyer ’15.5, 
Bianca Giaever ’12.5, a filmmaker fea-
tured on NPR’s This American Life and 
founder of The Middlebury Moth-UP; 
Associate Professor of History Rebecca 
Bennette, Burlington-based storyteller 
Deena Frankel, Jabari Matthew ’17 and 
Naomi Eisenberg ’18. 
Collectively, the stories spanned a 
timeline from Sept. 11, 2001 to a child-
hood in the Bronx to this past summer. 
Settings ranged from the bottom of a can-
yon cliff in New Mexico to a youth village 
in Israel to a Picasso Erotique display in 
a Montreal art museum. Images of stolen 
pink bikes, falafel and embarrassing tube 
socks all managed to cross the audience 
members’ minds over the course of the 
two-hour show. Born from each individ-
ual’s interpretation of the theme “roots,” 
this sporadic hodgepodge of times, plac-
es and ideas made for a night of laughter, 
reflection and a few shocked silences. 
Alexa Beyer kicked off the show by 
connecting a humorous incident of child-
hood naiveté to her current mantra as 
an environmentalist. She radiated with 
positivity, even when recounting her in-
nocently unassuming response to the 
man who stole her bike and tried to sell 
it for $500, and then her subsequent 
struggle to keep a drive-in movie theatre 
alive in the wake of Walmart’s descent. 
Her hopeful spirit and ability to reflect 
compassionately on negative situations 
around her shined through particularly 
well in her closing lines. 
“Our enemies aren’t these two-
dimensional, evil villains,” Beyer said. 
“What is a big company if not a bunch of 
people who cry at the sad parts of mov-
ies? […] We keep trying to stab them 
with the law and wonder why they duck.” 
Ending her story with a thoughtful chal-
lenge, half directed toward the audience, 
half to herself, she stated, “Change their 
hearts as individuals by doing things that 
are inappropriately kind.”
Rebecca Bennette gave a similar, al-
beit less direct, call for more open hearts 
and minds. Following a chilling account 
of her experience in Germany as a half-
Japanese woman mistaken – and sub-
sequently discriminated against – for 
being Turkish, Bennette remarked, “My 
point is not that I can speak with author-
ity on all forms of racism. Quite the op-
posite.” Delivered with calm precision, 
her speech struck the most serious tone 
of the night.
“People are discriminated against 
because their roots are from the ‘wrong’ 
places,” Bennette stated. “Yet they are 
brave enough to come anyway.”
Continuing the discussion of identity 
and belonging – concepts that can prove 
hazy for those who do not fit neatly into 
a certain category – Naomi Eisenberg 
offered reflection on her service trip to 
Israel in a performance that managed to 
be both humorous and harrowing. Us-
ing moments of laughter as transition 
points, she navigated the challenges, joys 
and absurdities of her summer with im-
pressive clarity and eloquence. 
“Imagine spooning vomit back into 
your mouth,” she described of a soup 
that caused the entire service group to 
“poop their brains out.” “Now add hum-
mus.”
Switching expertly between points of 
comedy and gravity, Eisenberg’s parting 
words spoke poignantly to the sense of 
displacement that many of us undoubt-
edly feel about certain places in our lives.
“I thought I already knew Israel. But 
after I saw the country turned upside 
down, inside out, I realized how rootless 
I was,” she said. “This is not a place we’re 
entitled to. We have to make our own 
roots here.” 
Meanwhile, in a critical examination 
of their own roots, Bianca Giaever and 
Jabari Matthew both offered stories of 
stark self-reflection, though set in dras-
tically different contexts. Giaever’s tale 
began after her graduation from Mid-
dlebury; Matthew’s story dated back to 
his toddler and elementary school days. 
Giaever’s whimsical adventure – which 
landed her on a cross-country road trip 
to New Mexico, following a list of poetic 
clues in search of a millionaire’s hidden 
treasure whilst trying to get over a heart-
break – seemed almost too ridiculous to 
be true, whilst Matthew’s account of his 
early childhood dance lessons and falling 
out with his best friend Richard struck a 
nostalgic chord with the audience in its 
relatability. 
Ultimately, both brought to light 
the importance of understanding – or at 
least trying to understand – how we ar-
rived to where we are today and all the 
people and places along the way. 
“I didn’t want to make my story seem 
as if it was a class lecture,” Matthew said. 
“I wanted to give off the truth, which 
was that although I experienced what I 
did in my story, I am still figuring things 
out. And perhaps there is a lesson to be 
learned in my story, but whether or not 
there was, that was certainly not the 
point.”
Giaever’s story echoed the same 
spirit of self-discovery. Her manner of 
speaking was endearingly open-hearted, 
as if she were reading straight from the 
pages of her own private journal. Mean-
while, Matthew’s voice boomed with con-
viction, his expert vocal portrayals of the 
other characters in his story often creat-
ing the surreal sense of a one-man show. 
Perhaps the performance that elic-
ited the widest range of emotion from 
the audience was Deena Frankel’s story 
on love, life and loss. Beginning with a 
blind date at an art display about sex and 
ending with a somber mountain hike on 
Sept. 11, 2001 with her soon-to-be hus-
band, Frankel infused her piece with a 
delicate mixture of amusement, joy and 
sadness. 
“[The art display] was all about sex, 
in every permutation and combination 
that you can think of, and some that I’m 
sure you cannot,” she said, drawing huge 
laughs from the crowd. “What do you say 
to a guy you just met about this? ‘Nice 
brush strokes?’”
Frankel’s sophisticated and confi-
dent delivery stood as a testament to her 
experience not only as a storyteller, but 
also as a member of the Vermont com-
munity with a myriad of wisdom to share.
“Love has its roots in shared comedy 
and tragedy,” she stated. “Our stories are 
the roots of love.”
In an era that has shifted largely 
toward film, media and television, the 
power of live oral storytelling is often 
underestimated, its relevance as an art 
medium questioned. But as the packed 
theater of the MCA proved on Saturday 
night, there is a strong demand for this 
performance platform.  Events like the 
Cocoon remind us of the importance of 
human connections in the absence of 
screens and push us to find meaning in 
everyday interactions. The live energy 
and sense of shared experience that 
flourish during these events are reward-
ing to audience members and speakers 
alike.
“To be able to share your stories is 
one thing,” Eisenberg said. “But to know 
that there are people who showed up just 
to listen is, to me, really beautiful. As 
long as there are people who are willing 
to share their stories, there will be people 
who are willing to listen.”
arts sciences
Wu Man & Shanghai Quartet
World-renowned pipa player Wu Man and the impec-
cable Shanghai Quartet meld the sounds of China with 
Western string quartet in an unforgettable evening of 
grand music. The program includes a suite of traditional 
Chinese folk songs and solo pipa works.
10/29, 7:30 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
Brittany Cavallaro Reading From Her Work
Alumnus Brittany Cavallaro ’09 published her prize-
winning collection of poems, Girl-King, earlier this 
Charlotte,” will appear in 2016. She won a National 
Endowment for the Arts poetry fellowship in 2014.
10/27, 4:30 - 6 P.M., AXINN CENTER ABERNETHY ROOM
Red Redington & The Luv
This group will be spreading “The Luv” to 
thousands of new friends & laying down an in-
fectious groove of their own Green Mountain 
Roots. Don’t miss this opportunity to see one 
-
pearance at 51 Main.
10/24, 8:30-10:30 P.M., 51 MAIN
Cocoon Storytellers Share their Roots
Michael O’Hara
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
Jabari Matthew ’17 made the audience laugh with his tale of tube socks and ballet.
Michael O’Hara
don’t
miss
this
 | October 22, 2015 October 22, 2015 | 17arts SCIENCES
Pulsating music and dim lights greeted 
audiences as they entered the makeshift 
courtroom and took their seats in what felt 
Bible’s most famous sinner sat squarely in 
the middle of the stage.
Such was the setup of the 20th annual 
The Last Days of Judas Is-
cariot
from Oct. 15 to 17 in the Hepburn Zoo. A 
show gives new students an immediate op
portunity to participate in the Middlebury 
College Theatre Department. Like many 
ate from the College. Tara Giordana ’02 took 
often funny production of The Last Days of 
Judas Iscariot.
Set in a corner of Purgatory called 
character for his betrayal of Jesus Christ. A 
trial is both the simplest and most complex 
stage for this show: While we would all like 
do not always like to believe the truth itself. 
Everyone from Mother Teresa to Sig
Monica enlighten us to Judas’s life. But as 
the characters grapple with their own crimes 
up unveiling more tension than honesty. 
judgments orbiting wildly around him. 
keenly aware of their role in the story as ju
guilt. 
for students to explore the multiple facets 
in the sound and light board operation and 
acted as assistants to the director. Working 
alongside them were upperclassmen Aashna 
used their theatre experience to offer sup
port to the newcomers. 
their shared anxieties. They were also able 
lightheartedness in their work.
The Last Days of Judas 
Iscariot spanned merely three weeks. Mad
of Nazareth and Fabiana Aziza Cunning
clear in her understanding of what the play 
at including the cast in creating the meaning 
whether we can accept love from others if we 
language and garb. 
Though the majority of the characters 
behind the play remain relatable to people 
of all beliefs.
“I think the play resonates regardless of 
tion and forgiveness are hardly unique con
pretty universal in terms of the questions it 
This universality ultimately forces the 
audience to make their own judgments 
Judas Iscariot and a seemingly normal man 
like Butch (portrayed by Logan Wahl ’19) 
are both capable of betraying those who love 
A story so layered demands an equally 
version of The Last Days of Judas Iscariot 
runs for a full three hours. Giordana was 
faced with the challenge of cutting it down 
to a mere 80 minutes. 
“I selected scenes and monologues from 
the script and then made internal cuts to the 
on the actors I had — to give each an oppor
tunity to shine — but another goal was to 
keep the playwright’s story intact and main
a rhythm similar to that of the human ex
gnant display of forgiveness and love in the 
ward Judas lingering long after the lights 
dimmed.
Wrought with emotion and plagued 
The Last Days of Judas Iscariot sets 
the stage for a year of great shows — and 
hopefully begins a long list of achievements 
First-Year Play Shows Trial in Purgatory
By Finne Murphy
Contributing Writer
Miranda Max de Beer
Annie Urlich
English novelist David Mitchell has 
or fantasist. A superb writer and story
readers. As he stated in an interview in 
The New Yorker
I always try to keep in the front of mind 
is to ask why anyone would want to read 
a positive answer 
for that. Someone’s 
going to give you 
eight or ten hours of their life. I want to 
Mitchell’s sixth novel is certainly that. 
The Bone Clocks is written in a similar form 
Cloud At-
las
each is a short novel with depth and preci
sion in its characterization that manages 
to construct a full picture when it comes 
together with its counterparts.
gether to create one large tapestry.  The 
Holly is raising her granddaughter as the 
world faces environmental and economic 
an undergraduate 
Cambridge socio
path in a Swiss ski 
child with a man more invested in his job 
as an Iraq War photographer than in his 
family (2003) and becomes the widowed 
moving war between a cult of predatory 
an unwitting pawn in a war she does not 
belong in – but she may prove to be its de
cisive weapon.
Mitchell writes with a furious inten
in language that no new 
medium can rival. He sees 
the everyday world with 
to grounded and sarcas
somehow makes room for 
Lawrence had been reborn 
in this new digital age. It is 
was the makers of The Ma-
trix who transformed his 
previous epic Cloud Atlas 
released in 2012.
There are many reasons 
why a novel like The Bone 
Clocks should not be successful. In a sec
tion from the point of view of Crispin Her
be half fantasy any more than a woman 
true testament to Mitchell’s writing abili
allows us to glimpse frag
like a curtain revealing the 
ternative realm.    
egory. I am sure that many 
people will ask if this is “se
is not the point. Mitchell’s 
sentences never give off the 
sour taste of intellectualism 
that is found in many ge
he has always been a writer 
who understands that the reader wants to 
be entertained. The Bone Clocks shines 
brilliantly in this regard.  
By Abigail Walton
Contributing Columnist
The bone clocks
b0oking it
“Mitchell writes 
with a furious 
intensity, a 
slapped-awake 
vitality and 
a delight in 
language that no 
new medium can 
rival. ”
Friedlander Displays Absurd Humor
Judah Friedlander’s “World Cham-
pion Tour” made a stop at Middlebury’s 
own Wilson Hall on Friday, Oct. 16 to a 
packed crowd eager for laughs. Fried-
lander, known principally for a support-
ing role on the Tina Fey-produced and 
Emmy-winning 30 Rock, has been per-
forming stand-up since the age of 19, and 
he displayed his characteristic wit and 
slacker style in an assured and raucous 
performance.
Promoting his new book, If The Rain-
drops United, a collection of witty doo-
dles and visual puns, Friedlander made 
the case for his singular brand of weirdo 
in his Friday night performance. Clad in 
his distinctive trucker hat, “World Cham-
pion” T-shirt and outlandish frames, he 
was unmistakable and idiosyncratic. The 
“enlightened slacker” type that has char-
acterized his persona over the past two 
decades was in exceptional form, and un-
doubtedly resonated with Middlebury’s 
college-aged audience.
Friedlander’s set contained a few 
running themes: An endearing yet ironic 
brand of fervent American patriotism was 
on full display, as was mock-egotism and 
distinctive absurdist humor. However, 
was freewheeling improvisation guided 
by audience participation. 
Understandably, many unaccustomed 
to the world of stand-up comedy – this 
writer included – may approach a show 
heavily featuring audience interaction 
with some trepidation. Yet Friedlander 
built a playful and inclusive rapport with 
his audience. A welcoming and relaxed 
energy ensured that any joke made at the 
expense of an audience member was all in 
good fun. Glimpses of self-deprecation on 
the part of Friedlander helped maintain 
balance between performer and audience 
as the set progressed. 
Friedlander played nicely off of Mid-
dlebury’s noted (and often exaggerated) 
cosmopolitanism in a bit that involved 
surveying the home countries of audience 
members and offering potentially mis-
leading, often pointed and always humor-
ous comparisons to the United States. In 
doing so, he brought to light our peculiar 
interactions with foreign countries as well 
as the absurdities of national attitudes at 
home.
One particularly fruitful improvisa-
tory aside sprung from Friedlander’s dec-
laration of his presidential candidacy for 
2016. Opening to audience questions con-
cerning his platform, Friedlander found 
himself facing the politically-minded and 
left-leaning college population, always 
armed with a keen awareness of hot-
questions. Much in the vein of Stephen 
Colbert’s satirical The Colbert Report, 
Friedlander often diffused such questions 
in presenting a caricature of the gung-
ho all-American, yielding responses that 
were absurd, quick-witted and utterly 
matter-of-fact.
As the evening unfolded, audience 
members found themselves led by little 
more than Friedlander’s quick-wit and 
imagination. Thankfully, the journey was 
colorful, appropriately weird and always 
hysterical. 
By Luke Linden 
Staff Writer
Anahi Naranjo
Stand-up comedian Judah Friedlander brought his “World Champion Tour” to Middlebury this weekend as part of the promotion for his new book, If The Raindrops United.
for the rec   rd
BY DEVIN MCGRATH-CONWELL
A debut album is an unpredictable 
beast. With a multitude of talented mu-
sical acts vying for the limited attention 
span of the public audience, it becomes 
an undertaking to make an original musi-
cal statement that can project itself above 
the cacophony of the airwaves. A Wolf 
in the Doorway marks a standout debut 
that does just this. The Ballroom Thieves 
are a three-piece band out of Boston, 
made up of Martin Earley (acoustic gui-
tar and vocals), Devin Mauch (percussion 
and vocals) and Calin Peters (cello and 
vocals). The three have been making mu-
sic together for the past few years. I have 
had the pleasure of seeing them live twice 
and was excited to see if their remarkable 
energy and distinct blend of instrumen-
tation translated fully onto their first full 
length album. Spoiler - it does. 
The album begins with one of the 
stand out tracks on the album, and one of 
my personal favorites of theirs, titled “Ar-
chers.” Starting off with a sparse heart-
beat of a drum line and Earley’s vocals 
over top, he is joined by his bandmates 
in a striking harmony, and they join to-
gether in a crescendo that reaches its first 
climax on a chorus of “Well, you can let 
your arrows sing! / I’ve never met a man 
of iron skin, / but you know, archers nev-
er made good kings, / fly headfirst into 
everything.” 
The song is an exceptional example 
of the groups musical synergy, and an in-
troduction to the abundance of inventive 
and insightful lyrics in their repertoire. It 
is refreshing to hear a group that blends 
strong writing in both facets of song 
craftsmanship so effortlessly.
The next track, “Lantern”, leaves no 
doubt that replacing a bassist with a cel-
list was a stroke of genius. For the first 
few bars, there is nothing but the re-
peated notes of Peter’s cello that creates 
a driving character that can be lacking in 
your average bass line. The lyric features 
a lovely extended metaphor in which a 
lantern represents an object of desire, 
stating “You’re shining still / You’re a 
lantern on a hill /
And I would burn 
into the ground / 
To take you home.” 
The group shows many of the musical 
tendencies that made so many fall in love 
with Mumford & Sons, possessing ar-
guably stronger lyrics than the popular 
band. 
From there we are treated to a trio of 
tunes that showcase the tonal diversity 
of the album: “Bullet” features two min-
utes of hauntingly rich music that takes 
us through the trials of a failed relation-
ship before breaking into a foot-tapping 
jam of a final minute, “Saint Monica” 
floats along with the sparsest backing 
on the album so far and gives one of my 
favorite lines on the album, “Maybe if I 
begged some old saint for her patience / 
And then sold it to pay for her time” and 
“Wild Woman” returns to the groove of 
the first track and turns in a beautifully 
poetic take on a woman that will not be 
tamed by love.
In another stark change of pace, 
“Oars to the Sea” stands as a raging piece 
of blues work, introducing the first elec-
tric orchestration on the album. The 
group tears joyfully into it with a chest-
thumping underline provided by Mauch 
and Peters while Earley rips into his elec-
tric guitar. The breadth of the group’s 
musical sensibilities is stunning, and put-
ting a surprise like this halfway through 
the album was a 
stroke of genius. 
It also makes the 
next track, “Bury 
Me Smiling,” even more captivating in its 
tenderness. Peters lends her voice to lead 
vocals for the first time on the album, and 
the results are wondrous. The song’s lyr-
ics talk of death, but in no way as a sad or 
morbid subject. She sings “A heart like a 
wild sea / No man could own me / Won’t 
be the words, upon my stone.” I challenge 
you not to fall in love with this woman’s 
voice and hope there are more features of 
it in the future.
The contemplative mood is expanded 
with the succeeding track, “The Loneli-
ness Waltz.” It approaches loss as its pre-
ceding track does, but with less smiling. 
Here the three instruments and voices 
intertwine in a song that plays with the 
tone of an aged soul reflecting on all that 
they have seen dance away from them. 
The ache is reflected in the strikingly poi-
gnant line “All the parents and the poets 
can cry in their graves / From the lack of 
the love you gave.” It is a gorgeous medi-
tation on the power of loneliness. 
After the first half of the album that 
generally sides with upbeat and ener-
getic songs, the second half of the album 
settles into a much more mood oriented 
and slower mode. The wonderful fact, 
however, is that this change of pace loses 
none of the inventiveness. The vocal har-
monies of “Here I Stand” are some of the 
most beautiful on the album, while “An-
chors” has an almost cinematic quality of 
orchestration, and the last two minutes of 
“Oak” feature an instrumental string sec-
tion that ties in “Bury Me Smiling” for a 
stunning piece of music.
The album finishes with “Wolf,” 
which switches back into a rock mood, 
and brings back the electric guitar with 
the addition of a trumpet, a piano and a 
banjo. Earley sings “You are a queen hon-
ey / I am a wolf” and the band delivers a 
memorable end to an immensely memo-
rable album. Their work embodies such 
a breadth of musicality and talent that I 
eagerly wait for their next offering quite 
impatiently. I hope their debut continues 
to reach prospective fans because they 
are more than worth paying attention to. 
Wolf in the Doorway
18 arts SCIENCES  | October 22, 2015
October 22, 2015 | 19arts SCIENCES
Town Hall Broadcasts Hamlet Live
On Thursday, Oct. 15, the Town Hall 
Theater was one of 1,500 venues around 
the world that participated in the National 
Theatre Live broadcast of the Barbican of 
London’s much-anticipated production of 
Hamlet starring Benedict Cumberbatch. 
For four hundred years, new genera-
tions have plumbed not only the intricacies 
of Shakespeare’s text, but also the depths 
of the spaces between the words for con-
temporary interpretations that speak to 
modern audiences. In trying to appeal to a 
younger generation, this production need-
ed to craft a show tailored to shorter atten-
tion spans, greater aesthetic expectations 
and more cultural awareness than ever be-
fore. In all three of these areas, the show 
succeeded with stunning clarity.
Cumberbatch is an unlikely superstar 
whose pale complexion, narrow eyes and 
self-conscious propensity for clever babble 
did not gain international recognition until 
his appearance as the title character in the 
BBC’s 2010 television production of Sher-
lock, a role which came 15 years into his ca-
reer. The Barbican production came under 
“hot star” as a ploy to sell tickets to female 
and younger viewers.
Regardless of if it was a ploy or not, 
the three-month live run at the Barbican 
Theatre was quickly labeled “the most in-
demand theatre show of all time,” nearly 
breaking online ticket vendors with queues 
of over 30,000 interested fans after the 
sale opened.
Over 225,000 international viewers 
watched the live broadcast or encore pre-
sentation on Oct. 15, more than the show’s 
live audience, and more than have ever 
seen a single National Theatre Live broad-
cast in the program’s history.
the casting of Cumberbatch if his immense 
talents introduce thousands of viewers to a 
Hamlet who glitters in his whimsical grace, 
charismatically bounding across the stage 
-
reography as he descends into a madness 
marked by the tragic loss of youthful hope 
and wonder. 
This is a translation of Hamlet for 
today, led by Cumberbatch’s invigorat-
ing stage presence and a spectacular sup-
porting cast, including acting legend Ci-
aran Hinds as Claudius and a moving Sian 
Brooke as Ophelia.
Students in many Department of The-
atre classes attended the screening, open-
ing the opportunity for a shared, external 
theatrical experience.
“Seeing outside work is great because 
it gives us all a common reference point, 
so we’re talking about the same production 
instead of relying on the abstract or trying 
to tell people about things we’ve seen that 
we think are important or impactful,” As-
sociate Professor of Theatre Alex Draper 
said. 
The production announces its moder-
nity immediately, opening not with the tra-
ditional interaction with the ghost of King 
Hamlet, but instead with a solitary Hamlet 
as if he is a beat poet, Cumberbatch relax-
ing on the ground in an autumn sweater 
as Nat King Cole’s ‘Nature Boy’ spins on a 
record player. 
Cumberbatch’s Hamlet is constantly 
in identity crisis, exhibiting layers of ado-
lescent playfulness, sharp intelligence and 
overwhelming narcissism as his fairytale 
castle falls to pieces. This, of course, is 
what makes Hamlet so real, especially for a 
generation paralyzed by an array of unpar-
alleled opportunities, responsibilities and 
commitments (or lack thereof). There is no 
longer a monarchy or a pervading propen-
-
er his moral center which resonates today.
Students in the Literary Studies De-
partment also attended the screening, al-
lowing the three-dimensionality of the 
written word to supplement their usual 
academic pursuits.
“Seeing a performance makes you 
have a different perception of the work and 
inherently changes how you will approach 
it in the future,” Abla Lamrani-Karim ‘16 
said. “By making this show modern, you 
forget that you’re listening to a very hard 
language that you’re not used to, and that 
makes you realize just how much Shake-
speare is still today’s topic. That’s the 
beauty that this production was able to 
portray.”
The Barbican’s Hamlet is easily swal-
lowed, with careful reductions and altera-
tions of the original text – near the play’s 
by his amalgam of clothing, complete with 
a David Bowie graphic t-shirt, military 
pants, Converse sneakers and a tailcoat 
crudely painted with the word ‘King’ on its 
back - that pare Shakespeare’s longest play 
from four to three hours long.
Certainly, removing segments of 
Shakespeare’s original – coupled with the 
appearance of a tattooed Horatio in dou-
ble-cuffed pants - has irked purists to no 
-
duction captures the core beauty of Ham-
let in a manner which is engaging and pro-
vocative whilst maintaining the integrity of 
the text. 
“This production managed to make 
Hamlet relevant and exciting and palatable 
for our generation,” Acting II student No-
lan Ellsworth ‘17 said. “There was kind of 
a rock star vibe to the show at times which 
worked well with Cumberbatch’s personal-
ity and the tone of his performance.”
In a humor-infused take on a mono-
logue exploring Hamlet’s possible decline 
into madness, Cumberbatch marches onto 
a table in his uncle’s study dressed as a toy 
soldier with a snare drum strapped to his 
-
idly matching his nonsensical language. 
The scene is delightfully playful, but un-
dermines a suggestion of the turmoil in 
Hamlet’s head. At the same time, it’s plau-
sible that emphasizing Hamlet’s joyful 
behavioral overcompensations capture an 
increasingly popular culture of pretending 
to be okay. 
As is true with any theatre that ex-
plores rather than explains, either inter-
pretation could be true.
Forgetting outside criticisms of perfor-
mance or textual interpretation, the play 
offered a production backdrop so bold, so 
visually and atmospherically stunning in 
the unabashed, epic grandeur of its ambi-
tion, that it was nearly impossible to tear 
one’s eyes away from the constant crystal-
lization of light enveloping its sumptuous 
visual articulation of innovative design.
Part of what makes live theatre unique 
is that each viewer is able to direct their 
own experience, freely changing focus from 
individual performances to the broader 
scene. In their revolutionary endeavor, Na-
tional Theatre Live makes executive deci-
sions for the audience, choosing when to 
establish a wide shot, zoom to an actor’s 
face or pan to follow a character’s move-
ment from one side of the stage to the next. 
This leads to the notion that certain 
nuances outside a chosen camera frame 
hands of the National Theatre Live crew, 
viewers from afar are gifted a version of the 
production seen from the balcony and the 
front row all at once.
“I was very suspicious of the live tap-
I think this was done incredibly well – it’s 
incredibly effective,” Draper said. “I don’t 
think it should happen all the time, but 
this was a really great example of why to 
do it because the size of the production, the 
technical feats of the set and his [Cumber-
batch’s] sheer talent are the kind of forces 
that gather together so rarely on this scale.”
The Barbican production’s accessibil-
ity – both thematically and technologically 
quality theatre that allows a much broader 
audience entrance into its formerly exclu-
sive sphere. Through the unique initiative 
of National Theatre Live alone, more than 
3.5 million people have viewed over 20 
productions in 1,500 venues around the 
world, numbers far exceeding the reach of 
the theaters themselves.
In 2016, the Folger Shakespeare Li-
brary in Washington, D.C. is marking the 
400th anniversary of the playwright’s 
death by sending one of 233 known copies 
of his 1623 First Folio to every state. The 
College has been chosen as the Vermont 
host site, and there will be festivals, lec-
tures and performances throughout Feb-
edition of Shakespeare’s plays. 
The next Town Hall Theater broadcast 
of National Theatre Live will be an interna-
tional encore presentation of David Hare’s 
Skylight with Bill Nighy and Carey Mulli-
gan on Wednesday, Nov. 11 at 7 p.m.
By Leah Lavigne
Managing Editor
Benedict Cumberbatch starred in National Theatre Live’s broadcast of Hamlet at the Town Hall Theatre on Thursday, Oct. 15.
National Theatre Live
National Theatre Live
Ciaran Hinds co-starred as King Claudius in the live broadcast on Thursday, Oct. 15.
20 arts SCIENCES  | October 22, 2015 
soc ety
This week’s Performing Arts Spot-
light features guest writer Su Zheng, As-
sociate Professor of Music at Wesleyan 
University. She previews the upcom-
ing concert by Wu Man and the Shang-
hai Quartet, Thursday, Oct. 29 at 7:30 
p.m. at the Mahaney Center for the Arts 
(MCA).
“The pipa is a lute-like instrument 
with a history of more than two thou-
sand years. During the Qin and Han 
Dynasties (221 B.C.–220 A.D.), instru-
ments with long, straight necks and 
round resonators with snakeskin or 
wooden soundboards were played with 
a forward and backward plucking mo-
tion that sounded like “pi” and “pa” to 
fanciful ears. Hence, all plucked in-
struments in ancient times were called 
“pipa.” During the Tang dynasty, by 
way of Central Asia, the introduction of 
a crooked neck lute with a pear-shaped 
body contributed to the pipa’s evolution. 
Today’s instrument consists of twenty-
six frets and six ledges arranged as 
stops and its four strings are tuned re-
spectively to A,D,E,A. The pipa’s many 
left and right hand fingering techniques, 
rich tonal qualities and resonant timber 
give its music expressiveness and beau-
ty that are lasting and endearing.”
— notes by Wu Man, “What is a 
pipa?”
The pipa was a major instrument in 
the teaching of Buddhism in early China, 
as witnessed by its portrayal in numerous 
murals in the Buddhist caves near Dun-
huang, along the ancient Silk Road in 
western China. Throughout Chinese his-
tory, the pipa has also been a prominent 
instrument for female entertainers at the 
imperial courts in rich households, and 
at teahouses or pleasure houses, where 
the performers were known as singsong 
girls. Depictions of these singsong girls’ 
expressive performances and graceful 
voices constitute an important aspect of 
classical Chinese literature. During the 
Ming and Qing Dynasties (1368–1911), 
literati (or scholar-bureaucrats) began 
to take an interest in playing pipa and, 
as a result, more elaborate compositions 
were created and preserved in the earli-
est pipa music collection, published in 
1818.
What kinds of new sounds and songs 
will emerge when a classical string quar-
tet is in conversation with the ancient 
pipa? What emotions will this music 
evoke for childhood friends and school-
mates who meet again on tonight’s stage, 
and for those in the audience? To find 
out, I spoke with Wu Man, widely rec-
ognized as the world’s premiere pipa 
virtuoso and as a leading ambassador of 
Chinese music in the West.
When she was just 13, Man was ac-
cepted into the Central Conservatory of 
Music in Beijing. It was there that she 
met Yi-Wen Jiang, the Shanghai Quar-
tet’s second violinist. 
“He was my classmate at the conser-
vatory,” Man said. “A few years later, I 
met Honggang Li, the viola player, at the 
same conservatory. Through him, I met 
his brother Weigang Li, a very talented 
violin player.”
But Man didn’t collaborate musically 
with her friends back then. 
“We took many cultural and re-
quired political doctrine courses togeth-
er, but we never played music together,” 
she said. “We belonged to different de-
partments. They played Western in-
struments, and I played a Chinese in-
strument. We were separated by two 
different musical worlds.”
After conservatory, Wu Man came to 
realize that her lifelong creative journey 
would be to combine her instrument, 
her voice and her body to create unprec-
edented sounds and new modes of per-
formance for the pipa. “I feel pipa is my 
voice,” she said. “I communicate with 
people through my pipa.”
The year 1992 marked the first time 
in history for musical dialogue between 
a string quartet and a pipa, and a new 
musical form was born. One of the most 
memorable performances is Man’s col-
laboration with the Kronos Quartet on 
Tan Dun’s Ghost Opera in 1995.
What is unique and exciting about 
Wu Man’s present tour with the Shang-
hai Quartet is that it not only promises 
the cross-cultural and genre-defying 
musical experiences that Man is now 
well known for around the world, but the 
collaboration has also been a deeply per-
sonal one for the performers. 
“We have the same cultural heri-
tage,” she said. “We are so familiar with 
the repertory. We have a visceral under-
standing of the meanings of these folk 
songs and contemporary compositions 
because we grew up in China in these 
sounds. In rehearsals, we were able to 
‘jump into’ the music immediately. We 
were transported back to our childhoods 
by the music; all the memories came 
back with the music. It is something very 
special to us.” After a brief pause Wu 
Man added, “very emotional.” 
Wu Man and the members of the 
Shanghai Quartet are particularly look-
ing forward to sharing their musical 
journey and emotions with college stu-
dents. 
“I love to answer [students’] ques-
tions about pipa,” she said. “I love to 
share my creative processes with them, 
and it’s so inspiring to see the sparkles in 
their eyes. I am always thrilled by their 
curiosity.” 
Wu Man’s adventurous journey with 
the pipa seems to have radically depart-
ed from the aesthetics of those pipa mas-
ters recorded in China’s historical texts. 
Her journey could never have been imag-
ined by innumerable pipa singsong girls 
throughout China’s long history. Yet, 
Man plays a pipa that belonged to one of 
her teachers and that was bestowed upon 
her when he passed away, a significant 
gesture to recognize her central role both 
as a guardian of the pipa tradition and 
a pioneer of a new path for this ancient 
instrument.
Tickets are $25 for the general pub-
lic; $20 for Middlebury College faculty, 
staff, alumni, emeriti, and other ID card 
holders; and $6 for Middlebury College 
students. Visit go/boxoffice or stop by 
the box offices in McCullough or the 
MCA.
Wu Man, who will perform on Thursday, Oct. 29, is lauded as a pipa master as she forges a path for Chinese music in the West.
Stephen Kahn
Miranda Max de Beer
The Shanghai Quartet will collaborate with Wu Man on Oct. 29 to deliver a show that combines old and new across cultures.
BY CONNOR FORREST
October 22, 2015| SPORTS 21
Women’s Soccer Blanks Trinity with 3-0 Win
On Saturday, Oct. 17, a windy and 
below freezing day, former teammates 
gathered to watch the Middlebury 
women’s soccer team snatch a crucial 
3-0 win against Trinity on 
homecoming weekend, whic 
is second in the NESCAC 
standings. The Panthers now 
sit sixth in the conference 
with two games left in the 
regular season.
“We were trying to finally 
play our game,” Kim said. 
“We’ve shown really great 
glimpses this season, but 
haven’t really put together a 
full game that I knew we could. 
To the players credit they 
did that in the game against 
Castleton and just carried it 
over to the weekend.”
The beginning of contest started 
evenly matched with neither team able 
to get the ball beyond the halfway line. 
However, Middlebury soon came into 
their own and started generating some 
offense. The attacking trio of Hannah 
Robinson ’16, Jamie Soroka ’16 and 
Adrianna Gildner ’17 continued their 
impressive form, linking up well in the 
opening stages. Fifteen minutes into the 
half, Robinson found Gildner down the 
right side of the box, and she crossed 
the ball across the goalmouth to Soroka, 
who could not quite beat Trinity keeper 
Monica DiFiori.  Soroka 
was back in action just 
five minutes later when 
she won the ball at the 
halfway line and played 
a diagonal ball in for 
Gildner. After chasing 
down the ball and drawing 
out the Trinity keeper, the 
angle was too difficult for 
the Middlebury striker 
whose shot found the feet 
a Trinity defender instead 
of the net.
Gildner broke the 
deadlock in the 29th 
minute for her eighth goal 
of the season. Amy Martin ’17 controlled 
a pass on the edge of the box and laid the 
ball down for Gildner to then loft the ball 
over DiFiori’s outstretched hands.
Middlebury seemed to find their 
rhythm after the opening goal, as most 
of the action took place in Trinity’s half.
First-year Amanda Dafonte ’19 took 
the ball to the endline before lofting a 
cross in to Robinson, who almost scored 
on a header. Robinson followed up 
just minutes later, weaving in between 
defenders on the top of the box, but 
could only get off a shot that ended up in 
the keeper’s arms.
The Panthers picked up where they 
left off in the second half and were 
rewarded just four minutes in. Martin 
pounced on a Trinity mistake 30 yards 
out and turned on the turbo charge 
before sending a bouncing shot to the 
inside of the far post.
The Bantams showed brief signs of life 
after the second goal, and Middlebury 
had to play defense as the visitors tried 
to gain one back. They faced a scare with 
25 minutes left in the game when the ball 
rolled across the face of the Middlebury 
goal, but no Trinity player could get on 
the end of it.
The Panthers responded by putting 
the game to bed in the 78th minute. 
After being fouled, Robinson sent a 
curling free kick that Alissa Huntington 
’18 flicked backwards with her head into 
the net for the defender’s first goal of the 
season and a 3-0 Panther win.
“It’s hard to look past the shutout, 
the team as a whole defended really well 
and limited a dangerous attack to very 
few chances,” Kim said. “Additionally, to 
score three goals in a NESCAC game is a 
big deal.”
The Panthers ended the match with 
a 20-7 advantage in shots, while Kate 
Reinmuth ’17 finished with four saves 
to earn the win and her second shutout 
of the campaign. They move to 5-3-4 
overall and 3-2-3 in the NESCAC with 
two league games remaining. The ladies 
return to action at Bates on Saturday, 
Oct. 24, and can improve upon their 
season-long two game winning streak 
and six game unbeaten streak.
“We’re continuing to fine tune 
ourselves,” Kim said. “We know what 
we’re capable of, but we have some tough 
opponents left in the schedule. It’s nice 
to know that our fate is in our hands, 
and if we win on Saturday, we’ll lock in a 
place in the conference tournament and 
even a potential top four showing, which 
isn’t completely up to us. Saturday’s 
game is massive.” 
Kim’s biggest worry for the weekend, 
however, missing the game for the birth 
of his second child, due any day now.
77
A career high in receiving yards 
for wideout Matt Minno ’16 on 
Homecoming Weekend vs. Williams.
squad in its win over Husson last Sunday.
’19 at last weekend’s Ann S. Batchelder 
Invite, good for fourth-place.
Finish for the men’s cross country 
Invitational.1st
by the Numb3rs
Place for Noah Farrell ’18 at 
the USTA/ITA Small College 
Championship this past 
weekend.
1st
171
4
This season is certainly shaping up to 
be one of the stronger ones in Middlebury 
Volleyball’s recent history. After seeing 
their winning streak halted at ten games 
with a loss against Williams two week-
ends ago, the Panthers promptly started 
another streak by sweeping NESCAC op-
ponents Colby and Bates this weekend 
Oct. 16-17, pushing their overall record 
to 15-3 on the season.
To anyone who’s been following the 
Panthers this year, the difference be-
tween on-paper expectations 
and actual performance has 
been nothing short of im-
pressive.
Emily Kolodka ’18, who 
has served as the team’s li-
bero for most of the season, 
recalled some of the group’s 
uncertainty from back in Au-
gust.
“Coming into this sea-
son...initially, everyone was 
a little on edge. What [will] 
our freshmen be like? What 
is it going to be like having 
no established, older leaders 
on the team?” Kolodka won-
dered.
However, “everyone [has] 
done a really great job step-
ping into leadership roles,” 
Kolodka said. “On the court it doesn’t 
really matter how old you are or if 
you’re playing with much experience, 
if you can be calm under pressure… 
and can step up when you need to — 
whether you coming off the bench and...
haven’t played a game the whole season, 
or you’ve started every game ...and [just 
aren’t] having a good game — that’s what 
counts,” Kolodka said. “I think everyone 
on our team has done an amazing job of 
that this season, and I think that’s what’s 
made us so successful, regardless of the 
fact that we don’t have any seniors and 
regardless of those question marks peo-
ple raised.”
The squad, which has yet to lose a 
conference game on the road, used all 
five sets to take care of the Mules Friday 
evening (22-25, 25-23, 
25-16, 17-25, 15-11) 
before rolling over the 
Bobcats in four during 
Saturday’s day game 
(25-19, 15-25, 25-14, 
25-16). These two wins 
gave Middlebury a 6-2 
record in the NES-
CAC, locking the Pan-
thers in a four-way tie 
for second place with 
Amherst, Tufts and 
Williams.
Despite the unset-
tling loss to Williams 
the week prior, the 
team stuck to its prin-
ciples in this week’s 
preparations, Kolodka 
insisted.
“We definitely didn’t have a different 
attitude. If anything, it was important for 
us...to keep moving forward. Especially 
when you come out from a loss like that, 
that’s so close—it makes you realize how 
important every single NESCAC game is 
[and] how important every single point 
is,” said Kolodka. “So we really paid at-
tention to detail in practice, trying to do 
our best …[on] every rep.”
Despite their 3-4 conference record 
coming into the game, Colby came out 
more than ready to play on Friday, lead-
ing for most of the first set and finishing 
things off after a Panther comeback tied 
the game at 22-22. Middlebury respond-
ed in a hard-fought second, which ran to 
23-23 before the Panthers managed to 
put the Mules away with a kill from mid-
dle blocker Gabi Rosenfeld ’17. It seemed 
that the third set would be just as close 
until, knotted at 14-14, Middlebury rat-
tled off ten straight points on the service 
of outside hitter Isabel Sessions ’19.
Colby took the momentum back from 
the Panthers in the fourth set as they 
raced out to an early 12-6 lead. The 
Mules held Middlebury at arm’s length 
the rest of the way, forcing a fifth and 
final set.
Showing the closing strength that’s 
helped them throughout the season, 
Middlebury jumped out in front, 6-1. 
The Panthers fought the Mules’ valiant 
comeback attempts to finish things off 
(15-11) on a kill by captain and setter, 
Hannah Blackburn ’17. Team leaders 
were outside hitter Becca Raffel ’18 with 
13 kills, middle blocker Melanie English 
’17 with 4 blocks, and Kolodka with 24 
digs.
While the game was closer than the 
Panthers would’ve liked, especially 
against a team that’s out of reach of a top 
spot in the NESCAC, Kolodka wasn’t one 
to complain.
“Wins are wins, no matter what—so at 
the end of the day, we’re all really happy 
that we did what we needed to.” Koldoka 
said. “I don’t think we were necessarily 
as clean as this weekend, …but we still 
pulled it out.”
The team played with more authority 
on Saturday against Bates, posting deci-
sive wins in the first, third, and fourth 
sets by margins of 6, 11, and 9 points, re-
spectively. They stumbled briefly in the 
second, hitting at an unusually low .065 
clip as a team.
They didn’t look back though, hitting 
at .293 the rest of the way and holding 
the Bobcats to a percentage of .033 over 
the last two sets. Like in Friday’s game, 
Raffel led the team in kills (16), English 
led in blocks (4), and Kolodka led in digs 
(18).
The Panthers will take a break from 
NESCAC play this weekend as they trav-
el to Boston for the New England Chal-
lenge. They will take on MIT on Friday, 
Oct. 23 and Babson and Wellesley on 
Saturday, Oct. 24.
“Wins are wins, no 
matter what - so 
at the end of the 
day we’re all really 
happy that we did 
what we needed to 
do. Every NESCAC 
is a really impor-
tant win.”
Emily Kolodka
Outside hitter
Volleyball Claims Weekend Against Maine Rivals
File Photo
Volleyball is currently tied for second in the NESCAC table, with crucial games against 
By  Rob Erickson
Staff Writer
By Alex Morris
“We know what 
we’re capable 
of, but we have 
some tough op-
ponents left in 
the schedule.”
Peter Kim
Head Coach
Both the men’s and women’s cross 
country teams competed at the Univer-
sity of Albany Invitational on Saturday, 
Oct. 17.  The meet was full of competition, 
as the Panthers once again competed 
against mostly Division I schools, making 
both team’s performances all the more 
impressive. The women finished third 
out of thirteen teams and the men won 
the meet, championing a field of fourteen 
teams. 
The Middlebury men’s team edged out 
Siena College by a single point and third-
place Marist by four. The competition 
was close, but the men persevered, even 
while missing three runners of their Var-
sity team.  
 “We raced well regardless and didn’t 
let ourselves get complacent behind our 
opponents, proven by the fact that we 
won by one point,” Chony Aispuro ’18 
said. “In the running world this means 
our team pushed itself to pass as many 
opponents as possible; every runner mat-
ters and we didn’t let any get away from 
us to take the win.”  
The top seven for the men 
were Sebastian Matt ’16 (3), 
Aispuro (6), Samuel Klock-
enkemper ’17 (15), Connor 
Evans ’19 (24), Harrison 
Knowlton ’19 (26), Kevin 
Serrao ’18 (40) and Tim Mc-
Govern ’18 (43). The top five 
scoring places brought the 
team to a score of 74.
The women also had an 
impressive performance at 
Albany. 
“Initially we were a little 
disappointed with third 
place because we’ve been 
racing really well, but our 
scoring was very successful in this tight 
race and we scored better than we have 
in the past two years when we had very 
strong teams,” Adrian Walsh ’16 said. 
The top seven finishers for the women 
were Abigail Nadler ’19 (2), Katherine 
Tercek ’16 (15), Emma 
DeCamp ’17 (21), Walsh 
(23), Katherine Mac-
Cary ’19 (24), Robin 
Vincent ’18 (27) and 
Sasha Whittle ’17 (32). 
The top five finishers 
brought the team score 
to 85 points, just three 
seconds behind second 
place Marist. Addition-
ally, the spread between 
first and fifth finishers 
on Middlebury was only 
51 seconds, indicating 
a very strong team per-
formance on this windy 
Saturday.  
“The results showed how deep the tal-
ent is for the women’s squad,” Tercek 
said. “The time lapse between our top 
seven runners was less than a minute. 
We want to get that gap to be as small as 
possible with championship season be-
ginning in two weeks with NESCACS.”
Following a successful weekend at 
Albany the team is looking forward to 
championship season.  
“Yesterday was just a fun meet,” Head 
Coach Nicole Wilkerson said. “The men 
raced without three of the top guys so 
their win was especially sweet. The wom-
en raced well, although they came out in 
3rd. I am so excited for our conference 
meet on the 31st and glad we have an rest 
weekend before it. Our women’s team has 
narrowed our margin between 1-5 and we 
are just incredibly deep and strong.  On 
the men’s side, the conference is very 
talented and deep this year, where more 
than half of the conference is ranked na-
tionally.”  
The teams rest this weekend, before 
returning for the NESCAC championship 
meet Saturday, Oct. 31 at Wesleyan.
The women’s golf team wrapped up its 
fall season in Wellesley, Massachusetts 
last weekend, Oct. 19-20, at the Nehoiden 
Golf Club for the Ann S. Batchelder Golf 
out of nine teams, collectively 
shooting a 640 to put them at 
64 over par for the weekend. 
shots behind Williams, who 
set the pace at 33 shots over 
par with a total score of 609 
for the weekend, which ended 
with the familiar sight of 
the Ephs taking home the 
tournament trophy.
NYU shot a 629 and 
ahead of the Panthers. 
Middlebury was able to beat 
out rival Amherst for the second straight 
weekend, as the Lord Jeffs shot a 661, 21 
fall season one month ago, Sept. 19-20, 
at the NYU Invitational, the Panthers 
tournament since.
Head Coach Bill Mandigo “thought [the 
team] played better down the stretch,” in 
the Batchelder Invitational than it had in 
previous tournaments this fall. This likely 
helped the Panthers to edge out Amherst, 
their main competition, from a spot on the 
podium.
“I was very pleased for Lilia Everson 
[’19] this past weekend. She had two great 
days,” Mandigo said. “Katharine Fortin 
[’18] and Helen Dailey [’19] have been 
very consistent the past few weeks and will 
continue to improve,” Mandigo added, 
hinting at the prospect of continued 
success in the spring.
Indeed, freshmen Everson and Dailey, 
as well as Fortin, stood out for the 
Panthers in the Batchelder 
Invitational. Everson and 
Dailey had the best rounds 
careers.
on the individual leader 
board as she shot back-to-
back 77s for a 154 on the 
weekend. Fortin maintained 
her consistency this fall with 
back-to-back 79s for a 158 on 
the weekend, again shooting 
her name onto the individual 
leaderboard with her eighth-
shot an 81 in Saturday’s round and an 80 
Though she was just three strokes behind 
Fortin, Dailey placed just outside the top 
10, tying with Catherina Li of NYU for 11th.
Sophomore Hope Matthews ’18 was the 
other Panther who counted on the score 
sheet. She shot a 167 — 82 on Saturday and 
85 on Sunday. Matthews had a very strong 
break 80 in her sophomore fall. Monica 
weekend with a 170. Though Chow tied for 
24th individually (in a tournament with 
62 participating golfers), her score did not 
factor on the Panthers’ team scorecard.
Sunday’s round was the second this 
season in which Williams shot 300 
or lower as a team and was the fourth 
time that each of the Ephs who counted 
In fact, a Williams player has clinched the 
individual title of every tournament held 
this fall. The closest the Ephs’ streak came 
to being snapped was at Middlebury’s 
invite, when Fortin and Amherst’s Devyn 
with Phoebe Mattana and Elizabeth Gudas 
of Williams.
Although the men’s squad has already 
packed their clubs away for the winter, 
the all-Conference squad was released 
last week. Scott Guidotti ’19 won NESCAC 
Player and Rookie of the Year honors, 
while Bill Beaney was tabbed as NESCAC 
team all-NESCAC squad indicates that 
had a big impact. To be sure, Middlebury 
is the trend-setter: Guidotti, Phil Morin 
’19 and Reid Buzby ’19 are the Panthers’ 
three representatives on the NESCAC 
trio in post-season recognition, Rodrigo 
Andrade ’17 earned a spot on the second 
all-NESCAC team.
“Being able to win as a team feels so 
much better than simply doing well as 
have made the transition from junior golf 
to college golf very easy; they are always 
willing to help out. I have just been very 
happy to be able to contribute to the team 
the last few tournaments.”
| October 22, 201522 sports
Cross Country Teams Take Albany Meet by Storm
Field Hockey Muscles Past Trinity
continued their winning streak at home last 
weekend with wins over NESCAC opponent 
Trinity on Saturday, Oct. 17 (6-0), and non-
conference challenger Husson University on 
Sunday, Oct. 18 (5-0). With two conference 
games remaining in regular season play, the 
third-ranked Panthers (12-1, 7-1) have now 
won eight in a row.
Saturday’s Homecoming match-up 
against Trinity proved an easy win, as four 
Schulman ’17 led the Panthers to a 6-0 
victory on Kohn Field.
Middlebury’s offensive spree began in 
the 15th minute when Schulman scored her 
Less than three minutes later, Schulman 
netted her second of the day, lifting a pass 
from Bridget Instrum ’16 over the head 
of Trinity goalie Sophie Fitzpatrick to put 
the Panthers up 2-0. Four minutes later 
Schulman completed her hat trick off a pass 
from Annie Leonard ’18.
“We have been trying some people at 
different positions and things really clicked 
in the games this weekend,” Schulman said. 
“We focused on running the ball rather than 
good points early on against Trinity.”
In the 26th minute, Grace Jennings ’19 
assisted Molly Freeman ’19 in netting her 
11th goal of the season. This put the Panthers 
up 4-0 at the half.
Leonard came into the second half with 
offensive performance.
Trinity’s best scoring opportunity came 
in the 63rd minute when Olivia Tapsall hit 
a penalty shot from just inside the circle, but 
Panther goalie Emily Miller ’17 blocked the 
shot to hold on to her third straight shutout. 
Miller recorded four saves as the Panthers 
held a 21-7 advantage in shots and an 11-5 
edge in penalty corners. Fitzpatrick posted 
12 stops for the Bantams.
half led the Panthers to a 5-0 victory over the 
Husson Eagles at Kohn Field. Middlebury 
got on the scoreboard early, when Schulman 
netted her 11th goal of the season just three 
minutes into the game. At the 6:50 mark, 
Leonard capitalized on a pass from Jennings 
to put the Panthers up 2-0 and record her 
team-leading 13th goal of the season.
Jennings assisted on the next goal as well, 
sending a give-and-go pass to Instrum, who 
scored her seventh of the year. The Panthers 
minute when Shannon Hutteman ’16 sent a 
Marie Provencal for a 4-0 lead. Both Anna 
Kenyon ’16 and Instrum were credited with 
the assist.
A single goal in the 59th minute from 
5-0 victory. Audrey Quirk ’18 carried the 
Peacock, who converted for her second of 
the year.
“The highlight of the Husson game 
was Peacock’s goal in the second half,” 
Schulman said. “She caught a pass on the 
far left post and managed to put it in past a 
really aggressive goalie. It was a great goal.”
Miller had one save for the Panthers in 
cinched a scoreless second half in the goal. 
On the other hand, Husson’s Provencal 
Middlebury dominated offensively, holding 
a 28-3 advantage in shots and a 17-2 edge in 
penalty corners.
“Our defensive penalty corner unit, with 
really consistent goal keeping, has been 
stable and kept teams scoreless the last four 
games,” Head Coach Katharine DeLorenzo 
from at least two or three different people 
to prepare well.”
The Panthers will return to play on 
Saturday afternoon, when they travel to 
Maine for a conference match-up against 
the Bates Bobcats.  
the middlebury
great  eight
8
women’s soccer
Strong Gr8 this week. They 
haven’t lost since Sept. 26.
1
RANKING TEAM
Mac’s Musings
2
noah farrell
in program history.
field hockey
cruising right now with 
eight straight W’s.
3
football
Taking care of business for 
4 
men’s soccer
anyone in the NESCAC.
5
xc
run fast.
7
women’s golf
6 volleyball
Men’s, Women’s Golf End on High Note
“We raced well re-
gardless and didn’t 
let ourselves get 
complacent behind 
our opponents, 
proven by the fact 
that we won by one 
point.”
Chony Aispuro ’18
“Being able to 
win as a team 
feels so much 
better than sim-
ply doing well as 
an individual.”
Reid Buzby ’19
By  Jackie Kearney
Staff Writer
By Will Case
Senior Writer
By Andrew Rigas
Williams’ Purple Ephs visited the 
Middlebury Panthers at Alumni Stadium 
on a chilly Homecoming Saturday, in a 
game that the Panthers won comfortably 
in the end, 36-14, despite a back-and-
forth first half.
The first quarter was a defensive 
gridlock as neither team could put points 
on the board. An uneventful first half 
was solely highlighted by an interception 
by Addison Pierce ’17, but Middlebury 
could not capitalize as the first quarter 
ended with a 0-0 score.
Williams scored early in the second 
quarter on a three-yard touchdown run 
that put the Ephs up 7-0. However, 
Middlebury answered quickly and in 
great fashion.
Tanner Contois ’18 caught the ensuing 
kickoff on Middlebury’s four-yard line, 
dodged a tackle, cut back towards the 
middle of the field, picked up a couple 
blocks and never looked back. A 96-yard 
kickoff return silenced any Williams’ 
fans in the stands, turning a 7-0 lead to 
a 7-6 game. Charlie Gordon’s ’19 extra 
point attempt was blocked and Williams 
held onto the lead 7-6.
After another eight minutes of strong 
defense, the Panthers took the lead 
with 6:21 left on a 24-yard field goal by 
Gordon to make it 9-7. At this point, a 
close game seemed inevitable, as both 
the defenses were forcing punts and 
immovable at the line of scrimmage. The 
Panthers clung to that two-point league 
coming halftime.
Head Coach Bob Ritter commented 
on his team’s play coming out of the first 
half. 
“We shot ourselves in the foot a 
couple times,” Ritter said, “Williams 
controlled the clock in the first quarter. 
They slowed the tempo of the game. They 
converted on a couple third downs, and 
their execution was thorough.” 
William’s control of the tempo did not 
phase the Panthers in the second half.
The Ephs came out of the locker room 
hot as their first possession in the third 
quarter resulted in a touchdown by 
running back Connor Harris, putting his 
team up 14-9.
On the next drive, Middlebury 
coughed up a fumble on its own 29-yard 
line, and fans began to wonder whether 
the Panthers would be able to rebound. 
But their worries were for naught.
Williams could not capitalize on the 
fumble. The Ephs missed a 38-yard 
field goal attempt after Middlebury’s 
defense held tight and three plays later, 
quarterback Matt Milano ’16 hit wideout 
Matt Minno ’16 with a 10-yard pass 
which Minno took 71 yards to the house 
and put the Panthers up 15-14. 
“The chemistry between these two 
is unbelievable,” Ritter said. “During 
the second-half of [last] season the two 
really clicked. Minno is a great, tall 
target and Milano isn’t afraid to throw it 
up for him to grab it.”
However, Panthers were again unable 
to convert the extra point, keeping it a 
one-point game. 
Minno’s touchdown started a 
powerful second half and the Panthers 
didn’t look back as Williams went 
three-and-out and Middlebury’s offense 
followed that with a nine-play, 96-yard, 
2:48 touchdown drive. Amidst the drive, 
running back Diego Meritus ’19 rushed 
for 20 yards and caught an 11-yard pass, 
along with catches from tight end Trevor 
Miletech ’16 and Minno. Milano found 
Minno in the corner of the right half of 
the end zone to stretch the lead to 21-14, 
but Middlebury missed the extra point 
once again. 
“We need to make those extra points 
and we will work hard in practice to 
clean it up,” Ritter said, “especially in 
close games, it can be the difference.”
Meritus’ success on that drive helped 
him tally 118 yards on the ground, his 
first 100+ yard game in his career. 
“It felt great knowing that I was able 
to do my job and contribute to our teams 
success,” Meritus said. “Coach [Ritter] 
talks about winning our one-on-one 
battles each week. Being able to win my 
one-on-one battle allowed us to move 
the ball effectively in both the run and 
passing game.”
Ritter praised the young back’s 
performance. 
“He is a strong and tough runner,” 
Ritter said. “He can lower his shoulder 
and run a defender over or make a quick 
move and beat his man. He is a player 
who wins his one-on-one battles. More 
importantly, Diego is mature beyond his 
years and it shows on the field,” Ritter 
said.
At some point, a fan chanted “Go, 
Diego, Go!” and the first-year back took 
the fan’s advice.
The Panthers began the fourth 
quarter with the ball and a short field 
while holding onto that 21-14 lead.
Middlebury quickly scored on a 
flat pass from Milano to Meritus who 
caught the pass and ran 19 yards for 
the touchdown to make the score 27-14. 
Since Middlebury struggled with extra 
points all day, the team went with a two-
point conversion play. The Panthers 
converted, but Middlebury was called for 
a blocking-in-the-back penalty and the 
Panthers got moved back to the 18-yard 
line. This didn’t phase Milano as he fired 
back with a pass to Contois who hauled 
it down in the endzone to make it 29-14.
Williams showed some fight in the 
fourth, marching up the field with a 
couple big catches, but, their momentum 
was whisked away as cornerback Nate 
Leedy ’17 snagged the ball in the end-
zone for a Middlebury interception. 
This was the end for Williams. 
Middlebury marched down the field 
again which resulted in a 16-yard dash 
to the endzone for the touchdown by 
Meritus. with 7:57 left in the game, the 
Panthers secured their insurance points 
and kept the comfortable 36-14 lead 
until the final whistles blew, signaling 
the end of the game.
Milano threw for 319 yards, 
connecting on 20 of 41 passes with three 
touchdowns. Minno caught eight passes 
and set a career record with 171 yards. 
Meritus ran for 118 yards, another career 
best.
The Panthers face the Bates Bobcats 
this weekend on the road in Lewiston, 
ME. 
 “A focused week of practice” is going 
to be what Midd needs to get the win,  as 
“Bates runs a unique offense and defense 
is what we will have to prepare for,” said 
Ritter.
With a record of 3-1, Middlebury 
keeps their hopes alive for contention of 
the NESCAC title.
October 22, 2015| 23SPORTS
Matt Minno Leads Football to Second Half Win
3-1W
Michael O’hara
Middlebury’s Trevor Miletich ’16 prepares to make a catch in front of the Williams 
sideline.
3-0 W
3rd /14 
36-14 W
panther sc0reboard
field hockey vs. Trinity 6-0 W 
Cake walk win for a very strong 
women’s soccer vs. Trinity
women’s golf at Wellesley
football 
volleyball at Bates
By  Sebastian Sanchez
Staff Writer
MIDDLEBURY
This is a no brainer.
UNDER
RIP Monday-Tuesday October 
Break, I’m really gonna miss it this 
year.
SEATTLE
Steven Hauschka is a pretty human 
being.
ISLANDERS
As you guys can see, I’m being 
editors’ picks
MIDDLEBURY
The Panther defense has been really 
strong lately.
OVER
He can probably do that.
ISLANDERS
Islands > the mainland.
SAN FRANCISCO
I guess they’ll be the “less 
dissapointing” team...
Emily Bustard (44-45, .494)
Joe macdonald (66-78, .458)
Alex Morris (72-67, .518)
Andrew Rigas (13-6, .684)
Field Hockey:
Middlebury (-2.5) at Bates
NHL Pick ‘em: Bruins at Islanders 
on Saturday
Over/under 300 passing yards for 
QB Matt Milano ’16 Saturday at 
Bates.
Which team is less 
disappointing and wins on 
Thursday night? Seattle 
Seahawks at San Fran 49ers?
MIDDLEBURY
I’d give Bates more than 2.5 in this 
game and still pick Midd.
UNDER
Tough call and it will be close, but 
I think the Panthers milk clock for 
much of the 2nd half.
SEATTLE
But it’s really irrelevant.
BRUINS
hockey game. Bring on fall break.
MIDDLEBURY
Midd hasn’t given up a goal in its 
past four games, and Bates has only 
scored one in that time.
UNDER
one.
SEATTLE
Three of their four losses have been 
to undefeated teams. They’re still a 
playoff team.
ISLANDERS
John Tavares is one of the best 
players I’ve heard of.
After coming back to defeat 
Wesleyan 2-1 the week before, the 
Middlebury men’s soccer team had 
a similar performance on Saturday, 
Oct. 17, shocking Trinity 2-1 
behind Kirk Horton’s ’17 two goals, 
including the game-winner just 
over seven minutes into overtime.
From the whistle, neither team 
controlled play in the opening 
minutes.  But off a Panther foul 
in the 9th minute, Trinity’s Sam 
Milbury lined up for the free-kick 
from 35 yards out, and blew it by 
the Middlebury keeper Greg Sydor 
’17.
control the game and move the ball 
forward dangerously. In the 14th 
minute, Adam Glaser ’17 blasted a 
shot from the edge of the box that 
hit the crossbar and bounced out. A 
little over six minutes later, center 
forward Greg Conrad ’17 set Tyler 
Bonini ’16 up with only Bantam 
goalkeeper Domenic Quade to 
beat, but Quade’s kick save kept his 
team ahead. Quade made another 
brilliant save on Daniel O’Grady ’19, 
who repeatedly sliced through the 
defense with impressive footwork 
and touch, left-footed strike, diving 
and corralling the shot attempt. 
“[Trinity] just had the one free 
kick,” Horton said. “We created 
half. We just had to keep doing 
what we were doing.”
Middlebury continued to 
possess the ball the majority of 
the time in the second half, and 
threatened to score a number of 
times early on. The Panthers, and 
the crowd, thought they had tied it 
up in the 60th minute, only for the 
referee to call the goal back on a 
foul, one of 44 in the contest.
“The NESCAC is a very tough 
conference,” Horton said. “This 
game was aggressive and physical. 
We can’t let the referees change the 
way we play.”
The Panthers persisted, and 
with a little under thirteen minutes 
to go, Glaser sent a free kick from 
45 yards that Horton tapped in, 
knotting the game at one. 
In overtime, the Panthers 
attacked aerially and the seemingly 
inevitable happened in the 98th 
minute when Glaser’s corner 
kick found its way to Horton who 
brought it to his feet and shot the 
game-winning goal.
The epic 2-1 victory moved the 
Panthers to 5-2-1 in the NESCAC, 
and gave them sole possession of 
second place in the NESCAC.
Middlebury was home again 
on Tuesday, Oct. 20 when they 
hosted Plymouth St., completely 
dominating en route to a 5-0 win.
The Panthers wasted no time 
exerting themselves as Glaser 
found Bean on a corner kick to take 
an early lead in the seventh minute. 
Conrad then held off a defender 
and fed Horton down the side who 
fed Bonini for a tap-in goal and 2-0 
lead going into the half.
Glaser and Conrad took over in 
the second half to seal the 5-0 win 
for Middlebury. Conrad tallied his 
while Glaser added his seventh goal 
and tenth assist of the season. With 
that assist, Glaser set the program’s 
single season assist record, 
breaking Josh Shapiro’s 20 year old 
record of 9.
The team will take their 10-2-
1 record to Lewiston, Maine on 
Saturday, Oct. 24 to play Bates.
Noah Farrell ’18 won the 
Division III singles national 
title at the 2015 USTA/ITA 
National Indoor Intercollegiate 
Championships on Saturday, Oct. 
17 in Sumter, South Carolina. 
With the win, Farrell became the 
in the history of the Middlebury 
men’s tennis program.
“It was very fun and exciting 
to have the opportunity to play 
against the other top players,” 
Farrell said. “Winning this 
tournament means so much to 
me. I’m humbled and honored to 
accomplish what I accomplished, 
and I’m so happy to do it for 
Middlebury College.” 
He claimed the championship 
by defeating Rafe Mosetick of 
Emory in straight sets (6-4, 6-4) 
on Saturday morning to cap off an 
amazing and unexpected run by 
the sophomore.
“[This] couldn’t happen 
young man,” Head Coach Bob 
Hansen said. “He is a brilliant 
humility, appreciating challenges 
and playing with great composure 
and sportsmanship. He has been a 
complete pleasure to work with.”
As the Division III champion, 
Farrell competed in the “Super 
the NCAA Division II, NAIA 
and Junior College national 
champions, but fell to Division 
II champion Jan Meyer of 
his chance at qualifying for the 
2015 USTA/ITA National Indoor 
Intercollegiate Championships in 
Flushing Meadows, New York.
Last season, Farrell, a four-
time state champion in high 
school, earned NESCAC Rookie 
of the Year with a 24-9 singles 
record as Middlebury’s number 
two player and reached the ITA 
bowing out to Steven Chen of 
He was also a key cog on the 
team that advanced to the NCAA 
championship before falling to 
Claremont-Mudd-Scripps, and 
20th best Division III player in the 
Northeast.  So, as a sophomore, 
he was expected to be a key 
player on a team that has serious 
championship aspirations, but no 
outsider could have predicted his 
meteoric rise to the best player in 
Division III men’s tennis.
“I think that my mental game 
has improved a ton as well as 
my tennis game,” Farrell said. 
“My coaches have helped me 
tremendously throughout the fall, 
making me a lot better and lot 
stronger so I give a lot of credit to 
them.”
His pursuit of the national 
at the New England ITA Regional 
Championships, defeating 
Steven Chen of Wesleyan 6-1, 
6-3 to avenge last year’s loss and 
men’s player to be New England’s 
top player since Andy Peters did it 
in 2009.
in South Carolina, Farrell drew 
the second-seeded and defending 
national champion Nicholas Chua 
Thursday, Oct. 15 and dismantled 
him in straight sets 6-2, 6-2.
“With such high stakes, this 
was probably one of the biggest 
tournaments I’ve ever played in,” 
Farrell said. “I tried not to think 
about how big the tournament 
was. Rather, I tried to think about 
playing each point and each match 
like it was a regular match.”
Farrell overcame Mohanad Al-
Houni 6-4, 7-6 (4) to set up the 
match with Mosetick. Then, by 
beating Mosetick in straight 
sets Saturday morning, Farrell 
completed his remarkable run to 
the championship without losing 
a single set.
“He seemed to improve with 
each match, and was always at 
his best when it mattered most,” 
Hansen said.
Even after the loss to Meyer, 
a 19-2 record, and was undefeated 
against Division III competition 
since his only other loss came at 
the hands of Division I opponent 
Peter Tarwid of Brown. In fact, he 
did not lose a set against Division 
III competition all fall, boding 
well for him and the Middlebury 
men’s tennis team this spring.
“I’m so excited to keep working 
on my game and striving to achieve 
our ultimate goal, which is to win 
a team national championship,” 
Farrell said.
Farrell hopes to avenge 
his team’s loss to Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps in the NCAA 
championships, and if this fall is 
any indication, Farrell and the 
Panthers are primed to make a run 
at it. With the 5’7” sophomore out 
there competing, Coach Hansen 
has an enormous building block.
sports 24
FIELD HOCKEY 
SWEEPS 
HOMECOMING 
WEEKEND
PAGE 22
FOOTBALL MAKES 
A COMEBACK FOR 
AN EXCITING WIN 
AGAINST WILLIAMS
PAGE 23
Men’s Soccer Fights 
For Comback Victory
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Noah Farrell Claims Middlebury’s 
First ITA/USTA DIII National Title
Michael o’hara
On the Hunt.
The Middlebury women’s soccer team tallied a crucial win in the NESCAC, 
defeating Trinity 3-0 to all but secure to a playoff spot in the conference playoffs. 
SEE PAGE 23 FOR FULL COVERAGE.
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor
| October 22, 2015
