October 23, 2014 | Vol. 113 no. 6 | middleburycampus.com
VT GOVERNOR’S 
DEBATE PROVES 
ENTERTAINING 
PAGES 4 & 5
BIKE FIX-IT 
STATION TO COME 
TO CAMPUS IN 
NOVEMEBER
PAGE 12
COCOON BACK AND 
BETTER THAN EVER 
PAGE 14
in
sid
e
The Exit Interview, Part One:
A Q&A with President LiebowitzConstruction 
Begins on Pipeline 
courtesy college communications
College President Ronald D. Liebowitz spoke with the Campus.
By Joe Flaherty 
By Jack McLaughlin 
The Middlebury Campus sat 
down with College President 
Ronald D. Liebowitz to discuss 
his time at the College. The con-
versation ranged from when he 
of the changes he has seen at 
the College in the past years. Li-
ebowitz will depart the College at 
the conclusion of the school year.  
Middlebury Campus (MC): 
What was it like moving from 
a role as a Professor at the Col-
-
cally Provost and Executive Vice 
President), and then to the Col-
lege President? What was it like, 
as someone within the College, 
stepping up to become College 
President?
Ronald D. Liebowitz (RL): Like 
many things, it had its advantages 
and disadvantages. In my particu-
lar case, I was a tenured member 
of the faculty, which means I went 
through the tenure process and 
then I served in two major academ-
ic positions before becoming presi-
dent — the dean of the faculty and 
then provost.  Having had these op-
portunities, I was able to learn a lot 
about the institution, seeing things 
from many angles, and working 
with major committees along the 
way, all of which was so very valu-
able and a real advantage for me.
The disadvantage coming “from 
inside” the institution is that, hav-
ing had to make some tough de-
cisions, sore feelings sometimes 
linger. When you come into the 
presidency with a history, you face 
some additional challenges when 
trying to move the institution for-
ward. So, there are pluses and mi-
nuses to both, but I feel very fortu-
nate to have known the institution 
as well as I did when I began my 
term as president.
MC: And I think a lot of people 
forget that it has only happened 
three times in the College’s his-
tory.
 
RL: Yes, I like to remind people 
who are not knowledgeable of 
Middlebury’s history that the col-
lege has had a president from 
within three times in 214 years 
– once in the 19th century with 
Ezra Brainerd, once in the 20th 
century with John McCardell and 
me in the 21st century, so maybe 
that means we can expect outside 
presidents for the next 85 years!
 
MC: Do you think your back-
ground as a specialist in political 
that you have embarked on during 
your time as President? Examples 
include new schools abroad, new 
language programs, and Mon-
terey.
 
RL: I have never given this much 
thought. I think my background 
as a Russianist and also as a po-
litical geographer had some im-
pact but I would like to think that 
most academics today, regardless 
of one’s discipline, would see the 
changing world in which we live 
and how that relates to the type of 
education that our students need 
and by which they would be best 
served. I would hope that most 
academics would see the direction 
we’ve taken as complementary 
rather than in competition with a 
traditional liberal arts education 
to Middlebury and higher educa-
our students) way.
College Announces Interim 
Administrative Positions
By Joe Flaherty
On Oct. 17, President of the 
College Ronald D. Liebowitz an-
nounced several administrative 
changes in an all-campus email. 
Included was the news that Dean 
of Students and Assistant Professor 
of the History of Art and Architec-
ture Katy Smith Abbott will serve as 
interim Dean of the College begin-
ning in January. Smith Abbott is re-
placing Vice President for Student 
Affairs and Dean of the College 
Shirley Collado, who is departing 
Middlebury to become Executive 
Vice Chancellor for Strategic Initia-
tives and Executive Vice Provost at 
Rutgers University – Newark. 
Collado wrote in an email to The 
Middlebury Campus that Smith 
Abbott is the right person for the 
position. “I am thrilled that Katy 
will assume this interim role,” 
Collado wrote. “She has been an 
incredible colleague and leader 
as the Dean of Students, and I am 
vision, experience and a student-
centered approach to her work with 
our Student Life team.”
In his email, Liebowitz also de-
tailed several other administrative 
shifts that will occur through the 
2015-2016 school year. The vari-
ous changes are due in large part to 
Collado’s multiple responsibilities 
at the College, which include serv-
ing as the College’s Title IX Coor-
These roles are now being divided 
among several administrators. 
Liebowitz explained that the cre-
ation of these positions as interim 
roles and the division of Collado’s 
responsibilities are because of the 
broader changes underway at the 
College during the presidential 
search. In his email, he wrote, “This 
will provide important continuity 
for the community while giving the 
next president of Middlebury the 
opportunity to consider and make 
long-term administrative leader-
ship decisions.” 
Collado believes that the deci-
sion to separate these roles into 
different positions will ultimately 
leave the College in a strong posi-
tion when a new College President 
takes the reins. “These recent ap-
pointments demonstrate the Col-
lege’s serious investment in the 
critical areas of responsibility that I 
oversee. Given the leadership tran-
sitions at the institution, I think it 
is wise to appoint three outstand-
ing individuals to oversee student 
life, diversity initiatives and Title 
IX responsibilities,” Collado wrote. 
“There are a variety of ways that 
this work can be structured, but 
what is most important is that Mid-
dlebury must remain deeply com-
mitted to these goals and areas. I 
have no doubt that dividing up the 
roles with three talented individu-
als is the best way to address our 
institutional needs and strategic 
goals at this time.”
Smith Abbott brings years of ex-
perience in student life to the Vice 
President for Student Affairs and 
Dean of the College position. She, 
along with her husband, Profes-
sor of Mathematics Steve Abbott, 
served as co-heads of Ross Com-
mons from 2002 to 2008. In 2011, 
Students and alumni cheer on the Middlebury Football team, 
which beat Bates 35-6 at the Homecoming game this past weekend.
College Communications 
SPECIAL feature
SEE ADMINS, PAGE 3
SEE SPREAD, PAGES 10-11SEE PIPELINE, PAGE 2
HOMECOMING 
Over the past few weeks, there 
South Main Street where workers 
dug a trough and buried a natural 
gas distribution line leading to the 
College’s service building to provide 
the campus with a new source of 
energy. This is the local extension 
of Vermont Gas’s highly contentious 
Addison Rutland Natural Gas Proj-
ect — a 41-mile service extension 
south from the Burlington area to 
Middlebury that, despite growing 
controversy in the state, is now par-
tially in the ground and will soon be 
operational.
Back in March 2011, the Col-
lege wrote a public letter of support 
for the pipeline project along with 
many other businesses in the area 
hoping to diversify their energy op-
tions and support economic devel-
opment in the state. These letters, 
in combination with testimony from 
the community and many of Ver-
mont’s agencies and departments, 
were presented to the Vermont Pub-
lic Service Board (PSB).
In Dec. 2013, the PSB granted a 
natural gas’s lower cost and cleaner 
economically while simultaneously 
reducing carbon emissions. The 
project will also create opportunities 
for biomethane development. 
The PSB decision in favor of the 
pipeline authorized Vermont Gas 
to establish lease agreements with 
Vermonters whose land would be 
affected by the proposed path of the 
pipeline. Many of these landowners, 
however, refused to accept Vermont 
Gas’s offers.
“Landowners objected for a 
number of reasons,” said Isaac Bak-
er ’14.5, an Environmental Studies 
major who wrote his senior the-
sis on the pipeline. “Some felt that 
they were being bullied into sign-
ing a lease they weren’t happy with, 
some wanted a lawyer present but 
couldn’t afford one and many envi-
ronmentalists objected to the idea of 
investing in fossil fuel infrastructure 
on principle.
As opposition grew along the 
path of the pipeline, signs reading 
“Stop the Fracked Gas Pipeline” 
began popping up along the road-
side throughout Addison County. 
In 2012, the state banned hydrau-
lic fracturing, or “fracking,” the ex-
traction process used in Canada to 
supply much of the energy in Ver-
mont Gas’s pipeline. The towns of 
Cornwall, Shoreham and Monkton 
all passed non-binding resolutions 
against the pipeline, while Ver-
gennes and Middlebury, which will 
receive more distribution, voted in 
favor of the pipeline. 
At the College, a student group 
led by Cailey Cron ’13.5 and Anna 
Shireman-Grabowski ’15.5 gath-
ered over 1,000 signatures in a week 
with their online petition, encour-
aging the College to revoke its sup-
port of the pipeline. Many profes-
sors simultaneously signed letters 
prompting the Administration to 
reconsider its position.
On May 6, 2014, President Ron-
ald D. Liebowitz wrote an all-school 
email indicating that the Adminis-
tration had noted the community’s 
concerns, particularly around frack-
ing, but remained unchanged in its 
support for the pipeline.
“Ultimately, we believe the pipe-
line will contribute to the economic 
New to the College this fall, the Party 
Assistant program will engage students 
in the duty of regulating parties held by 
their peers. In late September of this year, 
students received an email from Barbara 
McCall, Director of Health and Wellness 
Education, inviting them to apply for the 
position of Party Assistant. The program 
has been considered for a number of years 
but was initially proposed by a student 
member of the Task Force on Alcohol and 
Social Life from 2011-2012. 
McCall explained that the process of 
creating this position has involved inter-
viewing and reviewing materials at schools 
with similar programs, such as Swarth-
more, Haverford, Dartmouth and Rensse-
laer Polytechnic Institute. It also involved 
meeting with consultants, engaging with 
stakeholders at the College and consulta-
tion and review by the College’s legal team. 
The goal of the Party Assistant program, 
McCall explained, “is to increase safety and 
reduce risk at registered parties through 
peer-to-peer support.” Due to concerns 
regarding the responsibility and amount 
of work required of hosts, the Party Assis-
tant program was created to “expand the 
team of folks looking out for each other at 
events,” as well as to “support the hosts in 
making important safety decisions.” Ulti-
mately, the Party Assistants will act as a 
resource for both the hosts and attendees. 
Party Assistants will also be responsible 
for providing the required amounts of food 
and nonalcoholic beverages for registered 
parties with alcohol. 
Party Assistants will play an active role 
in registered parties every step of the way. 
They will arrive early to parties in order 
to survey the social space, as well as meet 
Their shifts will typically last from about 9 
p.m. to 2 a.m. When the event is over, they 
order to assess the night as well as to make 
suggestions for future events. 
In addition to being paid for their Fri-
day or Saturday night party shifts, they will 
be compensated to attend monthly meet-
ings that will involve ongoing training, as 
well as providing the administration with 
feedback on the program. As McCall put it, 
“Party Assistants will essentially act as ex-
tra eyes, ears and hands at events to sup-
port the hosts in creating and maintaining 
a safer and enjoyable event environment.” 
The Final Report of the Task Force on 
Alcohol and Social Life, published in May 
2012, details the Party Assistant Proposal, 
explaining the role and expectations of the 
Party Assistants (or Party Monitors, as 
they are referred to in the report). In ad-
dition to coordinating with the hosts and 
Public Safety, Party Assistants are entitled 
to take steps to remove persons who are 
intoxicated or belligerent. If possible, they 
will do this in coordination with the hosts. 
If they experience trouble removing an in-
toxicated or belligerent person, they are 
able to call Public Safety for assistance. 
Party Assistants will also deal with ca-
pacity issues. If the party fails to comply 
with College policy (for example, underage 
alcohol consumption, incorrect marking of 
hands at the door, etc.), Party Assistants 
may contact Public Safety. 
As of now, there is no set number of 
Party Assistants that the College plans on 
hiring. Applications are being accepted on 
a rolling basis and the administration is 
looking for more applicants. Ultimately, 
McCall explains, the hope for the Party 
Assistant program is that it “becomes part 
of the fabric of Middlebury’s social life.” 
Stressing the importance of peer-to-peer 
support, McCall hopes that upperclassmen 
will help contribute to a “culture of safety 
sophomores” that will ultimately provide 
for a safer, united campus environment.  
On Monday Oct. 6, Community Council 
began a conversation around potentially 
expanding Middlebury’s honor code, spe-
that would address academic integrity, 
and also social responsibility and behavior 
within the College community. 
The social honor code would focus on 
respect between community members, in-
cluding the relationship between students 
and Public Safety. Council Co-chairs Ben 
Bogin ’15 and Dean of Students Katy Smith 
Abbott recognized the Council’s interest in 
-
cussion.
“I went to an institution with an old 
honor code that covered all aspects of stu-
dent life. I think it does make sense to have 
that standard expressed across all aspects 
of student life,” said Associate Dean of the 
College Doug Adams. 
Many council members expressed simi-
lar support for expanding the honor code, 
but many were unconvinced that a social 
honor code could be very effective due to 
the present lack of respect for the honor 
code. 
“If students equate social honor code 
with academic code, this could devalue the 
academic honor code,” Blake Shapskinsky 
’15 said.  
Council members agreed that in many 
respects, the student body does not take 
the academic honor code seriously. One ex-
ample was that a student is unlikely to turn 
in a peer for cheating. 
There was an overall skepticism ex-
pressed by the students on the Council on 
the ability of a social honor code to be ef-
fective in changing the College culture sur-
rounding honor and integrity. 
Other members questioned the clarity 
of a “social honor code” and that it has too 
much room for interpretation and could 
create confusion. 
-
ic honor code is, I don’t think you could ap-
ply this detail to a social honor code. And I 
don’t see how you could combine the two,” 
Katherine Brown’18 said.
Others thought the more comprehen-
sive code would bring clarity.
“It is more consistent to have an honor 
code that expands over everything. A social 
honor code I would hope would increase 
awareness and force people to remember 
the academic honor code as well as increase 
respect with people like Public Safety,” Bo-
gin said.
 “[a social honor code could] integrate 
values in the campus culture about speak-
ing up and holding each other accountable 
for our actions,”  Helena Hlavaty ’16 said.
 On Monday Oct. 20 Bogin began the 
meeting with a proposal to potentially mod-
el Haverford College’s Honor Code Council, 
which publishes its proceedings when stu-
dents are tried for honor code violations, 
while keeping the student anonymous.
“[This would] emphasize that there are 
serious repercussions if you break the hon-
or code,” SGA President Taylor Custer ’15 
said. 
Later on, Hart Mechlin ’14.5 and the Di-
rector of Public Safety Elizabeth Burchard 
joined the meeting to provide their insights 
and experience to enhance the honor code 
discussion. 
Mechlin came with proposals to address 
the tension between Public Safety and the 
student body as well as the overall disre-
spect that is often present during the inter-
Members agreed that many students 
only see the negative aspects associated 
with public safety, such as receiving cita-
tions and fail to recognize the positive con-
tributions they provide to the College.
By Emma Dunlap
Community
Council
Update
| OCTOBER 23, 20142 NEWS
Trivia
THURSDAY AT  9 P.M IN CROSS-
ROADS CAFE
Free Friday Film 
Guardians of the Galaxy
FRIDAY AT 6 & 9 P.M IN DANA 
AUDITORIUM
MCAB ROLLER RINK
Friday  1opm-1am in 
Wilson Hall
Zumba 
Come dance the calories 
away in Wilson Hall
SUNDAY AT 4-5 PM
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
Party Assistant System 
Implementation Starts
Pipeline Construction Causes Concern 
Protesters against the gas pipeline have congregated at several constructions 
spots throughout Vermont since construction began. On Sept. 16, two men were 
arrested for  chaining themselves to a pipe at the construction site, above.
Climate connections
By Lily Sawyer
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
welfare of the region,” wrote Liebowitz, “and 
that it would be unacceptable for us to stand 
in the way of real and measurable progress to-
ward goals broadly shared in our community.”
Beyond these broader economic goals, the 
College also supports the pipeline project be-
cause it is tied to the 2016 carbon neutrality 
goal.
“The gas pipeline will provide a means of 
storage and conveyance of renewable natural 
gas that will be produced by a manure digester 
at the Goodrich Farm in Salisbury, Vt.,” Direc-
tor of Sustainability Jack Byrne explained in 
an email. “The College has contracted with the 
developer of the digester to purchase enough 
of the gas generated by the digester to elimi-
nate the purchase of 640,000 gallons of #6 
fuel oil.”
The College explored other ways of bring-
ing the renewable natural gas to campus, but 
found that connecting to the Vermont Gas 
renewable natural gas from the farm will enter 
the pipeline in Shoreham, and the College will 
withdraw an equivalent amount at the Service 
Building, depending on its heating needs on 
any given day.
“Using the pipeline,” wrote Byrne, “made 
the digester project economically feasible be-
cause the alternative of building a storage sys-
tem for the gas on campus was not affordable.”
 According to Vermont Gas’s website, the 
College will receive natural gas service by the 
end of 2014. Over the summer, the College 
spent $1.7 million to convert its boilers to be 
able to burn natural gas in the central heating 
plant. The construction on South Main Street 
over the past few weeks connects the College 
with other large, industrial energy users in 
the area and awaits connection with the main 
high-pressure line coming south from the Bur-
lington area.
The main pipeline construction north of 
Middlebury has so far not gone according to 
plan. Many landowners along the path of the 
pipeline have continued to refuse to sign Ver-
mont Gas’s leases, which caused the company 
to threaten to take the land via eminent do-
main this past summer.
“The power imbalance between Vermont 
Gas and an individual Vermonter is complete-
ly unacceptable,” said Baker. “It is David ver-
sus Goliath every time a Vermont Gas lawyer 
knocks on a door and asks a Vermonter to sign 
a lease without legal counsel.”
Rising Tide Vermont, a direct action group 
focused on opposing fossil fuel expansion in 
the state, is planning a protest in Montpelier 
on Monday, Oct. 27 with 350 Vermont and the 
Vermont Workers Center. A small group of 
students associated with Sunday Night Group, 
the campus’s environmental organizing stu-
dent group, are planning to join Vermonters 
for a mass-protest and sit-in at the state’s capi-
tal, calling for the state to reject the pipeline.
“I think the pipeline is the wrong decision 
for Vermont, and the College is taking the 
easy way out by using fossil fuel infrastructure 
to achieve our carbon neutrality goals,” said 
Baker. “Biomethane is a great energy choice, 
but not if it means supporting a company like 
Vermont Gas, which has repeatedly shown its 
the review process. I will be at the protest on 
Monday.”
Other students, however remain undecid-
ed. Campus Sustainability Coordinator (CSC) 
president Teddy Kuo ’15 expressed concern 
with the environmental impacts associated 
-
pipeline,” said Kuo, “because of personal per-
spectives and what people think creates more 
more affordable energy source.”
Ultimately, Baker and Kuo each individu-
ally expressed a preference for renewable 
energy sources, like wind and solar, while ac-
natural gas. 
“There’s no denying that natural gas is 
cheap and will help local businesses in the 
short term,” said Baker. “But the problem is 
bigger than that. This pipeline is a 50 to 100 
year investment in fossil fuel infrastructure at 
a time when we are already feeling the nega-
tive impacts of climate change. If we can’t 
bring ourselves to care about the Canadian 
communities that energy companies are frack-
ing, we should at least consider the long term 
pricing for natural gas and make efforts to lim-
it our carbon emissions with real investments 
in renewable fuel sources.”
OCTOBER 23, 2014 |  3        News
New Admins to Fill Collado’s RolesDIY Global 
Conference
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Former Irish President Will Visit 
Campus to Deliver Fall Lecture
By Joe Flaherty
Smith Abbott was appointed Dean of Stu-
dents after four years as Associate Dean of 
the College. In his email, Liebowitz wrote that 
in Smith Abbott’s new role, “She will oversee 
residential life, student activities, athletics, 
public safety, new student orientation, judi-
cial affairs, the Parton Center for Health and 
Wellness and the centers and programs re-
lated to innovation, entrepreneurship, career 
services, and internships.”
Abbott’s current responsibilities as Dean 
of Students and her new responsibilities as 
Dean of the College. However, new areas that 
will fall under Smith Abbott’s purview start-
ing in January include Athletics, the Depart-
ment of Public Safety and the Parton Center 
for Health and Wellness. There are also new 
responsibilities for Smith Abbott in manag-
on Creativity and Innovation in the Liberal 
Arts, the Center for Social Entrepreneurship 
and MiddCORE.
As she prepares to step into the new role, 
Smith Abbott said, “I’m eager to support the 
initiatives already in play and to create real 
dialogue with students about the issues that 
matter most to them. I already work closely 
Dean of the College and I look forward to the 
collaborations across student life.” 
Working with Smith Abbott in January 
will be Dean of Wonnacott Commons Matt 
Longman ’89, who will serve as Special As-
sistant to the Dean of the College.
 “Matt Longman is taking part of the Dean 
of Students portfolio. He is taking on some, 
but not all, of the responsibilities of the Dean 
of Students role so he can preserve his com-
mitment to the Dean of Wonnacott role,” 
Smith Abbott said. 
Longman will continue to serve as Dean of 
Wonnacott Commons. A Middlebury gradu-
ate, he has worked as a dean at the College for 
the past 17 years.
Looking past the 2015-2016 school year, 
Smith Abbott said there will likely be a con-
versation with the new president regarding 
the structure for student life administration. 
“I think a lot depends on the vision the new 
President has for student life,” she said.
Professor of Spanish Miguel Fernández 
for the 2015-2016 school year. With Collado’s 
departure, starting in January the CDO will 
be its own position. Fernández, who has pre-
viously served as chair of the Department of 
Spanish & Portuguese and director of Latin 
American Studies, will take on existing ini-
tiatives in diversity. Notably, Fernández will 
support the Creating Connections Consor-
-
curing this $4.7 million grant for the College, 
along with Connecticut College and Williams 
College, from the Andrew W. Mellon Foun-
dation to increase diversity among faculty. 
Fernández will be stepping into the CDO role 
-
versity partners to the program.  He praised 
the program in an email to the Campus. 
“This is not simply a post-doc fellowship that 
brings underrepresented graduate students 
onto the faculty for a couple of years. It is a 
much more complex program with ambitious 
goals,” Fernández said. “I am attracted by the 
root of a problem and seeks workable solu-
the whole academy.”
Additionally, as CDO, it is likely that 
Fernández will also be involved in the ongo-
ing conversations around a proposed Inter-
cultural Center. “I will pay close attention 
to the proposal this fall and get myself up to 
speed on the process,” Fernández wrote in an 
email to Campus. “My expectation is that the 
proposal will pass and that I will have an ac-
tive role in the implementation of the Inter-
cultural Center proposal.”
Finally, Liebowitz detailed an adminis-
trative change that ties into the new gover-
nance structure of the Board of Trustees. Vice 
President for Language Schools and Schools 
Abroad Michael Geisler will now also serve as 
 “The addition of CRO to Michael’s title 
-
creasingly complex legal and regulatory en-
vironment in which Middlebury and all of 
higher education now operate,” Liebowitz 
wrote. “This complexity requires a designat-
ed senior-level administrator to manage risk 
and to articulate and implement best prac-
tices and appropriate policies.”
As Vice President for Language Schools 
and Schools Abroad, Geisler assessed risks 
when looking for new sites for programs 
abroad.  “We spend a long time measuring 
the relative safety and how it is different from 
Middlebury and comparable cities in the 
United States,” he said.
Geisler will be the primary liaison to the 
risk management committee, one of the six 
functional standing committees that now 
exist within the Board of Trustees in its new 
governance structure. He will also oversee 
the work of the new Title IX Coordinator and 
-
-
yet. “Title IX and the Clery Act will be some 
of our responsibilities,” Geisler said, “as well 
as emerging threats like Ebola and new pro-
grams and what they mean in terms of the 
side and on the side of managing staff and 
faculty resources.” Investment policy is also a 
part of the CRO’s responsibilities in risk man-
agement.
Geisler said the transition to the new gov-
ernance structure in relation to his new role 
has been smooth. “There was thorough prep-
aration done by the Trustees themselves and 
by the administration,” Geisler said. “By the 
time we had those meetings, everybody knew 
what their roles were and we were able to en-
gage in much more focused and substantive 
discussions than under the former gover-
nance structure.” 
Collado is still heavily invested in diver-
sity and inclusion initiatives in her remain-
ing time at Middlebury.  “These include the 
approval of an intercultural center at Carr 
Hall, key faculty diversity initiatives, greater 
-
dents and community college transfer stu-
dents, continued sexual violence education 
and prevention, further strengthening our 
MiddView new student orientation program 
and the successful launch of our new Posse 
STEM Program,” Collado wrote. “These are 
just some of the initiatives that I hope Katy, 
Miguel and the new Title IX Coordinator will 
continue to push forward through the 2015-
2016 academic year.”
MCAB Speaker and former President of Ireland Mary Robinson will speak dur-
ing Fall Family Weekend at 7 p.m. on Saturday in Mead Memorial Chapel. 
courtesy mary robinson
By Nicole Caci
The Rohatyn Center Student Advisory 
second annual Global Affairs Conference, 
which is set to be held from Feb. 19-20 
in the spring semester. This student-run 
conference is intended to garner more in-
terest for international and global events 
and provide students with an opportunity 
to shed light on an global topic of their 
choice.  The board is now accepting stu-
dent proposals for conference topics.
“This is all designed by students,” said 
Tom Yu ’16, a member of the Rohatyn Cen-
ter Student Advisory Board. “Students are 
completely in charge of this event. No fac-
ulty is involved at all, which gives students 
much more leeway but also a lot more re-
sponsibility too.”
The application asks students to ex-
plain what the major theme of their con-
ference will be, to give a tentative schedule 
of events, provide a provisional allocation 
of funds and describe how they envision 
the Rohatyn Center for Global Affairs sup-
porting the conference.
The RCGA holds its annual Interna-
tional and Interdisciplinary Conference, 
with a range of guest speakers addressing 
pertinent international issues.
“They wanted to get students involved 
in RCGA a little more, though, and they 
goal,” said Frank Wyer ’15, a member of 
RSAB.
The “do-it-yourself” structure of the 
conference came about as a result of a de-
sire to increase student involvement with 
the project. The RCGA faculty and RSAB 
hope that, by allowing students to come up 
with their own ideas for this conference, 
involvement and attendance for the event 
in February will improve.
“The proposals provide a platform for 
students to bring in something that they’re 
really interested in and they think the rest 
of the student body would be interested in 
too,” Wyer said. 
The winning proposal will be chosen by 
members of the student board based on 
the proposal’s global relevance, accessibil-
ity to students, and diversity in geographic 
and disciplinary perspectives.
 “Everyone probably has a good idea but 
then we need to consider the interest of the 
population here. Would they be interested 
in the topic and can they pull in more stu-
dents and inform them about something 
they actually want to know?” Yu said. 
Further, Wyer stresses the importance 
of making this conference both interesting 
and applicable to a wide range of students.
“We are trying to make sure that [the 
conference topic] is interdisciplinary so 
it’s not just relevant to IGS majors. It’s for 
everybody,” he said.
The selected student will receive $5,000 
towards funding his or her proposed con-
ference. Both Yu and Wyer note that the 
selection process might be hard.
“We can generally say that if a topic 
sounds very interesting and if its feasible 
within the given budget then that’s the 
one,” Yu said.
Though the deadline for conference 
proposals was Oct. 17, the board has ex-
tended that deadline to the end of the 
are given ample time to voice their inter-
ests. The board has received a number of 
applications, but encourages students to 
work with either a group, student orga-
nization or even individually to propose a 
conference topic of their choice. To submit 
a proposal, students can go to go/diycon-
ference. 
Yu, Wyer and the rest of the Student 
Advisory Board will contact the winner 
shortly after all applications are submit-
ted, so that students have ample time to 
plan their event.
Mary Robinson, the former President 
of Ireland, will visit the College on Oct. 25 
to deliver a lecture. Robinson, the seventh 
Commissioner for Human Rights, traveling 
to war-torn regions. Robinson is a member 
of the group of world leaders known as The 
Elders, many of them former heads of state 
as advocates for peace and human rights. 
The group was brought together by Nel-
son Mandela and is chaired by former U.N. 
has made combating climate change a cen-
terpiece of her international advocacy.
Robinson’s lecture is the Middlebury 
speaker. It is a public lecture that will take 
place at 7 p.m. at Mead Chapel. Robinson 
will speak for approximately an hour and 
will take questions afterward. 
MCAB President Zoe Kaslow ’15 said 
the Board wanted a speaker that could talk 
about women’s rights and topics that would 
apply to a community larger than Middle-
number one choice, I think especially be-
cause she speaks on so many topics that 
are relevant to the College,” Kaslow said. 
Last spring, Kaslow was the co-chair of the 
Speakers Committee along with Robbie La-
Croix ’16 and initiated the plan that would 
ultimately bring Robinson to campus.  
Kaslow said when reading the College’s 
Mission Statement, the values listed lined 
up with what Robinson focuses on in her 
work. “I think she is going to be fantastic, 
she really has a presence and I think her 
credentials really speak for themselves,” 
Kaslow said. 
Robinson’s endeavors are similar to the 
College’s efforts to attain carbon-neutrality 
by 2016 and embark on other projects in 
sustainability. In a June 2014 speech to the 
Freedom and Solidarity Forum, she said, 
“To put it starkly, the physical world faces 
potential catastrophe because of climate 
change and we are running out of time to 
take the necessary corrective action. We 
need rapidly and equitably to make the 
transition to a carbon-neutral world.”
In July of 2014, U.N. Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon appointed Robinson as Spe-
cial Envoy for Climate Change. She is now 
the President of the Mary Robinson Foun-
dation – Climate Justice, an organization 
that focuses on raising awareness of the 
consequences of climate change for the 
world’s poor.    
Nicholas Orr ’15 is a co-chair of the 
MCAB Speakers Committee, along with 
Izzy Kannegieser ’17. “Students are very 
excited,” Orr said. “I think it’s a very rele-
speakers we’ve had in the last few years.” 
The most recent former head of state to 
visit the College was President Bill Clinton, 
who delivered the Commencement address 
in 2007. 
The lecture by Robinson also takes place 
during Fall Family Weekend. “I think it’s a 
nice thing to take your parents to as well,” 
Orr said.
Two weeks ago, seven candidates running for governor 
of Vermont, including incumbent Governor Peter Shumlin, 
gathered at Vermont PBS for a 90 minute debate on issues 
including healthcare, the heroin epidemic and the rising cost 
of college tuition.  The moderator, PBS viewers and the exclu-
sively student audience all provided questions.
Stewart Ledbetter, host of the TV program “Vermont 
This Week,” moderated the debate. Each candidate had one 
minute to answer the given question, a rebuttal phase di-
rected by the moderator, and a one minute closing statement. 
Ledbetter opened the debate by asking each candidate to in-
troduce him or herself and to explain “how you have prepared 
Pete Diamondstone of Brattleboro, a Vermont resident 
for about 50 years and a representative of the Liberty Union 
run for governor every time since 1970. “I am a revolutionary, 
nonviolent socialist, and I am a secessionist … As a revolu-
tionary socialist, I have to tell you that most of what we will 
discuss tonight will not be relevant for me, because most of 
what I will talk about is how we overturn what is destroying 
our society and our environment, which is capitalism,” Dia-
mondstone said.
Cris Ericson, an Independent who is also running for US 
Senate as the nominee of the Marijuana Party, spoke next.  Er-
icson opened her introduction by harkening back to the days 
of her childhood when Vermont was “the garden of Eden.”  
-
ing based here, and we’ve got to stop the natural gas pipeline 
from being built underneath Lake Champlain,” Ericson said. 
Dan Feliciano, running as a member of the Libertarian 
Party, introduced himself next. “I’m a father, I’m a husband, 
and I’m a veteran.  I have three children, I live here in Essex,” 
Feliciano said.  
Feliciano spoke of why he chose to run, after his wife told 
him that: “‘Now that our son is 16, we need to start thinking 
about what we’re going to do differently, because he will be 
leaving and never coming back.’” He decided that he needed 
“to do something about this and couldn’t stand idly by,” said 
Feliciano, who has a background in healthcare and turning 
around big businesses and government organizations.  Felici-
ano emphasized his desire to make the state more affordable 
for families, provide better healthcare, reduce property taxes 
and offer school of choice.
Republican candidate Scott Milne, Governor Shumlin’s 
biggest competitor, introduced himself next.  Milne grew up 
in Vermont and moved back in the late ’80s to take a family 
business that was located in New Hampshire.
However, “What I saw over the past 30 years was a con-
tinuing difference between New Hampshire and Vermont 
and the effect of tax policies and government on people to 
prosper, and that has drawn me into this race,” Milne said. 
He promised to offer a “great voice” for those who choose to 
support him.  
Bernard (Bernie) Peters is running as an Independent. 
Peters is a retiree from the Agency of Transportation where 
he worked for 36 years.  “I’ve been watching politics for quite 
some time … from what I see, whichever party is in power is 
not working for the Vermonter.  Neither party seems to real-
ize, that when they say they’re working for the party, they’re 
not working for the party.  They’re working for the tax payer 
and the voter. They are the people who are the boss, not the 
other way around,” Peters said.  “All it takes it a lot of good 
common sense and hard work from everybody,” Peters said.
Emily Peyton, an Independent from Putney, introduced 
herself as “an earth activist.”  She entered the race “to bring 
forth the very exciting solutions, and the hopeful solutions 
that you have to help make the earth a livable place, a place 
that you can thrive.” Peyton explained that she came to talk 
about “Economic systems that can allow us to laterally grow 
the economy, and things that we can do to honor the earth, 
and live in harmony with each other and our natural world.”
Finally, incumbent Peter Shumlin, the nominee of 
the Democratic Party, spoke.  Shumlin has served two 
consecutive two-year terms as governor and is seeking 
re-election for a third.  “I love Vermont more than any-
thing.  And I ran for governor four years ago, because after 
building two businesses, successful businesses, in Vermont 
employing Vermonters, I felt that I wanted more students, 
more young people, to have the same opportunity that I’ve 
had in this state,” Shumlin said.  Shumlin has and will contin-
ue to prioritize building a state “where our young people can 
stay, and work, and thrive.”  He concluded by citing the many 
successes of his past two terms and asking for two more years. 
winning the 2010 election, Shumlin passed a law creating a 
single-payer healthcare system in Vermont, making Vermont 
-
er, a recent poll showed that Vermonters are 
deeply divided over the issue of healthcare, as 
are the candidates.  
“Healthcare has a heavily IT-based solu-
tion, and I think that going to a single payer 
system really doesn’t do anything to drive 
down the cost of healthcare,” Feliciano said, 
citing the technology problems of Vermont 
Health Connect and the national healthcare 
marketplace website.  Feliciano advocated for 
free market solutions by opening up the mar-
ket and letting more insurers into the state to 
drive down premiums through competition. 
“You pick your doctor, you pick your hospital, 
you pick your insurer,” he said.
Shumlin said that to address the rising 
cost of healthcare, Vermont must continue to 
follow through with the single payer system. 
“First of all, I’d disagree with Peter Shum-
lin,” Milne said when asked about healthcare. 
He referred to Shumlin’s healthcare reforms 
as “a reckless march toward single-payer.” 
Milne mentioned the failure of the single-pay-
er system after four years.  
Some candidates offered novel ideas, such as Peters who 
suggested giving to issue of healthcare reform as a school 
project to students in Vermont, which has “some of the nicest 
schools on the East Coast.” 
Hussain Al-Mahr, a student in the audience, asked how 
the candidates would lower the cost of college tuition and at-
tract more students to Vermont colleges.  Views on education 
costs were as diverse as those on healthcare. Shumlin spoke 
of the challenge of getting Vermont students from high school 
into college, an issue he has already addressed as governor 
by implementing the early college, dual enrollment programs 
and Vermont Scholars programs.  Milne dismissed Shum-
lin’s programs as ineffective over the last two year, but did 
acknowledge that the cost of college has risen above what 
most Vermonters can pay.  By lowering the cost of kindergar-
ten through twelfth grade education, Milne hopes to be more 
generous with scholarships for Vermont students going to 
college in Vermont.
 “This issue of paying to go to school begins with an ab-
surdity and if you accept it, you’ve accepted the absurd,” Dia-
mondstone said.  “We should be paying people to go to school. 
School is work … If a student goes to school and learns two 
and two is four, that student has contributed to the wealth 
of the society and should be paid,” said Diamondstone.  Dia-
-
tween citizens and capital, and how a socialist society would 
change that.
-
icson said.  She was outraged at the amount of money it was 
receiving from the state and suggested that that money be 
redirected to the state colleges and to free, online education.
“There are debt-free methods of education.  If you want 
to learn anything, you can go learn it, then we need a system 
of accrediting that learning,” Peyton said, referencing one 
called the People’s Free University.  As another solution to the 
rising cost of college, Peyton suggested “increasing our food 
independence by giving people of your age land in order to 
make our state food secure.”
The moderator then asked what the governor would do 
to improve wages in the state. 
Milne would solve this problem 
by making Vermont more busi-
ness-friendly through tax incen-
tives and improving the educa-
tion system. Shumlin would 
grow wages and employment 
primarily through education 
and job training at every level.  
“We need to completely 
convert to a socialist system of 
manufacturing,” Diamondstone 
said.  According to Diamond-
stone, this is the only way peo-
ple can ensure that they are not 
getting ripped off by employers.
“How can we create a mon-
etary system so that the econo-
my spurts up from the ground?” 
is the central question around 
improving wages, Peyton said. 
She is not a supporter of “trick-
le-down” economics.
“They’re going to go by us 
like roadkill on the interstate,” Peters said, explaining how 
businesses will not choose to locate in Vermont because the 
state is not business friendly.  His solution would be to keep 
more of the well-educated Vermont students in the state. F e -
liciano focused primarily on cutting costs, reducing taxes and 
eliminating laws that prevent businesses from expanding.
J.T. Lukens of 350 Vermont submitted the next question 
online: “Do you support divesting Vermont’s pension funds 
Vermont’s commitment to green energy through the increase 
in solar and wind power over the last several years.  In terms 
of divestment, “it’s not the sharpest tool that we have in the 
drawer,” Shumlin said, but that he would be willing to look 
into it.
“One good reason to have fossil fuels in our portfolio is … 
to hedge against a bet we’re doing, rushing toward this renew-
able energy program,” Milne said.  He would not support di-
vestment, citing other, more pressing issues.  Neither Peters 
nor Feliciano would not support divestiture of the pension 
portfolio either.
“We need to make our earth a priority,” said Peyton, a 
strong supporter of divestment.  She also spoke of the need 
to stop using oil and start using things like hydro-power.  She 
suggested creating more buildings out of agricultural hemp, 
using the quarter of the energy needed for normal buildings.
“Capitalism not only rips off works, it rips off the planet,” 
Diamondstone said. Diamondstone supports divesting all 
capital investments and opening a state bank.  
Serious Issues, Silly Solutions: 
Vt. Gubernatorial Candidates Debate
By Alessandria Schumacher
Jason Zhang
Gubertorial candidates prepare for a 2014 Election Debate at Vermont PBS for an exclusively student audience.
“As a revolutionary so-
cialist, I have to tell you 
that most of what we 
will discuss tonight will 
not be relevant for me, 
because most of what I 
will talk about is how we 
overturn what is destroy-
ing our society and our 
environment, which is 
capitalism.”
Pete Diamondstone
Liberty union party representative
jason Zhang
Scott Milne and Bernard Peters face off in the VT debate. SEE CANDIDATES, PAGE 5 
local
Burlington Teachers Strike Ends
By Sarah Koenigsberg
By Olivia Jurkowitz and
Lauren Berestecky
Teachers in South Burlington went 
on strike last Tues., Oct. 14, canceling 
classes and other activities in the district 
for most of the following week. After 
five days of striking, a tentative agree-
ment was reached on Saturday concern-
ing health care coverage and salaries for 
teachers. Classes resumed on Monday 
though both sides need to vote on the 
agreement before it can be implemented. 
More specific details of the compromise 
have yet to be released.  
The teacher’s union decided in a 
meeting the week before picketing began 
to set a strike deadline on negotiations 
with the board. The decision followed 
months of unproductive discussion 
about teachers’ pay and health benefits. 
The cause of tension was the teachers’ 
desire to keep their existing health care 
plan. While the school board had con-
ceded to retain the plan, they were pro-
posing changes in salaries and premiums 
to offset costs. 
The board members stated that ris-
ing health care costs would make it dif-
ficult to continue with the same health 
insurance policy while maintaining rea-
sonable property tax rates, which have 
risen by 13 prercent in South Burlington 
over the past two years. South Burling-
ton teachers are, on average, the highest 
paid statewide, according to a fact-finder 
report that was produced in August.
Both parties spoke out against how 
the other side handled the situation. 
The union accused the school board of 
stalling negotiations by showing up to a 
scheduled meeting unprepared the week 
before the strike. Teachers were addi-
tionally irritated by a meeting held for 
school staff about health insurance plans 
that they claim was an attempt to nego-
tiate directly with teachers, outside of 
the negotiation process outlined by state 
law.
The school board, for its part, felt it 
had made significant concessions. Eliza-
beth Fitzgerald, the board’s chairwoman, 
said about the proposed health care plan, 
“This is not the exchange, it’s not single-
payer, it’s not speculative, and it’s far 
more generous than many of the plans 
the taxpayers in our community enjoy.” 
They were furthermore disgruntled by 
the extremity to which teachers went to 
further their cause, saying, “They were 
willing to put the education and activi-
ties of the students at risk despite the 
fact that the board has demonstrated 
significant compromise.”
Discussions could not commence 
until Thursday, when the entire board 
would be available to meet. Talk between 
both sides occurred in the Franklin Tut-
tle Middle School library and continued 
until 1:30 a.m. Friday morning, at which 
point the board members postponed ne-
gotiations. Though the teachers were 
resistant to disbanding without reach-
ing consensus, the school board said in a 
statement, “At this point there is little if 
any progress that can be made in resolv-
ing this dispute this morning.” Negotia-
tions reconvened at 3:00 p.m. on Friday. 
Extracurricular activities, including 
sports, were reinstated on Friday as well, 
as other staff and administrators could 
run them without the teachers. “I am re-
instating student activities at this time 
because academic days of instruction 
will be made up, yet the events within the 
co-curricular schedule will not,” Super-
intendent David Young said.
A mediator, John McNeil, was 
brought in to work with both sides to-
ward an agreement. He commended both 
the board and the union for their efforts, 
stating on Saturday, “This was no lon-
ger about what you really wanted, this 
was about what you could accept. Even 
though you might have to - from your 
perspective - hold your nose and accept 
it. Both parties compromised from where 
I’m sure they would have preferred to 
be, but in the end I think they found an 
agreement that works to the advantage of 
the public here in South Burlington and 
the community at large, and especially 
the kids that are attending school here.” 
Though classes recommenced on 
Monday, the incident has brought atten-
tion to policy regarding teacher walk-
outs. Governor Shumlin expressed dis-
approval of the teacher strike. “When 
you see what’s going on in a community 
like South Burlington, the people that get 
hurt are the kids, the moms and the dads 
who suddenly have no place for their 
kids to go during the day,” he said. 
Shumlin hopes to outlaw teacher 
strikes in favor of mandatory binding ar-
bitration, which is the policy for a num-
ber of other state employees. The change 
would make it illegal for districts to im-
pose contracts and for teachers to strike 
as a means to gain concessions. Walk-
outs are illegal in 36 states and Vermont 
is the only state in New England where it 
is still allowable. 
Steve Dale, the head of the Vermont 
School Board’s Association, explained 
that the boards are opposed to the change 
because they feel the nature of the pro-
cess would decrease the likelihood of in-
novation in times of economic constraint 
and that involving an external arbiter is 
not a good method to resolve issues.
Despite support from the NEA for 
the change, the organization did not feel 
such discussion was appropriate at the 
time of the strike. “We really don’t ap-
preciate the Governor’s taking the time 
to have this policy discussion while, you 
know, several hundred of our members 
are walking the picket line,” said David 
Allen, spokesman of the Vermont NEA. 
Now that the strike has come to a close, 
changes in policy might gain momentum. 
Have you ever gotten to Proctor 
minutes after they’ve made the dreaded 
change from breakfast to lunch? We 
have and have not been happy about it. 
Luckily we have found a place that un-
derstands our love for breakfast food 
past 10:30 am. 3 Squares Cafe, located 
in Vergennes, Vt. serves breakfast until 3 
pm! Not only does this café serve seven 
hours of breakfast, but also the breakfast 
menu contains irresistible items such as 
“Green Eggs and Ham,” and “Peach and 
Granola Buttermilk Pancakes.”
Breakfast until three isn’t the only 
example of 3 Squares ability to satisfy 
cravings. They also have a Taqueria 
Menu that is served every Thursday, 
Friday and Saturday. Imagine Mexican 
Night at Ross three days a week! There 
are also some added benefits of ventur-
ing off-campus for some Mexican food. 
First, the Taqueria menu offers a Pork 
Taco that contains pork, avocado and 
goat cheese. Second, the Taqueria menu 
has the luxury of having avocado.  Third, 
the line is not out the door! 
Although it was not Mexican, we 
did have a great lunch at 3 Squares. 
We tried the Roasted Tomato & Broc-
coli Rabe Panini which was even bet-
ter than the classic tomato-mozzarella 
Panini. We also tried the Baby Spinach 
with Champlain Orchard’s Apples salad. 
We were attracted to the item mostly be-
cause it came with Maple Balsamic Vin-
aigrette, one of our favorite items in the 
Middlebury Dining halls. Unfortunately, 
we were underwhelmed by the simplicity 
of the salad. There weren’t many tastes 
or textures compared to other items on 
the menu, and we regretted our decision.
Luckily, Linley Shaw ’17 came along 
with us on our outing and intelligently 
ordered off of the Daily Specials Menu. 
Every day, Three Squares offers several 
unique specials that excite taste buds. 
Many of these specials contain local in-
gredients.  Linley ordered the VT Apple 
and Bacon sandwich with Local Triple 
Creme Cheese. The fresh ingredients of 
apple and cranberry gave the sandwich a 
fresh fall taste, and the copious amount 
of bacon made it unforgettable.  Unique 
sandwich options like this are what make 
this café worth going to.
In summary, 3 Squares is a Midd-
Kid’s dream: it offers breakfast until 3 
p.m., an entire Mexican menu and sand-
wiches that consist of bacon.  To top it all 
off, prices don’t exceed $12. What more 
could a Middlebury student want?
 Ericson would begin her term as gov-
ernor with a “complete forensic exami-
nation of the pension fund” to eliminate 
fraud.  She did not mention divestment. 
Student audience member Beatrice 
Woodruff asked the next question con-
cerning the drug problem and new mea-
sures to combat it.
“This is the one area that can really 
destroy Vermont ... are we doing enough? 
No,” Shumlin said.  He referenced his in-
crease in penalties for dealers and his new 
approach, looking at opiate addiction as 
not just a law enforcement problem, but 
a healthcare problem.  He emphasized 
the need for more prevention.  Feliciano 
thinks that Shumlin has “a good approach” 
and “wouldn’t change anything.”
“This is something I applaud Peter 
for,” Milne said.
Peters spoke of the importance of 
keeping kids from getting into drugs, or 
“it won’t be long until they can’t tie their 
shoes or anything,” said Peters, who sup-
ports harsh penalties for drug dealers.
 “Notice, there was no heroin in the 
United States when the Taliban were in 
control in Afghanistan,” said Diamond-
stone, also a supporter of harsh penalties 
for dealers.
Peyton wants to “reign back” pain 
medication prescriptions and look toward 
alternate methods to control pain, such as 
marijuana or hypnosis.
Ericson began by questioning Shum-
lin’s alleged choice to give $5 million to a 
ski resort for a new snow blower, rather 
than toward a new drug treatment facility. 
“Peter, did you do that?” Ericson said.
From the issue of opiates, the modera-
of Children and Families (DCF), which has 
been under more stress with the rise of the 
heroin epidemic.
Peyton suggested a family mentoring 
system for families who need help making 
good choices.
Shumlin said that the number of case 
workers have increased and the policy for 
returning children to their parents has 
become more stringent, but there is still 
more to do to improve the department and 
keep Vermont’s children safe. 
Peters pointed out that many of the 
people who get their children back often 
have them taken away again for a repeat 
offense, which puts the children in more 
danger.  “If they’ve got a criminal record 
that bad, something bad’s going to hap-
pen,” Peters said.  He believes that social 
workers “have their hands tied” by rules, 
but should instead be working more off 
their intuition.
Each candidate was given the oppor-
tunity to make a closing statement.  
“If you could have all the money in 
the world, or you could have all the love in 
the world, which has more value?” Peyton 
said.  She urged Vermonters to “improve 
the quality of loving in your life.”
Diamondstone emphasized the need 
to reallocate resources away from violence 
toward workers and the planet so as to 
Ericson said she will do everything in 
her power to stop the pipeline and to get 
Feliciano reiterated his platform of 
cutting spending, getting rid of single-pay-
er, providing school choice, cutting prop-
erty tax and growing businesses.
“I’m a candidate who’s about as grass-
roots as you can get.  I don’t have big busi-
ness behind me, I don’t have corporations 
behind me, I don’t have nobody from out 
of state behind me,” said Peters, who is 
running as the Vermonter candidate with 
Common Sense for Vermont People.
“I want to make this state a place where 
more young people can succeed,” Shumlin 
said, asking for two more years to continue 
to improve Vermont.  He thanked Vermont 
for the four previous years as governor.
Milne concluded by speaking of his 
mother, who was involved in Vermont pol-
itics 20 years ago. 
Following the debate, the seven candi-
dates made their way through the audience 
of students, shaking hands, taking pictures 
with students and meeting the future 
members of Vermont’s electorate.
 courtesy dave gram
Initially, over 200 teachers walked the picket line at South Burlington High School. 
Local 5
3 Squares serves breakfast until 3 p.m.
 olivia jurkowitz
candidates vary widely on issues in debate
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4
 | october 23, 2014
school. You walk into a new classroom, you 
scan the room in the hopes you know some 
people, you pray the syllabus is reasonable, 
-
-
correcting their apologetic 
-
-
-
-
pronoun, which will appear on class rosters 
The email states that the change “puts 
-
But how progressive are we actually on 
-
-
-
-
BTQ community. 
-
-
-
-
-
-
tion, sexual assault awareness 
-
munity the way an LGBTQ co-
-
-
greater inclusivity on campus. By working 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
ties.  
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
an important step, but we 
-
lege to be a welcoming space 
-
tutional commitment to cre-
-
opinions
editorial board 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Respecting All Identities
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Joe Flaherty
MANAGING EDITOR
Conor Grant
BUSINESS MANAGER
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Claire Abbadi, Ellie Reinhardt, 
Christian Jambora
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Lawrence Dolan, 
Edward O’Brien, Isaac Baker
SPORTS EDITORS 
Fritz Parker, Remo Plunkett, Emily Bustard
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Isabelle Dietz,
Alessandria Schumacher
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Ben Anderson, 
Annie Grayer
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio, Leah Lavigne 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Michael O’Hara, Anahi Naranjo
DESIGN EDITORS
Evan Gallagher, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITOR
Maggie Cochrane, Jerrica Davy
Alex Herdman
COPY EDITORS
Sarah Sicular, Hannah Blackburn
STANDARDS EDITOR
Kate Hamilton
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Jessica Cheung, Michelle Irei
editorial
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus.
we think it 
is important 
that the topic 
-
sault is cov-
-
ways that the 
article mis-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
to sexual violence 
on college cam-
-
-
-
attention. 
-
-
-
-
-
their own choices 
an experience that 
-
-
-
-
-
stopping it.
Letter to the 
Editor
Rebecca Coates-
Finke ’16.5 is from 
Northampton, Mass. 
Kate Murray ’15 is from 
Milton, Mass.
“Instances of sexual 
assault have not tripled 
on Middlebury’s campus: 
they are already high, as 
they are at colleges across 
the country.”
nolan ellsworth
eunice kim
| october 23, 2014 7opinions
The Death and Re-Birth of the Hip-Hop Group
It was 8 o’clock on a Thursday 
morning when I heard a knock at my 
front door. The sky was blue, the birds 
were chirping, and … nobody I knew 
in my three years of college existence 
would be knocking on my door right 
now.
“… Carolyn! Do you want to … come 
in?”
That was the first moment I ever 
hated environmentalism. My landlord 
was bright eyed and ready to make the 
world a greener place: starting with us. 
In one hand was a recycling quiz she 
had made for my housemates and me. 
In the other was a bag of seven non-re-
cyclable items she had found while pe-
riodically combing through our recy-
cling bin over the last two weeks. The 
fifty minutes that followed brought an 
in-person quiz on the beer bottles we 
should have been reusing and plastic 
bags we should have been refusing. As 
an environmentalist myself, I should 
have been a fan of this. Education 
combats ignorance, right? But some-
thing felt discreetly annoying. As she 
modeled her canvas tote bag and pas-
sionately denounced the evil sheet of 
Styrofoam, it occurred to me: 
Could we, as environmentalists, be 
turning people off to environmental-
ism?
My first clue that the answer is a 
resounding “yes” was the gradient of 
reactions my friends and fam-
ily had to this story. 
Their reactions gen-
erally corresponded 
with whether or not 
they were already 
environmentalists.
“Well, I guess it’s 
good that you’re more 
aware now,” a table of my 
enviro-friends seemed to con-
clude, not quite picking up on the 
ridiculous punch line of a grown wom-
an burrowing through my trash 
can while I was in class. 
Meanwhile, my aunt 
and uncle, very mild 
conservatives and envi-
ronmentally impartial, 
couldn’t escape their 
anger for long enough 
to laugh the story off as an 
amusing incident. 
Anger? Anger had never oc-
curred to me. I asked my uncle to 
expand.
 “You aren’t their houseguests. 
If you lease a car from Ford, you do 
not expect the CEO to show up for a 
ride-along and tell you what music you 
should be listening to while you drive.” 
Underneath the example I found 
his answer. To him, the idea of a re-
cycling intervention threatens the 
value he holds 
most deep: 
autonomy. He 
thought he 
was mad about 
recycling. He 
wasn’t. He was mad that my landlord 
short-circuited my personal freedom 
for the sake of recycling.
“Yes, that’s unfortunate, but this 
is too important!” I hear chambers of 
fellow activists exclaiming. ‘This is the 
future of humanity! If we don’t inter-
vene, they won’t change.’ Isn’t this how 
we go about environmentalism in gen-
eral? More regulation and oversight to 
limit bad behavior? When you really 
think about it, the EPA is a glorified 
Carolyn-the-landlord.
I couldn’t agree more! —in theory. 
In theory, the ends should justify the 
means of saving the planet. 
But then again, in theory, everyone 
in this country should be eagerly em-
bracing environmentalism. And yet 
they aren’t. I think we need to ask our-
selves why. We intervene because we 
think we have active opponents, but 
maybe we have so many active oppo-
nents because of the way we intervene. 
Instead of dragging them through the 
streets for the sake of our cause, per-
haps we should 
inspire them 
to follow us 
willingly.
Green Or Bust?
Reader OP-ED
Alexa Beyer ’15.5 is from 
Los Angeles, Calif.
Reader Op-ed 
Ethan Sivulich ’16 is 
from New Gloucester, 
Maine.
Food for Thought
For much of its early history, hip-hop’s basic unit was the 
group. The most popular artists of the mid to late 80s, when 
rap began to make headway into mainstream pop-culture, 
were groups: Run-DMC, Eric 
B. and Rakim, NWA and 
Public Enemy.  As the 90s 
rolled through, more indi-
vidual stars began to domi-
nate the rap scene, all-timers 
like 2Pac, the Notorious B.I.G., Nas and Jay-Z.  However, the 
group continued to have a strong presence in the rap world, 
from murdered out Mobb Deep to kushed out Cypress Hill 
to funky futuristic space pimped out Outkast. Through the 
2000s, squads such as Dipset, the LOX and UGK continued 
to make their marks.  And then, all of a sudden, the group 
faded away as a relevant force in hip-hop.
There are probably a couple of reasons for this transfor-
mation in the rap landscape.  During the 90s rappers began 
to really start making the money they talked about all along, 
between creative partners.  Why, if you’re Rakim, one of the 
most skilled MCs ever, would you want to split a $5 million 
deal with Eric B., a solid producer and DJ, when you could 
sign the same deal as a solo artist?  Record labels began to 
identify a new group’s most marketable talent and encourage 
him to go solo, maximizing his income and reducing their 
risk.
Several existing groups experienced internal friction. 
Outkast famously went their separate ways shortly after the 
release of Idlewild, a smiling-through-gritted-teeth kind 
of split to work on individual projects.  Dipset and G-Unit, 
on the other hand, went through extremely ugly breakups 
marred by diss tracks, taped phone calls, and no end of ridic-
ulousness from all parties.  Even the greatest hip-hop group 
of all time, Wu-Tang Clan, has released only one album since 
2001.
All told, the group pretty much faded out of hip-hop rel-
evance starting around 2006 or 2007.  In its place another 
form of hip-hop organization came to being, what I like to 
call the clique.  These are similar to groups in that they are 
made up of multiple artists, producers and rappers, but they 
are distinguished by being largely creatively independent of 
one another.  The members may collaborate often, show up 
they are not a single artistic unit.  The most prominent ex-
ample of the hip-hop clique is Kanye West’s GOOD Music 
squad (they in fact had the smash hit, “Clique”), which in-
cludes Mr. West himself, Big Sean, Pusha T, Common, and 
a whole mess of other artists.  While they share an umbrella 
under the GOOD record label and receive creative input from 
Yeezus, they are not a group in the way that Mobb Deep and 
Bone Thugs-n-Harmony were. In the same vein as GOOD 
Music, Rick Ross has developed his own stable of young tal-
ent in Maybach Music Group.
In addition to supplanting the group, cliques quickly be-
came the best avenue for new artists to crack into the main-
stream.  As anybody who has aspiring singer/songwriters on 
their Facebook feed knows, the internet has virtually no end 
of musicians posting their work.  The best way for a newcom-
er to make any headway into a broader market is to receive a 
co-sign from one of a handful of rap’s head honchos.  Artists 
like West and Ross are amongst the few rappers who can still 
perform well in commercial album sales, which gives their 
signees credibility and a leg up on the competition.  Even less 
established clique-masters have seen their underlings parlay 
association with the top dog into solo success; mere months 
after A$AP Rocky’s own album debut, his right-hand man 
A$AP Ferg rolled out two of the biggest hits of summer 2013.
So is this an obituary commemorating the death of the 
hip-hop group?  Not quite.  In recent months, rap groups 
have found themselves with a considerably larger share of 
the limelight than in previous years.  Two Brooklyn groups, 
Flatbush Zombies and the Underachievers, have quietly 
gained substantial followings, and have even united as 
the supergroup Clockwork Indigo (they’re playing Higher 
Ground November 30).  Ratking, a three man group made 
up of two rappers and a producer, has won enormous criti-
cal acclaim for their debut album “So It Goes.”  Out West, 
groups like Pac Div and Audio Push have been making noise 
of their own.  Obviously these guys are not ready to compete 
with Kanye’s merry band of fashionistos, but their continu-
ous progress is proof that the group is regaining traction in 
hip-hop.  Even the old-guard has noticed that the group has 
reentered the vogue: Outkast, Dipset, G-Unit, and Wu-Tang 
have all reunited in the past months to tour and record.
The reasons for the group’s resurgence are harder to pin-
point than its initial collapse.  My explanation ties back to 
that all-powerful force in the music industry: the internet. 
Although receiving a major endorsement is a fast track to 
success, many artists have used the web to achieve wide no-
toriety without the help of a major record label.  Groups are 
able to remain creatively independent and can develop their 
own sound without having to justify their record deal with a 
thrown-together, commercial single.  The Flatbush Zombies 
have yet to release a single song that anybody had to pay for, 
yet they’ve sold out shows across the US and Europe.  The 
music industry seems to be at the center of this, as evidenced 
by Ratking, whose lead MC Wiki was told by several major 
labels that they would only sign him if he left his partners 
behind.  Fortunately, he did not lose faith in the power of the 
group.  Perhaps hip-hop fans should never have either.
The A List
Luke Smith-Stevens ’14.5 
is from New York, N.Y.
Jena Ritchey
We have all seen them: the placards 
on every table in our dining halls hawking 
EatReal, a student-run organization seek-
ing to advocate 
for more so-
cially and en-
vironmentally 
r e s p o n s i b l e 
food at the Col-
lege. The idea is 
to move toward a food system that is local/
community-based, humane, fair and eco-
logically sound. This is in keeping with the 
socially and environmentally conscious stu-
dent body we are fortunate to have here at 
Middlebury. As someone who cares about 
the health and wellness of our food system, 
I applaud the students raising awareness of 
where the College’s food comes from, how it 
is grown/raised, etc. However, I do not be-
lieve that the 
EatReal move-
ment captures 
all that is nec-
essary when it 
comes to what 
is important 
about dining 
hall food. The 
sources of our 
food and the 
methods used 
to get it to 
our plates are 
certainly very 
important, but 
what EatReal 
has thus far failed to address is what is actu-
ally IN the food we eat.
On a number of occasions while at Mid-
dlebury, I have walked into the dining halls 
and looked at the ingredient list for items on 
the menu, only to be disappointed in what I 
saw: ingredients such as high fructose corn 
syrup, cornstarch and corn paste, as well as 
compounds that utilize seemingly every let-
ter of the alphabet, and require several read-
throughs to pronounce. Even items whose 
ingredient lists are not made available, but 
which you can tell just by noticing their col-
or, are comprised of unnatural ingredients: 
things like brightly colored ice cream, nacho 
cheese, neon desserts, fruit juices (especial-
juice), sodas and sports drinks. Now, I enjoy 
sipping an ice cold Gatorade as much as the 
next guy, but is ingesting the color additives 
it contains (Blue 1, Red 40 and Yellow 5 are 
in our dining halls, according to Gatorade’s 
website) really worth it, when their effects on 
our health are unknown?
Of course, a logical solution to what I 
have said thus far is to simply not eat any-
avoid ice cream, desserts, nacho cheese, fruit 
juices, sports drinks, and the like. But upon 
closer examination, eliminating everything 
-
ors and corn-derived additives would leave 
a scarce selection. While a healthy diet is of 
the utmost importance, a diet that has vari-
ety is important if for no other reason than 
keeping one’s sanity.
So, why is it even important that we make 
an effort to eliminate ingredients such as 
corn-derived additives from the College din-
ing halls? According to Michael Pollan, ac-
claimed food activist and author of the award 
winning book, The Omnivore’s Dilemma, 
syrup contribute heavily to type II diabetes, 
obesity, heart disease and diet-related can-
cers, all growing problems in America. The 
caloric intake from high fructose corn syrup. 
According to the CDC, one in three Ameri-
cans born after the year 2000 will have type 
II diabetes. 
Not only do 
these addi-
tives impose 
serious health 
risks, they 
also quietly 
c o n t r i b u t e 
substantially 
to climate 
change. Ten 
calories of fos-
sil fuel energy 
are required 
for every sin-
gle calorie of 
food energy 
when producing foods whose bases are com-
prised of corn and soy. Eliminating highly 
College community, but also will further our 
cause of combating climate change.
I am not calling for a paradigm shift in 
how the College selects what foods to pres-
ent in the dining halls. Rather, I am advo-
thought, from “local” to “simple.” Changing 
-
tionally devoid additives like high fructose 
corn syrup and corn starch need not involve 
extensive campaigns, placards on tables, 
or go-slash webpages. On the contrary, all 
it would take to eliminate these fake foods 
from the Middlebury diet is a quick check by 
the folks at Food Services to see if these sub-
stances exist in what we currently buy, and 
if they do, simply buy other products that do 
not contain them. My hope is that some day, 
Middlebury students will be able to walk into 
our dining halls and peruse the ingredient 
lists for any menu item without seeing “high 
-
ditive whose composition only a Chemistry 
major would understand. And let’s face it: if 
you can’t pronounce it, you probably don’t 
want it on your plate.
In the fall, American voters will most 
likely turn their Congress red. This would 
be a mistake. Phil argued in his article last 
week that 
A m e r i c a n s 
would (and 
should) elect 
Republicans 
to the House 
and Senate because Americans want to see 
economic reform. He is not entirely wrong, 
but what he and any American who casts a 
red ballot overlook is the damage a Repub-
lican Congress would cause to the United 
States. 
The 2014 Gallup poll illustrates that 
Americans see economic issues and health-
care as top priorities, while they see social 
issues and global warming as low ones. I 
won’t refute this, but I will remind read-
ers that 70 percent of Americans also do 
not know what the constitution is. Thus, 
just because polled Americans do not see 
social issues or global warming as pressing, 
it does not make those issues unimportant. 
In fact, I would say that this is one of 
the fundamental differences between the 
GOP and the Democratic Party. Repub-
licans heed that Gallup poll because they 
stick to the status quo in order to appease 
Americans. Democrats, however, push the 
limits and initiate necessary change. In 
the case of 2014’s midterm elections, we 
therefore have two options: 1) A static or 
even backwards nation under Republi-
cans or 2) An advancing America where 
Democrats take on the critical issues to 
which Republicans turn a blind eye. 
are addressing? The economy. Obama 
that we should re-examine some facts. 
The economic stimulus package that 
Obama and the bipartisan Congress passed 
in 2009 turned GDP growth positive again 
and reignited economic growth. Doing so 
has helped add more jobs to the economy. 
Phil argued that September’s 5.9 percent 
unemployment was not perfect, (which is 
reasonable) but we cannot deny that this is 
a whole lot better than the 9.1 percent just 
after President Bush in 2009. 
personal disposable income has grown 
about six times more under Democratic 
presidents than Republicans throughout 
history. GDP has grown roughly seven 
times more under Democratic leadership. 
-
crats while they actually decreased under 
Republicans, and Republican presidents 
contributed two and a half times more to 
national debt than Democratic pres-
idents. 
So, what does 
this mean? First, 
the facts above 
show that Re-
publican poli-
cies do not work 
in our favor; we 
need appropriate 
governmental 
intervention, as 
Democrats offer, that responds to prob-
politics. Secondly, this means that we 
should keep our Congress in line with the 
party of our president, (as much as pos-
sible at least). Let’s not forget October 2013 
when the Republican House chose to go 
into government shutdown rather than 
fund the Patient Protection Act along with 
Senate Democrats. (Wasn’t that a great ex-
ample of Republicans having Americans’ 
interests at heart? Rejecting a plan meant 
to lower everyday medical costs and allevi-
-
cal problems!) 
-
crats in power do not stop there. Another 
advantage of a blue Congress? They will 
keep the country green! There is no section 
on climate change in the GOP’s 2012 
platform -- actually, 
the platform opposes 
cap and trade pro-
grams and advises 
Congress to “take 
quick action 
to prohibit the 
EPA from mov-
ing forward with 
new greenhouse gas 
regulations.” I do not 
think that I need to 
prove climate change to 
Middlebury readers, but I will emphasize 
that Democrats are working on it. With a 
Congress that was at least half blue, Obama 
-
dards in 2011 and invest $90 billion in re-
newable technology. Would a fully Repub-
lican Congress allow those advances?
And Democrats catalyze change on so-
cial issues, too. While Republicans continue 
to roadblock gay marriage, Democrats have 
included it in their platform. Democrats 
have become the party to advance human 
rights, making sure that the Hate Crimes 
Prevention Act reached Obama’s desk for 
a signature while they controlled the Sen-
ate. In the process, Democrats were allies 
for another demographic as well: women. 
The party galvanizes the rights of women 
through equality laws, such as the Lilly 
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, while Republicans 
allow for those same rights to deteriorate. 
(Reminder: Senate Republicans tried to 
block the Fair Pay Act from passing.)
 Therefore, when Phil says that 
Americans cannot afford for two more 
years of stalled government, I agree. We 
differ over his opinion that this stalled gov-
ernment comes from a bipartisan Congress 
and a Democratic president, however. I 
believe that a fully Republican Congress 
paired with a Democratic president would 
generate even more friction, but what’s 
more, due to erroneous Republican 
policies, a Republican Congress would 
weaken the United States. While Phil 
(and Bill Clinton) were not incorrect 
when they said, “It’s the economy, stu-
pid,” I think there should be an amend-
ment. It is the economy, stupid, but it’s 
also the environment and gay marriage 
and women’s rights... it’s what the leaders 
of our country offer on the whole, not just 
the change that they put in our pockets.
  8 October 23, 2014 | opinions
WIN HOMER
A New Form of Literature
For decades, video games served 
one main purpose. From “Pong” to 
“Space Invaders” to “Super Mario 
Bros.”, games 
were created 
and shared 
to entertain. 
People played 
to have fun, to escape from the world 
for a few minutes, to engage with ex-
periences that were competitive, inter-
esting and enjoyable. 
Slowly, however, games changed. 
More and more started including sto-
ries of varying com-
plexity, and certain 
games began to 
resemble movies. 
The emergence of 
“Metal Gear Sol-
id”, “Fallout” and 
role-playing games 
marked this new el-
ement of the medium and set the stage 
for more complex stories to arise in 
games in the future.
But these were still generally inac-
cessible. Think of the process it takes 
children to get from illiteracy to being 
able to read Joseph Conrad — there is 
a tremendous value in the end experi-
ence, but it takes years of hard work 
to get to that point. These early games 
were like that. The mechanics were 
daunting to learn, and players had to 
invest hours of playtime in order to 
reach the most valuable parts of these 
stories.
Video games today, however, do not 
require this any longer. The barrier to 
entry is so low that some of the most 
incredible games ever made require 
the player to simply tilt the controller 
and press a button. At the same time, 
they often include fully fledged, engag-
ing and complex stories and experi-
ences.
Games can last anywhere from thir-
ty minutes to thirty hours. Dedicated 
players will often put hundreds, if not 
thousands, of hours into their favorite 
games. But not all games are built with 
this sort of lifespan in mind — many 
made today are small, contained expe-
riences meant to be played in one sit-
ting.
But what is most markedly different 
about many modern games as opposed 
to early attempts? They are now a le-
gitimate form of literature. Yes, games 
can be literature. They explore deep, 
pertinent themes on a level reached be-
fore only by novels. They engage with 
social issues and require the player to 
think about the consequences of basic 
human nature. They present you with 
situations that are 
philosophically and 
morally ambiguous 
and make you come 
to your own conclu-
sion about them. 
Games can now tell 
stories on the level 
of most acclaimed 
novels. “The Last of Us”, released in 
2013, featured a story so moving and 
powerful that it received one of the 
highest average scores ever given to a 
game, it was made into a stage produc-
tion and it is currently being turned 
into a film. Critics compare it to Cor-
mac McCarthy’s The Road, as it creates 
a similarly impactful, desolate world 
and explores the lengths to which hu-
mans will go for love.
But games go beyond what we con-
sider to be traditional literature. They 
do things that are not possible in nov-
els. Whereas novels tell stories to you, 
games can allow you to make your own 
story. You can become part of an ever-
evolving web of narrative, choosing 
your own path through a story or even 
forging the story itself from your game-
play experiences. The “Mass Effect” se-
ries gave dozens of choices throughout 
the games, forcing you to choose the 
way you spoke to other characters, the 
people you saved from death and the 
way you fought your battles. The world 
would shift as you made these deci-
sions, effectively becoming yours.
A game like “DayZ”, on the other 
hand, gives you a wide-open sandbox 
with the tools to create lasting narra-
tives all on your own. There is no writ-
ten story in this game, just a world and 
objects throughout it that you can in-
teract with. It’s a survival simulator, 
and it compels you to find allies and 
build up your character so it can 
better survive against zombies and 
antagonistic players.
Moreover, games are also utilized 
to create art, something which has 
given rise to unique and powerful 
storytelling techniques. Flower, for 
instance, is simple but profound: 
in a series of beautiful, breathtak-
ing levels, you control a petal that 
moves through the air and blooms 
other flowers. Bloom all the flow-
ers and you bring life back to a dead 
city. It’s an incredibly simple prem-
ise and the controls are basic, but it 
explores issues of pollution, environ-
mentalism and life and death.
Other games like “Journey”, “Prote-
us”, the “Swapper” and “Dear Esther” 
all try to create a rewarding experience 
with minimalist narrative design but 
rich and complex environmental story-
telling. Games like “Papers”, “Please” 
and “Gone Home”, on the other hand, 
take two basic actions — working as 
a customs agent and walking 
through a house, respec-
tively — and turn 
them into 
social com-
mentary and 
emotional sto-
ries.
Games have never 
been cheaper or more 
accessible. “Proteus” and 
“Dear Esther” cost $15 max 
and can run on most comput-
ers, so there’s no need for ex-
pensive hardware. At the same time, 
they have grown and developed into 
literature in their own right. The lit-
erary and artistic potential for games 
is immense, and they have greatly di-
versified from their humble origins. 
Play a game and check this new liter-
ary form for yourself; they have taught 
me more than I thought possible just 
ten years ago.
Echoes
Alex Newhouse ’17 is 
from Stonington, Colo.
Keep Congress Blue
“But games go beyond 
what we consider to be 
traditional literature. 
They do things that are 
not possible in novels.”
Swing Vote
Erin Van Gessel ’17.5 is 
from San Rafael, Calif.
zarai zaragoza
Advertisements 9 | october 23, 2014
introducing...
[802] 388-3164
The   new official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
mouthwatering>
GREEN PEPPERS
LOCAL | HANDCRAFTED | FRESHLY PREPARED | AT YOUR CONVENIENCE
MIDDLEBURY CAMPUS: Where 
do you hope to see Middlebury’s rela-
tionship with Monterey go in the next 
decade or so?
RONALD D. LIEBOWITZ: I’ve 
been fairly consistent about this since 
2005 – I don’t believe that programmatic 
(academic) integration can and should be 
forced where it does not make sense. The 
great attraction of  Monterey was that, 
while Middlebury and Monterey shared 
an underlying commitment to linguistic 
and cultural competency, it was such a 
different institution from our undergrad-
uate liberal arts college.  The differences 
open up many opportunities for students 
to engage in courses and programs, plus 
meaningful engagement with MIIS fac-
ulty, whose philosophy about cultural 
competency is similar to our faculty’s, 
but whose curricular content and peda-
gogy are so different from what our stu-
dents have here on campus. We are not 
a professional, graduate school – we’re 
not even a pre-professional undergradu-
ate school! We are a liberal arts college 
– and the juxtaposition and the comple-
mentarity of  these two is powerful for 
those students interested in international 
careers.
 
That said, Monterey and its programs 
are not for everyone. They are intended 
to be for those students who want to 
pursue international-related careers. But 
beyond the obvious complementary cur-
ricular opportunities, there is another 
-
tion: the strengthening of  the “Middle-
bury” network. About 30-35 percent of  
Monterey students are international stu-
dents (the majority from Asia), and most 
graduates go on to work all over the 
world. By expanding our alumni network 
to include Monterey alumni, faculty, and 
staff, we strengthen the Middlebury net-
work, which helps current students and 
recent graduates by opening doors to 
internships, employment opportunities, 
and meaningful connections across the 
globe.  This is an often overlooked ben-
My hope, then, would be that students 
take advantage of  the opportunities to 
combine a professional international 
education offered at Monterey with their 
undergraduate traditional liberal arts 
college plans; that they would use the 
resources that Monterey offers for both 
advanced degrees and a robust, interna-
tional-oriented network.
MC: On the topic of  the undergradu-
ate experience, in the time that you’ve 
been here, how do you think the student 
body has changed? Have you seen chang-
es in the typical Middlebury student?
RL: The student body has changed 
the institution itself  on each generation 
of  students remains stronger than any 
example: a characteristic of  the student 
body that I noticed immediately upon 
arriving at the College is that students 
are incredibly civil towards one anoth-
er. We have disagreements, altercations, 
and skirmishes for sure. Yet, the culture 
here is very forgiving to individuals who 
in other environments would face far 
greater challenges. I suspect this is be-
cause the student body as a whole rec-
ognizes that over their four years here 
each member of  the larger community is 
going to rely primarily on the 2,450 oth-
er undergraduates for one’s intellectual, 
social, and cultural sustenance. On cam-
puses in urban areas or at institutions 
with a graduate population, this might 
not be the case; the environment is dif-
ferent. Here, though, the undergraduate 
experience is not diluted, it’s a close-knit 
community, and this cultural aspect has 
remained a constant and has been pres-
ent for a very long time. It is something 
time they are sophomores, juniors, and 
seniors, they themselves pass this on to 
 
-
tic of  the Middlebury culture. Although 
ours is a very smart student body, many 
faculty see less “mixing it up” intellec-
Columbia, a Harvard, a Yale, or a Wes-
leyan – places located in more urban en-
vironments. If  this is true, I believe it’s a 
fair trade-off. I think without the cultural 
characteristic of  students being civil to-
ward one another, less competitive, more 
supportive, and more collaborative, a lot 
would be lost here in terms of  the overall 
quality of  the educational experience for 
students.
 
But to your question, what has 
changed? The student body has become 
a lot more socioeconomically, culturally, 
racially, and ethnically diverse. Though 
we strive for greater diversity still, those 
of  us who have been here a long time see 
got here, about 1 in 20 students were 
American students of  color or interna-
tional; now, that ratio is greater than 1 in 
3. That’s a huge change. We know that 
a more diverse student body translates 
into a richer educational experience as a 
result of  students sharing different per-
spectives and life experiences both inside 
and outside the classroom. 
 
Other changes: students today are ob-
viously more conversant with technol-
ogy.  They are more apt to volunteer not 
only in town, but across the country (al-
ternative break service trips) and across 
the globe. And many of  my colleagues 
report students are more visibly focused 
on jobs and employment, which is un-
circumstances they face at graduation 
than 30 years ago.  So there has been 
change, yet the overall dynamic of  the 
student body – being supportive of  one 
another, collaborative, and open-minded 
– remains and still is the general feel one 
gets here.
MC: I want to talk a little bit about the 
carbon neutrality initiative, the Franklin 
Environmental Center and the Solar 
Decathlon entries as examples of  how 
Middlebury has become an environmen-
tal leader in the past 10 years. Is there 
one achievement that stands out to you 
from all those?
RL: No, not really. In the last 10 or 
11 years during my time as president, a 
number of  notable things have occurred 
and the spotlight should be on the stu-
dents; in almost every case the students 
have been at the center of  these initia-
tives. 
The whole idea of  carbon neutrality 
at Middlebury didn’t start with the ad-
ministration and it didn’t start with the 
Board of  Trustees; it started with a stu-
dent back in the 1990s who shared his 
work from a senior seminar and passed 
it on to younger students interested in 
climate change and environmental stew-
ardship. About a decade later, when the 
Sunday Night Group formed, students 
in that group were the ones who brought 
forward the proposal for the institution 
to reduce its carbon footprint and even-
tually to pursue carbon neutrality. Some 
Middlebury faculty worked with students 
-
tration and eventually to the Board of  
Trustees. Their presentation was excel-
lent: they admitted when they couldn’t 
answer a question and pledged to get 
the answer to the Trustees later (and 
they did); they had a deep command of  
the issues; and succeeded in getting the 
trustees to adopt their resolution, which 
was never a foregone conclusion.  Seven 
years later, with the coming implementa-
tion of  our bio-methane initiative, we are 
almost there – becoming carbon neutral 
without purchasing any offsets.
 
For the Solar Decathlon, the idea was 
with the guidance of  faculty and staff  
in the sciences and environmental stud-
ies, the students more or less took over 
the project. The institutional commit-
-
fort, though the rest was on the students, 
and they showed remarkable maturity in 
overcoming some real challenges that 
they had never encountered in their tra-
ditional liberal arts education.  It was 
not just about the academic challenge or 
learning about solar power, renewable 
energy, engineering, and more; it was also 
a huge challenge of  working together as 
a team, respecting one another, accept-
ing opposing views, and compromising 
on so much along the way. We don’t have 
a graduate program in engineering, or 
even an undergraduate engineering pro-
gram. Nor do we have a graduate school 
of  architecture, and so the students had 
to rise to the occasion to learn things on 
-
way, but they needed to use their skills 
and knowledge gotten in the classroom 
to draw on the expertise from around the 
state of  Vermont to help them as well.
 
If  you go through almost every envi-
ronmental initiative over the last 20 years 
– the start of  recycling, the establishment 
of  our composting program, sustain-
carbon neutrality, real food, plus others 
– most have been student-led or the idea 
was student generated. I think that’s the 
key thing that we should take away and 
really applaud: that the institution is a 
leader in sustainability, but that wouldn’t 
be the case without the students. 
MC: When you stepped into the role 
of  College President in 2004, did you 
think about what you wanted your legacy 
to be when you eventually depart?
RL: I think almost every President 
probably steps in saying, “If  I could 
leave the institution in a stronger posi-
tion upon departing than when I began, 
I’ve done well.” All the more when one 
inherits an institution of  the quality and 
stature of  a Middlebury. I think what has 
made these last 10-11 years so interesting 
has been our need to recognize, for really 
-
nal forces that have created some great 
challenges for higher education, includ-
ing Middlebury. If  I would have been 
told in 2004-05 that we would face the 
worst recession in a century just 3-4 years 
later, I would have said, “Wow, what are 
we going to do?” You don’t plan on such 
-
cial models seem to show variables all 
moving in the positive direction, year af-
ter year, and fail to include stress tests or 
“worst case scenarios.” And, there is no 
blueprint or plan sitting in a desk draw-
when an issue of  this magnitude arises.
 
It is easy to ignore the external pres-
sures mounting on higher education and 
continue with a “business as usual” ap-
proach to operations, but such an ap-
proach will no longer do. I believe get-
ting some tough issues on the table for 
discussion and action, no matter how 
much people wish to ignore them, is an 
important part of  the past 10 years.
MC: On the subject of  the recession 
in 2008, can you talk about what it meant 
to manage that crisis?
RL: The most challenging thing about 
the recession was that we didn’t know 
when it might end. We needed to judge 
and judge early, the level of  cuts we 
would need to make in order to address 
what we had estimated would be $30 
million 4-5 years out, yet it could also 
have been worse: we just did not know. 
Since compensation amounts to roughly 
half  the institution’s budget, it was clear 
the only way to make real headway into 
be devastating to a small community if  it 
is not handled well and with great sensi-
tivity. Though we knew we needed to re-
jobs needed to be cut. 
 
In the end, I thought the institution 
– faculty, staff, students, administrators, 
alumni, trustees – did a remarkable job 
community, letting them know that it 
was likely we would need to begin a pro-
cess to determine how best to address 
the economic crisis. We didn’t have any 
of  course, but we tried to prepare the 
community for a process that would 
at that early date was the unkown: how 
much would our endowment drop? How 
would our students’ families be affected? 
would change? So the greatest issue was 
the unkown - not knowing when the cri-
sis would end. 
 
I think back to the changes the reces-
sion brought to other institutions and 
I am grateful we were able to preserve 
what our students, faculty, staff  and 
alumni told us was  most important to 
them for us to preserve. Though there 
were some differences among the pri-
orities for each group, everyone empha-
sized that we needed to avoid involun-
tary layoffs: that was the biggest concern 
among all the groups. As a result, we 
offered voluntary and early retirement 
programs for staff  and faculty through 
which medical coverage continued un-
til age 65 and individuals received pay-
ments that provided security and were 
based on years of  service. Between 2009 
and 2011 about 110 staff  positions were 
eliminated through these programs, and 
12 faculty colleagues chose to retire early. 
We also reduced services at Atwater (no 
meal-plan dinners and only a continental 
options for departments; reduced some 
budgets between 5 percent and 10 per-
cent; froze salaries except for the lower 
end of  the pay scale; and increased the 
size of  our student body by 50 to pro-
vide more revenue to make up for the 
endowment decline.  
 
However, the alternatives to our ma-
jor cutbacks were severe. Some peer in-
stitutions ended need-blind admissions, 
others had to delay library and science 
center projects, and still others cut facul-
ty positions. We didn’t freeze the size of  
the faculty and in fact added 11 new fac-
ulty positions as was planned, we had no 
the excellence of  our academic program.
Moving early and decisively, having 
feedback from so many constituencies 
through the extensive surveys, and being 
able to focus on what was most impor-
tant to each of  the groups helped us to 
come out of  the recession as well as we 
could have hoped.
MC: 
that you had to make in your time here 
that come to mind?
RL: There have been a number of  
-
rounding policies, but that is to be ex-
pected. The Monterey opportunity, al-
lowing military recruitment on campus, 
-
tice) Rehnquist endowed professorship, 
and establishing Middlebury Interactive 
Languages stand out. All of  these rep-
resented contested issues, and a lot of  
the differences in opinion, in my view, 
stemmed from the different time ho-
rizons that a president and board must 
take when considering opportunities and 
institutional direction. Students, faculty, 
and staff, if  I can generalize, tend to view 
things in the shorter-term – those things 
relevant to a student’s four years here, or 
for faculty and staff  what is related to 
the here and now or to one’s career. A 
president and Board must look beyond 
that time horizon to project what is in 
the best interest of  the institution long 
term. Some disagreements are rooted 
in true philosophical differences (e.g., 
“what is the relationship between a liber-
-
ing jobs after graduation?”), yet I would 
say there is greater agreement than there 
passion and sometimes anger, and some-
times overshadow all that we do agree on 
as an institution
    The Middlebury Campus| october 23, 201410 11features
T H E EX I T I N T ERV I EW
by  JOE FLAHERTY
OCTOBER 10, 2004 
RONALD D. 
LIEBOWITZ
INAUGURATED 
AS THE 16TH 
PRESIDENT OF
MIDDLEBURY 
COLLEGE
DECEMBER 2, 2005
MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE AND 
THE MONTEREY INSTITUTE 
AGREE TO BECOME OFFICIALLY 
AFFILIATED
MAY 11, 2006
THE MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES 
UNANIMOUSLY APPROVES 
A NEW STRATEGIC PLAN, 
TITLED “KNOWLEDGE 
WITHOUT BOUNDARIES,” 
WHICH SEEKS TO ESTABLISH 
THE INSTITUTION AS ONE 
WITH A GLOBAL FOCUS WHILE 
ALSO STRENGTHENING 
ITS CORE MISSION AS AN 
UNDERGRADUATE LIBERAL 
ARTS COLLEGE.
SEPTEMBER 11, 2007
MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE 
ESTABLISHES SUMMER 
LANGUAGE PROGRAMS 
FOR HIGH SCHOOL 
STUDENTS
OCTOBER 18, 2008
MIDDLEBURY DEDICATES AXINN 
CENTER AT STARR LIBRARY
NOVEMBER 29, 2009
LIEBOWITZ NAMED ONE 
OF TIME MAGAZINE’S 
‘10 BEST COLLEGE 
PRESIDENTS’
FEBRUARY 19, 2009
MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE 
CELEBRATES OPENING 
OF BIOMASS PLANT. 
MARCH 4, 2010
MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE AND 
K12 INC. PARTER TO CREATE 
MIDDLEBURY INTERACTIVE 
LANGUAGES
JUNE 21, 2010
MONTEREY INSTITUTE 
BECOMES A GRADUATE 
SCHOOL OF MIDDLEBURY 
COLLEGE
MARCH 1, 2011
MIDDLEBURY ANNOUNCES 
SCHOOL ABROAD IN JORDAN
MARCH 22, 2011
MIDDLEBURY ADDS 
CHICAGO POSSE
RONALD D. LI EBOW I TZ
OCTOBER 24, 2006
MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE 
ANNOUNCES ESTABLISHMENT 
OF THE JUSTICE WILLIAM H. 
REHNQUIST PROFESSORSHIP
SEPTEMBER 30, 2011
U.S. SOLAR DECATHLON 
TEAM FINISHES IN 
FOURTH PLACE OVERALL
layout by
EVAN GALLAGHER
& JULIA HATHEWAY
12 features
By Julia John
Remember that time you wanted 
to fix your bike, but the Bike Shop was 
closed and you had to walk, drive, or 
hunt for a ride to wherever you urgently 
needed to be? By early November, a new 
addition outside the bike shop by Adiron-
dack Circle will enhance student mobil-
ity and possibly decrease student carbon 
footprints, making such inconvenient 
situations a thing of the past. Look out 
for the new Dero Fixit station proposed 
by the Student Government Association 
(SGA) and funded by the Environmental 
Council. 
This service includes everything you 
need to carry out basic repairs, such as 
changing a flat tire or adjusting brakes, 
while suspending your bike from the sta-
tion’s hanger arms.
The idea for the installation of the 
Fixit began last fall from then-SGA Presi-
dent Rachel Liddell ’15, who presented it 
to her cabinet’s Director of Institutional 
Affairs Harry Zieve Cohen ’15. 
Zieve Cohen then applied for a 
$2,200 grant from the Environmental 
Council, one of the largest sums ever 
granted by the group. Afterward, the 
cabinet’s Director of Environmental Af-
fairs Tiff Chang ’17 was brought onto the 
project to manage logistics such as the 
installation process and publicity. She 
researched Fixit stations, contacted and 
visited other schools using them to find 
out what would best fit our needs and the 
associated costs and helped pick the Bike 
Shop as a practical location for installa-
tion. Director of Sustainability Integra-
tion Jack Byrne made the orders. 
Currently, the station is with Facili-
ties, who plan to put it in place when they 
pour concrete for a new gate at ADK by 
the end of this month. The Environmen-
tal Affairs Committee is now creating 
signs to inform students of how to use the 
facility and will soon organize an event to 
introduce them to it.
Chang, a fan of bikes and a member 
of the College’s Casual Cycling Club, be-
lieves the Fixit will be a significant stu-
dent-directed initiative on campus that 
will promote biking by making it easier to 
own a bike. 
“Currently, it’s really hard to have a 
bike on campus,” she said. “A lot of peo-
ple don’t have access to bike parts … don’t 
have time to spend searching for tools to 
fix our bikes … so it is nice to be able to 
provide that service. People are more 
likely to own a bike on campus if they 
know that there are the resources. Cy-
cling on campus has been growing since 
I’ve been here.
“I hope that we continue to build in-
frastructure that improves people’s qual-
ity of life. I think it’s another example of 
how the SGA plays a role on campus and 
serves students better.”
Director of Institutional Affairs Julia 
Shumlin ’17.5 added that the Fixit was a 
necessary means of catering to the Col-
lege’s biking community. 
“A lot of students rely on bikes to en-
joy Vermont’s beautiful landscape, get 
around Middlebury and get to classes 
on time,” she said. “Our rural location 
makes alternative forms of transporta-
tion kind of hard, so we need to make it 
easy for people to get around and one of 
those ways is through biking. Being fairly 
knowledgeable about how to use your 
bike and how to fix it is a useful skill that 
can be applied later in life,” she said.
Shumlin also pointed out that by 
making biking more feasible, the Fixit 
advances sustainability and lower carbon 
footprints on campus and beyond. 
“Promoting biking and alternative 
sources of transportation in general is a 
useful way to promote environmentalism 
on campus,” she said, “because students 
will take the skills they’ve learned and 
apply it to life outside Middlebury rather 
than use cars and other forms of trans-
portation.”
Easy Repairs at New Bike Fix-It Station
Spots for Middlebury Mountain 
Club-led trips go fast. “They fill up in half 
an hour or less,” last year’s Head Guide 
Tess Sneeringer ’14.5 said. “That’s a new 
phenomenon we’ve seen over the past 
couple years.”
Established in 1931, the Middlebury 
Mountain Club (MMC) is the College’s 
largest student organization. The MMC 
organizes immensely popular free hik-
ing, boating, climbing and winter trips at 
all levels of difficulty in the Adirondacks, 
Vermont and beyond, promoting engage-
ment with and appreciation for the out-
doors among the student body.
Sneeringer, who got involved during 
her first semester on campus, says that 
although the MMC does a lot more than 
the trips, they have been the Club’s focus. 
“The center mission is to get students 
out,” she said. “We do a day hike or over-
night [trip] every weekend of the school 
year.”
The MMC has a mailing list over 
1,500, and a significant portion of the 
student body participates in its trips. 
“[We don’t get] a ton of athletes be-
cause they don’t have weekends [but we 
do have] a good group of international 
students because they don’t go home,” 
Sneeringer said. “A lot of people go on 
day hikes ... it drops off in the winter be-
cause there are fewer people. If they have 
an interest in the outdoors and a means 
to go, they’ll go, which is why a lot of peo-
ple go.”
Sneeringer believes that the trips are 
so popular because they are very acces-
sible. 
“We’ve led open trips, no experi-
ence necessary,” she said. “We use an 
online sign up program,” she said. “We 
provide outdoor program gear from the 
gear room, so all you need is appropri-
ate clothing and hiking boots. It’s all paid 
for.”
Another reason why the trips are en-
ticing, Sneeringer suggests, is that they 
offer the chance to meet and bond with 
fellow students outside and away from 
campus. 
“A group of random participants 
down to spend time in the woods,” she 
said. “That’s a huge draw. They don’t 
know who else is going. You get to know 
new people and talk to people literally in 
the woods. Mountain Club was the way I 
got out.”
Sneeringer also points out that the 
trips raise students’ awareness of the lo-
cal and larger environment: “It’s about 
knowing the 
state, knowing 
Route 7 beyond 
Burlington and 
Lake Dunmore,” 
she said. “It’s 
a fuller way to 
embrace where 
you’re going 
to live for four 
years, in a place 
where you’re 
probably never 
going to live out-
side. They get 
to see a little bit 
more of Vermont 
out there. I’ve 
definitely seen 
places I wouldn’t have known about if I 
hadn’t gone on my trips or friends’ trips.”
 “Being outside is awesome, so of 
course people would love to do that,” 
Current Head Guide Kent Ratliff ’16 said. 
“I think that the campus, surrounded by 
two beautiful mountain ranges and being 
well-known for outdoor enthusiasm, has 
a lot of emphasis on the outdoors. So that 
in and of itself encourages people who 
haven’t been outdoors to go out more.”
The MCC welcomes students by host-
ing open events at Brooker House. 
“We advertise and make it easy to 
sign up for trips. We have a solid presence 
on campus with events. Pumpkin Tumble 
is coming soon. We do Fireside on Fri-
day nights at least once a month. It helps 
quite a bit that the Mountain Club has a 
designated building, Brooker House. Try-
ing to make that location as open and 
welcoming as possible, I hope, brings a 
lot of people in,” Ratliff said.
Unlike other outdoor programs on 
campus, the MMC is completely student-
run. Each trip is planned and led by two 
or three guides who have trained under 
veteran guides and in collaboration with 
the College’s MiddView and February 
Outdoor Orientation (FOO) programs. To 
ensure that they are safe and sustainable, 
trips in the Adirondacks take about eight 
p a r t i c i p a n t s , 
while those 
in the Green 
Mountains take 
about ten. Ratliff 
coordinates all 
the trips and 
makes certain 
that the leaders 
are aware of all 
the necessary 
policies. 
The major-
ity of trips last 
one day or over-
night; the lon-
gest last from 
four days to a 
week. Most trips, 
Sneeringer says, have gone smoothly. 
“It’s been relatively incident-free,” 
she said. “People can get into sticky situ-
ations, but they’ve gotten themselves out. 
[As a guide], it’s pretty cool to influence 
someone’s confidence … in an activity 
they’ve never done. It’s really rewarding 
on both ends.”
Ratliff, who was encouraged to join 
the MMC by the MMC guides, directed 
his Outdoor Introduction for New Kids 
(OINK) orientation trip and went on to 
coordinate FOO as a Sophomore, shares a 
similar perspective on guiding trips. 
“The outdoors is important for me,” 
he said. “I like being the one to make 
that available for more people, because it 
could also be important to them. One of 
my favorite things is being able to reach 
out to people who haven’t had any out-
door experience.”
Never “Members Only” at Mountain Club
 | october 23, 2014
It’s no secret that it has been our lifetime 
dream to be extras in a Step Up movie. Those 
dreams were temporarily crushed when 
Maddie’s application to MTV’s show Made to 
become a hip-hop dancer went unanswered 
in 2010, and Izzy’s career in Irish Dancing 
quickly came to a halt when it became clear 
she genetically could not point her toes. 
a triumphant return after a crowd of “fans” 
(belligerent partygoers?) catcalled us dur-
It only made sense that during our semester 
of experimental adventures we would make 
a stop at a Riddim dance practice. For those 
of you less-cultured readers who are unfa-
miliar with Riddim, we will give you the 411. 
Riddim is the coolest group on campus; end 
of story. Rhythmically-gifted students band 
together every term for weekly practices that 
performance slash the ultimate showdown. 
The performances are well-choreographed, 
sexy, creative and full of great mood light-
ing. Basically, it’s the closest a Middlebury 
student will ever get to attending the Video 
Music Awards. 
Luckily for us, the members of Riddim 
were more than willing to let us join in. In 
-
day night hip-hop/twerk class taught by 
Lauren Black ’16, the ULTIMATE hip hop 
expert. We had about a week to prepare for 
our dancing debut. The most obvious ques-
tion we had to address was: what do we 
shoulder sweater with a cheetah leotard and 
cropped leggings look, while Izzy was dead 
set on drop-crotch sweats, Nike dunks and a 
T-shirt with homemade gaping armpit holes. 
Due to our inability to pick one over the oth-
tops, leggings and barefeet. Every night be-
fore bed, we would watch three critical You-
Tube videos: Beyonce’s Superbowl Halftime 
Performance, “The Carlton” from French 
Prince of Bel-Air and Channing Tatum’s 
Magic Mike Black Vest Dance (just ‘cause). 
as we would ever be — unable to touch our 
toes and full of energy.
As we entered the dance studio below 
Proctor Dining Hall, we clung to the back 
wall in order to get as far away from the full 
length mirror as possible. We watched the 
dancers run through what they had learned 
the week before with starry eyes and perhaps 
a little bit of drool running down our chins. 
to “let that booty do its thing” as the lyrics 
“kill him with it” blasted out of the speakers. 
Naturally, we immediately felt at home.
Lauren started teaching everyone a new 
What is a kick-ball change? Do I look like 
Missy Elliot?  Why does my face look like I’m 
in pain when I’m trying to be sexy? Honestly, 
we felt like we were awkward attendees at 
a bad indie concert struggling to sway with 
the beat. Even our simple strut paled in com-
parison to the hot women of Riddim. Mad-
die particularly struggled with a move that 
required her to push up her cleavage that 
is, unfortunately, nonexistent. A GIRL CAN 
managed to keep up with roughly 25 percent 
gyrations to the lyric “big fat pu**y mufasa.” 
All in all, the Riddim girls were incred-
ibly nice and welcoming. At no point did they 
we immediately felt a part of the group. It 
was honestly shocking how quickly everyone 
learned the choreography. Lauren would 
repeat the new moves once before all of the 
girls fell in line and were ready to move on 
to the next while we were still catching our 
breath. Not only did they retain the chore-
ography but they looked incredibly sexy the 
-
dence that radiates from their dancing, and 
it makes their performances that much more 
fun to watch. 
Don’t forget to buy your tickets for the 
December performance as soon as they go on 
sale – we recommend the 10:30 timeslot as 
the crowd is much rowdier. 
courtesy of DErO
By Julia John
“We’ve led open trips, no 
experience necessary. We 
provide outdoor program 
gear from the gear room so 
all you need is appropriate 
clothing and hiking boots. 
It’s all paid for.”
tESS SNEERINGER ’14.5
former mountain club head guide 
By Maddie Webb and Izzy Fleming
Healthy relationships are a crucial 
element in mental health; mental illness 
can often wreak havoc on one’s life and 
damage relationships. By contrast, men-
tal illness that is supported by healthy 
relationships can be managed far more 
easily. 
Friendship is one of the most valu-
able relationships for people. In regards 
to mental health, friends can provide an 
outlet, a sympathetic ear, a distraction 
from our problems and a way to keep us 
grounded. 
But it can be hard to maintain or 
grow friendships when mental illness is 
involved. According to the Mental Health 
Foundation, people with more severe 
forms of mental illness may have fewer 
friends and more family members in their 
social circles. In addition, people with se-
mental illnesses. It is also common that 
those with mental illnesses will avoid so-
cial contact because of mental illness stig-
ma, thereby limiting opportunities for ini-
tiation and maintenance of friendships. 
Another important thing to note, 
however, is that friendships can change 
and grow over time. Sometimes, we grow 
apart from those who we used to consider 
our closest friends. 
Onset of a mental illness, like other 
-
ships and how we act around friends. Ac-
tivities, conversation topics, frequency of 
hanging out can all change when mental 
illness is involved. However, acknowl-
changes can help maintain a healthy form 
of friendship, whether that be a closer or 
more distant relationship. 
Family relationships can be even 
more complicated with mental illness in 
the mix. Sometimes, people lean on their 
family members for all their support be-
fore telling friends. 
Other times, people may keep their 
struggles a secret from family members, 
Understandably, this can be a hard deci-
sion to make and it is completely up to 
the person experiencing mental illness to 
decide. 
Sometimes, it can be a relief to reveal 
this personal struggle to a friend or family 
member; other times, it can cause more 
stress than relief, as reactions to it can be 
powerful and varied. 
A common reason to keep mental ill-
ness under wraps is stigma. Mental illness 
illness; people may think a mentally ill 
person is “crazy,” incapable of thinking 
rationally, at fault for his or her illness, 
or “faking” to get attention or sympathy. 
Explaining your illness to someone and 
educating them on its causes, symptoms, 
treatments and prevalence can help re-
duce stigma. 
When revealing something like a 
mental illness to family or friends, it is 
important to be prepared. Providing them 
with resources, understanding rash reac-
tions and having realistic expectations 
are vital for healthy relationships going 
forward. It may take some work before 
friends and family are able to recognize 
and accept this illness as a temporary or 
permanent part of you, but honesty, em-
pathy and patience on both sides can help 
make this process easier.  
Information on mental illness can be 
found online at nami.org. Options, such 
as a free 12-week course for family mem-
bers of those with mental illnesses are 
available through the National Alliance 
on Mental Illness (NAMI) as well. 
Mentalhealthamerica.net also pro-
vides support resources for friends and 
family of those living with mental illness. 
For individuals involved in psychothera-
py, a meeting involving family members 
and the therapist is often an option to 
help family members gain insight into 
treatment.  Talking to loved ones about 
mental illness can be a challenge, but with 
some simple preparation, this process can 
-
ible nature of close relationships.
On Thursday, Oct. 9 at the Rohatyn 
Center for Global Affairs, Asaaf Gavron, 
an Israeli author, came to speak about 
his recently published book The Hill-
top. Considered one of the most accom-
plished young Israeli authors of our time, 
Asaaf Gavron aims to capture all aspects 
of Israeli experiences. 
Winner of the prestigious Bernstein 
Prize, and described as “The Great Israeli 
Novel” by Time Out Tel Aviv, The Hilltop 
focuses on a fictional settlement, Maale 
Chermesh C, in the West Bank in order 
to reveal the real-life controversies and 
complexities that come with living in Is-
rael. 
From Gavron’s perspective, the read-
er learns that hilltop settlements are full 
of contradictions. While the Israeli gov-
ernment claims that such settlements do 
not exist, the military firmly believe that 
such settlements must be defended. In 
addition, such hilltop outposts are home 
to both religious, right-wingers and so-
cialists who simply want to live minimal-
ly off the land. Illegal yet still practiced, 
hilltop settlements are, according to Gav-
ron, a “volatile and political issue” that 
cannot be ignored. 
The director of the program in Mod-
ern Hebrew, the Program in Internation-
al and Global Studies, the Rohatyn Center 
for Global Affairs and Professor of Geog-
raphy Tamar Mayer adds perspective to 
the dichotomies Gavron highlights. 
“These settlement are born not al-
ways because of politics and ideology 
but they survive and flourish because of 
them,” she said.
In addition, Gavron explores how his 
fictional settlement is an extension of a 
traditional kibbutz. Built on socialist and 
Zionist ideals, a kibbutz is a collective 
community firmly based in agriculture. 
Gavron argues, that modern day hilltop 
settlements are the new frontier of Israel 
in that they reject the country’s transition 
to an industrial, privatized economy and 
instead yearn for the country’s socialist, 
manual labor roots. 
Gavron spent five years researching 
for this book. In addition to traditional 
research in the library, Gavron went to 
various settlements in the West Bank ev-
ery week for two years. When asked about 
his extensive research methods, Gavron 
stressed his belief that “a writer needs to 
have authority in order to be believable.”
With the mindset of “trying not to 
judge, but just ask why,” he wanted to 
add an unbiased perspective to the in-
ternational conversation about the exis-
tence of hilltop settlements in Israel.
In response to Gavron’s research ap-
proach, Mayer said, “He is in the unique 
position to share and illuminate what life 
on the Hilltop is about.” 
Mayer also applauds Gavron’s ability 
to depict the diverse community that ex-
ist in hilltop settlements. 
“Gavron populates Maale Chermesh 
C with characters that well-represent 
Jewish hilltop settlers in the West Bank,” 
she said. “He brilliantly weaves their in-
teractions with their Palestinian neigh-
bors, the media, politicians, one an-
other, and with both the Israeli Defense 
Forces (IDF) and civil administration 
— two arms of Israeli government that 
are charged, on the one hand with evict-
ing the illegal Jewish settlers and, on the 
other, with supporting their presence on 
the hill.”
“I wanted to break stereotypes and 
find the motives behind people’s behav-
ior,” Gavron said.  “I wanted the novel to 
show the reality, and let readers decide.”
Although the novel has received sig-
nificant praise from the international 
community, Israelis have voiced mixed 
reviews. While leftists accuse the author 
of wrongfully legitimizing such settle-
ments by bringing it to the spotlight, 
rightists feel Gavron’s depiction of the 
characters within the settlement are too 
stereotypical. 
Gavron remains indifferent to the va-
riety of reactions his book has received. 
“People warned me not to go near 
this topic because it’s too sensitive an is-
sue, but I like taking those risks,” Gavron 
said. “It’s important for me to not only 
understand these people and their inter-
actions, but also to get it right. I’m ready 
to take the backlash for that.” 
Jeremy Vandenberg ’17 commended 
the author for his effort to remain impar-
tial. 
“I really enjoyed his principle as an 
author of doing his best at looking at 
both sides of the issue and remaining 
unbiased,” he said. “I thought it was very 
scholarly, even though I haven’t actually 
read the book to see if it worked out.”
Satirical yet sincere, The Hilltop 
raises more questions than it provides 
answers. Through writing fiction based 
heavily on reality, Gavron refuses to 
tread lightly and instead embraces some 
of his country’s toughest, most unspeak-
able questions. 
13featuresoctober 23, 2014   
Friends and Mental Illness
By Emma McDonald
Author’s View from the Hilltop 
By Lee Michael Garcia Jimenez and 
Rubby Valentin Paulino
pages online relating to how size doesn’t mat-
sensitive areas in the vagina are only in the 
about how large penises are unappealing, or 
any other of the many reasons size doesn’t 
matter. But size matters, a lot. 
We aren’t here to shame penises less than 
eight inches or tell you to take penis growth 
pills. But we have to admit that our society is 
obsessed with penises and penis size. It’s not 
about what size is better. If we really didn’t 
care about penis size, there wouldn’t be so 
much conversation about it. However, the rea-
son penis size is so important is not because of 
the actual physical sensation a penis provides. 
It’s about power.
As two gay men, we can’t deny that we 
like penises. But society as a whole loves it on a 
whole new level, and the phallo-centric system 
we have set up is an unhealthy one that leaves 
many people self-conscious. What’s especially 
odd is that even the “well-endowed” aren’t ex-
empt from this stress. In fact, on average, men 
who are larger than 6 inches when erect feel 
much more anxiety about their size then men 
under 5 inches.
For some people, it’s really hard to un-
derstand the pressure of having a large penis, 
especially if they don’t have one. Some like 
to compare it to the pressure of having large 
penis size is much more private than being 
skinny or big boobs. While there are some 
-
ers and some men who wear some particu-
larly tight jeans, penis size is just something 
you really don’t know until you’re looking at 
someone head to head. It’s that privacy that 
makes it such a power struggle, because it’s 
taking something private about your value as 
a person and sharing that information with 
someone in an intimate setting. You can know 
a lot about a person. He’s perfect and sensitive, 
with washboard abs, but what is he packing 
underneath? If he’s packing light, then society 
says he’s weaker than the guy next door, even 
though he had no control over the situation. 
The stress is even more so for queer men. 
Because when it’s time to be naked and show 
what you got, someone is going to win. It 
doesn’t matter how long you’ve waited, who’s 
in better shape or how much you know the 
person, because the competition of having a 
big penis is drilled into all of us from the mo-
ment we hit puberty, and you’re going to take 
note of who is bigger. 
But why are people so proud? There’s 
-
tain size, it’s impractical and painful. But that 
doesn’t prevent us from thinking bigger is bet-
ter. From the receiving perspective, we can tell 
you when you look at someone and they are 
simply too big, when you say “It’s gonna hurt” 
we mean it in a good way. Why? We know 
why men want to be big: to be bigger than the 
next guy. But why are women and queer men 
searching for their partners to be large?
Really it’s not about the actual physical 
part of sex, because sex is all about the psychol-
ogy. Men are happy to have a large member 
because they were told it makes them a valu-
able person, and their partners like to take it 
because it gives a sense of pride. Not only did 
you had the physical capacity to bite the pil-
low and take it. And if you can’t take it like a 
champ, then you’re no good. The whole system 
is built around shame.
People and relationships are so much 
more than genitals and sex. Talking about pe-
nis size is about comforting people who are too 
small or even too big or too average. And it’s 
rarely ever talked about because it’s so private. 
People don’t want to talk about penis size be-
cause you don’t know the size of the guy sitting 
next to you, or worse, what if people get a sense 
of your size from the conversation? But that’s 
not what it should be about. Talking about 
penis size should be about dismantling the 
phallo-centric transphobic system of reducing 
people to their genitals and have meaningful 
relationships. 
By Annie Grayer
As part of his research, Gavron spent two years visiting hilltop settlements in West Bank.
Jonathan Bloom
Does Size Matter?
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Master Class with Keanu Forrest Brady
10/25, 8:30 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
Mendel: Behind the Scenes Lunch
Mendel 
10/28, 12:30 P.M., WRIGHT MEMORIAL THEATRE
Museum Hours
10/25, 3 AND 8 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
Cocoon Takes Wing with Moth Emcee
melissa allison
By Leah Lavigne
THE CAMPUS
In the intimate setting of the Middle-
bury College Dance Theatre, artist-in-resi-
dence Scotty Hardwig and guest performer 
Keanu Forrest Brady, accompanied by me-
dia operator Michael Ryba, explored mas-
culinity in the digital frame. 
The six works presented, including two 
evening of Saturday, Oct. 18 from several 
years of works, but Hardwig said he saw 
common themes underlying them all.
“I realized that I’ve been making work 
about the same thing,” he said. “My work is 
always somehow about gender.”
-
es and exits, and beginnings and endings 
all felt part of the performance, perhaps 
hinting at the performative nature of gen-
der and masculinity. 
show began, the seats in the darkened the-
ater ringed the rectangle of gridded light. 
When Brady entered to lie down shrouded 
under the projection, it was as if he had 
entered a digital frame which he never 
left over the course of the piece. As the 
grid-patterned light began to move, the 
projection on Brady’s skin fooled the eye 
into believing that Brady’s body was mov-
ing, an illusion only broken by his actual 
movement a few moments later. As Brady 
was wearing only a revealing dance belt, 
the audience was able to fully experience 
the sensation of hearing his skin contact-
around the projection frame, always close 
to the ground. At times swallowing Brady 
with blackness, the dimensionality of the 
projection evoked a feeling of dynamism 
between dancer and environment. The 
relationship between dancers and set can 
often be biased toward a focus on the danc-
ers’ movement, but here the human motion 
was equally important to the projection’s 
feet, the digital net-like lighting that he had 
been swimming through disappeared, and 
strobe lighting teased the eye with single-
Hardwig continued this exploration of 
dancer and environment in Quiet Blossoms 
Sometimes Burning, an improvisational 
work-in-progress in Ryba’s manipulation 
of the light projection and Hardwig’s move-
ment formed a digital duet. In contrast to 
Brady’s prominent and audible contact 
footed and made little sound in his contact 
with the white marbley performance sur-
face. The interactive quality of the piece 
was emphasized by the colorful sparks of 
-
thrilling feeling that Hardwig was a still 
-
stallations, changed the three-dimensional 
dancer and environment relationship into 
the whole picture from the angle of seating, 
Dornwald’s negative coloration and over-
lay of multiple video images gave an eerie 
and almost frightful mood to the room, 
enhanced by the sound of the Vienna Boy’s 
Choir recording of “Kyrie Eleison.”
When a human presence returned to 
the stage there was an air of near relief. A 
physical body is easier for this writer to re-
late to than two-dimensional negative col-
ored images. Brady didn’t allow for much 
reassurance, however, in Of Dead Boys and 
Blind Men as his juxtaposition of seizure-
-
ity raised questions of perceived images of 
strength versus inner state. The choreogra-
phy, a collaboration of Hardwig and Laqui-
mah Vandunk’s, was dramatically embod-
ied by the dexterity and mobile strength of 
Brady. An image that was met with audible 
appreciative reactions from the audience 
was a moment when Brady, kneeling and 
sitting on his heels, rose straight up to 
standing as if lifted from above, before con-
One 
Small Creature Crying in a Forest, dark 
colors framed a study of frenzied motion of 
the hands and feet, accompanied by the in-
timate sounds of breath and hands on skin.
The last piece brought Brady and 
Hardwig together on stage in coordinating 
slacks and button down shirts. After mov-
most visually and physically spectacular 
moments of alternated lifts when Brady 
and Hardwig threw themselves at each 
other with full strength, only to be caught 
and have their energy transformed into a 
gentle revolving lift. These exchanges high-
lighted the central performance theme of 
male vulnerability in a world where it is 
often perceived as weakness, and therefore 
concealed. 
In a brief discussion with the artists 
after vigorous applause, Hardwig spoke of 
his exploration of the masculine.
“Traditionally in dance, especially in 
ballet, the male dancer serves as a frame 
for the feminine,” he said. He expressed 
his aim to study masculinity in dance es-
pecially in a society that is often strongly 
opinionated about the image of male danc-
ers, and queer male dancers in particular. 
Hardwig explained the approach to his 
creative process, which involves a complex, 
multidisciplinary incorporation of sound, 
videography, choreography and perfor-
mance.
“It’s okay to get lost,” he laughed. 
“Some of the most meaningful discoveries 
come from that state of confusion.”
Hardwig said that he approaches a 
work with questions in mind to explore, 
answers.
“I never feel like I’ve reached a conclu-
sion at the end of a piece,” he said. “But 
therein lies the challenge and the delight of 
art making: it’s about exploration and dis-
covery, but it never ends.”
one life left
By Brandon Cushman
benjamin allen mielke
Artist-in-residence Scotty Hardwig, one of three new Dance Department faculty, dances in preparation for ‘Digital Masculinity.’
Hardwig Explores Masculinity
Stephane glynn
Keanu Forrest Brady dancing in Of Dead Boys or Blind Men during artist-in-residence Scotty’s Hardwig’s ‘Digital Masculinity.’
By Mandy Kimm
october 23, 2014 | 15arts SCIENCES
On Sept. 9, 2014, one of the most highly 
anticipated games of the year was released. 
The game was called Destiny. I’m sure you 
saw and/or are seeing ads for it everywhere. 
The game was advertised on TV, billboards, 
trucks – the whole nine yards. They even had 
it up on the screens in Times Square at one 
point. Destiny was announced by videogame 
developer Bungie back in 2012 through a 
contract that was published in the LA Times 
with the big name publishing company Ac-
tivision. Since then, FPS gamers had been 
eagerly awaiting its release and eating up any 
information about the game Bungie would 
share with them.
Destiny
The term MMO means massively multi-
player online and means that while you are 
playing, you can see and interact with other 
genre. This adds a very social component to 
the game, a concept which Bungie built the 
entire game around. 
Destiny is a team-based game; all ac-
tivities can be done with a team, and many 
cannot be done without one. Most activities 
with the exception of the competitive mul-
tiplayer, “the Crucible,” and the ultra-hard 
of your friends to team up and go up against 
the toughest challenges the developers could 
come up with. They require a lot of teamwork 
and coordination. Raids can only be done 
with people on your friends list, which can 
-
game on the same console as you but are also 
all available to play at the same time. For this 
reason, Bungie created “clans” which are an 
are just groups of people with similar inter-
ests and levels of commitment to the game. 
There is one clan called Dads of Destiny that 
is exactly what it sounds like: a bunch of 
dudes with kids that like to play videogames. 
My favorite aspect of Destiny is the com-
petitive multiplayer, or the Crucible. The 
game matches you up with other players 
and splits everyone up into two teams. Each 
playlist has different objectives which include 
controlling zones, capturing objectives or just 
killing each other. What I really enjoy about it 
is that the developers work to make the game 
as equal as possible by making no single type 
of player dominant. The player who sits back 
with a sniper is supposed to be just as effec-
-
ing. About every other week they update the 
game to adjust the damage and range of the 
different guns to make it so that people are 
not all pulling out the same gun when head-
ing into the arena. I am looking forward to 
when the developers add new playlists to the 
game with the classic objectives like king of 
the hill or oddball, which is essentially a game 
of keepaway. 
My least favorite aspect of the game is 
the storyline. The game gives you almost no 
background on what is happening when you 
answers. The missions are loosely tied to-
gether at best and I am left wondering what 
Bungie tried to make up for this with what 
they call Grimoire Cards. These are cards 
with snippets of information on them that 
you earn while playing. The cards are sup-
-
tunately, they do not do a very good job. I 
have hope that as the game expands, they will 
patch up the story and make it worth playing. 
The game also has a lot of bug issues. Of-
ten times I get kicked out of an activity, can-
not access my friends list or, worst of all, get 
-
ventory have disappeared. Bungie is working 
before the game is completely error free. It is 
understandable to a point because the devel-
opers are in uncharted territory with a game 
like this, but I will be a lot happier once every-
thing is sorted out. 
Although I want to score it higher, Des-
tiny earns a 7 out of 10 in my book. The ab-
sence of a story and continued issues with a 
lot of in-games bugs leaves it a little off the 
mark. I have a lot of hope for the game and in 
a year I believe that it will be one of the best 
games out there, but, as of right now, it leaves 
a bit to be desired.
DeSTINY
Alpenglow Returns to Mead Chapel 
science sp   tlight: nobel laureate martin chalfie
Nobel laureate and Columbia Univer-
sity Professor of Biological Sciences Mar-
-
day, Oct. 16 to give two lectures. One talk 
-
rescent protein (GFP), which earned him 
the 2008 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, and 
the other on his current work on the mo-
lecular basis of the sense of touch.
GFP’s discovery with humor, humility, 
described GFP as a biochemical lantern 
and homing beacon that enables molecu-
lar biologists to watch the movement of 
proteins in living cells and organisms. 
GFP’s use, including how scientists had 
used it to track the movement of viruses 
from cell to cell, the metastasis of cancer 
and the division of cells during embryonic 
160,000 published papers citing GFP.
-
scientist to isolate GFP, followed an un-
conventional path to his life in science. 
he dropped out of school to work in a paint 
factory to support his family. He moved 
from Nagasaki, Japan to a valley close to 
the city in 1945, fortuitously avoiding the 
blast of the atomic bomb. Shimomura de-
rebuilt in Nagasaki, which happened to be 
a pharmaceutical school.
Shimomura successfully isolated GFP 
in a marine biology lab, but when he at-
tempted to illuminate the isolated GFP, it 
wouldn’t light up.
standard story about science, because the 
it the entire summer. Nothing worked. 
One night near the end of the summer, 
he decided to go home because he’d failed 
once again. He took his prep, threw it in 
the sink and turned off the light. As he was 
about to leave the lab he looked back and 
to point out that in biochemistry throwing 
It turns out that seawater has several 
important chemicals that enable GFP’s 
function.
work in 1989 at a lecture and immediately 
worked on incorporating GFP into cells 
and fusing it to proteins, and in 1993 his 
work on GFP was on the cover of Science. 
-
braced GFP as a powerful research tool.
-
lustrated the cumulative, collaborative na-
ture of science.
made by one great genius, but a cumula-
tive effort, we as scientists take up ideas 
-
was not the work of the three of us, but the 
work of the thousands of people who made 
the importance of funding basic research.
have to ask for permission or write a grant 
to do work on GFP. People outside of sci-
ence misunderstand when we talk about 
the grant system. Grants are different from 
where the science leads you and not be 
tied up to a contractual obligation. I have 
found this to be very important, and it was 
really the only reason we were able to do 
largely on the sense of touch. Scientists 
largely understand the senses that are 
prompted by light, like sight, and chemical 
signaling, like taste and smell, but don’t 
understand how mechanical signals trans-
-
ered that there are 17 important genes in 
the mechanosensory system and mapped 
their relationships with one another. He 
used them to investigate important ques-
-
bituate touch and how we sense touch so 
rapidly.
When asked how the winning the No-
talks like this. Before the Nobel, I never 
had the chance to give a general talk about 
that. I’ve been able to interact much more 
with students. Eight months after the No-
bel my niece’s daughter took me into class 
By Toby Aicher
16arts SCIENCES OCTOBER 23, 2014 | 
“[Alpenglow] immediately 
struck me as something in-
credibly special and larger 
than life. It was amazing to 
support them and get the 
chance to play our songs 
for so many people that 
had never seen us before. I 
don’t want to jinx it, but it 
seems like the music scene 
at Middlebury is turning 
into something really ex-
citing this semester.”
-Evan Allis  ’15.5
 front man, iron eyes cody
teddy knox
At top left, student group Iron Eyes Cody opened for Alpenglow with songs off their debut EP.  At top right and above, Alpen-
Chapel.
“I’m extremely grateful 
that the audience couldn’t 
tell that I was picturing 
them all naked.”
-Renn mulloy ’15.5
 vocalist, iron eyes cody
Alumni Showcase New EP Chapel on Chapel Tour
will be able to turn their attention to 
 October 23, 2014 | 17SPORTS
Panthers Rout Bobcats on Homecoming
By Stephen Etna
Field Hockey Demolishes Bates in the Rain
By Hailey Cosseboom
michael o’hara
MICHAEL O’HARA
Pick ’em: Middlebury vs. Trinity in 
this weekend’s NESCAC football 
matchup
hockey in their regular season 
season standings?
football showdown between
State?
editors’ picks
REMO PLUNKETT (10-4, .714)
Fritz Parker (54-49, .524)
Emily Bustard (6-8, .428)
On Saturday, Oct. 11, the cross country 
teams raced at historic Franklin Park in 
Boston, MA, competing in the NEICAAA 
Championships. The meet — colloquially 
known as Open New Englands — invites 
all New England cross country teams 
from all divisions to participate. Against 
this stiff competition, the women 
placed second as a team while the men 
finished eighth. Additionally, Wilder 
Schaaf ’14.5 and Alison Maxwell ’15 were 
both recognized as men’s and women’s 
USTFCCCA National Athletes of the Week 
and NESCAC Performer of the Week for 
their performances.
The varsity women scored 162 points 
in their second place finish, 101 points 
behind winner University of New 
Hampshire and nine points ahead of 
third place rival MIT. 
The varsity women were paced by 
Maxwell, who finished 11th overall in a 
time of 18:00 for 5 kilometers and was 
the first Division-III woman across the 
line. Just 12 seconds behind Maxwell 
was Summer Spillane ’15, notching a 
24th place finish as the third Division-
III athlete. Behind Spillane were Adrian 
Walsh ’16, Katie Carlson ’15 and Addis 
Fouche-Channer ’17 in 36th, 45th and 
50th place, respectively. Fouche-Channer 
— the team’s fifth and final scoring runner 
-- finished the race in 18:31, giving the 
Panthers a slim 31-second scoring spread. 
The time between a team’s first finisher 
and their fifth finisher is often indicative 
of team strength and depth: the narrower 
the margin, the lower the team score will 
be. With an athlete of the week leading 
the charge, the women are fitted with a 
strong lead runner and a solid pack not 
far behind. 
Giving further credence to the depth 
of this year’s team was the performance 
of the junior varsity squad; these women 
also grabbed a second place finish with 
71 points, again behind UNH, who won 
the race with 50 points. This squad was 
fronted by Erzsie Nagy ’17, who finished 
fifth, with a time of 18:50, Caroline Guiot 
’16, who finished seventh in 18:53, and 
Emma DeCamp ’17, who finished ninth in 
19:00.
These runners demonstrated the 
power of pack running and will provide 
depth should an injury occur to a scoring 
athlete in the critical November meets.
Like the women, the men were top-
placing Division-III team, taking home 
eighth with 291 points. The meet was 
won by Providence College with 72 
points, eking out a victory over Brown on 
a tiebreaker, 3-2. 
Not to be outdone by his counterpart 
on the women’s side, Schaaf finished the 
8 km course seventh overall with a time 
of 24:46. Schaaf’s time is the fastest in 
Middlebury history at Franklin Park and 
he is the highest placing male Panther 
ever at Open New Englands. 
“Before Opens, all of the courses we 
raced on were pretty hilly,” Schaaf said. 
“I think having a flatter course with good 
competition was what I needed to get the 
ball rolling.” 
Like Maxwell, Schaaf was the first 
Division-III finisher at the meet. Not far 
behind Schaaf was Kevin Wood ’15, who 
took home a 15th-place finish in a time of 
24:56 as the second Division-III runner 
to cross the line. 
Unlike the women, the men suffered 
from a wide margin between runners: 
the third Panther to cross the line was 
Sebastian Matt ’16, running a time of 
25:33 (37 seconds behind Wood) for 
73rd. Sam Klockenkemper ’17 — in only 
his second race back from injury — was 
fourth on the team with an 81st-place 
finish in 25:37 and Jake Fox ’15 was the 
final scoring Panther in 115th, running 
25:53.
A week later, on Oct. 18, both the men 
and women’s teams took home titles at 
the Albany Invite. Maxwell and Schaaf 
led the way again, finishing sixth and 
third, respectively. 
“We took it as an opportunity to try 
to close the gap between the top seven 
runners and were successful at that,” 
Schaaf said. “It also gave Sebastian Matt 
a chance to study the back of my singlet 
from up close which I think he was happy 
about.” 
“Albany was a tough race for a lot of 
people because we’re feeling the effects of 
a hard training cycle,” Maxwell said. “But 
we still ran great as a team, competing 
against other teams we almost never see, 
which is fun.”
The teams will take the weekend of 
Oct. 25th off before hosting the NESCAC 
Championships on Nov. 1. The women are 
poised to repeat as NESCAC Champions 
while the men look to take their first title 
since 2010. 
“We definitely want to win NESCACs 
and Regionals, if only to prove to ourselves 
that we are capable of it,” Maxwell said. 
“Building confidence before our potential 
NCAA showing is key.”
|  October 23, 2014 18 sports
XC Hangs Tough with D-I Competition
By Bryan Holtzman
Pair of Road Wins for Panther Volleyball Team
Middlebury volleyball spent 
homecoming weekend in Connecticut, 
picking up two conference victories on the 
road at Trinity and Wesleyan on Friday 
and Saturday, Oct. 17 and 18.
On Friday night the Panthers overcame 
the Bantams’ quick start in Oosting 
Gymnasium and cruised to their fourth 
win in conference play.
The two teams were neck-to-neck 
in the first set until Trinity went on a 
four-to-nothing run to take a 17-16 lead. 
Middlebury closed out the set on a nine-
to-one run to take the first set 25-18. 
The Panthers carried the momentum 
over, gaining an early advantage in the 
second set. A run of aces and well-placed 
kills gave Middlebury a 19-10 lead, as they 
held on and secured the set, 25-14.
In the third set, the Panthers traded 
points with Trinity, until a run of four 
straight points saw Middlebury grab a 17-
13 lead, propelling the Panthers to a 25-19 
victory.
Becca Raffel ’18 and Olivia Kolodka ’15 
posted the team high for kills with eight 
each and were followed by Alice Roberts 
‘18 who registered seven. Emily Kolodka 
’18 played a key role in the victory as she 
registered a match-high 15 digs for the 
Panthers along with four service aces. 
Hannah Blackburn ’17 recorded a double-
double with her match high 28 assists to 
go with 14 digs.
Trinity was led offensively by Kate 
Giddens with a match-best 11 kills, 
while Hunter Drews chipped in with six. 
Amanda Horan added four kills, while 
Randi Whitham dished out 13 assists. 
Defensively, Kristen Cooprider led the 
Bantams with 10 digs. The Bantams fell to 
11-7 (3-5) with the loss.
“We feel good about what we’re doing 
right now, and will continue to strive 
to improve a little bit every day,” Head 
Coach Sarah Raunecker said.
Middlebury would look to carry Friday 
night’s momentum into Wesleyan’s 
Silloway Gym on Saturday afternoon 
in Middletown, but quickly found itself 
down a set when the Cardinals jumped on 
the Panthers early.
After a Charlotte Devine ’17 kill in the 
first set, Wesleyan collected 10 of the next 
13 points and led by a score of 18-9.  Kills 
by Olivia Kolodka and the first-year duo 
of Roberts and Raffel looked to stop the 
bleeding for the Panthers, but it wouldn’t 
be enough to stop Wesleyan from taking 
the first set 25-16.
Despite dropping the first set, the 
Panthers were able to win the next three 
and capture the match. The second set 
saw Middlebury in another tough battle 
as the match went down to the wire with 
the Panthers leading 19-18. However, a 
Roberts kill shifted the momentum in 
Middlebury’s favor. Kills from Melanie 
English ’17, Olivia Kolodka and a pair of 
Blackburn service aces sealed 25-18 set 
victory for the Panthers, knotting the 
match at one game apiece.
The third set staunchly belonged to 
Middlebury. The set was highlighted early 
by three Lizzy Reed ’15 service aces, and 
was closed by a Devine ace and kills from 
Raffel, Roberts and Olivia Kolodka.
“It doesn’t necessarily show in our 
stats, but I think we’ve been a pretty strong 
serving team this year so far, and we’d like 
to continue with that these last couple of 
weeks before NESCACs,” Raunecker said.
The fourth and final set got saw the 
Panthers off to a rocky start, as three 
straight attack errors turned their three to 
nothing lead into a four to three deficit. 
Once again, it was a close set until the end, 
when Middlebury managed six straight 
points, bookended by kills from Emily 
Kolodka and Raffel, to clinch the set 25-
15, and the match three games to one. The 
loss dropped Wesleyan to 10-9 (2-7).
Olivia Kolodka collected 12 kills, Reed 
had 18 digs, and Hannah Blackburn 
dished out an impresive 44 assists to go 
with her four service aces. 
The Panthers, 10-9 (5-3), have six 
games remaining in the last two weeks of 
the regular season. 
The Panthers’ regular season wraps up 
with a pair of NESCAC matches against 
Connecticut College and conference 
leader Tufts. These matchups provide 
Middlebury with a chance to improve 
its seed heading into the conference 
tournament. 
Currently sitting in fifth, the best 
position the team can find itself is the two 
seed, but this will require a lot of help; at 
worst the Panthers will earn the seventh 
seed.
“Our team has really started to 
gel and come together as we hoped it 
would, which has been really fun to see,” 
Raunecker said. “I think this is due to the 
strong leadership of our captains, and the 
maturation of our large freshman class.”
By Will Case
the middlebury
great  eight
8 Men’s and women’s rugbyThey deserve a shoutout from 
The Campus.
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Emily’s Expectations
2
Cross Country
Awesome performance last 
Field hockey
3
Men’s Soccer
4 
Women’s Soccer
momentum recently.
5
VOLLEYBALL
7 Men’s Tennis
6 football
even when the opponent 
panther sc0reboard
football 
Women’s soccer 
men’s soccer 
field hockey 
cross country 
The Panther offense and defense 
season. 
35-6 W 
2-0 W 
2-1 W
6-0 W
1st 
Jeff Patterson
Lizzy Reed ’15 lays out to save a point in the Panthers’ road victory against Wes-
leyan on Saturday, Oct. 18. Reed recorded a team-high 18 digs in the 3-1 win.
The women’s tennis team capped 
its fall season off at the New England 
Women’s Intercollegiate Tennis 
Tournament in Mount Holyoke this past 
weekend, Oct. 17-19. All three Panther 
duos recorded at least one victory.
According to the tournamen’s 
format, opposing pairs would play two 
singles matches, as well as a doubles 
match against each other, and the 
winning pair would advance to the next 
round of play.
In the Gail Smith flight ‘A’ draw, 
— named in honor of the longtime 
Middlebury coach and her substantial 
contributions to the program — the pair 
of Alexandra Fields ’17 and Jennifer 
Sundstrom ’17 defeated its counterpart 
from Babson 2-1 in its first match. But 
Fields and Sundstrom were not able to 
repeat their success in the following 
round, ending up on the wrong side of 
the 2-1 this time against a pair from 
Williams.
Kaysee Orozco ’17 and Lily Bondy 
’17 also triumphed in the first round 
of the Gail Smith draw, felling their 
opposition from MIT 2-1. The pair 
failed to get anything going in the 
second round against Amherst as they 
lost 3-0, ending their weekend earlier 
than they would have hoped.
Without no duo in the ‘B’ flight, the 
third Panther combination of Katie 
Paradies ’15 and Shannon Gibbs ’18 
competed in the Chris Davis flight ‘C’ 
draw. 
Paradies commented that she viewed 
this weekend as an opportunity to 
showcase their hard work. 
“Shannon and I have been working 
to develop a strategy that maximizes 
both of our strengths,” Paradies said.
On Friday afternoon, Paradies 
and Gibbs trounced Smith in the first 
round, winning all three matches. They 
continued that impressive display on 
Saturday by sweeping Wesleyan and 
Nichols to continue on their quest to 
win the tournament in the final match 
that was set for the following morning.
Paradies attributed their success to 
their aforementioned strategy. 
“This weekend we were able to see 
our patterns and take advantage of 
offensive opportunities,” she said. 
It was not meant to be though; 
Paradies and Gibbs made all three 
matches count, but they fell to Babson 
Sunday morning in a close 2-1 defeat, 
ending their inspired run.
“We are not viewing this weekend 
as an end point but instead as a 
tournament upon which we can build,” 
Paradies said. 
The team will have a chance to do 
exactly that this upcoming spring 
when NESCAC and NCAA competition 
begins.
Women’s Tennis Takes 
on Regional Competition
 October 23, 2014 | 19SPORTS
Dramatic Overtime Win for Men’s 
Soccer in Homecoming Matchup
The Middlebury men’s soccer team (7-
2-3, 4-2-3) drew and won over fall break, 
and won on Saturday, Oct. 18 at home to 
move up in the NESCAC standings and 
record their first wins since Colby halted 
their five game shutout win streak in 
September.
On Saturday, Oct. 11, the team traveled 
to Hartford and battled Trinity to a 1-1 
double overtime draw. The Panthers fell 
behind early when Trinity put home the 
opening goal 20 minutes in. Middlebury 
was able to keep the game close in the 
opening half and equaled the Bantams’ 
seven first half shots.  
Middlebury’s equalizer came in the 
63rd minute when Adam Glaser ’17 
found Greg Conrad ’17, who put home 
his third goal of the season. Middlebury 
looked for an opportunity to take all 
three points, but were unable to find a 
winner, despite holding a 10-3 advantage 
on corner kicks.  As the game went into 
overtime, the Panthers put four shots on 
target in the first ten minutes, but had all 
of the chances turned away. Greg Sydor 
’17 recorded five saves on the day as the 
Panthers played their second straight 
draw.
The following day, Middlebury played 
their second fall break game at last-
place Hamilton. The Panthers were able 
to convert their early opportunities and 
scored two of the three on-target shots 
in the first half. Just 97 seconds after 
kick off, Glaser stole the ball outside 
the Hamilton penalty area, passed to 
Conrad, who returned the favor to set up 
Glaser’s sixth goal of the season.
Hamilton had an opportunity early 
in the first half when Sydor punched a 
ball out on a corner kick and a Hamilton 
player bicycle kicked a ball that was 
cleared by the Panther back line. 
Middlebury took a two-goal lead after 
Dan Skayne ’15 set up Conrad. Conrad 
took a pass in from Skayne in the 29th 
minute, settled the ball outside the 
penalty area and sent a shot into the top 
right corner.
M i d d l e b u r y 
preserved its lead 
throughout the second 
half; Sydor turned 
away the two on target 
Hamilton shots to earn 
the shutout. Hamilton 
led Middlebury 13-11 
on shots, but could not 
match the Panthers’ 
accuracy.  Kirk Horton 
’17 nearly added a third 
goal before halftime on 
a corner kick, but the 
score remained 2-0 as 
Middlebury won for the first time since 
Sept. 23.
After the draw and loss, Conrad 
described the team’s mentality.
“Although we didn’t get the results 
we wanted going into the weekend, 
we played some of our best soccer this 
season,” Conrad said. “It seems like 
everything is coming together and now 
we just need to focus on closing out 
games.”
This Saturday, Oct. 18, the Panthers 
hosted Bates in a homecoming matchup 
for the Hedley Reynolds Cup, an annual 
trophy awarded in memory of Thomas 
Hedley Reynolds, an administrator 
at Middlebury prior to becoming the 
President of Bates College.
Middlebury dominated early in the 
rainy ordeal, buoyed by a size advantage 
that saw the Panthers win most balls 
in the air and push forward into the 
Bates half, including a flurry of shots 
all turned away in the 13th minute. 
In the 18th minute, Philip Skayne ’17 
crossed the ball from 
the right towards Glaser. 
Glaser settled the ball, 
put a move on a Bates 
defender at the top of the 
penalty box, and pushed 
a curling shot around the 
keeper into the right side 
of the net. The goal was 
Glaser’s seventh on the 
season, and the assist 
was the first for Skayne.
Bates kept the game 
close, despite struggling 
for chances early in 
the second half. In the 70th minute, 
Middlebury mishandled a clearance on 
the right baseline, and the ball bounced 
around several players until Bates forced 
home the equalizer. As regulation drew to 
a close, Bates had several opportunities 
to go ahead, including a one-on-one save 
from Sydor in the 77th minute — his only 
save of the day — and a shot that missed 
just wide right with under three minutes 
to go. 
The game went to overtime, as four 
of Middlebury’s last five matchups 
have, and the Panthers wasted no time 
showing that they were the better team. 
Two minutes in, Phil Skayne sent in 
Middlebury’s eighth corner kick of the 
day from the left side, where the rebound 
shot of Deklan Robinson ’16 bounced off 
of Horton before Conrad pushed in the 
game winner. 
Horton commented on the recent 
string of wins. “Getting back to winning 
ways was great after a couple of losses and 
ties, but we haven’t been doing anything 
differently defensively from a tactical 
perspective, it has been more about 
regaining our bite that we had in the 
first six games, and the aggressiveness 
to keep forwards away from our goal.” 
Horton said.
Despite scoring three goals in three 
matches, Conrad pointed to an improved 
team attack mentality, saying, “I don’t 
think anything has really changed for 
me personally, I just happened to be 
the last guy to touch the ball in our 
buildups. We seem to be getting a lot 
more opportunities going forward as a 
team and have a wide variety of guys that 
can score goals.”
Middlebury finishes its NESCAC 
season on Saturday, when they host 
Wesleyan, who currently is tied with 
Williams and Middlebury for third place 
in the NESCAC.  Middlebury’s regular 
season will conclude Wednesday, when 
they play Plymouth State.
“One thing that’s great about this 
team is we all believe that on any given 
day, we can play with and beat any team 
in our league,” Horton said.
By Colin McIntyre
26
12th
25-3
10.5
Consecutive victories for Middlebury 
football over Bates College. 
National ranking for the men’s cross 
country team. 
squad in their decisive 6-0 win 
against NESCAC opponent Bates 
College. 
Average assists per set for 
volleyball’s Hannah Blackburn 
’17, who leads the NESCAC in the 
category.
Middlebury runners named United States 
Track & Field and Cross Country Coaches 
Association Men’s and Women’s Division 
III National Athletes of the Week, Wilder 
Schaaf ’14.5 and Alison Maxwell ’15.
by the Numb3rs
2
“Although we didn’t 
get the results we 
wanted going into the 
weekend, we played 
some of our best soc-
cer this season.”
Greg Conrad ’17
FORWARD
By Andrew Rigas
After gaining a crucial win last 
weekend against Hamilton College, 
the Middlebury women’s soccer team 
continued its strong play against the 
Bates Bobcats on Saturday, Oct. 18, but 
fell to the Williams Ephs on Sunday, 
Oct. 19. 
After getting three uncontested 
goals  past the defense of the Hamilton 
Continentals in the first 60 minutes, 
Middlebury withstood a late game 
comeback last Saturday.
Claire Nishioka ’15 was the first to 
strike for Middlebury, finishing a pass 
from Molly Parizeau ’15 37 minutes 
into the first half. After a scoreless 20 
minutes, Amy Martin ’17 finished a cross 
from Katherine Hobbs ’17 for her first 
goal of the season. 
The Panthers maintained the pressure 
on Hamilton and struck again three 
minutes later, after Martin lobbed a ball 
over the Hamilton defense that Carter 
Talgo ’15 ran for and was able to finish. 
When it seemed that Middlebury had 
solidified their win, Hamilton received 
a burst of energy beginning with a goal 
by Continental Victoria Freemanoff — a 
header off of a corner kick.
With just five minutes left in the 
game, the Continentals quickly coupled 
this with a goal from Darby Philbrick. 
It became a race against the clock, as 
strong defense and a big save from 
Middlebury goalie Emily Eslinger ’18 
allowed Middlebury to come out on 
top of Hamilton’s attempted comeback. 
Eslinger finished with two saves off of 
four shots on goal.
After a week of practice, the Panthers 
hosted Bates on Dragone Field. The 
Panthers first struck 22 minutes into 
the game after Nishioka finished a cross 
from Jamie Soroka ’16. Ten minutes 
later Moria Sloan ’15 finished a cross 
from Katlyn Casey ’15 to put Middlebury 
up 2-0. After Sloan’s goal, Middlebury 
managed to hold Bates from scoring for 
the rest of the game. Eslinger finished 
the game with two key saves to earn the 
shutout. Middlebury was able to fire off 
four shots on goal, while Bates finished 
with two shots on goal. This is in keeping 
with Middlebury’s consistently high 
number of shots on goal per game.
 On the heels of their win against 
Bates, the Panthers traveled to 
Williamstown on Sunday to face off 
against the 11th ranked Williams team. 
Both teams remained scoreless going 
into the second half despite solid 
attempts at the goal from either side. 
The ice was broken by Williams five 
minutes into the second half when Eph, 
Kristi Kirshe scored off of a pass from 
teammate Alison Magruder. 
Despite four shots on goal, 
Middlebury was unable to capitalize on 
its opportunities. Eslinger finished with 
one save on the day, while Hannah Van 
Wetter anchored Williams’ defense and 
earned their shutout with four saves.
Middlebury now maintains an 8-6 
record to earn itself a 5th place ranking 
in the NESCAC. The team will host 
Wesleyan next Saturday at 11a.m. on 
Dragone Field in their last NESCAC and 
regular season game, which will have 
important implications for the playoffs.
Parizeau commented on the team’s 
outlook moving forward.
“We’ve had a few tough losses, but 
Wesleyan will be a chance to prove what 
type of team we are,” she said. “We are 
committed 100 percent as a team of 25 
to keep this season going.” 
Wesleyan is 1-9-2 on the season, and 
0-6-1 in the NESCAC, and therefore 
shouldn’t provide too tough of a test for 
the Panthers (8-6-0 on the season and 
4-5-0 in the NESCAC) as they begin to 
sharpen their play in anticipation of a 
long run in the postseason.
Panthers Split Weekend 
By Gabe Weissmann
sports 20
MAXWELL, SCHAAF 
NAMED NATIONAL 
RUNNERS OF THE 
WEEK
PAGE 18
CONRAD’S GOAL 
SENDS MEN’S 
SOCCER TO 
OVERTIME WIN
PAGE 19in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Jeff Patterson
|  October 23, 2014 
REBOUND
The Middlebury volleyball team got back on the winning track this weekend, 
blowing past NESCAC foes Trinity and Wesleyan on Friday and Saturday, 
standings, the Panthers need just one more conference win to clinch a spot in 
the upcoming NESCAC tournament. 
SEE PAGE 18 FOR FULL COVERAGE.
