october 25, 2012 | Vol. 113 no. 6 | middleburycampus.com
VERMONT 
FARMERS FIGHT 
GENETICALLY 
MODIFIED CORN
PAGE 6
COLLEGE GOES TO 
GREAT LENGTHS FOR 
THE DALAI LAMA
PAGE 14
PSYCH DEPT. 
BLENDS SOCIAL 
AND NATURAL 
SCIENCES
PAGE 17in
sid
e
Students played corn hole, drank, ate and enjoyed homecoming festivities at the tailgate outside of Ke-
nyon Arena on Saturday, Oct. 20. Plenty of alumni came back for the weekend, and the football team 
Courtesy of luke elder
CHEERS TO ALUMNI WEEKEND
Email sparks controversy
By Bronwyn Oatley
On Oct. 19 the College charged 
College Handbook policies, re-
lated to their involvement in the 
co-authorship of a mock press 
release that was sent to hundreds 
of students, faculty and staff and a 
number of local media outlets on 
Oct. 12.
The students, Molly Stuart 
’15.5, Jay Saper ’13, Jenny Marks 
and Amitai Ben-Abba ’15.5, have 
indicated that they will choose 
to defend themselves against the 
charges at an open Judicial Board 
in recent memory. 
The hearing is slated to occur 
at 3 p.m. on Nov. 1 at a yet to be 
determined location, and will be 
overseen by the Community Ju-
dicial Board (CJB), comprised 
of trained students, faculty and 
staff, as is outlined by the College 
Handbook policies. 
If the students are convicted, 
the CJB will decide upon individ-
ual sanctions for the group mem-
bers. Possible repercussions for 
nonacademic violations to College 
Handbook policy, as are alleged 
in this case, range from verbal or 
written reprimands to expulsion 
from the College. 
The charges issued to the stu-
dents relate to alleged violations 
of Middlebury’s Community Stan-
dards policy and alleged breaches 
to the Responsible Use of Com-
puting and Network Services and 
Facilities policy. 
Over the past week, local me-
dia outlets including Seven Days, 
Vermont Digger and Vermont 
Public Radio have all covered the 
press release incident. 
   
 SEQUENCE OF EVENTS
-
dents stem from their co-author-
ship of a self-described “satirical” 
press release.
Over the span of a few hours, 
hundreds of students, staff and 
faculty members, as well as a se-
lection of local media outlets re-
ceived an email from a Gmail ac-
count associated with the sender 
-
tions,” with the subject line “Mid-
dlebury College Divests from War 
The mock release stated that 
“Tim Schornak” of the “Dalai 
was to be contacted for further de-
-
committee. A telephone number 
was also provided where the of-
When called, the number led to an 
indicating a non-working number.
Throughout the evening, com-
munity members reacted to the 
news — many erroneously believ-
ing that the communiqué was an 
-
bury’s actual “College Communi-
-
dent for Academic Affairs Timo-
thy Spears sent an email to all stu-
dents, staff and faculty explaining 
that the “message was a hoax, 
and that neither the email nor the 
press release it contained came 
from Middlebury College or its 
posted a “coming clean” letter at 
various locations across the cam-
pus and online at go/compassion, 
identifying themselves by name 
and class year as the co-authors of 
the press release. 
They co-signed the letter as the 
-
tee,” a self-described “group of 
students who are concerned that 
the College embraces practices 
inconsistent with its own pro-
claimed values.” In the letter, the 
-
dowment transparency and urged 
the College to divest from arms 
manufacturers, military contrac-
tors and fossil fuel companies. 
FUN. delays concert
The FUN. concert that was 
originally scheduled for Fri-
day, Nov. 2, has been resched-
uled until Thursday, Jan. 17. 
The band cannot perform at the 
College in November due to a 
scheduling conflict with a Sat-
Middlebury College Activi-
ties Board (MCAB) Concert 
Commitee Co-Chairs Molly 
Sprague ’13 and Nick Mallchok 
’15 explained that representa-
tives for FUN. contacted MCAB 
just recently to notify them of 
the conflict.
“MCAB was contacted by the 
band the week before fall break 
notifying us that FUN. had been 
offered a spot on Saturday Night 
and Mollchok in an email. “Un-
fortunately, the Middlebury 
show conflicted with a manda-
on the Friday before [on Nov. 
2].
“Despite our efforts to cir-
cumvent this scheduling con-
flict, we were forced to cancel 
the Nov. 2 show.”
After news of the cancella-
tion, MCAB worked with FUN.’s 
tour management to find an al-
ternate date.
“The choices were limited 
as FUN.’s tour schedule was 
booked for the remainder of 
the fall, in addition to a Euro-
pean tour in the spring,” wrote 
Sprague and Mallchok. “FUN. 
had only two dates to offer, and 
one of them conflicted with an 
athletic event, leaving Jan. 17 as 
our only option.”
Scheduling concerts re-
quires the approval from vari-
ous departments across cam-
pus, which limits the dates the 
MCAB concert committee can 
choose from.
“After a lot of work and co-
By Katie Theiss
Crime stats expose 
alcohol citation swell
By Emilie Munson
On Oct. 1, Public Safety re-
leased the Middlebury College 
Annual Security and Crime Re-
port. This report, emailed to all 
students in compliance with the 
Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Cam-
pus Security Policy and Campus 
Crime Statistics Act, was a com-
pilation of statistics about crime 
at the College in the year 2011 
as compared to the two previous 
years.
According to the report, in 
-
crease in the number of referrals 
for disciplinary action for liquor 
law violations in comparison to 
2010 and 2009. Furthermore, in 
2011, incidents of burglary and re-
ferrals for disciplinary action for 
liquor law violations occurred on 
Finally, no hate crimes were re-
ported in 2011 unlike in previous 
years. These statistics, however, 
only represent reported incidents.
Burchard attributes some of the 
changes in the crime statistics to 
new policy and institutions.
“The increase in alcohol ci-
tations along with other issues 
resulted in the Task Force on Al-
said Burchard. “It’s very possible 
that the decrease from one to 
zero [of hate crimes] is a result of 
the information and mandatory 
training involved with the Anti-
Harassment Policy.”
Burchard also pointed out that 
crime occurring on public proper-
ty could be located on the various 
public roads that cross campus. 
Wonnacott Commons Dean 
number of students, particularly 
seniors, live off-campus and that 
this may be a factor in the statis-
tics. 
The Middlebury College Annu-
al Security and Crime Report does 
on campus; however, statistics 
provided by Facilities Services 
suggest that student vandalism 
is on the rise. In the 2006-2007 
worth of student damage was ac-
crued whereas in the 2010-2011 
school year, students caused 
representing the highest gross-
ing student vandalism year in the 
range provided. Furthermore, the 
statistics indicated that last year, 
Atwater perpetrated the most 
and seniors in Atwater were 
found responsible for damage in 
most instances.
statistics may not accurately re-
-
ism because they are based on the 
money spent on student vandal-
ism in a given year.
-
as many incidents of vandalism or 
damage, but it might just be that 
there were one or two huge ticket 
items that created a bloom in the 
-
related to needless vandalism are 
of great concern to the commons 
deans and the administration.
Assistant Director of Facilities 
-
dalism is a concern on campus.
“I do think vandalism is an is-
sue when it takes time away from 
the departments that already have 
a concern about the … care of rou-
tine maintenance and operations 
by adding an extra burden to the 
work load,” said Ross.
To reduce crime, Public Safety 
takes many steps at the begin-
SEE CONCERT, PAGE 3
SEE STUDENTS, PAGE 2 SEE STUDENT, PAGE 4
F R I D AY,  O C T.  1 2
Original Press Release 
Welcoming Committee”
TIMELINE OF
EVENTS
F R I D AY,  O C T.  1 2
MiddBlog post reports 
press release of “dubious  
 origins”
S AT U R D AY,  O C T.  1 3
Middlebury Director of 
Public Affairs Sarah Ray 
calls email “fraudulent” 
on MiddBlog
S U N D AY,  O C T.  1 4
Tim Spears calls Press 
Release a “hoax”
T U E S D AY,  O C T.  1 6
Students “come clean”  
in distributed letter
W E D N E S D AY,  O C T.  1 7
“Welcoming Committee” 
meets with Deans of 
College and Students
T H U R S D AY,  O C T.  1 8
on hoax email
T H U R S D AY,  O C T.  1 8
Seven Days and 
reports on the email
S U N D AY,  O C T.  2 1
“My Middlebury” action 
in front of Proctor
F R I D AY,  O C T.  2 6
“Welcoming Committee” 
to host general assembly
T H U R S D AY,  N O V.  1
Committee to face  
Judical Board in   
  public hearing
On Friday Oct. 12 and Saturday Oct. 
13, His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama ad-
dressed the College and members of the 
Middlebury community in two lectures 
in which he discussed themes of morality 
in education and the importance of faith, 
peace and cooperation on a global scale. 
The two-day event was the third time 
that the Dalai Lama has visited the College; 
his previous visits were in 1984 and 1990.
Friday’s lecture, titled “Educating the 
leader’s two-day visit to the College. The 
Dalai Lama spoke again on Saturday morn-
ing in a lecture titled “Finding Common 
Ground: Ethics for a Whole World.” 
In Friday’s lecture, the religious leader 
tailored his spiritual wisdom to his col-
legiate audience, criticizing the modern 
education system for its increasingly ma-
terialistic nature, and called on the largely 
violence and suffering of the 21st century. 
“You are the people who will shape the 
new world,” he said, addressing the young-
er members of the audience. “This century 
should be the century of the peace.”
While the Dalai Lama’s lecture imparted 
ethical and spiritual wisdom to his audi-
ence, he maintained a lighthearted sense of 
humor throughout. Jokes about his old age 
and an anecdote about his gall bladder sur-
gery elicited laughter from the audience, as 
did his decision to wear a Middlebury visor 
throughout the lecture.
On Saturday Oct. 13, the Dalai Lama 
spoke to the College community on the 
topic of global ethics. After his opening 
remarks the Tibetan leader spoke of “one-
ness” and the similarities between all peo-
ple before expressing his belief that the lev-
el of violence of the 21st century was “on a 
different scale,” than the century prior. He 
called for a reduction of military forces and 
for a greater emphasis on dialogue.
After his lecture on Saturday, the Cam-
pus was granted an exclusive interview 
with the Dalai Lama, during which the 
spiritual leader shared his views on culti-
vating mindfulness in a college community 
and spirituality in education. He called on 
college students as the next generation of 
global citizens to embody qualities of open-
mindedness and open-heartedness. 
“I think college students — perhaps I 
think, when they enter the area, perhaps 
they may feel, this is my home, this is safe,” 
said the Dalai Lama. “I think that kind of 
spirit you can extend. I think we can do it. 
I may not see, in my lifetime, in the next 
20 years, perhaps, 30 years, but you, this 
young student, you have the responsibility 
and you have the opportunity to see this 
happy world. So think this way. So make ef-
fort, tirelessly.”
-
tween President Bashar al-Assad and rebel 
forces seeking to topple his government 
continued to deepen this past week, with 
violence seeping into Damascus and ten-
sions spilling into neighboring Lebanon as 
Beirut bombing on Friday.
Many blamed the Beirut explosion, 
which caused at least eight other deaths 
and dozens of injuries, on the Assad gov-
ernment taking revenge for the recent ar-
rest of a Lebanese ally who helped Syria 
plot terrorist bombings. Assad’s Shiite re-
gime is closely allied with Hezbollah, the 
extremist Shiite group that dominates the 
Lebanese government.
The attack on Friday immediately trig-
gered protests by the Sunni opposition in 
Lebanon. Opposition forces took to the 
streets to burn tires and blockade roads. 
On Sunday, a memorial service was held 
for those killed in the attack. Protestors 
used this opportunity to publicly voice 
their anger and frustration against the 
Lebanese regime as well as the Assad re-
gime.
-
testors and soldiers after the memorial 
service as the crowd tried to climb a fence 
surrounding a government compound. 
Fortunately, no casualties occurred. None-
theless, ethnic tensions have heightened 
between Sunnis and Shiites in Lebanon, a 
country with a history of bloody civil war. 
Prime Minister Mikati, a Sunni Mus-
lim, offered his resignation after the at-
tack, although President Michel Suleiman 
Mikati for failing to oppose the Hezbollah 
government for its support of the Assad 
regime. In the aftermath of this bombing, 
many fear the outbreak of sectarian vio-
-
try. Opposition groups, such as the March 
14 bloc, have already called for the govern-
ment’s resignation.
Within Syria’s borders, signs of the 
-
ous daily in the capital city of Damascus. 
The city has been, to a large extent, spared 
few months. However, an increase in the 
number of soldiers and checkpoints have 
Furthermore, many gas stations have run 
empty and prices of everyday items have 
skyrocketed.
-
ing in frequency and intensity. The sense 
of danger has made many residents of the 
city wary of what may unfold in the com-
ing weeks. “Soon we will be in the middle 
neighborhood controlled by rebels.
Less than a month ago, the daughter of 
a wealthy businessman in Damascus was 
kidnapped. She was eventually returned 
home, but only after a $395,000 ransom 
was paid and the girl was abused and tor-
tured.
Assad has attempted to shield the city 
The image of a stable, normal capital city 
was supposed to aid his cling to legiti-
macy. However, with all signs pointing to 
an approaching showdown between gov-
ernment and rebel forces in Damascus, 
Assad’s façade of calm is quickly falling 
apart.
Nightclubs no longer thump until dawn 
hours. Few Western diplomats and report-
ers remain. The vibe of the whole town has 
fear — fear for an impending battle that 
promises little certainty for the future.
BY DANNY ZHANG
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| october 25, 20122 NEWS
Trivia Night
Join friends for trivia at Crossroads Café!
FRIDAY 8 - 10 P.M.
Commons Creep
A Halloween classic!
go/creepy for more details.
FRIDAY 8:30 P.M. - 2 A.M.
Grooveyard 
WRMC presents its fall concert: YAWN 
and Vacationer
SATURDAY, MCCULLOUGH SOCIAL SPACE
DOORS OPEN AT 8 P.M.
Zumba 
Come dance the calories away at 
McCullough Social Space.
SUNDAY AT 4 P.M.
Monday Night Football
Watch your favorite team and enjoy some 
free Grille snacks.
MONDAY 8:30 P.M.
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
ning of each year, like testing all emergency 
phones on campus, posting important con-
tact phone numbers in visible locations and 
encouraging students to lock their doors. 
Throughout the year, they provide foot and 
cruiser patrol of campus, respond to emer-
gencies and offer MiddRides 24 hours a 
day, seven days a week.
In addition to Public Safety, the College 
maintains a strong relationship with the 
Middlebury police.
To ameliorate campus security, the key-
card system was implemented within the 
Also important in minimizing crime 
and vandalism at the College has been the 
implementation of the commons system. 
Longman described the reduction of crime 
and the increased attention to community 
concerns as “one of the quieter successes of 
the commons system.”
The Middlebury College Annual Secu-
rity and Crime Report was emailed to all 
students. Burchard said the purpose of this 
was “to remind everyone crime can and 
does occur even at [the] College.”
The College’s reported crime statistics 
are similar to peer institutions. 
“Every NESCAC school has similar con-
cerns as we do,” said Longman.
in a small town in the state of Vermont,” 
added Burchard. “But crime can still oc-
cur here, and whenever crime occurs, it’s a 
problem.”
Still, Burchard described the College as 
“a relatively safe environment.”
Sam Hage ’16 said he feels safe on cam-
pus.
“I don’t really hear about anything bad 
happening to students,” said Hage. “Not 
that things don’t happen. And also, I think 
Pub Safe does a good job looking out for 
us.” 
Longman pointed to students not lock-
ing their doors as an example of students’ 
has met a number of students who have 
said to him that “even if there is theft here, 
I’m not going to lock my door because I 
would rather assert that I view this as a safe 
space.”
Students feel safe despite 
heightened crime statistics
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Dalai Lama calls on young 
generation to enact change
By Bronwyn Oatley and Kathryn 
DeSutter
His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama sported a Middlebury visor at his talk on Friday.
Emily White
Compiled by Kelsey Collins
The Campus was granted 
exclusive interview access to 
His Holiness the Dalai Lama 
on Saturday, Oct. 13th follow-
ing his talk. The full transcript 
and audio of the interview 
can be found on the Campus 
website. Here are some of the 
highlights:
On mindfulness in the College com-
munity:
“If one person creates some trouble 
then the whole community eventu-
ally creates some uneasiness. So there-
fore regarding unity, or harmony or a 
peaceful community, the thing is each 
individual has a responsibility. The in-
dividual, you see, develops that kind of 
strong conviction and compassion … 
then one hundred percent together.”
On science:
“In true investigation, we are trying 
that — not to accept on the basis of ap-
pearances, but to penetrate reality.
On teaching compassion:
“Compassion, sense of caring about 
others, sense of concern for other hu-
man beings, this must come voluntarily. 
You cannot do that by force.”
On secularism:
“I think that is individual business. 
the people who believe a certain faith, 
I think we ourselves should make good 
examples to others.”
On different faiths:
“It is useful to know more about 
similarities or different philosophical 
views of other traditions — that helps 
to enrich your own practice and then 
secondly, that way you can [have] some 
mutual respect to other religion. If you 
remain isolated, without much contact, 
then the reality [is] you can’t remain 
that way.”
On future generations
I always emphasize the younger gen-
eration — college students — you are the 
generation of the 21st century. So my 
generation, our hope [is] on you.  Now 
our generation, the generation of the 
20th century, as a matter of fact, I think 
we have a lot of problems, which [we] 
should solve by coming generation. So 
we create these problems, and then let 
them solve that situation! [laughs] So 
now you — you have to solve that, you 
have to take [this] big mission — not an 
individualistic way.
A graphic with stats from the crime report 
can be found at middleburycampus.com.
I am addressing you from Buenos Ai-
res, the Paris of South America, a gor-
geous city where wine is cheaper than wa-
ter, the dead get the best real estate and 
the national dance is sexy as hell. I could 
be speaking from anywhere, though. It 
does not matter where I am so much as 
that I am there.
A few weeks ago, some friends and I 
decided to go skydiving. Some of you may 
have that classic motherly reaction, that 
“oh-you-are-crazy-I-would-never!” gri-
mace of envious appreciation. Others may 
nod and give a “right on;” perhaps you 
have experienced the rush of the dive or 
similarly seek adrenaline highs. 
For those of you who have not skydived, 
let me tell you a little about it. First, you 
sit there and decide whether or not it is 
worth it to you to jump out of an airplane 
with a stranger strapped to your back who 
is solely responsible for making sure that 
you do not die. That is the hardest part. 
Resolved, though, you forge onward, and 
the great wide world. You strap on a goofy 
suit, it squeezes you in weird places, you 
leaving everything behind, contemplating 
a lot of what-ifs, but mostly enjoying an 
unparalleled freedom, the freedom to live, 
the freedom to die.
And then, with the world below re-
duced to a mere mosaic of farms and lakes 
and lives, you jump. Absolute sensory 
overload, louder than a thousand freight 
trains, 35 seconds during which nothing 
matters, or has ever mattered, other than 
your own enjoyment of and appreciation 
for life. The cold air refreshes your soul, 
and before you have time to process the 
fact that the plane you were just in is a 
tiny speck thousands of feet above your 
head, the parachute opens and the world 
becomes silently still, purely peaceful, and 
and your understanding rush back into 
your body like a deluge, and you are hap-
py, truly happy. The person who comes 
down is never the same as the person who 
goes up.
If you have never been skydiving, may-
be this description has inspired you to 
start scrambling together a way to pitch 
this idea to Mom and Dad. Maybe you 
have a sick feeling in the pit of your stom-
ach and vertigo at the mere thought of it. 
Either way, think about it. No, not about 
skydiving. I am not here to persuade. Re-
ally think about it.
Hopefully you will discover what I dis-
covered when my two feet touched the 
ground that sunny afternoon in La Tier-
hurled myself out of a plane into the great 
unknown. That is what all this is; college, 
growing up, studying abroad. Life is a se-
ries of skydives.
Studying abroad is a risk, just like any. 
The kid who goes to Buenos Aires and the 
kid who comes back are never the same. 
You never know if your language is good 
enough, or if your independence is strong 
enough, but you try. You never know if 
your parachute will open, either. But you 
jump. Never be afraid to take the leap of 
faith, to try something that scares you, to 
jump into the cold water. 
Maybe you should give skydiving a 
shot. You will discover that the only thing 
worse than making a splat is being hot, 
anxious, cooped up and hovering over 
your future self from 10,000 feet.
overseas
briefing
BY NATHAN LABARBA ’14
Buenos Aires, Argentina
october 25, 2012 |  3        News
ordination, the Concerts Committee was 
able to confirm this date with the approv-
al of Facilities, the Athletic Department 
and members of the college administra-
tion,” wrote Sprague and Mallchok.
Students are reacting to the resched-
uling in a variety of ways. For some, the 
rescheduling has no effect. However, oth-
ers who cannot attend the January show 
are disappointed.
“I was really looking forward to seeing 
the band live, but I am going abroad so I 
will not be able to attend the show now,” 
said Hana Kahn ’14.
On the other hand, some students who 
could not attend the November concert 
are excited about the new date.
“When I heard that FUN. was playing 
this fall, I was so upset that I couldn’t go. 
Now, with the rescheduling, I have the 
chance to see a great live band play,” said 
Danielle Hirshberg ’14.
Overall, MCAB feels optimistic about 
the rescheduling of the show.
“If anything, FUN.’s name and reputa-
tion will be even bigger when they come 
in January, and we are sure that it will 
be a fantastic show,” wrote Sprague and 
Mallchok. “While we are obviously upset 
about the date change, MCAB is plan-
ning a live screening of the SNL perfor-
mance on Nov. 3rd in Crossroads Café to 
get ready for January.”
All tickets for the November show will 
be honored at the January show, and re-
funds will be available for those who are 
unable to attend.
The refund period begins Wednes-
day, Oct. 17 and ends Wednesday, Nov. 
7. There will be a resale period beginning 
on Wednesday, Dec. 5 for students and 
Wednesday, Dec. 13 for the public.
Concert date 
elicits varied 
responses
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Rohatyn celebrates 10-year anniversary
On Thursday, Oct. 18, the Rohatyn Cen-
ter for International Affairs celebrated its 
ten year anniversary. In time with this cel-
ebration, the international studies major 
was changed to the international and global 
studies major (IGS).
Students and professors commemorat-
ed the anniversary with two panels, one led 
by professors and one by students, to dis-
cuss the role of America as a global power 
held in Rohatyn and the second in Atwater 
Dining Hall.
Professor of Geography Tamar Mayer, 
who was appointed to the directorship of 
both the Rohatyn Center and the depart-
ment of international and global studies 
this past summer, gave opening remarks 
at the panels, which applauded the work of 
the Rohatyn Center since its establishment 
in 2002.
“Over the last decade, the Rohatyn Cen-
ter has established itself as the place to go 
at Middlebury for an in-depth international 
or global perspective on social, political, 
cultural and economic issues,” said Mayer 
in her remarks on Thursday.
In the past 10 years, the Rohatyn Center 
has hosted over 1,000 speakers, adminis-
tered over a quarter of a million dollars in 
Mellon grants in support of undergraduate 
student international research and has em-
ployed over 100 student interns.
Mayer expressed enthusiasm for her 
new position as the director of the Rohatyn 
-
sition as the head of the international and 
global studies department.
“[Director of the Rohatyn Center] is a 
great job and it’s great center,” said Mayer. 
“There’s a lot of great energy here, and I 
think that the mission of the center works 
really beautifully with what we do in the 
-
signed name, IGS.”
Mayer explained that when she stepped 
into her position as the director of interna-
tional studies, she brought up the sugges-
tion of changing the name to include global 
studies. According to Mayer, this is some-
thing she has been thinking about for a long 
time.
The new name, she argued, better re-
really do and how the academic program 
needs to educate and orient students.
“IGS faculty ask questions in the courses 
questions that are transnational, that are 
global, in nature” said Mayer. “It really was 
exactly what we do in the program.”
Of the 11 New England Small College 
Athletic Conference [NESCAC] schools, 
only six offer a major that falls into the 
realm of international or global studies. 
studies major are Amherst, Bates, Bow-
doin, Hamilton and Williams. No school 
offers an “international and global studies” 
major.
Mayer said that she has received only 
positive feedback on the name change.
While Mayer feels that the new name 
was necessary, some students are apathetic 
to the change.
“I have to say I’m pretty indifferent over 
the addition of ‘global’,” wrote Hudson Ca-
vanagh ’14 in an email. “Although for what 
is already the wordiest major in existence, 
it makes writing my actual major on an ap-
plication essentially impossible.”
By Jess Berry
The Rohatyn Center for International Affairs, located in the Robert A. Jones 
’59 house, celebrated its 10-year anniversary last Thursday, Oct. 18.
courtesy of campusexplorer.com
College establishes 
med school alliances
On Wednesday, Oct. 17, Director of Stu-
dent Fellowships and Health Professions 
Advising Arlinda Wickland sent an email 
-
dents announcing that the College has es-
tablished an Early Assurance Program with 
Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth 
College.
“This new partnership avails the oppor-
tunity for outstanding students at Middle-
bury who are clearly commit-
ted to a career in medicine 
to seek acceptance to Geisel 
Dartmouth in the sophomore 
year,” wrote Wickland in an 
email. 
According to Wickland, 
the aim of the program is to 
allow students “to take full 
advantage of their under-
graduate education without 
the pressures of applying 
to multiple medical schools 
-
lege.”
In order to participate in 
the partnership, interested 
students must apply by Feb-
ruary of their sophomore 
year to be considered for 
nomination by the Middle-
bury College Health Profes-
sions Committee. The Com-
it will provide letters of endorsement nomi-
nating them for the program.
After receiving an endorsement, nomi-
nees must apply to the Geisel Early As-
surance Program itself. Students who are 
the fall of their junior year after the Geisel 
School of Medicine at Dartmouth Admis-
sions Committee makes the decisions 
themselves of whom to admit.
The Geisel program also offers accepted 
students the opportunity to work at Geisel 
School of Medicine during the summer af-
ter their junior year. Participants must also 
take the MCAT prior to their commence-
ment of their senior year.
Middlebury students and alums ex-
pressed support for the early admission 
programs. “Applying early … gives students 
the advantage of avoiding some of the 
stress experienced by upperclassmen pur-
suing admission. I can see how it would be 
Pollick ’14 in an email. 
Alumnus and current medical school 
applicant Samuel Miller ’12 agrees.
“Application to medical 
school is a very competitive 
process, and pre-med stu-
dents are often very concerned 
about their GPA,” said Miller. 
“This can sometimes discour-
age students from taking 
classes outside of their com-
fort zone, for fear that it will 
negatively impact their GPA. 
The early assurance program 
should lessen this concern for 
some students and allow them 
to take greater advantage of 
the liberal arts experience that 
Middlebury values so strong-
ly.”
The Geisel Early Assurance 
Program is one of six similar 
programs at the College, which 
also maintains relationships 
with Albany Medical College, 
the University of Connecticut School Of 
Medicine, the University at Buffalo School 
of Medicine, the State University of New 
York Upstate Medical University and the 
University of Rochester Medical Center.
These relationships allow undergradu-
ates at Middlebury to apply to these institu-
tions during their sophomore or junior year 
depending on the institution. The criteria 
for applicants are stringent – most require 
a grade point average above 3.5, however 
some of the programs waive a requirement 
for the applicant to take the MCAT exam. 
There will be an information meeting for 
candidates interested in the Geisel program 
in late October. 
By Nate Sans
“The early 
assurance 
program 
should ... allow 
[students] to 
take greater 
advantage of 
the liberal arts 
experience that 
Middlebury 
values so 
strongly.”
Samuel miller ’12
4 NEWS
college 
shorts
COMPILED BY ANNA CHAMBY
Amherst student publishes 
account of on-campus rape 
A former Amherst College student de-
tailed her experience of on-campus rape in 
an op-ed in the Amherst Student on Oct. 
17. The 5,000-word piece, which was pub-
lished with a “trigger-warning” due to its 
disturbing nature, was written by former 
member of the class of 2014 Angie Epi-
fano describing her rape and the distress-
ing lack of support she received from the 
Amherst administration in dealing with 
the aftermath when she sought help on 
campus. 
By Epifano’s account, the school dis-
couraged her from reporting her rape to 
the police, preventing her from changing 
dorms, and questioned her account of the 
events.
The article subsequently went viral 
within a few hours, causing the Amherst 
Student website to shut down from the 
-
cussion of rape on college campuses and 
the twitter trending topic #ithappenshere. 
-
tional accounts of unreported rape, both at 
Amherst and other peer institutions. 
President of Amherst College Biddy 
Martin issued a statement regarding the 
op-ed expressing her regret for the Col-
lege’s failure to appropriately respond to 
the victim’s case. 
“Sexual misconduct and assault are 
among the toughest and most consequen-
tial problems on college campuses and 
in the culture as a whole. Amherst is not 
alone in its struggles with it. But Amherst, 
given its values, its commitment to com-
munity and its size should be a model of 
education, prevention and effective re-
sponse when violations occur. No student 
should be discouraged from reporting of-
fenses or seeking redress,” said President 
Martin. 
 
— The Amherst Student
Online supplement to 
grades
-
nia’s San Jose State University is testing a 
new, video lecture-based class in order to 
ameliorate its student passing rate. 
-
room,” requires students of the Engineer-
ing Electronics and Circuits class to watch 
lecture videos produced by the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology on their 
own time, allowing for a discussion-based 
classroom setting during the scheduled 
class times instead.
The class is a pre-requisite course for 
furthering studies in the electrical-engi-
neering major, but 40 percent of the stu-
dents in previous semesters received a C 
or lower, causing concern among profes-
sors and forcing them to re-think their 
method of teaching.
The pilot program is being compared 
to two traditionally taught classes through 
examination scores and overall student 
experience. Halfway through a semester of 
are already showing positive results: the 
median mid-term examination scores of 
the 85 students were ten to 11 points high-
er than those of the other two sections. 
Despite some student resistance to its 
fast-paced nature, the course will continue 
-
aminations.
— The Chronicle of Higher Education
| october 25, 2012
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Though many have interpreted the 
group’s two actions as separate acts — or 
have interpreted the “coming clean” letter 
as a response to the pressure exerted by the 
administration following the press release 
— the group explained that they crafted 
both letters simultaneously, and believe the 
two communiqués to be two separate parts 
of one whole action. 
 STATING THEIR BELIEFS
 
In their open letter to the community, 
the students stated that they believed that 
the school’s investment structure was in-
consistent with the College’s values and 
mission statement. 
“Our intent was to bring attention to 
the unsettling reality that Middlebury has 
millions of dollars invested in industries of 
violence, while we appear to stand for uni-
versal compassion and peace,” they wrote.
The group also cited the College’s lack-
luster grades on endowment transparency 
as reported by the College Sustainability 
Report Card, published by the Sustainable 
Endowments Institute, as another motivat-
ing factor for their action.
In the six report cards since the incep-
tion of the sustainability ranking system in 
2008, the College has received no better 
than a C grade with respect to transparency. 
While some other institutions have similar-
ly struggled in this category in recent years 
(including Bates College and Williams Col-
lege) other institutions, including Amherst 
College and Brown University, have re-
ceived As and Bs for endowment transpar-
ency. 
 A CALL FOR TRANSPARENCY
Chair of the Board of Trustees Marna 
Wittington explained that board members 
were “disappointed” by the group’s actions.
“I think that one of our values is integ-
rity, and integrity in communication,” she 
said. “I think we have a lot of tolerance for 
disagreement, but I don’t think we have a 
lot of tolerance for misrepresenting your-
self, and taking someone else’s identity and 
using it as your own.” 
The Dalai Lama Welcoming Committee 
members, however, reject the notion that 
they are guilty of impersonation. 
“We are the Dalai Lama Welcoming 
Committee. We sent the letter as the Col-
Lama Welcoming Committee … some stu-
dents accused us of identity theft, but that’s 
preposterous. We didn’t violate anything 
according to United States law,” said Ben-
Abba. 
Koplinka-Loehr explained that the 
group did not use the College’s seal or let-
terhead. He also stated that the group re-
peatedly referenced the College Handbook, 
seeking to avoid any action that could be 
considered a violation of College policy.  
Dean of the College Shirley Collado 
and Associate Dean of Judicial Affairs and 
Student Life Karen Guttentag spoke to the 
Campus for this article, but could not com-
open investigation being pursued by the 
College. 
 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE
INVESTMENT CLUB REACTS
The Socially Responsible Investment 
club (SRI) is recognized by the College com-
munity as another on-campus group seek-
ing greater endowment transparency.
Current SRI Co-President, Ben Chute 
’13.5, explained that while his group was 
broadly supportive of the Dalai Lama Wel-
coming Committee’s message, some SRI 
members were critical of the action taken 
 “Initially, SRI was pretty shocked [by 
the email.] Many members were not happy 
about it. I think it is not consistent with 
the strategy that we have been pursuing, 
which has been to educate people and have 
a thoughtful, reasonable, straight-forward 
and honest conversation about the ethics 
of our endowment and how we can make it 
better,” Chute said.
 “The principles that were expressed by 
this group are things that many of us largely 
identify with, and support and sympathize 
with … While I would have done it another 
way, I can’t take anything away from what 
they’ve done,” he said.
The SRI president explained that the ac-
who had seen a number of “big wins” in 
their collaborative efforts with the adminis-
Chute described that just weeks before, 
school’s history, decided that they would 
allow a student liaison from the Advisory 
Committee on Socially Responsible Invest-
ing (ACSRI) to act as a liaison for all Board 
of Trustee’s Investment Committee meet-
ings “in the foreseeable future”. 
ever ACSRI liaison to a Board Finance 
Committee meeting. Chute was limited in 
his capacity to participate in the meeting, 
serving as a non-voting member with no 
presentation at the end of the meeting), yet 
seemed enthusiastic about the creation of 
the position.
“The Board seems open to hearing sug-
gestions from the student body,” he said. 
Lama Welcoming Committee believe that 
the recent steps taken by the administra-
-
tations in the scope of the measures. 
-
ent tactics, and doing autonomous actions,” 
said Stuart, “as long as it’s not undermining 
the work of other groups, which we don’t 
believe that it was in this case.”
MANAGING THE ENDOWMENT
As of June 2012, Middlebury’s endow-
-
lion. The vast majority of this sum is man-
aged by Investure, a company that manages 
the investments of 12 other organizations — 
billion. 
By using Investure, Middlebury is en-
dowed with a team of professionals who 
provide access to investment possibilities 
comparable to the opportunities available 
to institutions with larger endowments. 
Yet, by using an outsourced invest-
ment company, the College loses a level of 
transparency offered by the in-house man-
agement process. While the Middlebury 
Investment Committee and Board remain 
actively involved with the decision making 
process regarding asset allocation, guide-
lines and strategic changes to the College’s 
endowments, they are unable to instantly 
access the records that indicate the compa-
nies in which the College invests. 
-
rately screen for investment in arms manu-
facturers, military contractors or fossil fuel 
companies. 
Koplinka-Loehr believes that it is nearly 
certain that the College is invested in such 
companies. 
“There is not only the possibility that we 
are invested in military contractors, there is 
the certainty that we are invested in mili-
tary contractors,” he said. “Without screens 
-
panies on the market … it is without doubt 
that we are invested in them,” he said.  
EXAMINING THE POSSIBILITY 
OF DIVESTMENT
The student’s press release has led some 
to question whether divestment is possi-
ble given the College’s current investment 
model. According to Vice President for Fi-
nance and Treasurer Patrick Norton, forms 
of divestment have occurred in the past. 
In April 2006, in response to violence in 
Darfur, the President of the College Ronald 
D. Liebowitz announced in a press release 
that the Investment Committee, Board of 
Trustees and the College’s external invest-
ment consultant had all reviewed the Col-
lege’s direct holdings to identify and cease 
all investment in “any multinational com-
panies that may provide the many factions 
that constitute the Sudanese Government 
-
vestment occurred as a result of the initia-
tive, as the College was not invested in any 
such companies in their direct holdings 
portfolio.
At the time the College also took steps 
to try to compel Investure to encourage its 
managers to employ similar screens when 
investing the pooled funds. 
Norton explained in an email, “The Col-
lege sent a letter to Investure with a list of 
as prohibited investments.” 
Yet, the College Treasurer acknowledged 
over the direct management of the aggre-
gate funds. 
 “As an investor in comingled funds for 
which Investure has full management dis-
cretion, we recognized that we couldn’t 
funds. However, we strongly encouraged 
Investure to divest securities of any type 
in these companies that may be part of our 
portfolio, and to avoid them in the future,” 
he wrote. 
Norton explained that the College has 
to follow the institution’s Environmen-
tal and Social Responsibility Principles, 
which were adopted last spring. Within this 
framework Investure seeks to maximize re-
turns while managing risk, according to the 
Treasurer. 
companies in which we are invested that 
must remain a focus. It is our endowment 
that funds 20 percent of the operating costs 
of Middlebury College,” he said. 
STUDENTS INVITE DISCUSSION
SRI will host a discussion in conjunction 
with the Dalai Lama Welcoming Committee 
and the Divestment Committee (another 
student group working directly on the issue 
of endowment transparency) this evening 
at 8 p.m. in Axinn 219.
The Dalai Lama Welcoming Committee 
and the “growing contingent” of support-
ers on campus will also hold a general as-
sembly at 4:00 p.m. on Friday in Warner 
Hemicycle. Both meetings are open to all 
community members. 
The Community Judicial Board hearing 
Nov. 1 at 3 p.m.
Students painted handprints outside of Proctor on a poster that read “Our 
Middlebury Divests from Violence” to demonstrate their solidarity with the
Dalai Lama Welcoming Committee on Sunday, Oct. 20 from 11:30 - 2 p.m.
Courtesy of the Dalai Lama Welcoming Committee
Trustees of the College met on campus 
this past weekend to discuss and vote on 
various issues of governance, experiential 
learning and student life, among other 
topics.
The board heard from several students 
during their time at the College. 
Student Government Association 
(SGA) President Charlie Arnowitz ’13, 
Lauren Greer ’13 and Chris de la Cruz ’13 
sat in on the meeting of the Student Af-
fairs Committee.
Arnowitz gave a brief presentation to 
the trustees to outline the duties and goals 
of the SGA. After Arnowitz’s presentation, 
the committee was present-
ed with the results of the 
alcohol survey conducted 
among nine of the 11 New 
England Small College Ath-
letic Conference (NESCAC) 
schools in March.
Dean of the College 
Shirley Collado serves as a 
liaison to the Student Af-
fairs Committee. Collado 
explained that the trustees 
were encouraged by the ac-
tions of the Alcohol Task Force, a group 
that engaged in a year-long investigation 
of alcohol use on campus and its effects 
on the community and concluded their 
research with a list of recommendations, 
President for consideration last May.
“[The trustees] feel very good and very 
happy to see that some of the recommen-
dations — like some of the positions and 
some of the [issues] around residential 
life — had been tackled,” said Collado. 
Greer explained that the trustees and 
students reached the conclusion that the 
community needs to address the issue col-
lectively.
“It came down to the agreement that 
we can use those statistics as a reminder 
that we need to improve behavior with 
regard to alcohol on campus, and take 
more ownership as a student body,” wrote 
Greer in an email. “They were very sup-
portive in helping this effort.”
-
ested in hearing how things played with 
the student body, particularly on the al-
cohol front,” added Arnowitz. “They were 
also strongly opinionated and hearing the 
range of reactions was interesting.”
De la Cruz hopes that students will con-
tinue to be a part of these conversations.
“I think the trustees really see how 
much they need student input in order to 
make any kind of informed decision on 
student affairs,” wrote de la Cruz in an 
email. “Fortunately, they have plans to 
create more dialogue with students out-
side of the meetings so they may all come 
think student involvement really is some-
thing they lack yet something they are 
pushing to work on.”
De la Cruz described how the trustees 
directly addressed the 
students.
“Right at the end, the 
meeting was directed 
at the three students as 
they asked, ‘What kind 
of issues should we be 
talking about?’” added 
de la Cruz.
Student involvement 
was not limited to the 
Student Affairs Commit-
member of the Socially Responsible In-
vestment club (SRI), Ben Chute ’13.5, sat 
in on the Investment Committee proceed-
ings to offer an additional perspective on 
the investment of the endowment.
Board Chair Marna Whittington ex-
pressed enthusiasm for increased student 
involvement.
“If the students are interested in a par-
ticular form of interaction, I think they 
just need to request it,” said Whittington.
During a meeting of an ad-hoc commit-
tee on education in action, board mem-
bers discussed the importance of students 
connecting their education with opportu-
nities outside of the classroom. According 
to Whittington, the board members are 
committed to fundraising for an endowed 
fund in order to increase the opportuni-
ties available to students.
“It’s part of our vision for Middlebury; 
it’s part of our belief about the undergrad-
uate education,” said Whittington. “One 
of the things that’s been very interesting 
to us is the students’ reception to it. We’ve 
had a lot of interest and demand … We’ve 
been pleasantly surprised and challenged 
by the number of students that are apply-
ing for small grants to do projects or are 
interested in internships.”
The board also voted to establish a new 
C.V. Starr-Middlebury School Abroad in 
India.
“It is great that we will be able to pro-
vide opportunities for our students to 
study in and learn about India,” wrote 
President of the College Ronald D. Li-
ebowitz in an email. “Students have been 
requesting this for more than a decade.” 
The Buildings and Grounds Committee 
also received an update on fundraising for 
the Field House. The board approved con-
struction of the Field House last fall.
“The Field House is a much-needed 
project,” wrote Liebowitz. “The tempo-
rary ‘Bubble’ has given us more years that 
it was intended to give us. The new facility 
will be used by the entire community.”
Before the weekend’s meetings, the 
trustees met on Thursday, Oct. 18 for a re-
treat that took place at the Jackson Prop-
erty, 377 acres of land along Route 125 and 
Cider Mill Road that the College received 
from Trustee Emeritus Will Jackson ’51 in 
December 2011. The board spent the day 
discussing issues of governance, and took 
a mid-day break to enjoy the fall weather.
Whittington spoke positively of the re-
treat.
“We’re stepping back and looking at 
our own governance — making sure it’s 
tight and we have the policies and the 
processes we need to have, both to sup-
port the Middlebury of today [and] the 
Middlebury we think is coming in the fu-
ture,” said Whittington.
“The reason we can have these con-
versations is we’re coming from a posi-
tion of strength,” she added. “I would say 
if we could keep this level of collegiality, 
cooperation, hard work and commitment 
going between and among the Board of 
Trustees and the administration into the 
foreseeable future, it would clearly be a 
strategic advantage for us.”
Liebowitz echoed Whittington’s enthu-
siasm for the progress made.
“The trustee retreat was excellent,” 
wrote Liebowitz. “It allowed the board to 
work together to consider major issues 
on how to be responsible stewards of the 
College. The board looks forward to con-
tinue working on this issue throughout 
the year.”
october 25, 2012 |  5        News
The Community Council met on Mon-
day Oct. 22 to outline an ambitious list of 
tasks for the 2012-2013 academic year. 
Issues on the preliminary agenda for the 
council include: communication methods 
between faculty, students and staff; re-
-
cess to health services on campus; sexual 
assault on campus; public spaces and dorm 
damage; social house membership; stress 
culture; student participation in MCAB and 
other college sponsored events; and imple-
menting recommendations from the Alco-
hol Task Force. 
A large part of the meeting was spent 
discussing the relative urgency of each of 
these issues, and their relevancy to the in-
terests of students, faculty and staff. 
-
ship in social houses. School policy on the 
issue dictates that students may not join 
social houses until the second semester of 
sophomore year; however the council has 
proposed considering more lenient mem-
bership guidelines.  This discussion could 
affect the membership as early as this 
for review. 
The Community Council is hoping to 
initiate an ongoing conversation with the 
social houses on this issue. 
“I want to bring in the social houses and 
give them a chance to say this is who we 
are and this is our mission, explained Com-
munity Council Co-Chair Barret Smith ’13. 
“That way we are building an understand-
time during the social house review pro-
cess.” 
The council also discussed campus com-
munication methods during the Oct. 22 
meeting. Council members are seeking a 
way to increase student participation and 
attendance of College-sponsored events 
through more effective communication.
“There is a stigma on campus to not go 
to MCAB events or go to college sponsored 
events, and a lot of that can be changed 
just by the way we communicate,” member 
Zach Marlette ’13 explained.
In an effort to increase on-campus 
communication, the Community Council 
is working with the Student Government 
Association and the Dean of the College’s 
time used to discuss issues on campus. 
“My hope is to create an open time for 
anybody who wants to share something 
with the student body that there would be 
topics that are of enough interest to stu-
dents,” said Dean of the College and Coun-
cil Co-Chair Shirley Collado. “It is really to 
promote face-to-face dialogue and to re-
ally engage one another without relying 
on email. We just don’t know how to get 
people there.” 
In light of the recent editorial published 
in the Amherst Student on on-campus rape, 
sexual assault was a pertinent topic at Mon-
day’s meeting. The council discussed invit-
ing staff from Parton Health Center and 
from the Sexual Assault Overview Commit-
tee (SAOC) to give a presentation of this is-
sue to the committee and how to initiate an 
ongoing conversation around this issue.  
“The Amherst sexual assault case has 
gotten a lot of attention and so if we are 
going to work with the SAOC on sexual as-
sault, we should do it sooner while people 
are talking about and concerned with the 
issue,” said Isabelle Dietz ’13.
The council also raised the idea of add-
ing residents of Middlebury as members of 
the College’s Community Council. Opinions 
were divided on this matter — some felt 
that it was a way to bridge the gap between 
the College and the town on certain issues, 
while others felt that the council focused on 
issues that were too unique to the College 
and would be of little interest to the town. 
Lastly, the council discussed the forma-
tion of a Residential Life Committee whose 
mission is to act as an advisory group and 
discussion forum on residential life, as well 
as review social houses and special interest 
houses each year. The committee will be 
comprised of one staff member, one faculty 
member and two student members.
By Claire Abbadi
community 
council update
Council aims to improve communication
-
dent Government Association’s (SGA) 
bi-weekly column, From the President’s 
Desk with SGA President Charlie Arnow-
itz ’13. In this column, we will be discuss-
ing issues of importance to the SGA and 
the student body. This week I am joined 
by SGA Treasurer and Finance Committee 
Chair Peter Mattson ’14 to talk about the 
-
ation and funding for student organiza-
tions.
The SGA is responsible for allocating 
money to the nearly 175 organizations on 
campus, from the African American Al-
liance to the Youthful Alliance for Mer-
rymaking, in the form of annual budgets, 
new money requests and loans. Generally, 
student organizations have enjoyed tre-
In addition to funding student organiza-
tions, we also fund our own initiatives that 
serve the student body. Last year, the SGA 
passed a series of exciting initiatives that 
student life, including a dramatic expan-
sion of the MiddView and the YouPower 
bike room.
All of this good work is funded by the 
Student Activity Fee, the $380 that ev-
ery student pays in addition to the Com-
prehensive Fee. Collectively, the sum of 
these fees makes up the SGA budget. The 
SGA Finance Committee budgets all of 
these funds to student organizations each 
spring.  If student organizations do not 
spend the entirety of their budgets, those 
funds come back to the SGA as reserves. 
If the SGA chooses, these reserves can be 
spent on projects like the ones mentioned 
above.
As a result of the SGA’s allocation of 
generous budgets to student organiza-
tions and legislative agendas over the 
past two years, the Student Government 
Reserve Fund fell from $413,000 in the 
fall of 2011 to $121,000 today. Demand 
for funding is booming like never before 
and this year will likely bring a further 
drop in the reserves.
These reserve levels are problemati-
that we keep a small amount of liquid capi-
tal on hand for emergencies, and in such 
cases the SGA is committed to ensuring 
we can adequately serve student organiza-
tions.
therefore ask for your patience. Student 
organizations should keep a few guiding 
-
nancial planning for the coming year. Plan 
ahead — programs planned far in advance 
that attract students will likely receive 
more funding. Spend responsibly, and 
keep your spending focused on the mis-
sion of your organization. Collaborate with 
other clubs to take advantage of shared 
resources. If the College Democrats and 
Republicans can plan a successful election 
night at the Grille together, then we know 
valuable collaboration between other 
groups on this campus is also possible.
Planning well, spending responsibly 
and collaborating are key ways to help 
program effectively for the year, but it’s 
also important to realize that funding will 
be tight. Nonetheless, we are fully dedi-
cated to ensuring that student organiza-
tions have adequate resources to fund 
creative and effective student ideas, ini-
tiatives and programming.
If learning more about the SGA inter-
ests you, come to our open Senate meet-
ings at 7 p.m. on Sundays in the Crest 
Room, and check us out at go/sga, on 
Facebook and on Twitter.
Trustees seek student involvement
By Kathryn DeSutter
From The
President’s
Desk
BY CHARLIE ARNOWITZ
“I think student 
involvement really 
is something 
they lack yet are 
pushing to work 
on.”
Chris de la Cruz ’13
Vermont is one of the leading states 
in organic agriculture and progressive 
movements; the people of this state are 
often trailblazers of nationwide trends. 
The movement of the moment is the la-
beling of genetically modified products 
(GMOs). Last year a bill was introduced 
to the Vermont House Committee on 
Agriculture that proposed requiring all 
products that included genetically modi-
fied ingredients be labeled as such. 
Will Stevens, an agriculture commit-
tee representative from Shoreham, Vt. 
who has worked closely on the develop-
ment of this bill, explained the main pur-
pose of the bill.
“It’s basically a consumer awareness 
bill,” said Stevens. “Consumers are ask-
ing for information on the ingredients of 
processed products and this is how the 
bill was proposed.”
Ingredients are important to people 
all over Vermont, especially farmers 
themselves. Jack Lazor, of Butterworks 
Farm in Westfield, Vt. has been working 
to be as self sufficient as possible since 
the mid-1970s. Lazor started out as a 
homesteader who wanted to grow all his 
own food. 
“We started with wheat and barley in 
1977,” said Lazor. “After that we got more 
and more cows and started our little yo-
gurt business. We got our license from 
the state of Vermont in 1984.”
Butterworks Farm is principally a 
dairy farm, but also features its own corn 
meal. Lazor wanted to create a self-suf-
ficient environment, and consequently 
began growing his own corn to feed to his 
cows in order to produce the best dairy. 
He did not start out with his own seed, 
but purchased it from various seed com-
panies and used hybrid seeds.
“As time went on, I decided I wanted 
to grow all my own seed as well as my own 
grain,” said Lazor. “It was harder with 
corn because all the corn that was avail-
able, you couldn’t save your own seed.”
The available corn came from hybrid 
seed. Hybrid corn seed is made from two 
genetically very different parents, and 
because of their genetic differences if 
the seed from the corn crop is used again 
the next year, there is no way to predict 
which genes will be expressed or not. It is 
technically possible to save the seed, but 
is not an effective practice for farmers. 
What Lazor decided to do, however, 
to make himself more self-sufficient, was 
use seed that grew through open pollina-
tion. Instead of forcing two very differ-
ent types of corn together as with hybrid 
seeds, open pollination takes genetically 
similar corn and allows them to combine 
in a natural way. The idea was to “plant 
them all together in a patch and allow 
them to all cross on each other,” said 
Lazor. 
This practice led him not only to have 
seed again for the next year through open 
pollination, but to experiment with which 
breed of corn functioned best for the cold 
Vermont climate. He now has seeds that 
he produces for himself and farmers all 
over the state. The open pollination seeds 
produce corn that “tastes better, has 
more minerals in it and picks up more 
stuff from the soil” said Lazor, as com-
pared with genetically engineered corn. 
Lazor open-pollinates his corn 
through a lengthy process of guess and 
check that has proved fruitful for him. 
Tom Stearns of High Mowing Seeds is 
focused much more specifically on the 
genetics and science of seed production. 
“I wanted to focus on seeds specifi-
cally, the genetics and breeding was stim-
ulating. Providing seeds to people helps 
people grow their own food. I have a be-
hind-the-scenes role of helping farmers.”
High Mowing Seeds sells to garden-
ers in all 50 states and all over Canada. 
Stearns caters his company to organic 
farmers in general. Organic farmers all 
over the country have unique challenges 
and conditions to deal with. Generally, 
fertilization is done through an irriga-
tion system with water-soluble nitrogen 
infusing the plants with the necessary nu-
trients. The soil plays no larger role than 
just keeping the plants where they are. 
“On an organic farm,” explained 
Stearns, “the health of the soil is every-
thing. Seeds that are selected and adapt-
ed to organic farms have a different way 
of relating to the soil so they can go get 
the nutrients.”
Stearns focuses on breeding new 
types of organic seed, which can take any-
where from two to six years to produce. 
The pressure to have successful crops 
has led to experimentation with new seed 
varieties. While open pollination and hy-
bridization are natural processes, scien-
tists have reached new levels with geneti-
cally modified seeds.
“[Genetic modification] is something 
that would not happen in nature,” ex-
plained Stearns. “It happens in a lab, and 
is a process of inserting genes from one 
species into another species.”
A good example of genetic modifica-
tion and its implications is an ongoing 
experiment in which scientists produce 
a strain of corn that is toxic to insects 
by cross-breeding corn and a bacterium 
toxic to insects. Unfortunately, this bac-
terial insertion has also produced a host 
of problems. Benign insects have been 
killed while worms have built up a resis-
tance to the bacteria over the course of 
the past decade, throwing off the natural 
balance.
“The EPA actually considers this 
corn to be a pesticide,” said Stearns. “It 
needed to go through all the licensing and 
regulations, just like Round-Up.”
Genetically modified seeds give a 
higher yield, but also raise a lot of con-
cerns among farmers and consumers. In 
Stearns’ opinion, there are four main rea-
sons why someone would be against ge-
netically engineering produce: religious 
and ethical issues (people not wanting to 
“play God”), environmental issues, hu-
man health issues and economic issues. 
There are a dwindling number of non-ge-
netically engineered seeds, which limits 
farmers’ output possibilities.
“It absolutely costs more,” said Stea-
rns. “But farmers need corn to plant, so 
when everything costs more, that’s just 
how it goes.”
Stearns and his team at High Mead-
ow Seeds have been aggressively fighting 
genetically modified foods for 15 years. 
Two years after genetically engineered 
corn was first introduced, they published 
the Safe Seed Pledge in protest. Over 200 
seed companies all over the United States 
have since signed the pledge.
Because of the activity of Lazor, Stea-
rns and other farmers all over the state, 
government officials have been moved to 
propose a bill that would require every 
producer to label foods with genetically 
modified ingredients. 
Will Stevens, an Agriculture Com-
mittee representative in support of the 
bill, explained that the House Agriculture 
Committee received the bill late in the 
session last year, and due to its late in-
troduction the bill died at the end of the 
session. 
“My hunch is that the bill will come 
back to the legislature,” said Stevens. 
Unfortunately nothing is that simple. 
If Vermont were to be the only state to 
adopt this kind of legislation, many other 
farmers would be disadvantaged. Ideally 
this type of bill would be introduced na-
tionally so that worrying about state lines 
would cease to be a concern. 
Debates about the problems posed by 
GMOs continue. On one side, it has never 
been proved that genetically modified 
foods are bad for human beings. On the 
other side, there have yet to be any long-
term studies on possible effects to human 
health. 
“For me, it comes back to the fact that 
all the countries in Europe are complying 
with it,” said Stevens. “So why not? As 
Ben and Jerry say, ‘what’s the dough boy 
afraid of?’” 
Almost all of Europe has instituted 
a highly successful labeling program, 
which may serve as a model for states in 
the U.S.
Right now all eyes are on California, 
where similar legislation is being exam-
ined. Proposition 37 would require one of 
the nations most agriculturally produc-
tive states to label their genetically modi-
fied food.
local
Vermont farmers lead GMO movement
24
Wild Game Feast in Brandon
Carnivores rejoice! Come and enjoy Ver-
OCT. 27, 5 P.M. - 7 P.M.
Haunted Hayride and Spook Walk in 
Ferrisburgh
 
-
OCT. 26, 6 P.M.  AND OCT. 27, 12 A.M
Halloween Celebration in Middlebury 
-
-
OCT. 26, 5 P.M. - 7:30 P.M.
Local 
lowdown
Courtesy of VPR
Courtesy of High-Mowing Organic Seeds
Strains of corn that are genetically engineered to kill pests often kill benign species.
Tom Stearns, the founder of High-Mowing Organic Seeds, stands in his greenhouse. 
By Devin MacDonald
Heliand Consort in concert in Brandon 
ç -
OCT. 28, 3 P.M. - 5 P.M.
On Thursday, Oct. 18, the Vermont gu-
bernatorial race heated up during the WPTZ-
incumbent Peter Shumlin and republican 
on Nov. 6. 
the trends seen in the presidential debates 
— candidates speaking over one another, 
and Shumlin to directly question each other, 
-
ness in a box” plan that Brock has touted as 
-
-
cal storm Irene and the national economic 
-
-
ers.
-
had completely misunderstood his plan and 
plan; despite his rebuttal, the governor came 
-
-
-
ers.”
Shumlin by calling attention to a recent land 
Shumlin responded by saying that he 
-
-
represented in the press.”
Brock nevertheless repeated his concern 
a deal.” 
-
-
-
-
-
ingly heated as both Shumlin and Brock be-
gan to speak over each other, seeming to vent 
-
dressed and misrepresented in prior debates. 
-
-
-
-
Brock later pointed out that Shumlin had 
-
-
-
-
-
on other drug issues.
-
-
-
-
-
In addition to addressing drug issues 
and Vermont economic hardships, candi-
-
-
-
-
ski industry peaked in 1966 and has been 
steadily declining ever since. 
81 ski areas in service. Over the years, the 
number open in a single season has risen 
-
-
a mountain committed to resisting modern 
-
-
-
-
ness — are struggling as much as the moun-
-
has already caused several restaurants in 
Vermonters remain convinced that the 
-
reasons.
-
-
tage and economy,” said Parker Riehle, pres-
-
uct, like maple syrup or cheese,” said Ver-
-
monters place on the outdoors.”
-
-
ever, makes this optimism seem anachro-
-
-
industry. 
-
mountains continue to expand and become 
-
-
-
-
and-pop businesses to adapt or perish.
managed to remain open through creative 
-
unteers and conservative spending practices. 
have turned to co-opting strategies to gener-
ate enough revenue to remain solvent.
-
-
-
By Isaac Baker
 | october 25, 2012Local 7
By Liia Koiv-Haus
Courtesy of WCAX
Courtesy of Tripadvisor
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
editorial board 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
A false account of a real issue
opinions
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kathryn DeSutter
MANAGING EDITOR
Michelle Smoler
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Quinn Proffer
NEWS EDITORS 
Jess Berry, Bronwyn Oatley, 
Kelsey Collins
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Joanna Lyons, Carina Guiterman
SPORTS EDITORS 
Tom Clayton, Damon Hatheway,
Owen Teach
LOCAL EDITORS 
Conor Grant, Isaac Baker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Lauren Davidson, Stephanie Roush, 
Joshua Kruskal
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Deirdre Sackett, 
Santiago Azpurua-Borras
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Jessica Munyon,  Jiayi Zhu
DESIGN MANAGER
Ian Stewart
DESIGN EDITORS
Olivia Allen, Marea Hatheway
ONLINE MANAGER 
Greg Woolston
ONLINE EDITOR
Leah Pickett
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR
Charlotte Gardiner 
By Dylan levy
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
reader op-
ed
Rachel Dicker ’14 is 
from Great Neck, N.Y.
There has been quite a bit of talk about 
divestment at Middlebury College in the 
past few weeks. For many students, this is 
-
-
Others have heard about the endow-
-
vestment group for years, and some have 
grown tired of the word endowment, the 
petitions and the sometimes heated pre-
-
easy to understand.
However, it is important.
And it is our responsibility to think of 
this endowment as ours, as proud Middle-
$800 million.
-
tral, we aren’t building our solar panels 
A growing number of students at 
Middlebury have joined the national 
movement, now underway on more than 
-
-
-
mitment to environmental stewardship 
make use of them.
-
ees endorsed the Commitment to Carbon 
-
-
gage in this paradigm shift away from our 
-
investment.  Middlebury has already made 
-
ing it.  
-
ask you to join with us in demanding Mid-
-
divestment and 
-
-
ment group and 
team.
Also, please join us for a Town Hall 
meeting tomorrow at 4 p.m. to bring to-
-
sage boards for further information.
 9opinionsOctober 25, 2012 | 
None of your business
from the 
galway 
green 
Mohan Fitzgerald ’14 
is from Toronto, Canada
know, they’re always taught to argue ev-
erything, and always weigh everything and 
weigh both sides and they’re always, you 
-
-
-
-
-
Clint’s words are rather unsettling 
-
values ingenuity, innovation, individu-
ality and perhaps less admirably, mate-
-
some of that Steve Jobs fervor that swept 
-
Jobs was almost assuredly borrowed from 
-
-
for something we previously never knew 
-
-
-
ingenuity, do we not admire the inventors 
-
-
should we think good businessmen make 
good presidents?
-
planation as to 
why running a 
-
ness and run-
ning a federal 
government are 
-
-
-
merely: a president should demonstrate 
a big pay-off, he or she should demonstrate 
-
munity, humanity and the understanding 
margin, but the wellbeing of an entire na-
-
My passion lies in the heartbeat of the 
-
-
There is noth-
wish for than to 
that gives me life. 
about Middle-
-
Middlebury and met people with the same 
-
of the kinds of investments Middlebury was 
making. Middlebury’s support of fossil fuel 
-
hearing about the funding that Middlebury 
-
a good foundation and truly stands up for 
Perla Sibaja, Los Angeles, Calif.
Carlos Aguilar, Los Angeles, Calif.
Christina Chyr, Miami, Fla. 
Uriel Ulloa Los Angeles, Calif.
READER 
OP-ED
Keenia Shinagawa 
is  a prospective student 
We are not neutral
READER 
OP-ED
Greta Neubauer ’14.5 
is from Racine, Wisc.
been trapped at the bottom of the sea in 
-
-
-
we refer to this year is divisible by four. 
-
tion. And you 
know what that 
means: time for 
roadside signs 
to start multi-
-
-
son, even though we’re in the midst of a 
oddly enough, the most 
surprising thing about 
-
tion on the environment 
is that we haven’t really 
Four years ago, Presi-
dent of the United States 
he’d heal the planet. 
-
ney made a joke or two 
and then that as soon as he steps into of-
-
some allusions made by the President 
-
tional Committee to the seriousness of 
-
bon pollution, there’s been little talk of 
-
Unfortunately, the environment right 
-
sues in the environmental dialogue today, 
-
-
market value and that maybe we should 
be using less petroleum after all would 
with questions about managing the na-
-
League of Conservation Voters for the 
in the House and Senate on environmen-
tal issues and illustrate just how deep 
-
The environmental leg-
islation passed in the 
latter half of the previ-
did it go? Other stud-
ies have shown that the 
overwhelming major-
environment and would 
be reasonably bitter if 
something awful happened to it. The sad 
truth is that these attitudes often fail to 
those aforementioned issues, but that en-
-
date is downright silly. Further, the New 
York Times
-
-
environment, it is that nature is a shared 
displayed don’t prove promising. To say 
-
didates’ showing on the issue would be an 
making our own opinions heard, it’s out 
Candidates make silent springs 
seem garrulous
green
piece
Julian Macrone ’14 is 
from Clifton, N.J.  
“ During this election, 
oddly enough, the 
most suprising 
thing about either 
candidate’s position 
on the environment is 
that we haven’t really 
heard much about it.”
Press release authors come clean: a call for Middlebury College to do the same
10opinions | October 25, 2012
silence has The rusty taste of shame A certain romance
setting ants 
on fire
Michelle Smoler ’13 is 
the managing editor from 
Westport,  Conn. 
After gazing in awe at the double 
rainbow that appeared after the freak 
thunderstorm last Saturday, I realized 
that most of us share a certain romance 
with Middlebury. Disappointment with 
days of rain can be outsmarted by a per-
fect fall day; dissatisfaction with housing, 
the endowment or dining hall food can be 
replaced by pride in our solar decathlon 
house, a football win and a community 
meal of homemade locally-grown offer-
ings. The College has many ways to keep 
us on the hook, but the fantasy version 
of her is in large part a result of our own 
participation. It seems easy to separate 
the students, faculty and staff from each 
other as well as the institution itself — as if 
we are one entity and it another. We pass 
through Middlebury with varying degrees 
of transience and move on to the next 
phases of our lives, while the College is a 
heart representing the same educational 
principles and goals from year to year. 
Yet our experiences with the College, our 
successes and failures, are uniquely tied 
to the time and energy we as members of 
the Middlebury community spend on the 
relationship. This does not mean always 
trying to change the bad, but expressing 
genuine appreciation for the positive ex-
periences and fostering a sense of mutual 
will sink or swim together.
Among students I see this on a day-
to-day basis, whether it be acquiring the 
motivation to attend a party despite a 
series of duds the night before, raising 
awareness for a club despite a showing of 
student apathy, keeping up spirits during 
the long period of winter gray or attend-
ing lectures despite having logged hours of 
work on regular classes — students invest 
themselves in all kinds of ways into giving 
life to the Middlebury experience.  
All relationships have their ups and 
downs, especially when you imagine so 
many different personalities in some of 
the most tumultuous years of their lives 
attempting to connect in various ways 
with the unwavering character of the Col-
lege, which no matter how hard she tries 
cannot be everything to everyone. But as 
I have recently witnessed, we all engage in 
a constant give and take, expecting a great 
deal from the institution while not shirk-
ing in our responsibilities as members of 
the community. Whether working at this 
relationship means making changes that 
best suit the community’s interests or 
providing opportunities for community-
building where we may appreciate the joys 
of our experiences together, there is no de-
nying that keeping this relationship going 
takes a great deal of emotional and mental 
fortitude. 
While change is good, however, it 
cannot be achieved through anger or hos-
tile contention. It cannot be derived from 
an “us versus them” construction and will 
never press forward without cooperation. 
A recent arrival to the College’s political 
scene, “the growing contingent” hopes to 
press its advantage as an insurgent group, 
as a child of anarchy seeking to stir up 
chaos or at least conversation surrounding 
the not unimportant issue of endowment 
investments and transparency. However, 
if they think that challenging the admin-
istration to a boxing match by throwing a 
cheap shot — the fake press release — will 
compel change, they are greatly mistak-
en. The students and the College are not 
in a ring. We 
have a high-
ly dynamic, 
codependent 
relationship. 
Anyone who 
has ever been 
in a relation-
ship knows 
that trying to forcibly change your partner 
will only result in defensiveness, alien-
ation and inevitable failure of the original 
purpose. On the other hand, withholding 
information, as the administration is wont 
to do, has never been a stepping-stone 
to a successful relationship either. I un-
derstand — the College is afraid to make 
itself vulnerable, and who could blame 
them when it seems that opening up and 
sharing itself with students only makes it 
susceptible to getting hurt? But we are not 
cultivating a healthy relationship; it seems 
to me that continuing down this path will 
only be to the detriment of us all. 
All else aside, however, I believe there 
is something to be said for the level of op-
timism evident in the community’s dedi-
cation to making its relationship with the 
school a positive one — a willingness to 
the quirks and give praise where praise 
is due. As individuals, we are not in it for 
the long haul. We are here for a few years 
and then we are free to revisit with rose-
colored lenses the so-called happiest years 
of ours lives and wipe away the hours of 
cynicism, frustration and devastation — 
all feelings that the average emotional-
ly-charged 18-22-year old student goes 
through often. I suppose you could call it 
a whirlwind romance — an impactful, in-
despite all the heartache, you can’t deny 
that there’s a whole lot of love. 
reader 
op-ed
The Dalai Lama 
Welcoming 
Committee
On Friday, Oct. 12, Middlebury College welcomed 
His Holiness the Dalai Lama to campus.  An an-
nouncement was made that in honor of the visit from 
the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize recipient, the College had 
chosen to demonstrate ethical leadership in divesting 
its endowment from war and environmental destruc-
tion.
In reality, the satirical notice about Middlebury’s 
divestment was written by us, a group of students 
concerned that the College embraces practices incon-
sistent with its own proclaimed values. We apologize 
for creating an excitement that is not yet warranted, 
and call on the college com-
munity to take action.
His Holiness the Da-
lai Lama told the College, 
“Education is supposed to 
reduce the gap between ap-
pearance and reality.” Our 
intent was to bring attention 
to the unsettling reality that 
Middlebury has millions of 
dollars invested in indus-
tries of violence, while we 
appear to stand for univer-
sal compassion and peace. 
Middlebury College has not received better than a 
“C” on endowment transparency from the College Sus-
tainability Report Card. While the specific companies 
in which the endowment is invested have never been 
disclosed to the student body, Investure — the firm 
that manages Middlebury’s endowment — confirmed 
last spring that they do not screen for arms manufac-
turing, military contractors or fossil fuel companies.
 Given that these are among the most profitable 
industries in existence, it is safe to say that they are 
included in our portfolio. Our complicity has on-the-
ground implications: U.S.-made weapons fueling the 
drug wars in Mexico, drone attacks killing civilians 
in Pakistan and the Keystone XL pipeline threaten-
ing communities from Canada to the Gulf. Our choice 
to value monetary gain over human life epitomizes 
the declaration of His Holiness that “we have become 
slaves of money. We put too much emphasis on mon-
ey, facilities, fame.” 
In the classrooms, we continue to learn about how 
to best be global citizens and address the challenges 
of today, but the chairs in 
our rooms, the books in our 
libraries and the paychecks 
of our professors are funded 
by returns from corpora-
tions and organizations that 
are fueling war and environ-
mental degradation.
While the benefits 
reaped from these returns 
maintain comfort and com-
placency, the only way to as-
suage our ethical dissonance 
is to act now and divest.
There is a long history of academic institutions di-
vesting to demonstrate their values. In the 1980s, for 
instance, over 150 colleges, including Middlebury, di-
vested from South African companies to oppose apart-
heid. Today, a new call to divest is being heard around 
the nation: last Saturday, Bill McKibben — founder 
of 350.org and Middlebury College Schumann distin-
guished scholar in residence — kicked off the national 
“Do the Math” campaign, urging universities to divest 
from fossil fuels. According to the campaign, “It just 
doesn’t make sense for universities to invest in a sys-
tem that will leave their students no livable planet to 
use their degrees on.”
 We have divested in the past; why doesn’t Mid-
dlebury embrace divesting from war and fossil fuels 
today?
The Dalai Lama stated in his final lecture at the 
College that “peace will come 
through our active action.” 
While our endowment funds 
the dropping of bombs thou-
sands of miles away, their re-
verberations echo through the 
halls of our campus. We have 
no luxury of delay. We must 
take responsibility now, and 
contribute towards making the 21st century, as the 
Dalai Lama insisted, “the century of peace.”
Please join us for a general assembly on Friday at 
4 p.m. in the Warner Hemicycle to discuss these con-
cerns. Contribute your voice and stay informed at go/
compassion (middleburydlwc.wordpress.com).
Tim Schornak, Director of the College Office of 
Communications of the Dalai Lama Welcoming Com-
mittee, AKA: Molly Stuart 15.5 (Santa Cruz, Calif.), 
Jay Saper ‘13 (East Lansing, Mich.), Jenny Marks 
‘14.5 (Bedford, N.Y.), Sam Koplinka-Loehr ‘13 (Itha-
ca, N.Y.), Amitai Ben-Abba ‘15.5 (Jerusalem), and a 
growing contingent (across the globe).
Please note: Tim Schornak is not affiliated with 
any formal student organization.
“ In the classrooms, we continue 
to learn about how to best be 
global citizens and address the 
challenges of today, but the chairs 
in our rooms ... and the paychecks 
of our professors are funded by 
returns from corporations and 
organizations that are fueling war 
and environmental degradation.”
In the aftermath of the Dalai Lama’s 
visit, students received an email claiming 
that Middlebury College was divesting from 
war in order to “align its money with its mis-
sion.” While we later discovered that this 
email was a fake press release sent by con-
cerned students, their call for transparency 
and their accusation of hypocrisy has not 
been lost.
This same 
week, an over-
whelmingly pow-
erful account of 
one woman’s expe-
rience with sexual 
assault at Amherst 
College went viral. 
The most shock-
ing part of Angie 
Epifano’s brave 
account is not the fact that she was sexu-
ally assaulted, nor is it the emotional trauma 
that the administration of Amherst not only 
failed to help Angie heal, but also directly 
prevented her from doing so. Angie’s coun-
selors advised; “that [she] had to forgive 
him, that [she] was crazy for being scared 
on campus and that there’s nothing that 
could be done.” Epifano was discouraged 
from pressing charges both by her counsel-
ors and by the nature of the hearing process 
itself. The campus sexual assault counselor 
wouldn’t let her change dorms in order to 
live in a separate building from her rapist. 
While Angie was deterred from studying 
abroad, writing a thesis and taking the class-
es she desired, her rapist graduated with 
honors. The structural injustice of sexual 
assault at Amherst is best depicted through 
Angie’s own words: “Rapists are given less 
punishment than students caught stealing. 
Survivors are often forced to take time off, 
while rapists are allowed to stay on campus. 
If a rapist is about to graduate, their punish-
ment is often that they receive their diploma 
two years late.”
More than one Middlebury student has 
expressed doubt that such unjust admin-
istrative treatment could happen here. Not 
here. Not at Middlebury. In recent years, the 
Sexual Assault Oversight Committee has re-
vised its policy on sexual assault in order to 
-
nity. Survivors no longer need to be present 
at judicial hearings and the investigation of 
sexual assault is now the responsibility of an 
outside investigator. Last spring, at the “It 
Happens Here” event, hundreds of students 
crowded into the McCullough auditorium 
to hear personal narratives about our own 
peers’ experiences with sexual assault. We 
would like to think that Middlebury pro-
vides a kinder atmosphere for survivors. But 
does it really? If national statistics suggests 
that one in four college women will be sexu-
campus incidents reported at Middlebury in 
2011?  
It would certainly be easier for us to 
look at this brave account and consider such 
mistreatment of a sexual assault survivor to 
be a shamefully unique problem to Amherst. 
But, that would be naïve. In order to under-
stand how an event like this could happen 
anywhere — even at Middlebury — we must 
-
sons taught at a liberal arts school are not al-
ways consistent with the political, economic 
itself. 
By sending the hoax email, Middlebury 
students illuminated the irony of welcoming 
a world leader who symbolizes peace and 
compassion to a campus that likely invests 
money in the most unethical of places. By 
reading this hoax email, students became 
aware of the structures of injustice embed-
ded within our administration. This revela-
tion gives us the ability to, as Michel Foucault 
says, “criticize the workings of institutes 
which appear to be both neutral and inde-
pendent; to criticize them in such a manner 
that the political violence which has always 
exercised itself obscurely will be unmasked 
talking nonstop about Middlebury’s “divest-
ment from war” so the success of this meth-
od cannot be denied. We have taken the bait. 
We have accepted the challenge.  
In Angie’s story, she repeatedly high-
lights a particular phrase spoken by another 
survivor — “Silence has the rusty taste of 
shame.” Middlebury prides itself on teach-
ing students about the importance of social 
justice. So, as a student body, we feel great 
about identifying and articulating our prob-
lems with the investment decisions of the 
administration. The mere thought of silence 
towards such a topic is shameful. Angie Epi-
fano’s experience with sexual assault pro-
vides us with another opportunity to take 
the bait and accept the challenge. We can 
speak up, we can ask questions and we can 
collectively work to uncover what remains 
hidden. 
“When politicians cover up affairs or 
scandals the masses often rise up in angry 
protestations and call for a more transparent 
government. What is the difference between 
a government and the Amherst College cam-
pus? Why should we be quiet about sexual 
assault?”
We  ask the same thing as Epifano.
“Silence has the rusty taste of shame.”
Let’s talk. 
Submit your experiences at go/IHH, 
answer the SAOC surveys sent out this week 
-
tures that perpetuate violence and shame.
READER 
OP-ED
Emily Pedowitz ’13 is 
from Briarcliff, N.Y. and 
Caitlin Waters ’13 is 
from Rumson, N.J.
11opinionsOctober 25, 2012 | 
Of the many animals in the presi-
dential debates, the elephant in the room 
— Europe — has yet to really come up. 
Foreign policy 
arguments have 
centered on the 
Middle East and 
the economic 
disputes have 
mainly been on a 
national scale. So 
whatever happened to the eurozone crisis?
It has not disappeared; recently we 
have witnessed mass protests in Portugal 
against the new austerity budget and ongo-
ing chaos in Greece and Spain. In Greece, 
again, many politicians have been shame-
fully exposed for exploiting their taxes. Yet 
somehow, almost inexplicably, bail-out af-
ter bail-out, threats and false agreements 
have all delayed the inevitable. There will 
come a point when the European Central 
Bank — and by default Germany — will 
cease to cough up extra funds and coun-
tries will either have to leave the eurozone 
or alternately be absorbed into a supreme 
inorganic mass. That decision, however, 
is not going to be made today. Perhaps 
this delaying is down to the fact that no 
one knows which one is really better, but 
here’s what I think and why.
As one Nobel Peace Prize winner 
-
nounced: the European Union (EU). It 
has always been an obvious choice. It was 
founded upon the concept of ruling out 
any European hegemony by uniting the 
historical enemies, France and Germany, 
and has so far been incredibly successful. 
Though the Cold War certainly helped by 
uniting all the members on the same side, 
the achievement is nonetheless remark-
able.
The timing of the award, however, is 
somewhat strange. In the year 2012, the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
(ASEAN) and the North American Free 
Trade Agreement (NAFTA) were just as 
worthy supranational organizations — 
having done nothing of note —  and the 
Arab League a lot more so. So it leaves one 
to wonder why exactly the EU was cho-
sen now. One reason could simply be that 
they’ve had it in store for a while now, and 
seeing no other stand-out contender this 
year, they pulled the EU award out from 
the stock. I don’t buy that.
2012 is the year of the presidential 
election in the U.S., the world’s prima-
ry superpower and also the year of the 
China, the only other realistic geopoliti-
cal heavyweight. A united Europe would 
hopefully be able to rival these two as 
the third force on the world scale. In that 
situation it would cancel out any possible 
Cold War-style dichotomy between China 
and America. The EU also still has a role 
to play within its borders, with ethnic ten-
sions and far-right groups appearing in 
many places. Perhaps the Nobel commit-
tee was trying to say, “You’ve been great at 
keeping peace in the past — remember to 
keep doing it.” A united Europe, and that 
means a Europe whose states have dis-
solved all legislative and economic power 
to an elected body in Brussels, would en-
sure a dynamic non-antagonistic power-
play in world politics.
European leaders are currently par-
ticipating in major talks about the future 
of the eurozone. If Europe were to disin-
tegrate, which is a likely consequence of 
-
cal chaos, but the new “emancipated” 
countries themselves, feeling cheated or 
picked upon, would automatically become 
more aggressive. War would not be im-
possible; there are few better boosters for 
any economy, just look at what happened 
in the thirties, and people have repeatedly 
compared this crisis to that of 1929.
The Nobel prize is recognizing both 
the EU’s past and its ideological brilliance, 
but also warning that if current issues 
are not resolved, then it risks doing great 
damage to world peace.
Why the EU still has work to do
Eyes on the 
outside
Jack Apollo George 
’16 is from London, U.K.
Across
1. _____ tester: specialist with an acute gus- 
 tatory perception 
6. Abbr. for a platform projecting from the  
 wall of a building
10. Course abbr. for dead language
14. Self-evident truth 
15. Relating to, resembling, or having wings
16. Precursor to humans, evolutionarily 
17. Technical name for the knee, plural
18. Six or 24 times a year
20. Cause of the decreasing pH of Earth’s   
 oceans
22. Soothing succulent 
23. Physician 
24. Daybreak
27. Makes a long story short? 
31. Its traditional motto is E Pluribus Unum,  
33. Genus of moths in the Noctuidae family
37. Phrase of a skeptical oil baron? 
42. “Body,” in Spanish
43. Large city east of Venice
44. _____’s BBQ Sauce, with tagline “Ladies  
 and Gentlemen, I’m a cook”
47. Russian despot
48. Rodeo rope
53. Wine vessel
55. What to do to numb the discomfort and 
 reduce swelling after a run-in with a ho- 
 rnet
60. Celestial body
61. Lifting all four feet off the ground simult- 
 aneously, for a horse
62. American blogger and television persona- 
 lity who shares a last name with The Si- 
 mple Life reality TV star
65. Elaborately painted metalware
66. Kind of clef, or “tall” in Spanish
67. Both a district and its capital in Iran
68. Buttocks
69. Extremely vivid, as a color
70. Pluralizers  
Campus Crossword
“Science and Language” by Luke Elder ’13
Down
1. Playground game
2. Paul Bunyan’s tool
3. Chinese Twitter-like microblog social network with over 140 mil  
 lion users
4. Exotic avian illness? 
5. Spammer’s medium
6. Coddled
7. First letter in the Arabic alphabet
8. “The friend,” in French
9. Everglades stalker 
10. Eyeopener? 
11. Greenhouse pest
12. Ultimate object or aim; the end term of a goal-oriented process
13. “Tearin’ Up My Heart” boy band
19. “Yes,” in Arabic
21. Anonymous John
24. Kind of pie 
25. Acronym for ratio of reproductively available males to females
 relative to the capital it has invested 
28. “I Believe __  ___”
29. Caps Lock neighbor
30. Lay eyes on
32. Pub order
34. Acronym for social-democratic federal political party in Canada,  
 of which Thomas Mulcair is the leader
35. Level of outrage
36. Is a good Samaritan
38. Title acquired along with in-laws
39. Well-suited
40. 2004 Bright Eyes single
41. Species of gibbon, also known as white-handed
45. B in J.O.B.
48. “Ready,” in Spanish
49. One in a cast
50. Pinnipeds, or navy elite
51. Alternative spelling for unstitched cloth worn by Indian women
52. Expresses relationship between a part and a whole
56. Letter variant on Greek Sigma denoting a /ts/ sound
57. “And the,” in French
58. “Broken,” in Spanish
59. Foie ____
63. Poet’s preposition
64. “Seat” in Japanese, or Scrabble word for popular Italian cuisine  
During my junior year of high school, I 
hit heads with another player during a soc-
Two weeks later, I was watching a game 
back of head. Concussions, I had previously 
thought, were not a big deal. Fight through 
part of you saying that something isn’t right. 
I completely understood this mentality; just 
a torn ACL. But I soon realized that concus-
sions were different — that they are a big 
deal. You may not be able to see a concus-
sion the way you see a cast or a brace, but 
the injury can be even more serious.
Over the past few years, largely thanks 
to the National Football and Hockey 
Leagues, awareness about brain injuries 
has exploded. Athletes like Chris Nowinski, 
Dave Duerson and Jim McMahon show 
us the tragic long-term effects of multiple 
concussions, and Javhid Best of the Detroit 
Lions has become an example of how long 
it takes to return to play. But we know that 
concussions don’t just happen to profes-
sional athletes. According to the Center of 
Disease Control, sports and recreation re-
lated traumatic brain injuries in children 
and adolescents have increased by 61 per-
cent over the past decade; football, soccer, 
cycling and basketball are the biggest con-
tributors. 
With 27 percent of the student body 
participating in varsity athletics, and many 
more playing club and intramural sports, 
we at Middlebury must continue to be cog-
nizant of the effects — physical, psycho-
logical and emotional — of brain injuries. 
Concussions can be isolating, both by the 
nature of the injury and the public’s percep-
tion of it. With this in mind, Emma Kitchen 
’14.5, founded Concussions Speak, an out-
reach and awareness program designed 
for people with concussions to share their 
stories. 
At Concussions Speak, we gather sto-
ries from people with concussions to let 
those suffering in silence know that they 
are not alone. We talk about how concus-
sions physically affect different people, the 
emotional and social strain they cause and 
the psychological recovery they necessitate. 
Because having a concussion is much more 
than a physical injury, it can be hard for our 
uninjured peers to know how to sympathize. 
There have been 
times when people 
thought that I was 
“moping” or gave 
me skeptical looks 
when I received ex-
tensions in class. With the community cre-
ated by Concussions Speak, those working 
through their recoveries have the support 
of people going through the same process. 
The culture surrounding concussions 
also has to change. Opening up about con-
cussions will hopefully spur further dis-
cussion and prevent multiple concussions. 
Athletes wanting to return to athletics may 
pretend that they are feeling better to start 
playing again, leaving them vulnerable. De-
troit Lions wide receiver Calvin Johnson 
said about getting a concussion, “It’s part of 
football, you get concussed, you gotta keep 
on playing. You can’t get afraid to go across 
the middle any more than you were at the 
beginning.” This attitude is expressed too 
often. It is too dangerous for it to continue. 
If you are recovering from a concus-
sion, you don’t have to go through the 
process alone. Reach out to your dean and 
faculty heads, speak with your adviser and 
coach and communicate with your profes-
sors. There are accommodations in place 
to aid the healing. What the Middlebury 
community wants for its family is for it to 
be well.
It has been four years since I’ve played 
soccer, and I doubt I’ll ever play again. Even 
if my brain fully recovers, it wouldn’t be the 
right choice. I would give almost anything 
better. Protect your brain, and don’t under-
estimate how much a concussion can affect 
your life. It takes a lot to recognize that you 
are not okay. But 20 years from now, you’ll 
be glad you did. 
If you have a story you would like to 
share, please feel free to contact me at si-
erra@concussionsspeak.com.
take care
Sierra Stites ’14 is 
from Kansas City, Miss. 
Taking concussions seriously
The Middlebury Campus| september 13, 201212 13features
Usually recognized for its unmistakable 
mustard-yellow paint job, the Bread Loaf School 
of English is distinct in more ways than one. 
Nestled in the Green Mountains of 
Ripton, Vt., the campus is the site for 
one of the most inventive graduate Eng-
lish teaching programs in the country.
Founded in the summer of 1920, the 
Bread Loaf School of English program was 
created to meet the needs of English teachers 
around the country. Running parallel with 
the language schools, both were a result of 
the land given to the College by Joseph Battel. 
The program began by offering gradu-
ate level education for private school teach-
ers, but has since broadened to include 
public school teachers. Additionally, it has 
expanded to include four other campuses 
in New Mexico, North Carolina and Oxford. 
Each campus has its own distinct charac-
ter, providing different faculty and courses 
tailored to the site-specific surroundings.
Considering the long history of the pro-
gram, Director of the Bread Loaf School of 
English Emily Bartels believes the most sig-
nificant improvement has been the intro-
duction of the teaching network in 1993. 
The network offers support to participating 
teachers and allows for greater diversity by 
connecting classrooms throughout the coun-
try online to discuss the literature simulta-
neously. She believes that innovations like 
this are unique to the Bread Loaf experience.
“[The program provides] year-round 
support and instruction for teachers and has 
a huge impact on the classroom and individ-
ual schools,” said Bartels. “Teachers are pro-
vided with very high-caliber content in the 
fields of literature, writing and literacy and 
are engaging in upper level scholarship that 
is not possible on the undergraduate level.”
While the program offers two cred-
its for the length of the summer, it is pos-
sible to get a full degree through Bread 
Loaf, which requires the completion of 
10 courses. These students participate 
in the program for five summers, with at 
least one summer at the Ripton location.
Bread Loaf still maintains a strong con-
nection with the College, as the director 
reports to the Dean of Graduate Programs, 
has the same policies and meets with fa-
cilities and Library Information Services.
To maintain this connection, there has 
been a push to recruit more Middlebury un-
dergraduates to participate in the program 
during the summer months. While 80 per-
cent of the student body are teachers doing 
graduate work, a percentage of the other 
participants are undergraduate students tak-
ing classes alongside the graduate students.
Michael Gaffney ’13 was one of the un-
dergraduate students at Bread Loaf during 
the summer months. He believed his time 
there was a positive experience, not only for 
gaining a deeper understanding of the mate-
rial but for the new perspective he was given.
“Because Bread Loaf only requires stu-
The Monterey Institute of Internation-
al Studies [MIIS] is making four programs 
available for Middlebury undergraduates to 
take as winter term courses. Two of these 
courses — one is an expansion of Mid-
dCORE and the other is a course offered 
though MIIS’s Development Project Man-
agement Institute — the will be held on the 
Monterey campus. The other two courses 
will be organized by MIIS, but will be con-
ducted abroad, in El Salvador and Chile.
Middlebury has been affiliated with MIIS 
since 2005. The Institute was officially desig-
nated a graduate school of the College in June 
2010. Since this connection was established, 
efforts to integrate the two institutions have 
enabled Middlebury undergraduates to par-
ticipate in a variety of Monterey programs.
Middlebury undergraduates can cur-
rently elect to study away at Monterey. 
Programs in international environmen-
tal policy, linguistics and nonprolifera-
tion and terrorism studies have been 
made available to Middlebury students.
Dean of Curriculum and Faculty De-
velopment and Director of Natural Science 
Bob Cluss talked about how Monterey’s 
strong political connections influence the 
academic experience there. “The experience 
that Middlebury College undergraduates 
have [at Monterey] is often more connected 
to the political sphere and the governmen-
tal arena than what is typically available 
in Vermont,” he said. “It’s a different per-
spective into education for our students.”
Additionally, Middlebury and MIIS offer 
five integrated degree programs, through 
which students may obtain a Master’s de-
gree in five years by attending the Insti-
tute after graduating from Middlebury.
The four winter term courses offer un-
dergraduates an opportunity to spend a 
month either studying in Monterey, or abroad 
with a program organized by the Institute.
Karin Orr, a 2010 graduate of MIIS, was 
one of three student leaders on the Equipo 
dents to take two classes, I had the oppor-
tunity to thoroughly read all of the books, 
a task that is nearly impossible during the 
school year,” said Gaffney. “But I also got 
to hear entirely different perspectives on 
those books than I normally would hear 
in classes at Middlebury. I heard not only 
what the professor had to say, but also what 
high school English teachers had to say.” 
While some may see satellite pro-
grams like the Bread Loaf School of 
English as a means of developing the 
“Middlebury brand,” Bartels sees it as a contin-
uation of the College’s educational mission.
“[Bread Loaf] builds on the strong tradi-
tion and humanities training that is Middle-
bury,” said Bartels. “We are one of the few 
places that provides an opportunity for 
educational enrichment, tailored but not 
limited to teachers, at the highest level.” 
El Salvador [Team El Salvador] trip from 
two years ago. She also worked as Training 
and Orientation Coordinator for the 2011 
program. At MIIS, Orr studied international 
policy, specializing in conflict resolution. 
She said that her experience in El Sal-
vador was eye-opening, and that Middle-
bury undergraduates have a valuable op-
portunity to participate in something 
that, she said, will likely have a signifi-
cant impact on their global perspective.
“I am a very strong advocate for learn-
ing while doing, and sending people abroad 
to have that experience overseas makes that 
learning even more powerful,” Orr said. “In 
[college] you’re in such a transitional pe-
riod, that when you go and have an expe-
rience like what [MIIS is] offering in El Sal-
vador … that will really shape the way you 
make decisions about where you go after 
you graduate. It’s a good opportunity to 
make an impact and do something real.”
The El Salvador and Chile trips have a 
different curricula each year. When Orr went 
to El Salvador, the program worked with Eco-
Viva, a non-profit that works on community-
based, sustainable projects. The team served 
as consultants, Orr said, helping to develop 
a waste management system for a rural com-
munity near El Salvador’s rural Pacific coast.
Orr’s group did research and spoke 
with community leaders to understand 
challenges facing the people in the area.
“I had never tried to work in a com-
munity like this before,” she said. “I saw 
so much potential in the community we 
worked with. They were all extremely smart, 
and extremely devoted. It was there that I 
began to understand that people make a 
place, and if the people are willing to work 
for the good of the community, then there’s 
an opportunity for real social change.”
Orr said that Middlebury undergradu-
ates should take advantage of courses 
organized through MIIS because of the 
strong learning potential they offer.
“[We] were only in El Salvador for a few 
weeks, but I learned so much in that time. I 
felt extremely fortunate to be there. I learned 
how to be a better leader, [and] I walked away 
understanding my leadership style,” she said.
MIIS increases Middlebury’s internation-
al focus and provides unique opportunities at 
the graduate level, but also at the undergrad-
uate level as well. Cluss said that Monterey 
is another example of the College expanding 
its globally-minded programs and offering. 
“The global perspective, if nothing 
else, influences the structure of our cur-
“To be truly effective, language speak-
ing must provide meaningful access 
to other cultures,” states the Lan-
guage Schools Mission Statement.
For almost 100 years Language Schools 
have helped define the unique pro-
gramming offered by the College. 
In 1915 Middlebury’s first language school 
was established — the German school. 
Associate Vice President for Language 
Schools and Graduate Programs, Director 
of the French School and Professor of Lin-
guistics Aline Germain-Rutherford said that 
“when the first language school was started 
in 1915 the goal was not to just help students 
learn the language, but to help teachers too.” 
She stressed the importance of the language 
schools creating not only better language stu-
dents, but better language teachers as well.
Since then the program has expanded 
both geographically and linguistically to now 
offer 10 languages — German, French, Span-
ish, Russian, Portuguese, Arabic, Chinese, 
Keefe, assistant dean of Middlebury Col-
lege Language Schools said, “One thing 
we are looking at is whether we are mov-
ing forward, going to look at these affili-
ated programs inividually or are we going 
to look at them globally, in the context 
of all of the college ‘s offerings, across 
the board study and how various enti-
ties integrate in a student’s education.” 
As a satellite program of the Col-
lege that has garnered international rec-
ognition and attendance, the language 
schools have played a large role in defin-
ing the College’s international reputation. 
“In the summer we have teachers, 
guest lecturers and artists coming from all 
over the world,” said Germain-Rutherford. 
Maxin Eingorn ’14 expressed ap-
preciation for the academic al-
iber of the language school teachers.
“I had the highest quality and caliber 
teachers that I had ever had before.”  Ein-
gorn attended Chinese language school 
this summer and he credits the pro-
gram for both greatly improving his Chi-
nese and his Middlebury experience. 
“It’s half boot camp and half summer 
camp, but completely worth it,” said Eingorn. 
“The language schools allow stu-
dents to delve deeper into the language 
and culture.” In her opinion the great-
er flexibility of the language school 
structure allows for more personalized 
learning.,” Germain-Rutherford said. 
“It adds breadth and depth 
to the language experience.
From the student, teacher and admin-
istrative perspective language schools 
work to fulfill Middlebury’s goals as 
an institution and also help broad-
en the College’s international focus.
            
!e Monterey 
Institute of 
International Studies
Bread Loaf 
School of 
English
Middlebury 
Language
Schools
Maximizing Middlebury
Hebrew, Japanese and Italian — on two dif-
ferent campuses — Middlebury College and 
Mills College in Oakland, Calif. The courses 
that are offered vary from beginning lan-
guage courses to graduate program courses. 
Over the years over 40,000 stu-
dents have attended language schools 
from all 50 states and over 50 countries. 
This past summer there were approxi-
mately 1500 students in Middlebury’s 
Language Schools.  The majority of these 
students were either in Vt. or Califor-
nia., but the program also had 40 stu-
dents in Argentina and 20 in France. 
Additionally, this past summer Middle-
bury started an English language school 
in Rhode Island for international students 
that come to the United States for college 
and want to improve their academic English.
“Middlebury College subscribes to the 
philosophy that you cannot understand a 
foreign culture unless you speak the lan-
guage,” wrote Vice President for Languages 
Schools, Schools Abroad and Graduate Pro-
grams Michael Geisler in a welcome letter 
to all prospective language school students. 
Furthermore, Gemain-Rutherford ex-
plained the importance of placing the 
language schools in a global context. 
“The College knows that to be an ac-
tive participant in this world we need to 
understand each other and for that we 
need languages and culture,” she said. 
In response to her opinion on the Col-
lege’s connection to language schools  and 
other affiliated programs Elizabeth Karnes 
riculum while providing a different lens to 
approach the way that we teach and learn, 
all in the interest in achieving a better un-
derstanding of the entire world,” he said.
1915
First School
German
2008Most Recent School
10
Languages
O!ered
Arabic
Hebrew
Chinese
Japanese
Italian
Spanish
German
Awards DML degree
(Doctor of modern languages)
Some programs of-
fered at Mills College 
in Oakland, Calif.
Programs for 
undergrads last 
seven-eight weeks
“The College knows that to be 
an active participant in this world 
we need to understand each other 
and for that we need languages and 
culture.
-Aline Germain-Rutherford
“The global perspective, 
if nothing else, influences 
the structure of our curricu-
lum while providing a differ-
ent lens to approach ”
-Bob Cluss 
1920
School 
founded in
Expanded
to Oxford U.
St. John’s College
UNC Asheville
Awards MA and 
MLitt degrees
Each degree 
completed in
4-5
summers 
Classes held for
6 weeksevery summer
1800
acres in Ripton
Bread Loaf
Campus =
250Campus hosts 
Students per 
summer
40
Robert Frost
spent over
summers at
Bread Loaf
Located
in downtown 
Monterey,
Calif.Awards MAs, 
MBAs, MPAs, 
certi"cates
Comprises two 
grad schools, 
multiple research 
centers, and other 
programs
Produces more 
Fulbright fel-
lows per capita 
than any other 
grad school
Now o!ers winter 
term courses to 
Midd undergrads
2010
Became a 
Midd grad 
school in
1955
Founded in
SP
EC
IA
LIZ
ES
 IN international policy, 
environmental 
policy,
 international 
business, 
 languages
by Lauren Davidson, Stephanie Roush and Josh Kruskal
“[Bread Loaf] builds 
on the strong tradition 
and humanities training 
that is Middlebury. We 
are one of the few places 
that provides an oppor-
tunity for educational 
enrichment, tailored but 
not limited to teachers, 
at the highest level.”
-Emily Bartels
layout by Olivia Allen and Marea Hatehway
14 features | october 25, 2012
D i s t r i b u t i o n
R e q u i r e m e n t s
The weekend of October 12-13 
brought with it much excitement as the 
College welcomed His Holiness the 14th 
Dalai Lama. However, behind all of the 
excitement of his visit lay a logistical 
challenge that took just under a year to 
plan.
The planning process was handled by 
a number of committees including the lo-
gistics committee comprised of Associate 
Dean of the College and Director of Pub-
lic Safety Lisa Buchard, Director of Public 
Affairs Sarah Ray and Director of Event 
Management Lisa Ayers, among many 
others. These groups were responsible 
for choosing and handling the venue, ac-
commodations and security of the event. 
Likewise, the student advisory commit-
tee and the faculty advisory committee 
helped develop a campaign to promote 
the event.
“We had done some research even 
before he had accepted the invitation and 
already knew that there were going to be 
some pretty major security issues,” ex-
plained Chaplain Laurie Jordan.
The U.S. State Department guided 
the College on logistical security and pro-
vided the the Diplomatic Security Ser-
vice, DSS, whose primary job is to make 
sure that foreign diplomats and heads of 
state are safe while on American soil.  In 
addition, the Dalai Lama brought his own 
“entourage” of about 11 people.  
“I was impressed by how thorough 
security was and they seemed to have the 
best interests of both the welfare of the 
students and of the Dalai Lama,” Daniel 
Amar Pena ’16 said. 
Jordan travelled to another Dalai 
Lama speech in San Diego last April to 
gain insight into the security measures 
that other organizations were taking. She 
did notice differences between security 
measures taken at these venues and what 
Middlebury was asked to provide.
“I think the fact that we are in a ru-
ral area allowed the DSS to be more con-
fident that we could just have the wands 
as opposed to walk through metal detec-
tors,” she explained.
However, though this was not the Da-
lai Lama’s first visit to campus, security 
was clearly more prominent than  during 
his visit 22 years ago. The press had to 
arrive several hours early to have their 
equipment screened by electronic means 
as well as trained security dogs. Likewise, 
students, faculty and other visitors were 
required to go through security and could 
not bring large bags and backpacks into 
the venue.
Professor Perspective:          
Emily White
The Dalai Lama’s visit took place after months of planning and event coordination that 
required collaboration between Public Safety, Event Managament and Communications.
“For a number of reason, for exam-
ple, that he is older and we have to take 
more care in planning.  And because he is 
even more of a global figure then he was 
before, the security was intense. And I 
think for the people who lived here before 
and worked here during the last visit, it 
was kind of surprising,” said Jordan.
Besides security, other parts of the 
visit provided logistical challenges. Lodg-
ing was difficult, because many hotels 
within the town of Middlebury are very 
limited in capacity. His Holiness stayed 
at the Middlebury Inn with his own en-
tourage of people as well as some DSS 
agents. The rest of the DSS agents were 
housed by the College.
Another big question was the date. 
Some students found the date of the event 
By Claire Abbadi
College revamps security for Dalai Lama
Course:
Multi-Ethnic British Litera-
tures
Professor:
Visiting Instructor in Eng-
lish and American Litera-
tures Benjamin Graves
Department:
English and American 
Literatures
Credits:
CMP, EUR, LIT
Location: 
Axinn 100
Meeting Time:
M, W 2:50-4:05
Aiming to give a wider perspective of 
literature, Visiting Professor of English and 
American Literatures Benjamin Graves 
teaches books that lie outside the usual Eng-
lish reading list.
“The course is about black British and 
Asian British writing,” said Graves. “Some 
The 
Satanic Verses -
ured into the ‘canon’ of British literature yet.” 
In this course, students read books like 
The Satanic Verses by Salman Rushdie and 
Second Class Citizen by Buchi Emecheta, 
not limited to national belonging, multi-
identities and race. 
“Some of these novels and poems are 
great pieces of art, but they do a lot more 
than offer themselves up for aesthetic ap-
preciation,” said Graves. “They work through 
complex questions about national belonging, 
ethnic and racial identity and more. That’s 
what we’re trying to explore in the class.”
The course will also work through writ-
ers from different generations and will ana-
lyze the changes in authors’ viewpoint of 
Britain and British identity. “By working 
through authors from different generations, 
we can see the disagreements forming be-
tween them,” Graves said. “It’s really fun to 
see these different books come into historical 
focus.
 Graves’s class is full of students 
ranging from senior English majors to 
undeclared first years and everyone 
else in between. Many students of this 
course voiced their appreciation of how 
the course allows them to expand their 
perspective on Britain. “The class really 
opens up Britain to more than just the 
queen, tea and Shakespeare,” said Katie 
Pett ’13.5. “It’s interesting to read the va-
riety of voices and perspectives.”
Catherine Corbett ’14 was interested 
in the course after visiting Britain. 
“In looking for a class that fulfilled 
the EUR distribution requirement, I 
stumbled across Graves’s class and it im-
mediately piqued my interest because I 
spent this past summer in London,” said 
Corbett. “I also took Professor [of Political 
Science] Bleich’s Politics of Diversity in 
Western Europe class last spring, which 
focused on the politics of citizenship, im-
migration and integration of minorities 
in Great Britain, so I thought it would be 
cool to expand my understanding of these 
topics through an entirely different chan-
nel. I really enjoy the class and find the 
novels and poetry we read to be fascinat-
ing as we explore them through a lens of 
race, culture and identity.” 
A dual perspective on a noteworthy course offered this semester.
student Perspective:                    
By Jackie Park
Bedroom Briefs
By Virginia Johnson
I spotted my Proctor crush across the dance floor. We had met early in the year, but had rarely spoken since. I 
had stared at him while he picked choice 
tomatoes from the salad bar and as he 
drank tea from a glass. Never a mug. 
Upon catching my eye, he walked over 
and slid behind me. We began swaying 
erotically to the music. 
While the room literally fogged 
with the condensation of horny college 
student sweat, our activities also grew 
steamy, as I pushed him against the wall 
and we danced face to face. He grazed 
my neck with his tongue and lips, occa-
sionally nibbling on my ear. We gyrated 
in unison. 
I felt pleased that I had finally tak-
en this “relationship” to the next level, 
transforming an acquaintance into a po-
tential lover. 
As I enjoyed the adrenaline and 
arousal coursing through my veins I 
wondered what the rest of the evening 
would hold, contemplating taking him 
back to my room. As I considered the 
possibility, he leaned down and whis-
pered in my ear.
“Hey, what’s your name?”
At first, I chided him for having for-
gotten. I reminded him of past conversa-
tions we had enjoyed and where we had 
met. He looked at me blankly. Slowly, I 
came to the realization that he had not 
misplaced my name. He truly thought 
that we had never met. 
As this epiphany dawned, I pushed 
him away. I felt repulsed that he had 
danced so erotically with someone who 
he perceived to be a total stranger. 
My disgust grimaced my face as I 
left the party, and it didn’t wear off for 
weeks. In retrospect, however, my ac-
tions mirrored his. I remembered his 
name, but I hardly knew him. We had 
established no level of intimacy or even 
comfort between ourselves. In any other 
context, our dancing habits would have 
suggested sensuality, intimacy, perhaps 
even love. But on a college campus, we 
were merely dancing. 
When I discovered that my Proctor-
crush-turned-dance-date viewed me 
merely as a nameless partner in lust, I 
felt dismayed. That night, we both chose 
the security of a dark room, loud music 
and a crowd of strangers over the devel-
opment of intimacy. 
Perhaps some people view sex with 
strangers as evidence of liberation. I 
view it as a lost opportunity. Sex is fun 
almost any way you do it, but so much 
of the power and pleasure of sex comes 
from connection with a partner. I only 
truly feel comfortable asking for what I 
want with someone I know. 
It’s hard to suggest to a stranger that 
he change his angle or perhaps consid-
er using his tongue less like a battering 
ram. To get what you want in bed, you 
need to get to know your lover. When I 
know the guy with whom I am naked, my 
exposure is fun, exhilarating, not violat-
ing. Sex is the ultimate form of commu-
nication and honesty. We cannot expect 
to fulfill its potential with strangers. 
Our campus overflows with sexual 
tension and one-night stands. Under the 
influence of crowd mentality, cheap li-
quor and high hormonal levels, sex often 
enters the public sphere and seems to ex-
ist solely as a casual pastime. Our com-
munal decision to bring sex into public 
and our reluctance to pursue anything 
more than a single night of lust evidenc-
es our discomfort with true intimacy. 
Ultimately, I hope the ideas in my 
column get you laid and help you have 
fun while you do it. By speaking openly 
about sex, this column can also motivate 
our quest for communication, honesty 
and intimacy. 
to be a challenge because it fell at the be-
ginning of fall break. 
“It was a little disappointing that the 
Dalai Llama was scheduled for the long 
weekend, because it did not give me and 
a number of students the opportunity to 
see him,” explained Annie Borque ’15.
 The official invitation for the Dalai 
Lama went out from the College in August 
2010. “It wasn’t until November of last 
year that we were given a date from them 
and we subsequently gathered our logis-
tics committee in December” Jordan said. 
“That aside, I had fabulous col-
leagues, amazing people that we could 
trust who worked really hard before-hand 
and during — people who make this place 
work deserve a lot of credit,”Jordan said.
15features
HOMECOMING 
“GET AT ME ALUMNI”
 — overheard at tailgateWINNERS&losers
october 25, 2012   
DOUBLE RAINBOW
“I saw, like, 
FIVE lephrechauns.”
 — overheard in Proctor
HALLOWEEN SOON
In the real world kids dress 
up in costumes and beg for 
candy, at Midd ...
SKUNKS
What’s with all the skunks?
TORRENTIAL RAIN
“I’m really wet.” 
— overheard in Ross
MAGIC MIKE SCREENING
“It was basically soft core 
porn.” — overheard in Dana
Early in my first semester at col-lege, I put myself in the uncom-fortable position of having a 
heated political discussion with a person 
who, as I realized only halfway through 
the conversation, had political views 
contrary to my own. 
 I had wrongly assumed that this 
person would share my opinions; con-
sequently I said things which, in retro-
spect, must have seemed impudent, even 
offensive. It was an awkward position; 
I had been looking for casual conversa-
tion, after all, not a debate. I didn’t know 
whether to back off or to press the issue, 
and the whole ordeal left me with a bad 
taste in my mouth.
 I grew up in a very Democratic and 
highly homogenized suburb, where con-
servatism felt like an alien concept. I was 
raised in a blue house, in a blue city, in 
a blue state. Yes, Mitt Romney was our 
governor for a time, but he passed uni-
versal health care, so we raised few com-
plaints.
 Because of this lack of ideological 
diversity, I never considered my politi-
cal views to be part of my identity before 
leaving home. With nobody around to 
debate, politics never seemed to be a part 
of daily life. Politics was for people living 
in swing states — where a couple of votes 
really could make a difference — but not 
for us. When I came to Middlebury, I 
found myself having to defend my politi-
cal views for the first time. I found that I 
was less prepared to do this than I could 
have anticipated.
It is undeniable that Middlebury’s 
location and demographic makeup tend 
to pull the political discussion leftwards. 
However, political culture on campus 
is far from homogenous. Students here 
represent all points along the political 
spectrum, and as Nov. 6 draws closer, we 
are made increasingly more aware of this 
fact.
While ideological diversity can pre-
cipitate uncomfortable dinner conversa-
tion, I think the benefits of this diversity 
cannot be overstated. While we may feel 
more comfortable among people whose 
views are the same as ours, we will not 
always have this luxury out in the real 
world.
 The experience of those in the polit-
ical minority on campus isn’t something 
we think about all that often. However, 
to marginalize these views and to brush 
them aside is not the right way to foster 
a healthy discourse. This is not to say 
that we should promote debate for its 
own sake. If you’re arguing with some-
body about the validity of global warm-
ing, chances are that you’re not going to 
change anyone’s mind. People are set in 
their ways, and entrenched views have a 
way of staying entrenched. However, it is 
important that we keep ideology on the 
table as a topic for discussion.
 Somehow we’ve reached the point 
where it is preferable to avoid “talking 
politics” for the fear of upsetting some-
body. This is frankly ridiculous. Consid-
ering the challenges our generation will 
face, I don’t think that hurting people’s 
feelings should be among our foremost 
concerns. By all means, be civil. But 
don’t let apprehension at the thought of 
confronting someone else’s ideas stop 
you from having meaningful discussions.
For many of us, Nov. 6 will mark the 
first presidential election in which we 
can vote. Keep in mind that democracy 
doesn’t stop when you exit the polling 
station or mail in your ballot. We get 
out of our political system what we put 
into it, and if we’re committed to being 
a democracy, then we might as well do 
it right.
All work     no playand
By josh Kruskal
Jessica  Munyon
The debate, which focused on American foreign policy, was held at Lynn University and moderated by CBS News’s Bob Scheiffer.
Capturing the Campaign: Students Prepare for the Upcoming Election
Celebrities like Madonna may have 
helped popularize the general under-
standings of Kabbalah, but on Monday, 
Abernethy Room in Axinn Center at Starr 
Library brought the long history of Jewish 
mysticism to light.
Sponsored by the program in Jewish 
studies, the department of religion and 
the department of English and American 
literatures, poet and translator Peter Cole 
spoke on and read from his new book The 
Poetry of Kabbalah. 
the MacArthur Fellowship award, or “Ge-
nius Grant,” given for exceptional merit 
for continued and enhanced creative work 
in addition to authoring four other books. 
Cole is no stranger to the College. His 
been a visiting winter term professor.
Curt and Else Silberman Professor of 
Jewish Studies Robert Schrine believes 
that Cole’s work is critical in introducing 
mystical materials to the English-speaking 
world.
“Aside from being a major contempo-
rary poet, [Cole] has opened up the world 
of Hebrew poetry of late antiquity and 
the Middle Ages for the English-speaking 
world,” said Schrine. “For what it’s worth, 
I would say that his work gives the lie to 
the old adage — attributed to Frost — 
that poetry is what is lost in translation. 
In Cole’s hands, poetry is also gained in 
translation. I regard his work as a great 
gift to us professors of Jewish studies be-
cause I can engage students in the discus-
sion of these liturgical and philosophical 
Poet removes mystery behind Kabbalah
poems.”
The lecture focused primarily on the 
history of mystical poetry in the Jewish 
tradition. 
Formed from Jewish thought in the 
of Kabbalah focuses on what lies beyond 
the scripture, revealing a veil that aims to 
explain the relationship between the mys-
terious and the universe. 
Cole explained that over the years, the 
practice has gained its fair share of skep-
tics, and oftentimes he is included, adding 
“[There is] a skeptic in me. I’m a poet, not 
a mystic.”
The lecture focused on the strong 
power of language in the Kabbalah tradi-
tion. Much of Cole’s professional work is 
translating the original poetry of Jewish 
mystics and combining their works into 
poetry anthologies. 
In addition to his scholarly work, Cole 
is a poet himself, composing verse on simi-
lar topics.
Cole spoke of the importance of lan-
guage in the tradition, calling Kabbala-
hists “language obsessed.” This feature of 
the tradition emphasizes the importance 
of his work in translation. Reading from 
what is believed to be the oldest texts from 
Palestine, Israel and Babylonia, many of 
the translated poems describe the desires 
and rituals of spiritual seekers to rise to 
heaven.
Many of the audience members were 
unfamiliar with Kabbalah, despite being 
educated in Jewish studies. Adina Marx-
but did not have a background in this as-
pect of the Jewish tradition.
courtesy of hampshire college
Peter Cole is a translator of ancient texts.
“[The lecture] revealed a whole new 
world of Judaism that I didn’t know much 
about,” said Marx-Arpadi. “I came because 
I was interested in how [mysticism] mani-
fests contemporarily.”
Others came for their general inter-
major, came to hear a new perspective on 
a topic he had previously studied.
“I don’t focus on Jewish studies, so it 
was really great to have that dimension,” 
said Harper. “But I do focus on studies 
in mysticism, so to hear about the Jewish 
tradition of that was really captivating. I 
think that there are some really exciting 
and clear differences you can see between 
these various mystical strands.”
 16 advertisements   | October 25, 2012
LIKE US ON 
PAPER?
Like us on 
Facebook
Follow us on 
twitter
@middcampus
JOIN 
US
WRITE FOR 
THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, 
NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS 
AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE  
INTERESTED, EMAIL 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
HAVE AN OPINION? 
WEIGH IN TODAY
VOICE YOUR OPINION @ MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM
OR SEND AN OP-ED OR LETTER TO THE EDITOR TO 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
WOULD YOU 
LIKE A TASTE 
OF...
JOURNALISM?
THE CAMPUS SEEKS 
WRITERS FOR ALL 
SECTIONS. EMAIL 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
Of any of the isolated silos in the 
world of academia disciplines that seem 
to have little overlap — the natural and 
physical sciences and the social sciences 
seem quite disparate. One gave us “Team 
of Rivals” and the study of constitution-
al law and the other gave us the title: 
“Intrahippocampal Infusions of K-ATP 
Channel Modulators Influence Sponta-
neous Alternation Performance: Rela-
tionships to Acetylcholine Release in the 
Hippocampus.” 
One tends to be qualitative. The 
other is strictly quantitative. One stud-
ies political structures and the history 
of countries. The other studies the mo-
lecular interactions within various cell 
systems. 
But perhaps the metaphor of the silo 
is inaccurate. In fact the dividing walls 
between the social sciences and the sci-
ences are dissolving, thanks in part to 
the field of psychology. 
Psychology is the link between the 
hard science of physics, chemistry and 
biology, and the more humanistic fields 
of political science, economics, history 
and even literature. 
“If you think about what we’re learn-
ing about the brain, and how our knowl-
edge of the brain informs our under-
standing of behavior, they’re integrally 
connected. [Understanding the brain], 
that’s a really important way to under-
stand human behavior, human beliefs, 
human values,” said Professor of Psy-
chology and Chair of the Psychology De-
partment Barbara Hofer. 
Assistant Professor of Psychology 
Mark Stefani focuses on the biological 
side of the brain.
He studies the neurobiology of mem-
ory and cognition, focusing particularly 
on executive functioning — our working 
memory, our ability to allocate our at-
tention to specific stimuli, our ability to 
shift from task to task as our needs and 
goals change (known as cognitive flex-
ibility) and our ability to inhibit behav-
iors that are counterproductive. 
Stefani is not just studying the neu-
robiology of healthy individuals, “but 
also the executive cognitive functions as 
they are impaired in psychiatric condi-
tions. So in our lab, we’re interested in 
schizophrenia, which is very much as-
sociated with impaired executive func-
tion,” said Stefani. 
“We use rats as a model organism 
and induce cognitive problems that are 
like those in schizophrenia and then we 
look for changes in the brain, and we 
look for ways to reverse those impair-
ments.”
By using rats as model organisms, 
Stefani hopes to understand the mecha-
nism by which certain compounds in-
duce psychotic side-effects, and with 
that knowledge, begin exploring com-
pounds that could potentially reduce the 
imbalances in the human brain that cre-
ate psychosis and cognitive problems. 
Visiting Assistant Professor of Psy-
chology Kimery Levering recently gradu-
ated from Binghamton University with 
a Ph.D in Cognitive Psychology. Her 
research focuses on the organization of 
mental concepts rather than the biology 
of the brain, but she pointed out that the 
distinction merely reflects two different 
levels of analysis.
“We go through the world experienc-
ing a lot of things: a lot of objects, a lot 
of people, a lot of ideas,” Levering said. 
“What I study is how you take all of that 
information and abstract from it, or boil 
it down into useful and meaningful con-
cepts. And then I’m interested in how we 
use those concepts and apply them to fu-
ture situations.”
Levering explained the link between 
the mind and the brain, and its potential 
in the field of psychology.
“There’s an important connection 
to neuroscience in the study of how we 
organize information,” she said. “In try-
ing to figure out mental processes and 
representations (cognitive psychology) 
and how they match up with the biology 
of the brain, I believe the field of con-
cept learning is an important piece of 
the puzzle. Cognitive psychologists study 
how our mental representations are or-
ganized. Neuroscientists study how the 
brain is organized. At some point, the in-
tersection between them is where a lot of 
action will be.”
The interface between the biology of 
the brain and the structure of the mind 
is integral to understanding how an indi-
vidual functions. But an individual never 
functions independently of the society 
in which they live. That’s where the re-
search of Associate Professor of Psychol-
ogy Carlos Velez-Blasini comes into play. 
He examines social norms and how they 
influence an individual. His research has 
focused on the College’s population, and 
he recently published an article explor-
ing the social norms related to the hook-
up culture that permeates campus. 
“We’ve examined the relationship 
between those normative influences — 
what we think people are doing, that’s 
what we call social norms — and behav-
ior,” Velez said. “In other words, how 
does our perception of what others do 
and whether they approve of it or not 
and to what extent people engage in that 
behavior because they think everybody 
else is doing it influence an individu-
als decision to engage in a behavior. We 
break down the behavior by different 
levels of the sexual behavior. We look 
at sexual behavior that is relatively less 
intimate and we look at behavior that 
is more intimate, and try to see to what 
extent people’s behavior is affected by 
what they think others are doing.” 
Hofer examines the psychology of 
the individual from a different perspec-
tive. She studies the beliefs individuals 
have about knowledge and the develop-
ment of how people think. She’s been 
working under a grant from the National 
Science Foundation for the last four 
years, studying the beliefs that middle 
school and high school students have 
about knowledge and knowing, using 
both quantitative and qualitative meth-
odology. 
Hofer has also been studying emerg-
ing adults college students and how tech-
nology has changed their relationship to 
their parents and how that has affected 
development. 
“I’m particularly interested in how 
the rise of technology, with cell phones, 
texting and email, has put parents in a 
more prominent role during this period 
of life than they have had in the past 
and how frequent communication might 
be impeding autonomy and self-regula-
tion,” she said.
Hofer’s work  — and most of the work 
conducted in the psychology department 
— involves a team of undergraduate re-
search assistants, who have co-presented 
findings at conferences and co-authored 
articles and book chapters. 
Moving through the hierarchy of 
psychological research — from brain 
function to mind structure to individual 
behavior to social phenomenon — the 
connection between Abraham Lincoln 
and the relationships to acetylcholine 
release in the hippocampus begin to 
emerge. In some ways, psychology could 
be viewed as the quintessential liberal 
arts discipline, because it forges that 
link. 
As Hofer said, “We bridge both those 
areas. [In fact], I think one of the most 
exciting aspects of studying psychology 
is that it’s both a social science and a 
natural science and that’s somewhat un-
usual among all the other disciplines in 
the College. We have courses that cover 
both sides of that, courses that integrate 
both sides of that, and we have faculty 
that do research across the spectrum of 
the social sciences and the natural sci-
ences. “ 
arts sciences
We review the hilarious 
Wyatt Cenac performance!
Page 18
don’t
miss
this
Oxhide II
three as they eat a dinner of dumplings and discuss 
everyday problems. Presented in conjunction with the 
exhibition China Modern: Designing 20th-Century 
Popular Culture. A discussion with director/writer Liu 
Jiayin will follow the screening. 
10/27, 5 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
The Igloo Settlement
Daniel Sauermilch ’13 performs a reading of his original 
Grace Foundation Playwriting Grant. The Igloo Settle-
ment follows a New York City couple who are just set-
tling into their Pennsylvania getaway when a holiday 
blizzard strikes. 
10/30, 4:30 P.M., CFA ROOM 232
Paul Lewis
Paul Lewis began his Schubert project in 2011, 
performing all of Schubert’s mature piano works 
of Schubert’s opuses 958, 959 and 960. Tickets 
$6.
10/26, 8 P.M., CONCERT HALL
science sp   tlight: psychology department
by Will Henriques 
Assistant Professor of Psychology Mark Stefani sits in front of a computer in his 
lab. The equipment is used to test for cognitive impairments seen in schizophrenia.
courtesy
Professor of Psychology and Chair of the 
Psychology epartment Barbara Hofer 
studies the development of thinking.
courtesy
Psych Labs
Hofer Lab
Studies beliefs about 
knowledge and thought 
development, technology’s 
impact on development and 
relationships
Stefani lab
Investigates mechanisms 
by which certain com-
pounds induce or reduce 
psychotic side-effects
Levering Lab
organization of mental 
concepts and application 
to future situations
Velez Lab
Social Norms and influence 
on individuals (such as 
Hook-Up culture) 
October 25, 2012  | 
go/obo
U.S. Drag
this weekend
10/25 -10/27
Seeler studio theater
$6
GALLICANTUS
saturday
11/10
mead chapel
$6 for students
Thanksgiving Break 
Bus tickets
NYC, BOSTON
Burlington
(AIrport, Bus station)
arts SCIENCES18
Paul Lewis
Friday
10/26
concert hall
$6 for students
This coming weekend, Greater Tuna 
will play in the Hepburn Zoo. The two-
man satirical show, directed by Teddy 
Anderson ’13.5, will run from Oct. 25 - 27. 
Greater Tuna is part of a series of 
four comedic plays written by Jaston 
Williams, Joe Sears and Ed Howard. 
the “third-smallest town in the state,” 
the play is a dark commentary, as well 
as satire, on small-town life and atti-
tudes. The two-man cast portrays over 
20 different characters of varying gen-
ders and ages. Characters include Jody 
Bumiller, who is “followed constantly by 
eight to 10 dogs,” R. R. Snavely, UFOlo-
gist and town drunk and Vera Carp, 
the town snob and vice president of the 
“Smut-Snatchers of the New Order” club. 
Nathaniel Rothrock ’13 and Nicholas 
Hemerling ’15 are the two actors perform-
ing in the show. The show is unique in 
that it possesses such a small acting cast, 
but Rothrock noted that Greater Tuna is 
different than previous shows at the Col-
lege in another, more meaningful way. 
“The show is a step away from the su-
per political theater and rhetoric that the 
faculty has done recently, and is more in-
tended to be a comedic look at hypocrisy 
and racism,” he said. “It is more meant as 
a comedic show rather than any sort of 
deep intense show, and I wanted to show 
more the skills of the actors rather than 
hit the audience over the head with the 
plot and meanings behind everything.”
Acting in a two-man show and por-
traying many characters proved to be a 
challenge for Hemerling.
“Greater Tuna has presented me with 
what is probably the toughest acting chal-
lenge I have ever faced,” he said. “It’s just 
two actors trying to create a whole town of 
crazy characters. It’s been incredibly fun 
and shaping these different characters.”
One of the challenges for Hemerling 
was breaking through the gender barrier.
“I really love playing the female char-
acters because I really have to get out of 
my own body for them,” he said. “Also, 
I love wearing skirts and heels. I had to 
practice walking in heels a lot.  To the de-
light of my hallmates, I walked around my 
dorm with them on to practice.”
Rothrock also commented on how 
the hectic nature of the two-man show 
brought out the best in the crew.
“Given how many characters two ac-
tors play, the spectacle of the show means 
the most to me,” said Rothrock. “The cast 
and crew that I have picked have been 
incredibly professional, to the point that 
I trusted them enough not to need to 
oversee every little detail, nor did I have 
to constantly remind them to bring me 
results. It has been a really fun and very 
-
ful for all of the hard work of everyone 
involved.”
Besides the two main actors, the 
driving force behind the comedic per-
formance is a small contingent of stu-
dents. The show will be stage managed 
by Anna Parker ’15, with costume design 
by Emily Jacke ’13 and sound design by 
Grace Bell ’13. Angela Santee ’13 and An-
nie MacPherson ’16 will run the light and 
sound boards.
Greater Tuna
By Deirdre Sackett
Wyatt Cenac brings hilarity to homecoming
On Friday, Oct. 22, Wyatt Cenac, with 
his opening act Jermaine Fowler, came 
to the McCullough Social Space to bring 
laughter to those within, a goal they com-
pleted gloriously.
Cenac is well known for his reoc-
curring role as a correspondent on Jon 
Stewart’s “The Daily Show,” as well as pat 
work as a writer and story editor for Mike 
Judge’s animated satirical sitcom “King of 
the Hill.” When Cenac isn’t helping protag-
onist Hank Hill sell propane (or propane 
accessories) he also acts in dramas such as 
Medicine for Melancholy, provides voice 
talent for Nickelodeon’s “Fanboy” and 
“Chum Chum” and has performed with 
nerdcore rapper MC Frontalot. 
Fowler is a New York-based stand-up 
comedian who has been recognized as one 
of the 50 funniest men by the New York 
Post, where he stood in rank with individu-
als such as Jay Leno and David Letterman. 
Fowler is currently acting in SyFy’s 
new show, “Insane or Inspired,” Adult 
Swim’s “The Eric Andre Show” and the pi-
lot for the reboot of “Living Color.”
his silly stage presence, something that 
made him seem at ease in front of the many 
eyes of the students. Fowler immediately 
began his act through some crowd work, a 
type of stand up comedy where one takes 
material from the audience and crafts it 
into, ideally, something funny. 
Like most comedians who come to vis-
it the College, Fowler was most interested 
in the fact that we play Quidditch, and the 
implication that we run around on brooms. 
He then began to playfully mock one of 
the audience members, a self-proclaimed 
snitch. His mocking was never hurtful or 
offensive. Fowler merely showed a legiti-
mate interest in what we do and who we 
are as a student body. 
Fowler then transitioned into a skit 
about various happenings in New York and 
his past job at a Quiznos. Fowler proved 
here that he is an incredible story teller 
as he recalled the time he and a co-worker 
once convinced his boss that the KKK had 
broken into their sandwich store and had 
stolen all the processed meat. 
What I found particularly interesting 
about Fowler is his complete disregard 
for political correctness, which I found 
completely refreshing, especially here at 
the College, a place where I feel political 
correctness runs rampant. But, that being 
said, Fowler also didn’t go out of his way to 
offend people either. Instead, Fowler was 
very honest in his observations and opin-
ions, some of which could have been inter-
preted as offensive but that was clearly not 
Fowler’s only objective. Fowler success-
fully warmed up the audience for Cenacs 
arrival. 
Cenac then took the stage, his hair big-
ger in size than one who regularly watches 
him on “The Daily Show” may be used to. 
Cenac, contrary to Fowler, had lower 
energy overall but maintained a strong 
stage presence throughout. 
He began his performance by talking 
about the drive to Middlebury, something 
he considered very romantic but not some-
thing for platonic co-workers. 
As Cenac spoke, I realized that his 
speech patterns matched his energy; it was 
slower and lower than Fowler. But that 
doesn’t mean he was any less funny.
Cenac began his real routine about 
he and his friends during their time at the 
Catholic all-boys high school they attend-
ed and how they would frequently enter 
“snap” competitions. 
A snap competition is basically a battle 
of “your mother” jokes, and Cenac, despite 
being a comedian, was not very good at 
these. This routine culminated into a joke 
about Darfur, which, while I found it hi-
larious, others were not terribly impressed.
-
ing the various ideas he would tweet, if he 
had a Twitter. 
While his musings ranged from the 
mundane to the hysterical, Cenac’s dra-
matic readings of his would-be tweets 
made for an entertaining reoccurring gag. 
Cenac then delved into a routine about 
comic book movies and a hero of Cenac’s 
own mind: Spider Man.
Now, this is not the Spider Man you 
may recognize, but rather Cenac’s Spider 
Man is about a spider who is bitten by a 
radioactive man who then spends all of his 
time sitting down on a couch being vaguely 
While the show seemed to drag on, as 
indicated by the fact that various students 
left early, probably to enjoy the revels 
that homecoming had in store for them, it 
proved to be yet another entertaining night 
from two very competent, very talented 
comedians. Now, after getting Cenac, the 
-
art himself. 
By Santiago Azpurua-Borras
Comedian Wyatt Cenac, as he appears 
on “The Daily Show with Jon Stewart.”
Courtesy
Jazz has been called America’s music, and looking at 
its history, one can see how interconnected it is with the 
country’s past. Its backbone incorporates features of rag-
time, the American Negro spiritual and the blues — all 
forms of music developed by African Americans. 
It also incorporates musical ideas from late-Romantic 
music, and many of the standards we know today were 
written by Jewish composers with fresh immigrant roots. 
The 1930s saw a rise of big-band jazz, and around that 
time it became a part of the College music scene. As jazz 
transformed over the decades, the music stayed at the Col-
lege. 
In the early 1970s students coined the name “The 
Sound Investment” for the main jazz group on campus. 
Seven years ago the group became known as the Sound In-
ensemble. On Oct. 26 Middlebury College’s Sound Invest-
ment Jazz Ensemble will perform a show at 51 Main.
 The group studies a wide-variety of jazz styles, play-
ing musical charts from big bands like the Count Basie Or-
chestra to more contemporary works and arrangements. 
For anyone who has seen the ensemble before, the perfor-
mance Friday night is bound to be different in many ways. 
The group itself is constantly changing. Students leave be-
cause of graduation or to study abroad only to be replaced 
with fresh new talent.
Director of Jazz Activities at Middlebury College and 
director of the ensemble, Dick Forman, commented on 
“I like to choose repertoire that take advantage of the 
strengths of current members,” he said. 
The current group’s personality is conducive to playing 
various styles.
“Mainstream, straight-ahead jazz, with a nod to bop 
is mostly what we’re playing,” said Forman. “But over the 
course of a year, we’ll do everything from classic swing to 
contemporary jazz.”
Last spring when the 17-piece big band played at 51 
that didn’t want them to leave. Paul Donnelly ’15, who plays 
bass in the ensemble, remembers the evening well.
“Playing at 51 Main last year was an interesting, crazy 
sound of a 15-plus person band into such a small space was 
a whole lot of fun for the band and hopefully everyone else 
at 51 Main.” 
-
row night.
“With an even bigger band this year, Friday’s show 
should be a blast,” said Donnelly.
Big-bands are known for their rich, swinging sound, 
and Friday night should not disappoint. 
The performance starts at 9 p.m. and lasts until 11 p.m. 
at 51 Main downtown. The group will also play on Nov. 16 
at 9 p.m. in McCullough Student Center at a dance hosted 
by the Middlebury Swing Dance Club. Also, the group will 
perform in the concert hall at the Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 
Center for the Arts on Dec. 1.
By Grady Trela
Sound Investment Jazz Ensemble to play 51 Main
b0oking it
BY MICHAEL GAFFNEY
D.T. Max’s revealing and compel-
ling biography of the writer David Fos-
ter Wallace comes at a time of surging 
popularity of Wallace’s writing and new 
academic analysis of his work. 
Wallace, tragically, ended his own 
life in September of 2008 after a long 
struggle with depression and an inspir-
ing literary career. His foreshortened 
body of darkly brilliant work at the time 
of his death consisted of two essay col-
lections, two other nonfiction books, 
three short story collections and two 
novels, one of which, Infinite Jest, is 
considered by most to be his magnum 
opus and one of the greatest American 
novels of the 20th century. In 2011, Wal-
lace’s unfinished novel, The Pale King, 
was published to great acclaim, receiving 
a nomination for the Pulitzer Prize. De-
spite the relatively small body of work, 
critics have consistently named him the 
greatest writer of his generation.
Given the excitement surrounding 
Wallace, it should be no surprise that 
fans have long awaited Max’s biography. 
Luckily, Max’s book seems to have met 
the enormous expectation surrounding 
it, which is, I 
should add, no 
small accom-
plishment. 
Drawing on 
Wallace’s let-
ters, interviews, 
essays and nov-
els, Max depicts 
Wallace as a 
fascinating, dy-
namic and truly pathetic figure. Some 
of the most interesting moments of this 
biography provide little glimpses into 
his life, some sad and disturbing: his 
hospitalizations for previous suicide at-
tempts, or his moments of uncontrolled 
rage, like when he, deeply enraged by 
his then-girlfriend, walked outside and 
punched his fist through a car window. 
But the biography also illuminates 
some less grim details behind his books, 
like a copyright debacle that preceded 
the publication of his first short story 
collection, Girl with Curious Hair, or 
the strange cover of Infinite Jest. Max 
provides these details with great care 
and, for the more challenging moments, 
with great sympathy and understanding. 
As most literary biographies do, this 
one ties moments of Wallace’s life, set-
tings and characters, to the novels and 
short stories. Members of Wallace’s 
MFA class appear in his short story 
“Westward the Course of Empire Takes 
Its Way;” a man from a halfway house in 
Boston in which Wallace stayed appears 
in Infinite Jest, as does his mother, in 
the form of Avril Incandenza. 
D.T. Max also pairs moments from 
Wallace’s life with their corresponding 
instantiations in his novels: the begin-
ning scene of Infinite Jest, in which Hal 
Incandenza has a “breakdown” during a 
college interview, comes from an inter-
view Wallace had with Oberlin College 
as he was applying there. 
As with this scene, Max often de-
scribes moments of Wallace’s life by 
simply quoting the descriptions from his 
novels. These comparisons are prone to 
reducing fiction to nothing more than 
autobiography, but Max deploys them 
with such elegance that they rarely, if 
ever, impoverish Wallace’s writing or 
underplay his imagination.
But while all of these details are en-
riching and important, the real strength 
of this biography lies in its agenda. Max 
has a very clear, and largely helpful, in-
terpretation of Wallace and his work. 
For him, Wallace began with a “quint-
essentially metafictional mind,” writing 
his first novel with a picture of Pynchon 
above his desk and The Crying of Lot 49 
on his mind. 
But as Wallace grew older, he began 
to see postmodern fiction as unhelp-
ful and cliché, co-opted by media it-
self. Thus, according to Max, he began 
searching for “fiction that surmounted 
television-mediated reality.” 
The final product of Infinite Jest was 
just that: “In Infinite Jest, Wallace was 
proposing to wash Pynchonian excess in 
the chilling waters of DeLillo’s prose and 
then heat it up again in Dostoevsky’s re-
demptive fire,” says Max beautifully. 
In his mind, Wallace went from a 
clever postmodern writer to one con-
cerned with morality and spirituality 
and redemption, an “apostle of sincer-
ity.” This interpretation, although some-
what limited and flawed, ultimately 
proves convincing.
The ending of this biography is 
heartbreaking. The last chapter of the 
book ends, as Wallace wrote in The Pale 
King, with the “abruptness of a coastal 
shelf.” In spite of this, Max tells a power-
ful tale, one that this reader found near-
ly impossible to put down.
This biography is truly fitting for 
such a beloved writer, and Max, through 
his own emotional engagement with the 
story, seems to have found a kind of re-
demption in Wallace’s life, which is, in 
Max’s view, something we should all try 
to see.
Recommendation: If you’re an avid 
reader of Wallace, this is a must read. 
But if you’ve never read him before, go 
read his commencement speech online. 
It will change your life.
 | october 25, 2012 19   arts SCIENCES
Every Love 
Story is a 
Ghost story
D.T. Max
Last Sunday Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 
Center for the Arts hosted the family con-
cert Symphony of Whales. 
The concert combined recited narra-
tion with the music of a splendid string 
quartet, and the musicians (members of 
the Vermont Symphony Orchestra: Sofia 
Hirsch, David Gusakov, Hilary Hatch and 
Dieuwke Davydov) celebrated the fall 
season by wearing Halloween costumes, 
which the audience had been encouraged 
in advance to wear. 
Symphony of Whales is a children’s 
book written by Steve Schirch. 
The book itself tells the story of 
Glashka, a girl with an innate ability to 
listen to whales, specifically a whale 
named Narna. 
The particular gifts leads Glashka to 
discover that thousands of whales have 
been trapped within an inlet as ice quick-
ly freezes over the water that the school 
of whales need to survive.
 The performance consisted of high-
lights from the story read aloud and dec-
orated with music at key moments. 
The children in the audience were 
amazed by the sound of the violas, vio-
lins and cellos, and one got the impres-
sion this was their first encounter with 
the stringed instruments. 
After the concert, eight-year-old Sa-
sha Myers seemed very excited about the 
concert, even though he missed some 
parts of the story.
“I haven’t read the book, but I know 
it is about whales and people that want 
them to be free,” he said.
His mother, Tammy Newmark, said 
she read about the event in a local news-
paper and decided to come with her two 
young children.
“There are a lot of things to do with 
kids around here,” she said.  “It’s not the 
first time we’ve come to Middlebury Col-
lege to enjoy some of its activities.”
The musicians started the concert by 
introducing themselves by the names of 
the characters they represented. 
Cleopatra and a clown played the vio-
lins, while an outlandish witch played the 
viola and a pirate performed the cello. 
The performance opened with famil-
iar excerpts from Peter and the Wolf and 
the score from the Harry Potter movies. 
Children had trouble taking their 
eyes off the instruments during these fun 
pieces: the combination of familiar mel-
odies and the musicians’ often jocular 
manner created a light atmosphere. 
The most enjoyable part of the con-
cert for the children, however, occurred 
when the performers talked to the au-
dience about the instruments and their 
playing techniques. 
A costume parade followed in which 
all the smaller guests in the audience 
marched timidly across the stage, some 
taking their time as they waved to their 
parents, others running away in what 
must have been excited panic from all the 
commotion on stage.
Near the end of the concert, the par-
ents still seemed engaged, but by that 
point the children had begun to squirm 
in their seats, look at the ceiling or count 
their fingers repeatedly as they waited 
for the performance to end — some who 
fell asleep woke up startled when instru-
ments played accented notes over the 
words. 
When the performance finally ended, 
the families shuffled out of the building 
into the late afternoon glow of autumn, 
dressed unabashedly in their costumes 
and fully ready for Halloween. 
Symphony of Whales celebrates Halloween and music
The Killer’s new album Battle 
Born features an interesting mix 
of sounds that the band has experi-
mented with over the years.
Some of the tracks have an art-
rock feel whereas others are more 
pop-oriented. Overall, though, the 
album feels like a tired rehashing 
of old clichés, as it lacks a stand-out 
single. 
I would not consider myself a 
two albums, Hot Fuss  and Sam’s 
Town, when I was young. 
The tracks that worked for me 
on those albums were driven by 
captivating guitar riffs and catchy 
choruses. 
Even more so than the music 
itself, I felt that the older work put 
out by the Killers felt more honest 
the songs and lyrics were some-
thing that came from their heart. 
And let’s face it — at the risk of 
sounding like a hipster — huge critical and 
the overall quality of the Killers music as 
the years have gone by. 
Unfortunately, over time the band has 
shifted their focus away from guitar-driven 
songs and established a more synth-orient-
a more general shift over the last several 
years in pop music. 
In the process of developing a less gui-
tar-oriented sound, the band also seems to 
have thrown away the ability to carefully 
and tastefully incorporate electronic tim-
bres into their works. 
Many tracks on Battle Born
and transitions that seem out of place in re-
lation to the rest of the song, and the album 
itself is also full of cheesy synth lines and 
For instance, “The Rising Tide,” a song 
with a lot of potential, feels watered down 
because the guitar takes a backseat to a ge-
neric  80s ostinato on the synthesizer that 
may or may not be from GarageBand. 
The most redeeming feature of the 
song is the crunchy guitar solo that shines 
but disappears as quickly as it comes. 
I’m not sure if I would say the band has 
run out of creative ideas, but most of the 
songs just feel forced.
“Be Still,” a song toward the end of the 
album, has a weird electronic drum back-
ing and even stranger lyrics: 
“Don’t break character/ you have a lot 
of heart/ is this real or is this a dream/ be 
still, be still.” 
There’s a message in the song of hang-
ing on in tough times that made me un-
comfortable; there might be a place for 
this heart-to-heart message somewhere in 
pop music, but with lyrics like “Rise up like 
the sun and labor ’till the work is done,” 
it’s hard to take the band seriously unless 
you’re a time-traveling puritan.
Another song, “Carry Me Home,” per-
haps best demonstrates the band’s more-
wishy-washy sound on this album. The 
Killers have never been edgy by any means, 
but the band fails a perfectly good motive 
in this song by not fully committing to a 
minor key. In the verse, they introduce a 
nice riff with a minor tinge that makes you 
think the song is going to be dark.
I was excited because this seemed like 
take in an otherwise very conventional 
album. Instead the band keeps the song 
largely in a major key, eschewing what 
could have been a more complex sound for 
a basic pop cliché. 
I know that looking for emotional 
complexity in a song from the Killers would 
make me an idiot, but is it wrong to expect 
that a band develop promising material?
In past albums like Hot Fuss and 
Sam’s Town, we see more of a meshing of 
ideas and the songs just seem to be better 
written.“Mr. Brightside” and “When You 
Were Young,” for example, were both fully 
realized songs whose elements worked to-
gether as a whole. The main guitar riff in 
“Mr. Brightside” is one of the more memo-
rable riffs of the last decade in pop music, 
and “When You Were Young” also incor-
porated itself into the public conscience of 
popular music. 
Tracks on the new album, however, 
lack the direction and determination of 
these earlier songs. What makes nearly all 
songs off the Killers new album ho-hum? 
Many factors play a role, but the mostly 
likely explanation is a deviation from the 
formulas that worked in the past. 
               For THE RECORD
BY GRADY TRELA
The Killers album Battle Born uses elements from 
previous albums such as Hot Fuss and Sam’s Town.
gregory woolston
SUBSCRIBE
TODAY!
VISIT HTTP://BOXOFFICE.MIDDLEBURY.EDU
Get the College 
weekly delivered 
straight to 
your home. By 
subscribing, you 
are supporting 
a 100-year-old 
tradition that has 
trained countless 
journalists, writers 
and designers, 
including Pulitzer 
Prize winners.
to the
20Advertisements | October 25, 2012
October 25, 2012| SPORTS
editors’ picks
Driscoll breaks all-time receptions record
21
CONTINUED FROM 24
“Foote and I 
were right on 
the same page. 
He threw a 
perfect ball 
right over the 
defender and I 
was there.”
zach driscoll ’13
Wide receiver
emily  white
Tom clayton (10-14, .417)Owen Teach (36-36, .500)Damon Hatheway (70-57, .551)
OVER/UNDER: 5.5 goals for 
Field Hockey in its NESCAC 
or Middlebury football?
Saturday?
Coming off a four-game unbeaten 
streak (3-0-1) that dated back to Oct. 2, 
the Middlebury men’s soccer team was 
looking to make a late-season surge into 
the top part of the NESCAC standings this 
past Saturday, Oct. 20th against Bates. 
Despite a large homecoming crowd and 
a picture perfect day the Panthers fell to 
the Bobcats 2-0 after Bates scored a pair 
of second-half goals. The Panthers, with 
a record of 6-5-1 (3-5-1 in conference), 
have one regular season game remaining 
before the NESCAC tournament begins 
this coming weekend.
The week was made even more 
disappointing for the Panthers as they 
had their Oct. 16 fixture against a much 
weaker Colby-Sawyer side canceled due 
to heavy rain in New London, N.H. Head 
coach Dave Saward was not pleased with 
Colby-Sawyer’s decision to cancel.
“The Colby-Sawyer game was 
taken away from us, and I was very 
disappointed with how [their athletic 
department] handled it,” said Saward. 
“There’s not anything we can do, but 
there had to be a way that we could have 
played that game. In a short, 14-game 
season, to have one taken away hurts. It 
also was a doubly disappointing week to 
have a game taken away and then play 
like that on Saturday.”
Saturday’s match left 
much to be desired for 
the Panthers, who came 
falling back to earth against 
Bates after posting a string 
of promising results in 
October.
Despite seeing a few close 
chances just miss the cage 
in the first half, Middlebury 
failed to challenge the Bates 
goalkeeper. Neither side 
managed to generate much 
offensive firepower, as the Bobcats only 
mustered two shots in the direction of 
Zach Abdu-Glass ’13. Unfortunately for 
Middlebury, both of those shots found 
the back of the goal. John Murphy of 
Williams scored his seventh and eighth 
goals of the year, in the 52nd and 74th 
minutes, respectively. 
Saward commented to his team’s 
lackluster offensive production.
“I don’t think that they outplayed us 
at all, but we defended poorly twice and 
got punished,” said Saward. “We didn’t 
take a venomous shot in the entire game, 
and I don’t remember their 
goalkeeper making a difficult 
save. At the end of the day we 
didn’t have enough punch up 
front, and our players must 
take more responsibility for 
being hungry in the penalty 
box.”
One bright spot for the 
Panthers was the return of Jon 
Portman ’13 to the field, who 
had been sidelined since early 
September with a knee injury. 
Matt Martin ’12.5 spoke to the 
importance of his teammate’s recovery.
“It was great to see Portman on the 
field again and you can tell it means 
a lot to him,” said Martin. “He’s done 
really well to jump right back into a 
competitive game and has shown some 
of what we know he can do. He’s still a 
little bit limited striking a ball with his 
right leg, but his weaker left is as good as 
anyone’s strongest, so he’ll be alright.”
Saward also mentioned that Portman’s 
recovery is ongoing.
“A lot of [how he will be used] has to 
do with what he tells me, and fitness-wise 
he’s not at 100 percent,” said Saward. 
“We were delighted to get him in, but he 
was tentative in tackling, which is half of 
his job description. It will be minute to 
minute.”
While this past week was dissatisfying 
for the Panthers, their Oct. 13th 
performance against Trinity gives some 
hope for a revival. 
Middlebury traveled to Hartford, 
Conn. and beat its NESCAC rival by 
a final score of 2-1, powered by two 
unassisted goals from Alvand Hajizadeh 
’13 and Harper Williams ’15. Hajizadeh 
and Williams now sit at first and second 
in individual scoring on the team, with 
10 and five points, respectively. Abdu-
Glass also recorded nine saves in the 
contest. 
Saward commented that the team 
received a bit of luck in the contest, not 
always the case for his team this season.
“We got the luck that you needed,” said 
Saward. “The second goal was somewhat 
of a goalkeeping error, but Alvand did 
well following up the rebound. Harper’s 
first strike was excellent. We didn’t play 
great but did well enough to win.”
Middlebury will look to regroup as 
it now turns its attention a road test in 
the NESCAC quarterfinals this Saturday, 
Oct. 27.
The Middlebury Men’s Rugby Club 
(MCRC) emerged victorious in their 
match Saturday against the University 
of Albany, 91-7, while the Middlebury 
Women’s Rugby Club (MCWRC) blanked 
Williams on the road 39-0. Due to heavy 
rain over the course of the week prior 
to the match, the game was moved to 
Essex Tree Farm in Burlington when 
the pitch in Middlebury was deemed 
unplayable. This change of pitch did not 
disrupt the Panthers, who, after winning 
their match by a commanding score, to 
remain undefeated with a record of 4-0.
“In five years of coaching the team I 
have never seen us play so well for 80 
minutes,” said coach John Phillips. We 
had a really good week of practice and it 
all came together on Saturday.” 
The dominating performance attests 
to teamwork and depth, as over the 
course of the match MCRC notched 13 
tries from 10 different players. 
“We have a starting squad of 24 
players, so any of these players can come 
on at any time and fit right in,” said 
Phillips.
Highlights of the game include a 31 
point performance from Middlebury 
captain Brian Sirkia ’12.5, who finished 
the match with 1 try, 10 conversions, and 
2 penalties, and a 15 point performance 
from Alex Ruocco ’13, who finished the 
match with a three-try hat trick. 
The Panthers took an early lead 
and ended the first half up 41-0. The 
relentless offensive continued in the 
second half, allowing only one try from 
the University of Albany and tacking on 
another 50 points. 
This win comes a week after 
Middlebury was ranked 16th nationally 
in Division I-AA, and a week after 
Middlebury shut out the University of 
Connecticut Huskies by a score of 49-0. 
MCRC hosts American International 
College next Saturday, and host Boston 
College the following week Nov. 3, their 
last match of the season. 
“I’m not worried about 
overconfidence,” coach Phillips said. 
“The boys know what needs to be done 
the rest of the season.”
The Middlebury Women’s Rugby 
Team (MCWRC) travelled to Williams to 
defeat the Ephs 39-0 on Saturday, Oct. 
20. MCWRC dominated possession, and 
converted the advantaged into seven 
tries and two conversions, to improve 
their season record to 3-3. 
Four first-half tries from Melanie 
Haas ’13 put MCWRC up 22-0 at the half. 
Hooker Rae Colombo ’13 and fullback 
Julianna Gardner ’14 added second-
half tries, and Captain Jess Berry ’13 
converted twice, to cement the score at 
39-0.
Berry was happy with her team’s 
effort.
“We went into this game knowing it 
wouldn’t be as difficult as our last two, 
but I was happy with how strong we 
started regardless,” said Berry. “Williams 
has some big players, so we still needed 
to work really hard on the field in order 
to get that win.”
Haas’s offensive outburst, coupled 
with the patience and field control of 
the Middlebury backs, never allowed 
Williams into the game.
“Haas was crucial for the win. She’s an 
incredibly fast player, and having her out 
on the wing is really deadly,” said Berry. 
“Plus we had tries come from outside of 
our typical back-line players. Colombo 
had an awesome try in the second half, 
and then actually had a second that the 
referee deemed illegitimate. Overall we 
had great play all over the field, and 
we’re really using these final games of 
the season to prepare for playoffs in.”
Fly-half Julia Gulka ’13 and inside 
center Marissa Shaw ’14 controlled 
play from the backline and stymied any 
Williams attempts to break through the 
Middlebury defensive line. Ultimately, 
steady advancement and overwhelming 
possession proved the best defense for 
the MCWRC side.
The women travel to Lewiston, Maine 
to face Bates on Saturday for their final 
match of the regular season. The women 
are assured of one playoff game in early 
November. Teams advance with each win 
in the competition for the league title 
that lasts until the middle of the month.
| october 25, 201222 sports
Men’s soccer sputters in homecoming loss 
Undefeated men’s rugby drops 91 on Albany 
while women shut out Williams on the road
By Owen Teach
Men’s reporting by Gabe Weissman, 
Women’s reporting by Tom Clayton
panther sc0reboard
Football vs. Bates  
woMen’s Soccer  vs. Bates  
Men’s Soccer vs. Bates
Field hockey vs. Bates
Men’s rugvy vs. U-Albany 
38-23 w 
3-0 w
0-2 L
12-0 W
91-7 W
Mac Foote ’14 launches 5 TDs on 
436 yards of passing, setting up 
a showdown with Triniity.
Bates stalls the Panthers four 
game unbeaten run.
Middlebury’s offense shines  in 
Head Coach Peter Kim’s 100th 
career win.
Lauren Greer ’13 and crew 
continue their perfect October 
with rout of Bates.
MCRC dismantles conference 
foe to remain the only 
unbeaten in ECC.
Sophie bufton
Luke Dauner ’13 is held up for a throw-in during the Blue’s 91-7 blowout win against 
the University of Albany. Middlebury remains unbeaten in East Coast Conference play.
“I don’t think 
that they 
outplayed us 
at all, but we 
defended poorly 
twice and got 
punished.”
Dave Saward 
head coach
Jessica Munyon
Jack Freeman ’13 winds up for a throw-in vs. 
Bates. Middlebury fell to the Bobcats 2-0. 
The Middlebury women’s tennis team 
hosted a group of Division I programs at the 
Panther Team Cup this weekend. 
Underclass duo Lok Sze Leung ’15 and Ria 
Gerger ’16 defeated Marissa Aviles and Maria 
Bernandez from Providence College 2-0 in 
The tournament worked in an unusual 
format in which teams competed in iterated 
pairs. Each match was contested three times: 
points — one for each contest — was possible 
in each match. 
After Leung and Gerger won their 
round Leah Kepping ’13 and Sarah Macy ’15 
Dorrie Paradies ’14 and Lauren Amos 
’16 lost to a duo from Army 2-1 in the 
Marchese ’16 and Katie Paradies ’15 lost to 
Siena College. 
“This weekend was refreshing because we 
were able to compete against different players 
instead of the usual NESCAC teams we 
The event simulated in miniature the 
team-play dual match format that will be 
in effect in future matches. In the spring 
the Panthers will play a long season of 
dual matches against NESCAC teams and 
other Division III programs from around 
Championship in May.
The Middlebury women’s volleyball 
team has made some serious headway 
since students were let out for fall 
break. While out-of-season athletes were 
working hard in practice in preparation 
for four games in a four-day period. The 
Panthers came out strong with three 
College and Brandeis University before 
finishing with a tight loss against 
Springfield. The team now stands 11 
games over .500 with a 17-6 record going 
into its last two regular season games.
captain Megan Jarchow ’14 stood out in 
hitting percentage. Piper Underbrink ’15 
and Amy Hart ’14 also contributed 5 kills 
each. 
hosted the Hall of Fame Invitational. The 
Panthers matched up against Wellesley 
the Blue 3-0. Wellesley entered the 
23-4 record. Jarchow had another note-
kills from the previous game to 11 with 
no errors to average a hitting percentage 
of .733. First-year Kathryn Haderlein 
finishing the match with 33 assists and 
three service aces during the game.
Middlebury started the second day 
of the tournament with a 3-0 shutout 
tri-captain Madeline Firestone ’13 led 
the team in kills while Haderlein finished 
with 26 assists. 
The second match on Saturday proved 
to be a much greater challenge than what 
the team had faced earlier in the week. 
Springfield took down Middlebury 3-2 
in five sets. After winning the first set 
25-22 and 25-18 before scrambling to 
win the fourth set 22-25 to force a fifth 
15 digs while Haderlein dished out an 
dominant in the loss with 19 kills and 
was named to the all-tournament team. 
Jarchow was also awarded NESCAC 
Player of the Week. 
“We were tested this weekend by some 
said outside hitter Sarah Studwell ’13. 
we’re all pretty happy with how we 
volleyball team looks ahead to its last 
two games of the season against Tufts 
“Bowdoin and Tufts are two of the 
our results this [past] weekend will 
Anderson ’14. “We are confident going 
to compete with and beat these two 
finish strong as the second ranked team 
october 25, 2012| 23SPORTS
by the Numb3rs
48
31
143
7
100
By Tom Clayton
8
women’s tennis
1
RANKING TEAM
2
Field Hockey
Football
3
Women’s soccer
4 
Volleyball
5 Men’s rugby
7
MEn’s soccer
6
Cross Country
the middlebury
great  eight
Volleyball posts 3-1 run, Jarchow 
earns NESCAC player of the week 
By Mary Claire Ecclesine
Doug Rogers ’13
 
1 I want to win the league and go undefeated. We have three games left and we have to win them all [so that] 
we get [the league] ring. [I am also] hoping to get my 
starting spot back [after sustaining preseason inju-
ries.] I want to start in my last few games.
coach did not have much to say to me other than 
start running. I figured that one out pretty quickly.
I have not started a game yet [at Middlebury.] I was 
and lost my starting [position]. I think that the best 
if I can start my last home game and end my career 
here I think that would be a nice [memory].
6
4
Football especially has taught me a lot about time management and staying 
focused on your goals and what is important. That is something that has been 
discipline and that is something I learned over the years.
[I have had] too many [injuries]. [But these injuries have shown me] how 
-
ly time. It [has been] a long run.  I do not think I’ll be devastated when it is 
I know I’m going to miss it.
 
135
In front of a capacity crowd on 
alumni weekend at Youngman 
Field on Saturday, Oct. 20, the 
football team overcame a slow start 
to improve to 5-0 with a 38-23 win 
over Bates (2-3). There were plenty 
win of the season thus far, and 
none bigger than wide receiver 
performance. 
Driscoll, who entered the 
game with 128 career receptions, 
needed 10 catches to break the 
all-time Middlebury receptions 
record, previously held by A.J. 
possession of the third quarter, the 
Concord, Mass. native did just that, 
hauling in his 10th reception of the 
game and the 38th of his brilliant 
career, on a six-yard pass from 
of the Week following a 12-catch, 
250-yard, three-touchdown 
13 win over Williams the week 
previously, followed that with a 
career high 15 catches for 203 yards 
and two touchdowns. Driscoll also 
broke the Middlebury single season 
record for touchdown catches with 
his 10th and 11th scores of the 
season, eclipsing the previous mark 
“I like being as involved [in the 
offense] as possible,” said Driscoll 
through enough pain and suffering 
over the past three years … the 
records for 8-0 any day.”
In the early going, however, it 
and the Middlebury rushing attack 
that got the offense in rhythm. 
running back set the tone early, 
converting on a fourth-and-one on 
his shoulder and picking up seven 
yards on the play. 
“Our offensive line did a great 
job of getting some push up front 
to allow [Ashkar] that initial burst,” 
said head coach Bob Ritter, “and 
then he did a really nice job of 
space.”
“Fourth-and-one plays are 
obviously very crucial for keeping 
the drive alive,” Ashkar said. “My 
mentality going into these types of 
plays is to see where the offensive 
hole and burst through it.”
The team, however, could not 
capitalize on its early success 
running the ball as Foote and 
Driscoll were a step out of sync. 
Foote overthrew his top receiver 
twice with Driscoll running free 
behind the defense. Then, on the 
11th play of the drive from the Bates 
21-yard line, targeting Driscoll once 
again, Foote was intercepted in the 
end zone. 
“In the type of offense that 
overthrows, some incompletions 
one way or the other to some of 
those things. Certainly [Foote] 
to things at the start … We just try 
doing offensively.”
touchdown of the season, the 
Middlebury defense found an 
option offense on the second series, 
forcing Bates to punt after picking 
time with the ball at the Middlebury 
again on Ashkar who had four of 
Bates 12-0 this Saturday, Oct. 20, 
pushing their record to 13-0 and 
upcoming NESCAC tournament.
quickly on an unseasonably warm 
Bobcat keeper two minutes in to 
give Middlebury the lead. Seconds 
penalty corner insert from Alyssa 
own, giving Middlebury a 3-0 lead 
in less than four minutes.
Kenyon added her second goal 
later in the half, converting a feed 
from Fowler — her team-leading 
13th assist of the season — to add 
“Cat hit a great ball from the top 
of the circle and it tipped off the 
in front of the net,” said Kenyon. 
“I stepped over from the right wing 
and knocked the ball in.”
of the game made the score 6-0 25 
minutes in before Dimaio found 
halftime with a seven-goal lead.
“Lauren is usually face guarded 
or sometimes has multiple 
guards on her,” said Kenyon. 
“The emphasis other teams put 
on Lauren means that they are 
forced to leave other spots on 
because we have such depth on 
our team, we often capitalize on 
this vulnerability.”
the second-half scoring for 
Middlebury, each recording their 
lead to 11.
hit from Mary Claire [Ecclesine 
it up to Katherine and me for a 
break away, two against one. The 
goalie came out a little bit too far 
so we could put the ball in from 
farther out; it all happened really 
fast because of the great transition 
lead that they would maintain 
Goalkeepers Madeline Brooks 
shutout for Middlebury, with 
defense which allowed just three 
shots, all in the second half.
With the win, Middlebury 
moves to 13-0 and captures 
record. With one game still 
remaining in the regular season, 
over second-place Bowdoin. The 
the national rankings last week 
after a loss by previous number 
one Salisbury (Md.)
With the postseason less than 
last NCAA championship came in 
College of New Jersey.
Middlebury is on pace for team 
season records in both goals and 
that is more balanced than last 
year, with Greer accounting for 
percent a year ago.
“Although there is a lot of 
pressure, the amount of fun we 
have and the amount we have been 
rewarded for our hard work makes 
it all worth it,” said Kenyon. 
continued its impressive season 
this past weekend by posting a 
commanding 3-0 win against Bates 
on Saturday, Oct. 20. The victory 
100th career win at the helm of the 
program, making the homecoming 
With the victory, Kim became 
school history to reach 100 wins. 
After nine seasons, he now holds a 
career record of 100-35-18.
The game started off at a slow 
active in negating any offensive 
attacks. However, just moments 
Nishioka to volley into the net.
from the late goal, Middlebury 
played the second half mainly on 
18-yard box. The patient build-up 
through ball for Kirk who slotted it 
home past the Bobcat keeper.
scoring in the 88th minute when 
Middlebury was awarded a penalty 
kick after a foul by Bates goalkeeper 
Anabel Schmelz.  Hannah Newman 
into the lower left corner.
abilities of this team,” said Wagner. 
“Every player on the team has been 
very impactful in raising the level 
of practice and competition and 
in helping to keep our spirits high. 
We are still working to maintain 
minutes, and to continue to assert 
our style.”
The win against Bates capped off 
three consecutive wins in the space 
2-1 win against Trinity on Saturday, 
Oct. 13, followed by a dramatic 
2-1 victory against Skidmore on 
Tuesday, Oct. 16.
Middlebury took the lead 
against Trinity in the 32nd minute 
over Trinity goalie Monica DiFlori.
While the Bantams managed 
to sneak a goal back at the 
beginning of the second half, the 
the game at 2-1.
made their mark on the game in the 
second minute, after Kirk chipped 
the ball over goalkeeper Gab 
Lawrence from 10 yards out.
leveled the score on a header off 
Even though Middlebury had 
chances to pull ahead, the game 
was forced into double overtime. 
102nd minute with a long-range 
strike into the right hand corner.
Kirk, with her three goals and an 
assist against Skidmore and Bates, 
Week honors. 
Co-captain Amy Schlueter 
the conference tournament.
“Bouncing back from our loss 
[against Conn. Coll.] with three 
the playoffs,” said Schlueter.  “Our 
team pulled out three scrappy 
victories against physical and 
hardworking opponents.  Going 
to combine that scrap with our 
possession-oriented attack.” 
With the win against Bates, 
sports      October 25, 2012 | 24
Football rolls to 5-0 record 
with 38-23 win over Bates
Emily White
MEN’S RUGBY 
DOWNS U-ALBANY 
91-7
PAGE 22
VOLLEYBALL POSTS 
A 3-1 WEEK
PAGE 23
Women’s soccer wins 
coach Kim’s 100th
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
SEE DRISCOLL, PAGE 21
