OCTOBER 27, 2016 | Vol. 115 no. 6 | middleburycampus.com
NOVEL BY ALUMNUS 
ADDRESSES 
SEXUAL ASSAULT
PAGE 14
VERMONT 
TO OBSERVE 
INDIGENOUS 
PEOPLE’S DAY
PAGE 5 
MOVIE DIRECTOR 
SHARES VIEWS ON 
MASCULINITY
PAGE 12in
sid
e
SEE COLLEGE, PAGE 3
New Bias Response 
Group Launches to 
Engage Community  
SEE HANDLING, PAGE 3
Students gathered on Proctor Terrace on Wednesday, Oct. 19 to protest Republican Presidential Nom-
inee Donald Trump’s actions and words against women. 
Michael Borenstein
STUDENTS PROTEST DONALD TRUMP’S TREATMENT OF WOMEN 
Police Department’s Investigation into Sexual 
Assault Case Raises Questions on Procedure
An unregistered guest of a 
Middlebury College student, Nam 
Vu Bui, 31, of Houston, Texas, 
was arrested on Tuesday, Oct. 18 
by the Middlebury Police Depart-
ment on charges of sexual assault 
and voyeurism involving at least 
one student while he was visiting 
campus. Bui is currently being 
held without bail pending the re-
sult of his future hearing. 
The police received a report 
that Bui had sexually assaulted 
a student late on Monday night 
while claiming to be conducting 
a research experiment. After the 
report, Public Safety issued Bui 
a trespass notice. According to 
Middlebury Police Detective Kris 
Bowdish, the investigation is still 
ongoing. The police believe that 
multiple victims may have been 
involved.
“We believe there are addition-
al victims and would like to hear 
from anyone that he may have 
approached about his medical 
research project,” Bowdish said 
in an interview with the Addison 
Independent on Oct. 24.
Bui pleaded not guilty to the 
charges during his arraignment 
on Oct. 19 in the Addison County 
district courthouse.
“Middlebury College takes 
these charges very seriously 
and we are cooperating with the 
Middlebury Police Department,” 
said Vice President for Commu-
nications Bill Burger in an official 
statement. “Our priority is ensur-
ing the safety of our campus, and 
providing resources and support 
for members of our community.”
This incident prompted two 
campus-wide emails from Public 
Safety, one on Oct. 18, the morn-
ing after the initial student report, 
and a second email on Oct. 19, af-
ter Bui was in custody. The first 
email, sent by Associate Director 
of Public Safety Daniel Gaiotti, 
was considered a timely warning 
under the Clery Act.
The Clery Act is a federal law 
passed in 1990 that requires col-
leges and universities receiving 
federal funding to disclose infor-
mation about crime on and near 
their campuses. The act requires 
that institutions give timely warn-
ings of crimes that represent a 
threat to the safety of students or 
employees. The College’s policy 
on timely warnings is detailed in 
the annual Security and Fire Safe-
ty Report, as required by the act.
The report lists three factors 
in determining whether a timely 
warning should be sent out: the 
nature of the crime, the continu-
ing and immediate danger to the 
campus community and the pos-
sible risk of compromising law 
enforcement efforts. According to 
Burger, the College was required 
to send out a timely warning un-
der these guidelines.
“[If] we have some reasonable 
belief that there is an ongoing 
threat or [if] there is other infor-
mation that we would like to get 
from the community, we send out 
an email like this,” Burger said. 
“We really didn’t know the scope 
of this. We didn’t know how many 
people might have been victim-
ized, [and] we didn’t know exactly 
how long he had been here,” Burg-
The Community Bias Re-
sponse Team (CBRT) launched 
this fall as the new body charged 
with coordinating and communi-
cating an institutional response 
to bias incidents and acts of in-
tolerance involving students. Ac-
cording to its policy, which went 
live on Sept. 1, the CBRT’s goal 
is “to take appropriate measures 
in responding to bias incidents 
and to provide and educational 
interventions to the Middlebury 
community.”
The CBRT, which is chaired 
by Brainerd Commons Dean AJ 
Place, is comprised of the associ-
ate chaplain, the associate dean 
for judicial affairs, the ADA co-
ordinator, the chief diversity of-
ficer, and the human relations 
officer.
According to Chief Diversity 
Officer Miguel Fernandez, the 
CBRT is tasked with addressing 
issues that warrant notifying the 
community, even if they do not 
lead to judicial or disciplinary 
action. 
“If an act of bias occurs on 
campus, sometimes there is an 
investigation to see if any poli-
cies have been broken,” Fernan-
dez said. “If it doesn’t rise to the 
level of harassment and discrim-
ination, then often times, that’s 
the end of it, and there is nothing 
more said about it. That silence 
then is often times interpreted as 
an acceptance of what happened 
or a lack of caring,” he said.
According to the CBRT’s 
By Caroline Agsten 
News Editor
SGA and BSU Urge 
College to Endorse 
Black Lives Matter
SEE SGA, PAGE 2
By Will DiGravio 
News Editor
King, a writer and activist, will be speaking at the College on Tuesday, Nov. 1. His lecture, “Why We 
Must Say Black Lives Matter,” will be take place from 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. in Mead Chapel. 
Robin Rayne Nelson
SHAUN KING TO SPEAK ON CAMPUS ABOUT BLACK LIVES MATTER
The Student Government Asso-
ciation (SGA), in partnership with 
the Black Student Union (BSU), 
unanimously passed a resolution 
at their Oct. 23 meeting that called 
for the College to raise both a ban-
ner and the flag of the Black Lives 
Matter movement on campus. The 
resolution recommended that the 
College hang the banner and flag 
for the duration of the fall semes-
ter, and provided several sugges-
tions as to where both should be 
placed. 
In the resolution, the SGA also 
officially announced their support 
for the endeavors of the Black Lives 
Matter movement and the BSU. 
They also recommended that Presi-
dent of the College Laurie L. Patton 
meet with representatives of the 
BSU at the end of the fall semester 
to discuss the sending of an e-mail 
statement that would support and 
endorse the Black Lives Matter 
movement. 
The resolution also recom-
mended the “continued effort of 
the Middlebury administration to 
consciously observe the deficit of 
black representation both within 
the student body and the faculty 
makeup.” 
As worded in the bill, “the SGA 
and the BSU recommend: a care-
ful look at where students are be-
ing recruited; how socioeconomic 
diversity impacts matriculation; 
investigating why students of col-
or ultimately decide not to attend 
Middlebury College; investigat-
ing retention rates of students of 
color.” 
They also recommended “chal-
lenging the notion that only ‘train-
ings’ can facilitate understanding 
amongst faculty members; and 
acknowledging the C3 program’s 
efforts at Middlebury College and 
exploring similar options for fac-
ulty diversity.” 
The final recommendation 
made by the SGA and the BSU is for 
the College to create a standard pro-
cedure that would allow students to 
share their responses to “campus-
related issues.” An example of such 
a procedure, as provided in the bill, 
would be “a go/link that invites stu-
dents to express themselves to dif-
ferent campus-related issues.” 
Members of the BSU, including 
BSU Co-President Nia Robinson 
’19 and Treasurer Clark Lewis ’19, 
drafted and submitted the bill as 
part of an ad-hoc committee that 
the SGA formed three weeks prior 
to the approval of the bill. The 
ad-hoc committee also included 
By Caroline Agsten 
and Ethan Brady
News Editors
| October 27, 20162 NEWS
By Ally Murphy
SGA Correspondent
SGA 
UPDATE
During the Oct. 9 meeting of the Stu-
dent Government Association (SGA), 
Dan Detora, the executive director of 
food service operations, addressed the 
SGA to discuss a number of issues con-
cerning the dining halls. 
First, Detora explained that the din-
ing halls currently have the same menus 
for a couple of reasons. It is easier for 
dining services to know how much prod-
uct to buy when dining halls have the 
same options. Second, since the dining 
halls will be installing a new menu man-
agement system in which all recipes in 
the system must be input, and all this 
information will be digitally available in 
all dining halls, then this task becomes 
much easier when the menus are the 
same. Detora also cited food waste and 
not enough turnover time from lunch as 
reasons why the hours of Proctor Dining 
Hall have shifted to 4:30 p.m. 
Cook Senator Connor McCormick 
’18 suggested for fruit and bread to be 
left out for athletes before practice. At-
water Senator Jeffrey Ou ’19 asked if 
standardized menus would be a tempo-
rary change, to which Detora responded 
that dining services hopes to finish the 
menu input process and return to differ-
ent menus by spring term. He expressed 
willingness to work with more requests 
for vegetarian and dietary restricted di-
ets, per the suggestion of Senior Senator 
Nikki Lantigua ’17. 
Dean of Students Baishakhi Taylor 
then spoke to the SGA about judicial 
action and punishment regarding alco-
hol infractions. She addressed the ru-
mors regarding the implementation of 
a three-strike policy. Taylor stated how 
the administration is not thinking about 
changing the policy but rather are hop-
ing to make sanctioning more transpar-
ent. They are looking at current policy 
language regarding current sanctions 
with the regards to the health and safe-
ty of students. Taylor noted that recent 
changes to the Clery Act have required 
institutions to make their guidlines more 
transparent.
The Oct. 25 SGA meeting began with 
appearances from Liz Robinson and 
Heather Neuwirth from the Center for 
Creativity, Innovation, and Social Entre-
preneurship who discussed the new cen-
ter and its new programs.
Student liaison to the SGA on Endow-
ment Affairs Reports Colin Mackintosh 
’17, reported that market performace of 
the endowment had negative returns of 
-4.5 percent in 2016. 
At the previous week’s meeting, De-
tora mentioned the possibility for the 
Grille to close from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m., 
since that three-hour time window av-
eraged only 25 dollars. The SGA voted 
unanimously to support the dinging ser-
vices’ suggestion, although no changes 
will be made yet.  
Co-Chair of Community Council Da-
vid Pesquiera ’17 then presented a de-
tailed bill, drafted in conjunction with 
members of the Black Student Union 
(BSU) that called for college administra-
tors to raise a flag and banner in sup-
port of Black Lives Matter. The bill also 
called for President of the College Laurie 
L. Patton to meet with representatives 
of the BSU to discuss the drafting of an 
email to endorse Black Lives Matter. 
The SGA voted unanimously, with one 
abstention, to pass the resolution. For 
more information on this issue, please 
see “SGA and BSU Urge College to En-
drose Black Lives Matter”.
SGA Passes Resolution Endorsing Black 
Lives Matter; Admin Agrees To Act
“Not only hasn’t [current 
drug policy] worked, 
but it’s created more 
problems without even 
solving the problems of 
the drug trade itself.”
William Pyle
Frederick C. Dirks Professor of 
International Economics
The Middlebury College department 
of International Politics and Economics 
(IPE) will host its fifth annual symposium, 
“The Global Illicit Drug Trade: Confront-
ing Challenges and Exploring Solutions” 
on Friday, Oct. 28.
The event, slated to take place in the 
Robert A. Jones House Conference Room, 
will mainly consist of three lectures de-
livered by guest speakers with expertise 
in drug policy; the fourth will be given by 
Rebecca Tiger, a professor of sociology at 
the College.
In the lead-up to the symposium, the 
Campus spoke with Professors Mark Wil-
liams and Sebnem Gumuscu (Political 
Science) and William Pyle (Economics), 
who have served as the primary organiz-
ers of the event. All three highlighted the 
symposium’s pragmatic, policy-oriented 
focus, as well as the increasing pertinence 
of drug policy both at home and overseas.
“There were a number of things that led 
to this topic,” said Williams. 
Perhaps the biggest motivator, he said, 
was a United Nations General Assembly 
session convened in April which focused 
on the world drug problem. 
“Countries were trying to rethink the 
international law that deals with drug traf-
ficking,” he explained. “We wanted to time 
the topic to coincide with that, to build off 
whatever momentum may have come out 
of that session.”
A central theme of the symposium, the 
professors said, will be an analysis of the 
perceived failures of global drug policy, 
and what steps nations may take to forge 
a better future.
“The standard pathway for a long time 
has been prohibition of drug production 
and drug consumption—selling and so 
forth —and punishment for those that are 
involved in any of those processes,” Wil-
liams said. “For many countries, there’s 
been a growing consensus that this sort 
of standard approach hasn’t worked. Not 
only hasn’t it worked, but it’s created more 
problems without even solving the prob-
lems of the drug trade itself.”
Moreover, Williams highlighted that 
the subject has increasing relevance at 
home. “I think that over time, there’s been 
a growing perception that something is 
not right with the way that we’ve been ap-
proaching illicit drugs,” he said. “You can 
see that, not only in the number of people 
that are incarcerated but in the return of 
some drugs that had been on the decline, 
like heroin.”
Pyle concurred, noting that the issue 
has particular resonance “if we think about 
something like marijuana policy, which 
is changing on a state-by-state basis. We 
have policy experiments in Washington 
state, Colorado—it’s something that’s di-
rectly relevant to Vermont state politics, 
it’s part of the governor’s race right now 
and the state legislature dealt with mari-
juana legalization in just the past year […]. 
So it’s something that’s international in 
scope but it also resonates nicely with is-
sues that hit closer to home.”
Gumuscu elaborated on the signifi-
cance of drug policy from a geopolitical 
standpoint. “I study and teach compara-
tive politics, and we talk a lot about state 
building and state failure,” she said. “In-
terestingly, drug trade is a very important 
part of that process in very different parts 
of the world, especially the developing 
world.”
She explained that insurgent groups—
sometimes known as terrorist groups, 
“depending on the point of view”—often 
depend heavily upon the drug market. 
“[These groups] gather substantial finan-
cial income and resources from this trade,” 
she said. “And they can thus finance their 
operations in many of these developing 
countries […]. So there are multiple di-
mensions to it, from state-building and 
state failure to insurgencies, terrorist or-
ganizations and transnational terrorist or-
ganizations and networks.”
Each of the day’s speakers, the profes-
sors said, would highlight some aspect of 
these issues. The first is Peter Reuter, a 
professor at the University of Maryland 
who Pyle described as “an expert on the 
international policy regime.” His lecture, 
“The International Drug Policy Reform 
Agenda: Why It Misses the Major Prob-
lems and Opportunities,” will be a critical 
examination of the drug policies under-
taken by nations around the world.
The second speaker will be Beau Kilm-
er, a researcher at the RAND Drug Policy 
Research Center. His talk, “Marijuana 
Legalization 2016: Assessing the Interna-
tional Policy Landscape and Implemen-
tation Issues,” will analyze differing ap-
proaches to marijuana legalization.
Kilmer will be followed by Alejandro 
Madrazo Lajous, a researcher from Mexi-
co City whose lecture, “The Constitutional 
Costs of the War on Drugs,” will compare 
drug policies in Colombia, Mexico and the 
United States, as well as how those poli-
cies affect the civil liberties and consti-
tutional commitments that governments 
By Nick Garber
Senior Writer
IPE Annual Symposium to Focus on 
Drug Trade and its Challenges 
SEE SYMPOSIUM, PAGE 3
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Community Council Co-Chair David Ollin 
Pesqueira ’17, Senior Senator Aliza Cohen ’17 
and Junior Senator Hanna Pustejovsky ’18, 
all of whom were the co-sponsors of the bill 
presented to the SGA. 
According to Pesqueira, the subcommit-
tee, prior to their first meeting, asked mem-
bers of BSU to brainstorm recommendations 
and ideas to be included in the resolution. 
“We wanted to make sure that BSU’s per-
spective was the priority because we did not 
want to lose the passion or authenticity that 
they brought to this bill,” he said. 
This year, the SGA, according to SGA 
President Karina Toy ’17 is making a more 
concerted effort to work with student-orga-
nizations in drafting and voting on proposals.
“Right when [the SGA] knew we wanted 
to talk about this, David invited BSU to come 
[to a meeting],” said Toy. “If a student group 
really wants something to happen and we 
feel, as SGA members, ‘yes, this is something 
that we want to support them in,’ I think [col-
laborating] is completely fine.” 
Both Toy and Pesqueira emphasized the 
desire of both the SGA and the BSU to have 
an open dialogue and work with the College’s 
administrators on this issue.
“[We] wanted to make sure that [the reso-
lution] didn’t come off too much as a list of 
demands and whatnot, because we really do 
want to work with the administration, and, if 
anything, we do want to say that it is possible 
to work with the administration to create 
these effective policies,” Pesqueira said. 
On Tuesday, Oct. 25, Vice President for 
Student Affairs and Dean of the College Katy 
Smith Abbott, after a conversation with other 
members of the College’s Senior Leadership 
Group (SLG), responded to the resolution in 
an email to its authors.
Abbott wrote that the SLG supports the 
hanging of a Black Lives Matter flag or ban-
ner on campus. 
“The SLG is in strong support of the BSU 
hanging a flag or banner in a central space on 
campus,” Abbott wrote. “In fact, our conver-
sation led us to determine that we are in sup-
port of creating a permanent, central space 
that student groups can have access to for the 
purpose of raising awareness and for creating 
support for a major cause or concern.”
According to Abbott, members of the 
SLG suggest that this space or “zone of free 
expression” be located on the patio in front 
of the McCullough Student Center, otherwise 
known as the Wilson Terrace. 
“This would resemble public spaces seen 
at other campuses where banners, post-
ers, chalked pavement and others forms of 
expression are commonly seen,” said Bill 
Burger, the College’s vice president for com-
munications and chief marketing officer, 
in a summary of the SLG’s response. “The 
creation of such a space will take some time 
and can’t happen over the winter, but it is 
something we’re eager to see discussed and 
debated on campus.”
Should the space be created, the SLG sug-
gested that the SGA, or a subcommittee of 
the SGA, be responsible for determining how 
students can petition to use the space.
“Students can discuss whether a flagpole 
is desired in that space, or whether it would 
be preferable to have a means of hanging 
banners from the sides of the building, cre-
ating clotheslines for banners somewhere in 
that area, etc.,” Abbott wrote.  
In response to the resolution’s call for the 
College to draft an email statement in sup-
port of Black Lives Matter, Abbott said that 
they will do so when the “zone for free ex-
pression” is completed.
“The College will include a note of support 
for Black Lives Matter in a message announc-
ing the establishment of the zone for free ex-
pression,” she said. 
With regard to the SGA’s recommenda-
tion that a procedure be created for students 
to express their thoughts about “campus-
related issues,” Abbott’s email said that the 
SLG believes that the creation of “zone for 
free expression” would be a powerful and 
impactful way for students to express their 
beliefs. However, she did add that if the cre-
ation of another platform is particularly im-
portant, the SLG would be willing to have 
another conversation in the future.
Abbott also responded to the recom-
mendation from the SGA and the BSU that 
the College continue to observe the deficit of 
black representation both within the student 
body and faculty.
“Many of these [recommendations] are 
actively in process, and are being overseen 
by various members of the college staff and 
administration,” Abbott said. “[Chief Diver-
sity Officer] Miguel Fernandez and [Vice 
President for Academic Affairs and Dean 
of Faculty] Andi Lloyd have offered to meet 
with students to offer an update on hiring, 
and we can certainly have a member of the 
admissions staff discuss how we are evaluat-
ing practices of outreach/recruitment.”
When asked by The Campus for comment 
on the drafting and passing of the bill, as well 
as a reaction to the response of the SLG, the 
leadership of the Black Student Union chose 
to respond, as a board, with the following 
statement:
“We, the board of the Black Student 
Union, would like to thank the SGA, SLG, 
and the numerous students who came for-
ward with support for the flag. We are eager 
to see how it will affect the community’s con-
versation and how student groups will ap-
proach activism in the future. This is a great 
step for BSU moving forward.”
 
Additional Reporting By Ally Murphy
October 27, 2016 |  3        News
College Forms Community Bias Response 
Team, Issues Statement on Intervarsity
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
symposium 
speakers to 
discuss drugs
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2
Free Friday Film: Suicide Squad
In this latest superhero film, a U.S. 
intelligence officer decides to assemble a 
team of supervillians, dubbed Task Force 
X, for a top-secret mission.
FRIDAY AT 6 P.M. AND 9 P.M. IN DANA AUDITORIUM
MCAB Haunted House
Join us for a 10-minute walking tour 
through several themed rooms... There 
will be candy and hot drinks waiting for 
you at the end!
SATURDAY AT 7 P.M. TO 10 P.M. IN THE BUNKER
MCAB Halloween Night
Bring blankets and snacks for a back-
to-back movie feature! Halloweentown 
starts at 6:30 p.m., and Insidious will 
begin at 9:30 p.m. Hot chocolate and 
cider will be provided.
SATURDAY AT 6:30 P.M. AND 9:30 P.M. ON BATTEL 
BEACH
Yoga with Chelsea
Come take a break and attend this 
restorative yoga class taught by certified 
instructor Chelsea Colby ’17.5!
SUNDAY AT 7 P.M. IN THE CHATEAU GRAND SALON
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
grant to their citizens.
The final speaker, Rebecca Tiger, will 
deliver a lecture titled “(Re) Imagining 
Drugs and Addiction: The Past, Present 
and Possible Future of Drug Policy,” fo-
cusing on the sociological implications of 
drug addiction.
“While we were putting together the 
program, we wanted to make sure that 
we covered a lot of ground, and as many 
different factors and dimensions as pos-
sible,” said Gumuscu. “So from Europe to 
North America, South America and even 
developing countries in general, that was 
the goal: to look at this particular topic 
from a very comprehensive perspective.”
Above all, the professors hope that at-
tendees leave the symposium with a great-
er understanding of a highly complicated 
issue.
“One of the important takeaways that 
I personally want to emphasize would be 
the complexity of the issue and how multi-
dimensional it is, and how hard it is to find 
easy solutions to this problem,” Gumuscu 
said.
“With an issue as complicated as drug 
trafficking and the other externalities that 
it creates, it’s unlikely that you’ll come up 
with a policy that will solve all problems,” 
agreed Williams. “So the issue would be, 
can we use the past, and other countries’ 
policy experiments and experiences, to 
minimize the risks that we would take as 
we try to reform policy? And can we ac-
tually maximize benefits from adopting 
some reforms while avoiding unnecessary 
costs?”
“We hope that the folks who attend 
come away with a better appreciation for 
the sorts of policy experiments that are 
being discussed currently and the costs of 
the current enforcement regime, whether 
it’s in terms of violence or incarceration 
or resources spent on policing,” Pyle con-
cluded. “And a consequence that we could 
hope for is that the people walk out better-
informed, able to be better citizens and 
better voters on issues relating to drug 
policy. If we can push the ball forward in 
that respect, then we’ll have done some-
thing very valuable.”
policy, bias incidents include but are not 
limited to slurs, degrading language, epi-
thets, graffiti, vandalism, intimidation, 
symbols and harassment that are directed 
toward or affect a targeted individual or 
team.
In most instances, incidents of bias 
and harassment directed at a student are 
reported by Public Safety to the dean of 
the students. The dean of students, vice 
president of student affairs, or chief di-
versity officer then assesses the reports 
and will convene the CBRT as appropri-
ate. Depending on the severity of the inci-
dent, the Human Resources Office (HRO) 
will conduct an investigation.
Fernandez explained the difference 
in responsibilities between the HRO and 
the CBRT. “Even if [a report] does go the 
HRO, it might go to the CBRT as well be-
cause in a sense they have different roles. 
If the HRO isn’t going to address it, then 
they will inform the CBRT, and then the 
CBRT might address the community if 
there is still the need for an answer,” he 
said.
The HRO is also bound by issues of 
confidentiality because of the Family Edu-
cational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). 
“So while the HRO might not be able to 
talk about [the investigation], the CBRT 
can talk about the broader incident and 
maybe not the individuals. We can ad-
dress the fact that there has been discrim-
ination and bring it to people’s attention,” 
Fernandez said.
The CBRT does not have authority to 
conduct disciplinary proceedings or im-
pose discipline on students. Such com-
plaints of misconduct are directed to the 
judicial affairs officer. The CBRT is also 
charged with addressing issues of bias 
involved with only students. Complaints 
of misconduct related to faculty members 
are relegated to the dean of the faculty, 
and complaints of misconduct related to 
staff members are directed to HRO.
Currently, the CBRT holds weekly 
meetings. Fernandez noted the frequency 
of these meetings is in part because of the 
duration of time it took to draft the policy. 
The proposal originated from the HRO 
last year.
“The original draft of the proposal 
had strong policy language. When we 
presented that, the administration felt 
as though we were creating a whole new 
policy that came into conflict with current 
handbook policy,” Fernandez said. An ex-
ample of such conflict would be if an issue 
is brought to the CBRT that later involves 
the HRO, or vice versa, then one of these 
branches loses time to work for response.
Because of this potential repetition 
and interference with current policies, the 
proposal shifted its emphasis to commu-
nity. 
“Instead of us being another investiga-
tive group working with individuals. Our 
role is more to engage with the commu-
nity,” Fernandez said. 
For now, the CBRT will not be directly 
involved in organizing programs. “We feel 
like those really fall in the hands of other 
departments or programs or individu-
als,” he said. Fernandez cited the Ander-
son Freeman Center (AFC), the Center 
for Teaching and Learning Resources 
(CTLR), student organized teach-ins, and 
college-wide events as potential tools used 
to raise awareness and educate students. 
On some college campuses, the cre-
ation of bias and assessment response 
teams have been met with criticism and 
controversy. An article published before 
the start of the academic term from In-
sider Higher Ed described a situation at 
the University of Northern Colorado in 
which faculty members felt like their bias 
response group was effectively policing 
academic speech. 
“Some of the fear has been that [bias 
response groups] interfere with First 
Amendment rights, freedom of speech 
and academic freedom,” Fernandez said. 
“We were sensitive to those issues, which 
is why we are specifically wanted to call it 
a community bias response team. We are 
engaging with the community rather than 
those individual situations.”
Handling of Recent Sexual 
Assault Draws Students’ Ire
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
er said.
While the first email was mandated by 
the Clery Act, the second email — which 
contained the suspect’s full name, his place 
of residence and a photograph — was part 
of the continuing investigation. Burger not-
ed that Bui’s photo was included as a pre-
cautionary measure. 
“If anyone else was victimized by this 
person, we wanted them to be able to see 
a photo so that they could come forward,” 
he said. 
Responses and Scrutiny
Beyond the Green, a student-run online 
publication, published a critique of Public 
Safety’s emails on Oct. 22 (their statement 
can be read on page 8). The authors, who 
identified themselves as “the collective,” 
wrote that including a photograph of Bui 
reinforced the notion that sexual violence 
“is perpetrated only by ‘others,’ and not 
people already inside of our community.”
The article questioned why the College 
did not respond with a similar email in the 
case of John Doe v. Middlebury College 
in the fall of 2015. The student, who was 
accused of sexual assault while studying 
abroad on a non-Middlebury program in 
the fall of 2014, used the pseudonym John 
Doe when filing a suit against the College 
for conducting a sexual assault investiga-
tion after the study abroad program had 
completed its own investigation. 
According to Burger, lawsuits and fed-
eral injunctions complicated the John Doe 
case and made it different from this inci-
dent.
“There was no sense of immediate threat 
in the same kind of situation. Very different 
case. We learned about it months after the 
event. It didn’t happen here — he was off 
campus at that point.”
According to Burger, the Federal Educa-
tion Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) places 
restrictions on student educational records. 
Because Bui was not a student, he was not 
protected by FERPA. Burger said that FER-
PA applies in incidents between students. 
In this situation, FERPA protects the iden-
tities of students who were assaulted by Bui 
and who hosted him on campus.  
“We wouldn’t share the name of the 
person who is alleged to be the victim of a 
crime. And in this case, we wouldn’t share 
the name of the student whose guest he 
was,” Burger said.
However, Public Safety’s duty to protect 
students on campus from ongoing threats 
to their safety can trump FERPA restric-
tions, according to Burger.
“Generally if a student commits a crime 
we have more ability to say something,” he 
said.
The Beyond the Green article also criti-
cized the safety tips that were included in 
the bottom of the first all-campus email, 
which requested that “suspicious people” 
be reported to Public Safety.
“We cannot imagine a practice of report-
ing ‘suspicious people to Public Safety’ that 
does not result in reaffirming the crimi-
nalization of marginalized groups, while 
simultaneously allowing perpetrators from 
more dominant identities to avoid conse-
quences,” the article read.
Similar claims of racial discrimination 
were made by students in November 2004, 
after a series of incidents in which a stu-
dent, identified later as then-senior O’Neil 
Walker, intruded into six rooms in Hadley 
Hall, crouched beside residents’ beds and 
assaulted six students. 
The Campus reported, on Nov. 14, 2004, 
that Lisa Boudah, director of Public Safety, 
met with one of the students who was as-
saulted on Nov. 14, 2004. The student pro-
vided a physical description of a male with 
“dark skin,” “African American features,” 
and “nappy” hair. 
That night, Burchard (who then went by 
Lisa Boudah) sent an all-campus communi-
ty alert that evening including this descrip-
tion of the student. The Campus reported 
that Public Safety received complaints 
about the racial undertones of the descrip-
tion, and the alert was promptly revised.
A week after he was supposed to have 
graduated, Walker, who had pleaded not 
guilty in front of the College’s judicial board 
and still been suspended, filed a lawsuit 
against the College alleging racial discrimi-
nation in suspending him. Addison Superi-
or Court Judge Cristina Reiss ruled that the 
College’s judicial board had acted within its 
discretion when it suspended Walker. But 
in her decision, Judge Reiss also found that 
the first round of hearings by Middlebury in 
the case violated the college’s own rules in 
a way that made them “fundamentally un-
fair and arbitrary and capricious.” She also 
found that Walker was entitled to damages 
for the way the college communicated sub-
sequent findings to him, without sufficient 
information for him to figure out his appeal 
or legal options.
College Sexual Assault Policy
The College has taken numerous mea-
sures in its recent past toward addressing 
issues of sexual assault on campus. In 2013, 
it received a three-year grant from the De-
partment of Justice to enhance its efforts 
through education and training programs. 
MiddSafe and the GreenDot Violence Pre-
vention Strategy program are examples of 
programs for students to receive support, 
respond to and prevent sexual violence.   
For other issues regarding campus safe-
ty, the Student Policy Handbook states that 
all guests of students must register with 
Public Safety and Residential Life must be 
told in advance where the guest is staying. 
The College reserves the right to remove 
any guest “whose behavior is not coopera-
tive, and to rescind the privilege of host-
ing guests as appropriate.” The policy also 
states that students are responsible for the 
behavior of their guests.
“Because of Title IX we have no author-
ity over this guy. We can’t suspend him or 
do anything,” Burger said. “There could be 
implications for the friend [who invited 
him to campus]. That would fall under the 
investigation that is taking place.”
“We know we don’t have perfect visibil-
ity of what happens in all of the residence 
halls here. We really do count on students 
to obey the rules in residence halls, and if 
something seems not right, other students 
can speak to someone in the Commons,” 
Burger said.
Bui’s next hearing has not yet been 
scheduled. 
It’s winter in the mountains. If 
you’re not ready, check out some ledges! 
The Bristol Ledges Trail is the per-
fect hike for when you’re looking for 
something short and close by, but with 
super sweet views. 
Plus, with the snow that rolled in 
over the weekend, some of the major 
hikes in the Green Mountains and the 
Adirondacks are getting harder to do 
without winter gear (however, if you’re 
interested, you can borrow all the gear 
you need from the gear room in FIC on 
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 4:30-7:00 
p.m.). 
But if you’re feeling like it’s too early 
in the year to put on your snow boots, 
stick to this lower elevation hike with re-
warding views. 
The hike is about 3 miles round trip, 
with ledges at the top facing out towards 
downtown Bristol. 
This is a great spot to watch the 
sunset; bring a picnic and some friends. 
There is no parking at the trailhead, so 
park in town (the parking lot of Shaw’s 
works well). From Main Street going 
east, turn left on Mountain Street, then 
the first right on Mountain Terrace. 
At the end of the road, look for a gate 
that has a sign for Bristol Ledges Trail. 
Happy Hiking!
For more information, driving di-
rections and past features hikes, visit 
go/fortnightlyfeature.
On Oct. 5, the Porter Medical Cen-
ter Board of Directors and the UVM 
Health Network Board of Trustees voted 
unanimously to sign a letter of intent to 
enter into negotiations regarding Por-
ter’s joining the University of Vermont 
(UVM) Health Network. An Oct. 7 press 
release from the Porter Medical Center 
announced the potential merger with the 
UVM Network. 
The negotiations set into motion by 
the letter are non-binding, and Porter 
reserves the right to decide not to join 
the network at any point during their 
discussions. The letter of intent also laid 
out the terms Porter is seeking in the 
negotiations, which are expected to take 
around six months. If Porter and the 
UVM Health Network reach an agree-
ment, Porter could join the network as 
soon as the spring of 2017.
The UVM Health Network, previous-
ly known as Fletcher 
Allen Partners, was 
created in October 
2011, when Fletcher 
Allen Health Care 
in Burlington, now 
known as the Uni-
versity of Vermont 
Medical Center, and 
the Central Vermont 
Medical Center in 
Berlin came together. 
In January 2013, the 
Alice Hyde Medical 
Center in Malone, 
New York, Champlain 
Valley Physicians 
Hospital in Platts-
burgh, New York and 
Elizabethtown Com-
munity Hospital in Elizabethtown, New 
York were added to the network. Porter 
therefore would be the sixth member to 
join the UVM Health Network.
John Brumsted, M.D., who serves 
as the president and chief executive of-
ficer (CEO) of the UVM Health Network 
as well as the CEO of the UVM Medical 
Center, commented that the merger pro-
vides Porter with “opportunities in this 
challenging era of health care reform for 
collaboration and finding ways to be-
come more efficient and effective in de-
livering high-quality care.” 
Porter, which has served the 
Middlebury community for the last 91 
years, has faced financial difficulties re-
cently.
Ron Hallman, Porter’s vice presi-
dent of Development and Public Rela-
tions, and Alice Leo, the president of the 
Porter Federation of Nurses and Health 
Professionals, discussed Porter’s financ-
es following the layoff of eight registered 
nurses in an interview with Vermont 
Public Radio (VPR) in February 2016. 
“Porter Medical Center has lost $11 
million since 2012 through our opera-
tions,” Hallman said. “And it is only be-
cause of the 340B drug program … that 
we’ve been able to sustain ourselves.” 
In addition to 
the 340B govern-
ment drug pro-
gram, Hallman 
also discussed 
how the hospital 
attempted to cut 
costs by combin-
ing departments 
and eliminating 
positions in order 
to offset expensive 
electronic record-
keeping and re-
ceiving less money 
from government 
reimbursements.
Hallman em-
phasized that Por-
ter’s goal has always been to continue 
operating while providing the highest 
quality of patient care possible. Leo, 
however, argued that laying off nurses 
negatively affected patient care. This 
disagreement between colleagues, both 
of whom presented valid arguments, un-
derscored the difficulties that Porter has 
faced in recent months.
Porter’s press release and the sum-
mary of the letter of intent demonstrated 
Porter’s desire to protect their employ-
ees, solve their financial difficulties, 
continue to provide a high quality of care 
and even improve upon what is currently 
offered where possible. 
The following summary was provid-
ed for terms regarding employees: “Por-
ter employees remain employees of Por-
ter Medical Center. No change in current 
staffing, employee wages or benefits.” 
The letter of intent also asserted that 
Porter would still have its own board of 
directors.
The summary mentioned “supply 
chain savings”, “debt refinancing” and 
“enhanced access to capital, legal, risk 
management, compliance, insurance 
[and] third party contracting.”
According to Porter’s press release, 
Dr. Fred Kniffin, current president of 
Porter Medical Center, “points to the 
possibility of bringing a common EMR 
[electronic medical record] system, en-
hanced access to clinical, quality and 
financial expertise and a new medical 
office building to Porter as specific ele-
ments of this partnership.” 
Both of these aspects of the affili-
ation, if it goes through, would allow 
Porter to maintain, improve and expand 
upon its current services.
As Hallman mentioned in his inter-
view, the recent past has been a tumultu-
ous time for small, rural hospitals. Ac-
cording to Hallman, one third of small, 
rural hospitals ran a deficit last year. 
However, with Porter’s potential af-
filiation with the UVM Health Network, 
many are optimistic about the future. 
Maureen McLaughlin, the chair of 
Porter Medical Center’s Board of Direc-
tors, has gone so far as to say that the 
merger and the benefits it could pro-
vide may “ensure that Porter remains a 
strong and integral part of this commu-
nity for the next 91 years.”
As of Oct. 5, the Porter Medical Center Board of Directors have been negotiating with 
the UVM Health Network Board of Trustees over a potential merger. 
ENGINEERING VENTURES
Porter Medical Center Debates Merger with UVM
By Sean Flanagan
Contributing Writer
local
Bristol Ledges, A Hike For Your Transition To Winter
By Nina Sonneborn and Dorothy 
Punderson
Contributing Writers
Bristol 
Ledges Trail
Difficulty: Easy
“Porter Medical Cen-
ter has lost $11 million 
since 2012 through 
our operations, and it 
is only because of the 
340B drug program...
that we’ve been able to 
sustain ourselves.”
Ron Hallman
Porter’s vice president of development 
Round trip: 
three miles
Driving time (one-
way): 20 minutes
This photo shows the entrance to the Bristol Ledges Trail, a 2 minute drive from campus.
Alessandria Schumacher
This photo shows the view from the top of the Bristol Ledges Trail, a 3 mile round trip.
Nina Sonneborn and Dorothy Punderson
go/fortnightly-
feature         
October 27, 2016 |
On Oct. 6, Governor Peter Shum-
lin issued a proclamation designating 
Oct. 10 of this year “Indigenous People’s 
Day,” rebranding what had previously 
been observed as Columbus Day. 
In the executive proclamation, 
Shumlin declared, “The state of Vermont 
recognizes the historical, cultural and 
contemporary significance of the Indig-
enous Peoples of the lands that later be-
came known as the Americas, including 
Vermont, and values the many contribu-
tions of these peoples.” 
Gov. Shumlin 
continued in the 
proclamation, ex-
plaining that, the day 
serves as “an oppor-
tunity to celebrate 
indigenous heri-
tage and resiliency,” 
along with honoring 
the “sacrifice and 
contributions of the 
First Peoples of this 
land,” including the 
Abenaki, a First Na-
tion tribe native to 
New England. 
Gov. Shum-
lin’s decree was not 
the only one of its 
kind in the United States. Over the last 
few years, a handful of cities across the 
country — such as Phoenix, Arizona, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota and Seattle, 
Washington — have decided to replace 
the observance of Columbus Day with 
the recognition of Native people through 
Indigenous People’s Day on the second 
Monday of October, the day traditionally 
observed as Columbus Day. 
The idea of Indigenous People’s Day 
was originally proposed in 1977 by a del-
egation of Native Nations at the Inter-
national Conference on Discrimination 
Against Indigenous Populations in the 
Americas, a conference held in Geneva, 
Switzerland and sponsored by the United 
Nations. 
In 1992, a group of attendees from 
Northern California persuaded the city 
council of Berkeley, California to des-
ignate Oct. 12 of that year as “A Day of 
Solidarity with Indigenous People.” The 
city proceeded to rename Columbus Day 
“Indigenous People’s Day” that very 
same year, enacting programs in schools, 
libraries and museums to teach the com-
munity about Native American culture. 
Following Berkeley’s action, many local 
governments and institutions across the 
country have chosen to either rename or 
cancel Columbus Day all together. 
Rich Holschuh, a commissioner 
on the Vermont Commission of Native 
American Affairs, introduced the idea of 
Indigenous People’s Day to Gov. Schum-
lin four days before Columbus Day this 
year. Holschuh first pitched the idea 
to his local city council in Brattleboro. 
Holschuh told The Campus that he want-
ed to “honor the rich native heritage of 
the region which is home to the south-
eastern most Abenaki community and 
address the rights of Native Americans 
on a local level.” 
The proposal was met with great 
support from the 
Brattleboro com-
munity, leading to 
a non-binding vote 
on changing Co-
lumbus Day to In-
digenous People’s 
Day within the 
community. How-
ever, Holschuh en-
countered a bit of a 
bump in the road. 
“[The local gov-
ernment] felt that 
they didn’t have the 
authority to bring 
the resolution to a 
binding vote, nor 
did they feel they 
were in the place to put the resolution on 
the agenda for the upcoming town meet-
ing,” he said. 
Holschuh then decided to contact 
the governor with the same language he 
had brought to the local board. At 9 p.m. 
the next day, Holschuh noticed an email 
from the governor’s office in his inbox. In 
the email, Holschuh was informed that 
the governor had acted on his suggestion. 
“I was surprised that Gov. Shumlin 
acted so fast considering the short no-
tice, but it’s important to understand 
that this proclamation is only good for 
one year since it’s an executive proclama-
tion,” Holschuh said. 
After receiving the news of the gov-
ernor’s action, Holschuh spoke to Ver-
mont State Representative Kesha Ram 
of Burlington about the next steps. Both 
Holschuh and Ram look forward to en-
suring that a bill is passed to implement 
Indigenous People’s Day as a yearly holi-
day. In the meantime, Holschuh will take 
time to gather the signatures of five per-
cent of voters in Brattleboro in the hopes 
of making the city’s vote on observance of 
Indigenous People’s Day a binding vote. 
Chief Donald Stevens of the Nul-
hegan tribe of the Abenaki people was 
also taken by surprise by the governor’s 
prompt attention to Holschuh’s email. 
He expressed his happiness with the gov-
ernor’s move to make an executive proc-
lamation. However, 
Chief Stevens ad-
mitted that the im-
pact of this procla-
mation is minimal. 
“It’s a feel-good 
moment for the Na-
tive community, but 
it’s only a proclama-
tion and not a bill 
that changes the ac-
tual day in the long 
run,” Stevens said. 
Nonetheless, he 
said that he appreci-
ated the proclama-
tion’s “recognition 
of [Native Ameri-
can] cultural signifi-
cance and the role of 
Natives before Ver-
mont became a state [and] recognizing 
native people across the country.” 
Both Holschuh and Stevens acknowl-
edged that this proclamation is nowhere 
near the end of the road in the struggle 
for recognition and respect of Native 
American culture and history. Chief 
Stevens asserted that the best way to go 
about this is by incorporating teaching 
on Native American history within the 
nation’s education system. 
The relationship Vermont has with 
its Native population will continue to im-
prove once the 
state ensures 
that Native com-
munities receive 
representation 
at a legislative 
level with more 
individuals will-
ing to represent 
these commu-
nities and their 
needs within the 
state. Commis-
sioner Holschuh 
sees this as an 
e v e r - g r o w i n g 
movement that 
will eventually 
reach a nation-
wide level. 
“This is not 
a fringe movement,” he said. “This is 
about inclusivity, about bringing people 
together, about education and learning 
to appreciate the contributions of those 
around us. By recognizing the Abenaki 
and other Native peoples—treating them 
the way they deserve—Vermont can go 
a long way in ‘walking the walk’ of their 
progressive values.”
Vt. Observes Indigenous People’s 
Day for the First Time This October
By Jules Morales
Contributing Writer
5Local
Rich Holschuh, a member of the Vermont Commission on Native American Affairs, 
was the one who proposed the idea of Indigenous People’s Day to the governor.
  vpr
“It’s a feel-good mo-
ment for the Native 
community, but it’s 
only a proclamation 
and not a bill that 
changes the actual 
day in the long run.”
Chief Donald Stevens
Chief of the Nulhegan tribe of the 
Abenaki People 
People gather outside the Vermont State House in Montpelier on Indigenous People’s 
Day to hear Gov. Shumlin’s proclamation and to celebrate the day together.
 CNN
“This is not a fringe 
movement ... This is 
about inclusivity, about 
bringing people to-
gether, about education 
and learning to appreci-
ate the contributions of 
those around us.”
RicH Holschuh
Commissioner, 
Vermont commission on native affairs
Gov. Shumlin delivers his proclamation of Indigenous People’s Day this year.
 News 10 ABC
Taxis have become an indispensable 
part of my daily life. Throughout my 
abroad experience, they have been es-
sential. In Amman, Jordan you either get 
a r o u n d 
by yel-
low-taxi 
(a l l - in-
c l u s i v e 
w i t h 
more second hand smoke exposure than 
you can imagine, an argument over the 
fare, and an obligatory uncomfortable 
conversation about a variety of top-
ics) OR you or your friend have some 
wheels. There are buses and a kind of 
shared taxi called “service” but yel-
low taxis have been most common for 
me and my friends in the Middlebury 
abroad program. I take a taxi to the uni-
versity, to the gym, to friends’ houses 
and back to my homestay. I take at least 
four rides a day as I traverse the Hash-
emite Kingdom of identical limestone 
buildings.
As I mentioned, a crucial part of the 
transit experience with taxis is a few 
awkward conversations. In my experi-
ence, the discussions range from Amer-
ica’s problematic foreign policy in the 
Middle East to my love life to (surpris-
ingly) topics of race. By “topics of race,” 
I mean direct and indirect conversa-
tions about blackness. Occasionally, the 
driver asks about police brutality and 
tension between the black and white 
communities in America. It is always an 
exciting, and an admittedly futile, en-
deavor for me to explain the complexi-
ties of systemic racism in the U.S. in 
Arabic.
In general, I did not anticipate hav-
ing such dialogue when I came to Jor-
dan. Given that 98 percent of the popu-
lation is Arab, I didn’t think I would be 
thinking or speaking about my Black-
American identity frequently. However, 
upon going abroad, I have found myself 
confronting race and discussing black-
ness in ways that are unprecedented to 
me.
A few weeks ago some friends and I 
were in a taxi going from a cafe back to 
our home in Khalda. The driver was an 
effervescent, funny, reckless guy, blast-
ing music, dancing and hardly looking 
at the road. He took quite a liking to me 
and felt compelled to express his affec-
tion. Unprompted, he said how he loves 
black people and has many black friends 
in his home city Ma’an, located in the 
south of Jordan. This was kind of weird. 
It seemed like a pretty unnecessary af-
firmation of the value of my black iden-
tity and my people. I really didn’t know 
what Hassan meant by his comment so I 
decided to play along and say that I too 
really love black people. He laughed and 
we moved on to a different subject. For 
some reason Hassan’s seemingly insig-
nificant and terse comment resonated 
with me. Maybe he meant to say that 
he really appreciated black culture? Or 
maybe my presence reminded him of his 
friends? I wasn’t sure.
Regardless, I left that taxi ponder-
ing what had occurred because it felt 
kind of strange and eerily reminded me 
of an interaction with my host mother 
a few weeks prior. My host mother is in 
her early sixties and is incredibly sweet 
and accommodating. However, one day 
there was an awkward moment when I 
was eating dinner and she asked me if 
my family is as dark as me. I said no, I 
am darker. Then she responded that it is 
okay that I am the darkest and that she 
still loves me and that I am very nice and 
special. This was incredibly awkward. I 
squeezed out a smile of discomfort, left 
the kitchen and went to my room.
I was mad and uncomfortable. Like 
Hassan, I knew my host mother’s com-
ment was out of affection and not mal-
ice, but I did 
not feel affec-
tion or benevo-
lence in those 
moments. I felt 
like a narrative 
of the black ex-
perience that I 
never consent-
ed to or agreed 
with was being 
projected on to 
me. I felt like 
the foundation 
upon which both my host mother and 
Hassan’s comments stood was that they 
needed to validate my identity because 
(a) I have internalized racism and need 
non-black people to help me take pride 
in my identity or (b) they actually har-
bour sentiments contrary to what they 
expressed towards me and thus aimed to 
compensate for prejudice they hold. 
I frankly do not think either of them 
have a nuanced enough understanding of 
race to have gone through such a thought 
process, but this is what went through 
my head. My natural internal response 
was frustration because I did not need to 
be informed that it is okay for me to be 
dark — I am proud and happy with my 
color. Telling me that my color is O.K. or 
that my people are loved felt like some 
strange unwarranted affirmation of my 
identity, rooted in a variation of racism. 
These conversations were quite unlike 
most conversations I have had about be-
ing a black man.
There is another uncomfortable dis-
cussion that I regularly have in taxis and 
in almost all of my initial interactions 
with people in Jordan. I am frequently 
asked where I am from, which makes 
sense because I do not look Jordanian. 
I respond by saying that I am from New 
Jersey, in the US. Immediately after that, 
I am asked what my origin is. This is a 
common expression in Arabic because of 
the importance of family heritage with-
in Arab culture but in this context it is 
most definitely because my appearance 
suggests that my home country is not the 
country of my ethnic origin. The ques-
tion bothers me because my questioner 
often tries to guess where my roots lie by 
naming a few African countries before I 
can answer and because I simply do not 
know the true answer.
I typically respond by saying West Af-
rica, but what does that mean? I know 
that before my ancestors were brought, 
respectively, to South Carolina and vari-
ous Caribbean islands they resided in 
some anony-
mous countries 
in West Africa 
that are hard for 
me to ever know 
specifically. Ev-
ery time I am 
asked this ques-
tion it reminds 
me of how the 
slave trade ru-
ined a much 
clearer picture 
of my family lin-
eage that existed generations ago. Un-
fortunately, being black with slave heri-
tage in America often means you do not 
really know your exact origins.
The question of my heritage, the con-
versation with my host mother and the 
taxi ride with Hassan are just a small 
snapshot of seemingly trivial instances 
in my time abroad where I have felt un-
comfortable in a new way when discuss-
ing my black identity. Currently, I have 
no concrete conclusion about these in-
teractions or this new form of discomfort 
I have felt. It has just made me think. I 
am constantly learning and struggling 
with how my blackness intersects with 
the society, people and environment 
around me. 
By now, we should all be relatively ac-
quainted with the basic concept of cultural 
appr opr i at ion . 
For those who do 
not know, how-
ever, Wikipedia 
defines cultural 
appropriation as 
the borrowing of 
elements of a cul-
ture by members 
of another. Cultural appropriation becomes 
problematic when members of the cultural 
majority use these elements in disregard 
and ignorance of their cultural context, par-
ticularly when these elements are grossly 
misrepresented, mocked or otherwise de-
meaned.
In this paper and others we have heard 
about and seen for ourselves the harmful ef-
fects culturally inappropriate costumes can 
have. Halloween this year will be a chance 
for Middlebury to show that we are learning 
and growing in our awareness and sensitiv-
ity. Many members of our community in the 
past year have called for inclusivity and re-
silience, and now is the time to show that 
we as a community have improved. 
Cultural appropriation has its critics. 
Alan Dershowitz, a well-known law pro-
fessor, declared in Business Insider that 
“sense of humor has disappeared on college 
campuses.” He accuses college students of 
being overly offended by what seems like 
any kind of humor. This line of argument 
would imply that Halloween is supposed to 
be a day of levity, not a day to be political. 
We at The Campus say that these accusa-
tions lack nuance. Obviously, we as a com-
munity do not have all the answers, but the 
basic principle is that the humor that riles 
up college students should not be humor 
which is informed by the marginalization 
of people from certain cultures in the U.S. 
By interacting and (poorly) acknowledging 
those cultures only when it is funny to do so 
perpetuates that same marginalization and 
only reflects the systemic erasure and igno-
rance of their cultures.
Therefore, we ask that community mem-
bers please be aware of each other and the 
many cultures and backgrounds on campus. 
When designing a costume stop to think: 
is making this costume the only time this 
year you’re interacting with this culture? If 
so, think about why you consider this outfit 
a costume rather than a component of an-
other culture with significant meaning and 
a rich history. 
Cultural appropriation is not limited 
to, though it certainly includes, a blatantly 
disrespectfully-themed frat party. It also oc-
curs in smaller, subtler mistakes that occur 
out of innocent carelessness. It is easy not to 
consider the implications of donning a cer-
tain kind of hat or other accessories. Before 
proceeding with your costume this year, ask 
yourself whether your costume finds roots 
in someone else’s culture. If the answer is 
yes, tread extremely carefully; you prob-
ably need to rethink your costume. There is 
a plethora of costumes available to you that 
don’t make another group of people the butt 
of a joke. 
We at The Campus see this Halloween as 
an opportunity to be creative and truly fun-
ny in our costumes while treading carefully 
around the historical and social contexts of 
our costumes. The idea is not to scare peo-
ple away from dressing up this Halloween, 
but to encourage intentionality, sensitivity 
and creativity when choosing our costumes. 
This means thinking for a moment longer 
about their implications. It is important to 
recognize, for example, that offensive cos-
tumes are not limited to white students 
dressing up in other cultures’ attire, it can 
also be dressing up as historical figures who 
actively colonized and oppressed other cul-
tures (e.g. Christopher Columbus, Andrew 
Jackson etc). We all want to have fun this 
Halloween, so let’s find a way to do so while 
prioritizing inclusivity and intentionality. 
And finally, creativity. Use this Halloween 
as an opportunity to stretch yourself and 
come up with a costume that you can be 
proud of.
opinions
editorial board 
The content written within the 
Opinions pages may cause emotional 
distress. Please exercise discretion.
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor. The 
opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions 
section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial com-
ics and other commentary, are views of the individ-
ual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the 
opinions of the newspaper. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.
middleburycampus.com. To be considered for pub-
lications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. 
Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all 
submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
An Inclusive and Aware Halloween
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Ellie Reinhardt
MANAGING EDITOR
Christian Jambora
BUSINESS MANAGER
Julien Miller
NEWS EDITORS 
Caroline Agsten, Phil Bohlman, Ethan 
Brady, Will DiGravio, Eliza Teach
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Blackburn, Erin Van Gessel, Sara 
Hodgkins, Francesca Haass, Edward 
O’Brien
SPORTS EDITORS 
Will Case, Remo Plunkett, Andrew Rigas 
LOCAL EDITORS 
Annie Grayer, Harry Kramer, Alessandria 
Schumacher, Rebecca Walker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Henry Burnett, Renee Chang, Charmaine 
Lam, Alex Newhouse
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Toby Aicher, Finne Murphy, Dominick 
Tanoh, Elizabeth Zhou,
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Michael Borenstein, Anahi Naranjo, Mi-
chael O’Hara, Ivan Valladares
DESIGN EDITORS
Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway, Corde-
lia Prouvost
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Pyone Aye, Jerrica Davy, Elaine Velie 
COPY EDITOR
Rachel Iacono, Emma Walker
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Nathaniel Wiener, Sara Hodgkins
OFFICE MANAGER
Sarah Koenigsberg
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
official opinion of 
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Disclaimer: Reader op-eds do not reflect the opinion of The Middlebury Campus editorial board. 
Discomfort addressing race abroad
THursday page
Josh Claxton ’17 writes 
about discussing race abroad.
“My host mother is in her 
early sixties and is incredi-
bly sweet and accomodating. 
However, one day there was 
an awkward moment when 
I was eating dinner and she 
asked me if my family is as 
dark as me.”
  7opinions
The amalgamated knowledge of 7 swugs on love
The most common question I’ve been 
asked since starting this column is, “when 
are you going to write about relationships?”
I tried to hold out against writing about 
the topic, thinking it too trivial, unserious or 
exhausted, especially in comparison to the 
column’s three previous diplomatic forays 
into sleep, deep thinking and activism.
Okay, that’s a lie. I love talking about re-
lationships and was very excited and eager 
to write this column.
I admitted as much last spring when, in a 
moment of loneliness abroad, I emailed two 
of my close friends that I couldn’t wait for us 
all to be reunited and, “talk about intellec-
tual/ philosophical ideas (10 min) and then 
guys (10,000 hours).”
Alas, 10,000 hours wasn’t enough time 
talking about relationships, and I needed 
all SWUGs on deck to write this column. So 
my six closest friends and I assembled at our 
friend Lindsay Grigg’s grandparents’ house 
in Cornwall over fall break. We sat on comfy 
couches and drank tea, and my friends gra-
ciously allowed me to record our two-hour-
long conversation about relationships.
Thus commences the amalgamated 
knowledge of seven (majority white, het-
erosexual, privileged) SWUGs on the topic 
of love.
At the outset of our conversation, my 
friend Sarah Koenigsberg asked what place 
we had dispensing relationship advice. Most 
of our friends have participated in “hook-
up” culture less often than the Middlebury 
norm, whatever that is, Sarah said, and only 
four out of the seven of us have been in seri-
ous relationships.
So this is not a recount of our sexca-
pades, and while that is a fine topic, our first 
conclusion was in fact to reject the idea that 
you need to have won the “10 fingers” game 
to merit a seat at the relationships discus-
sion table. In fact, it is exactly this sentiment 
that has led many of us to “feel behind” and 
has, in turn, fueled harmful behavior.
Some of us have lost our virginity to guys 
we didn’t like, just so we could obtain the 
now-prized scarlet letter. We’ve engaged in 
hook-up culture when we didn’t enjoy it and 
felt angry at ourselves afterwards and, con-
versely, harbored feelings of worthlessness 
and self-doubt as a result of not participat-
ing in hook-up culture. And all because we 
compared ourselves to others and let exter-
nal validation rather than internal desires 
dictate our behavior.
Relationships can arise independent of 
each partners’ “experience,” we observed, so 
let it be known — there is no such thing as 
behind.
The first cohesive relationship theory 
that we ever created as group was the “Em-
powered Women’s Initiative.” The EWI 
came about our sophomore year when, af-
ter the blur of first year hook-ups, weirdly 
serious relationships and an overall lack 
of romantic fulfillment, we decided to take 
matters into our own hands and boldly ask 
guys out.
Sarah had the most luck with this theory 
and for the near entirety of sophomore year 
we cheered her on and based the EWI’s va-
lidity solely on her successful relationship 
that began after she bravely initiated the 
first hang-out with her future boyfriend.
But over the years we’ve given up our 
full-throttle support for the EWI. Not be-
cause it’s not worth it to make the first move 
— we still affirm the groundbreaking idea 
that if you are interested in someone, noth-
ing will happen if you, in fact, do nothing. 
Rather, we’ve found it dangerous to expect 
that if you are bold and persist, the person 
you’re interested in will also be interested in 
you.
I learned this the hard way. Last fall, I 
liked this one brilliant, truly incredible and 
kind guy SO much and asked him to lunch 
more times than I feel comfortable saying, 
but he never reciprocated. I should have 
read the signs earlier, but I believed so much 
in EWI that I persisted and eventually dug 
myself into a hole of infatuation so deep that 
the only way I could get myself out was to 
ask directly if he liked me. He obviously said 
no.
The EWI also failed by not accounting 
for a disgusting but likely true paradigm 
that alumna Leah Fessler revealed in her 
2015 English thesis, “A narrative explora-
tion of women’s relation to hookup culture 
at Middlebury College.” As Fessler states, 
“Guys grow on girls, but girls don’t grow 
on guys.” He didn’t like me from the outset, 
so no matter what I did, he would probably 
never like me. In the words of writer Cheryl 
Strayed, “You can’t convince people to love 
you. This is an absolute rule.”
Ever-analytic SWUG Alden Cowap em-
pathized with my heartache because, as she 
correctly deduced, it was rooted in some-
thing we all do but which is frequently harm-
ful: fantasize. By this, Alden meant that we 
create an imagined world about what life 
would be like with some fantasy person and 
then, when that person doesn’t reciprocate, 
it becomes hard to reconcile that the world 
you pictured is never going to be an option. 
This is especially true as we become older 
and assign those fantasies a greater degree 
of seriousness and longitudinal weight.
Of course the fantasizing is inevitable, 
Alden said, but it can be helpful to prevent 
your brain from treating the fantasy as if it’s 
a certain — as if it’s reality.
I know the fantasy is hard to give up. I’ve 
had an especially difficult time giving up the 
dream of the guy I liked last fall because I’m 
afraid that I may never meet anyone better 
than him. But I also don’t know that I won’t. 
And we don’t know what we don’t know. Part 
of the challenge of relationships, and one ex-
traordinary difficulty for us Middlebury stu-
dents who are accustomed to control, is thus 
to be comfortable with uncertainty.
SWUG Danielle Weindling was keen to 
highlight another pitfall of the fantasy — 
it can lead you to create an image of some 
ideal person that no mortal could ever live 
up to. Romantic relationships are funda-
mentally grounded in friendships, Danielle 
said, so when you hold someone up to an 
unreachable standard of perfection it can 
actually impede the process of really getting 
to know someone and building a real rela-
tionship without running away at the first 
sign of a flaw.
All of our female friendships took a good 
deal of time to become strong; they require 
constant patience and occasional forgive-
ness but are incredibly fulfilling. If we treat-
ed our romantic relationships in the same 
way as our friendships, we might have better 
romantic success.
On the day last fall when the guy I liked 
finally said he just wasn’t interested, I ran 
to one of my best friends, the SWUGtastic 
Alessandria Schumacher, and we proceeded 
to have a two hour long lunch in Atwater 
analyzing the situation. I was sad, of course, 
but oddly enlivened because our conversa-
tion became about so much more than my 
love for the fantasy guy. At their heart, rela-
tionships are the door through which many 
of us confront the great tension and contra-
dictions of life for the first time: the inter-
section of the controllable and the uncon-
trollable, the certain and the unknowable, 
individualization and partnership, fantasy 
and reality, the present and the rest of our 
lives.
I also remember that at that lunch I la-
mented to Alessandria the question I still 
don’t have an answer to: “Why doesn’t he 
love me?” “I don’t know,” she said, “but we 
love you.” And in the end, I think that’s the 
greatest college love story I could have ever 
asked for.
Nurturing Diversity in 
Spiritual Life
Letter to the Editor
Mark Orten, Dean of Spiritual and 
Religious Life, responds to IVCF article.
SWUGlight
Sophie Vaughan ’17 writes about 
the trials and errors of college.
October 27, 2016 |
I was surprised to see the headline 
“Christian Group Dismissed Gay Lead-
ers” in the last Campus, and not just 
because it shouldn’t be happening at 
Middlebury today. My shock was based 
on the fact that exactly the same thing 
happened in the spring of 2000, and I 
thought the issue had been resolved. I 
know the students involved think they 
know the Biblical texts and traditions 
they base their interpretation on, but as 
a linguist and a language teacher, I won-
der. My students spend years learning 
Russian and study at our School in Rus-
sia before they can really pontificate on 
Pushkin or Dostoevsky. How many of the 
IVCF students are fluent in New Testa-
ment Greek or spend a semester in the 
Holy Land in their junior year, much less 
in the first century?
All joking aside, I had just finished 
reading Boswell’s Christianity, Social 
Tolerance, and Homosexuality with my 
Intro to Gay and Lesbian Studies class. 
Aside from the textual analysis, one of 
the main points of Boswell’s book is that 
there was a time in the eleventh cen-
tury when gay people were prominent 
and respected both in Europe and in the 
Catholic Church, so the “tradition” of ho-
mophobia is hardly a continuous one or 
one that is truly based on theology and 
the Bible. Rather, societal change in the 
following centuries led people to seek 
Biblical justification for their prejudices. 
There was, says Boswell, a much stron-
ger and more theologically sound tradi-
tion against lending money at interest 
in the medieval period, but somehow we 
manage to allow banking, even today. As 
an educational institution, we should en-
courage discussion of such issues, even 
or especially within Christian groups on 
campus.
In 2015, as in 2000, both the local 
chapter of IVCF and the national orga-
nization claimed that they don’t dis-
criminate based on identity, but only on 
beliefs. The effect of the discrimination, 
however, seems to be the same. Can we 
really expect gay and lesbian Christians 
to consider themselves second-class 
citizens who must remain celibate and 
proclaim their own exclusion from mar-
riage? While we can’t dictate what IVCF 
believes, must we always defer to “sin-
cerely held religious beliefs”? I am old 
enough to remember when white evan-
gelicals in the South sincerely believed 
that God had separated the races. Bob 
Jones University banned interracial 
dating until 2000 because “If you are 
against segregation and against racial 
separation, then you are against God Al-
mighty.” Would we allow a pass for that?
The recurrence of this kind of incident 
also shows that we need some structural 
change at the institutional level. Perhaps 
now is finally the time for Middlebury to 
create an LGBTQ center and hire a direc-
tor who could both pro-actively make 
Middlebury a more queer-positive place 
and be brought in to help respond to any 
homophobic or transphobic situation 
that might arise in the future.
Letter to the editor
Kevin Moss, the Jean Thomson Fulton 
Professor of Modern Languages & 
Literature, responds to IVCF article.
History Repeating Itself, 
Unfortunately
I was deeply concerned by reports in 
the most recent edition of the Campus 
concerning alleging acts of discrimina-
tion by students at Middlebury in select-
ing leaders of a student religious organi-
zation. As the newly appointed Dean for 
Spiritual and Religious Life at Middle-
bury, I feel compelled to add my voice to 
this important campus discussion.
As expressed in an e-mail this week 
from the Dean of the College, we are all 
deeply concerned by such accounts. I 
have been heartened to see strong resolve 
from various 
places across 
campus and to 
see that steps 
are being taken 
by a number of 
offices to re-
spond, includ-
ing a conscien-
tious review of 
organizational 
practices with 
College policy. 
I want to do all 
I can to make explicit our standards for 
ongoing practice within student orga-
nizations as an important dimension of 
our community’s life, including spiritual 
and religious life.  
Consistent with our institutional mis-
sion, we must also ensure that our re-
sponses are in service to the educational 
experience. Especially within a religious 
context, the distinction between ideolog-
ical dissent and discriminatory behavior, 
as one example, is an important concept 
that deserves thoughtful attention and 
earnest dialogue. We hope to engender 
this kind of understanding as a compe-
tency that is increasingly needed in the 
world today.  
We at the Scott Center for Spiritual 
and Religious Life are exploring ways to 
learn and to live out radical inclusivity. 
This begins by genuinely hearing the im-
pact caused by others’ beliefs and prac-
tices, religious or otherwise. While it may 
be difficult, we are exploring ideas for 
how we create spaces and programs that 
allow people of widely varying beliefs 
and practices to live and work together 
toward mu-
tual ideals. As 
a commitment 
from our of-
fice, we will do 
what we can 
to encourage 
and facilitate 
authentic en-
counters with 
religious dif-
ference, in-
cluding with 
w o r l d v i e w s 
commonly characterized as non-reli-
gious. We welcome — we invite — diverse 
participation in helping us create and 
sustain programs that can meet these 
important objectives.
Please do not hesitate to contact me 
directly with ideas, feedback or offers of 
collaboration at orten@middlebury.edu.
“We at the Scott Center for 
Spiritual and Religious Life 
are exploring ways to learn 
and to live out radical inclu-
sivity. This begins by hearing 
the impact caused by others’ 
beliefs and practices.”
A liberal arts education informs entrepreurship
A Critique of Recent Public Safety Emails
On Tuesday Oct. 18 and Wednesday Oct. 
19, all students, staff and faculty received two 
emails from Public Safety, the first entitled 
“Timely Warning – Report of Fondling” 
and the follow-up “Community Update on 
Reported Fondling.” The subject of these 
emails, and the need to make them commu-
nity wide raise important questions though 
concerning our campus’s response to sexual 
violence. At the time that the emails were 
sent, the individual had been arrested, and as 
Public Safety’s email discloses, “he is now be-
ing held without bail pending a weight of the 
evidence hearing a future date.” If the indi-
vidual was already in police custody, why did 
we need his picture, his name and his place 
of residence-all of which marked him as an 
outsider? Whether intentional or not, includ-
ing all of this information reinforces the no-
tion that sexual violence is something that is 
perpetrated only by ‘others’, and not people 
already inside of our community.
The emails not only heighten fear of out-
side perpetrators but deflects attention from 
the sexual violence that occurs on campus. 
This leads to the question of why we received 
an email about this case of sexual violence 
and not others? Why wasn’t an email con-
taining information about the ‘John Doe’ 
case of last year sent out? Why don’t other 
cases of sexual violence on our campus re-
ceive the same response?
We also take issue with the use of the word 
“fondling.” Regardless of whether fondling is 
used as a legal term, the word fondling to de-
scribe sexual assault is incorrect and denies 
the experience of assault. Fondling means to 
stroke or caress lovingly or erotically. Fon-
dling implies consent and pleasure. There is 
nothing consensual or pleasurable about sex-
ual violence. We need to rethink the language 
we use to talk about these issues, at both the 
personal and the institutional level.
We recognize that because this particular 
case of sexual violence involved someone not 
currently affiliated with the College that Pub-
lic Safety legally had to involve law enforce-
ment. But we call into question Middlebury’s 
role as an institution in partnering with po-
lice forces to increase their use of surveillance 
and criminalization of residents of the town 
of Middlebury, staff, faculty, students and 
visitors to Middlebury, particularly of Black 
and Brown people, immigrants, poor people, 
people with disabilities and queer and trans 
people. Public Safety suggests the following 
two safety tips: “Report criminal or suspi-
cious activity immediately by calling 9-1-1 
or Public Safety” and “Report any suspicious 
people to Public Safety.” Who do we consider 
“criminal” or “suspicious”? In the US, our 
collective understandings of criminality are 
deeply rooted in anti-Blackness, classism, xe-
nophobia, ableism and queerphobia. Middle-
bury College is not immune to these forms of 
oppression. And it once again raises the ques-
tion of why other cases have not merited the 
same treatment-it implies that on-campus/in 
group/white perpetrators are not as criminal 
as an outside perpetrator, an attitude which 
contributes to the lack of accountability 
around sexual violence on campus.
Furthermore, Public Safety neglected to 
include content warnings in both emails. The 
use of the word “Warning” in the first subject 
line clearly denotes that the email was meant 
to be just an alert or some cautionary infor-
mation included for the physical well-being 
of students on campus, and not the emotion-
al and mental health of those who might need 
resources associated with that information In 
addition to providing information on how to 
report “suspicious” activity, why not include 
the contact information of on-campus re-
sources dedicated to helping survivors of sex-
ual assault, like Middsafe and WomenSafe?
We cannot imagine a practice of report-
ing “suspicious people to Public Safety” that 
does not result in reaffirming the criminal-
ization of marginalized groups, while simul-
taneously allowing perpetrators from more 
dominant identities to avoid consequences. 
Encouraging us to report “suspicious people” 
endangers students on campus who are of-
ten already harassed for their “otherness” by 
Public Safety and Middlebury Police Depart-
ment.
People who experience sexual harassment 
and violence should have a right to report, or 
not report depending on their immediate and 
long term needs. Our point is not to demonize 
those who choose to report sexual violence to 
the police. We stand in solidarity with them 
and we trust them. We do not excuse sexual 
violence. But on an institutional scale, we rec-
ognize that our “choices” are limited because 
we exist in spaces where the primary (and 
often only) mechanism offered to address 
violence is through retributive punishment.
We recognize the gravity of sexual vio-
lence and its impact on the survivor and the 
greater community. It is important to call at-
tention to sexual violence and abuse that oc-
curs in our communities, but we must do so 
in a way that doesn’t utilize previously estab-
lished notions of oppression. There is a dif-
ferent way of addressing these issues through 
restorative justice that empowers the survi-
vor and the community rather than focusing 
all attention on an ‘other’ and to avoid ad-
dressing intra-community violence. We need 
to question whether these emails represent a 
shift in policy, or if Middlebury is once again 
avoiding accountability for its failure as an 
institution to address rape culture on this 
campus.
reader op-ed
Beyond the Green responds to emails 
regarding a sexual assault on campus.
opinions  8   |October 27, 2016 
Reader Op-ED
Winson Law ’16 and 
Cate Stanton ’15.5 discuss 
entrepreurship after Middlebury. 
As very recent Middlebury alums, we are 
fairly unqualified to advise you on what to do 
after graduation, but we are going to anyway. 
We have quickly learned that regardless of 
how much you enjoy your time at Middlebury, 
having four years to engage deeply with ideas, 
subjects and people that expand your world-
view, inform your values and unveil your tru-
est self is a rare and invaluable experience. 
Whether this means reading short stories, 
debating issues of constitutional law, DJing 
at the Bunker, writing code, cooking for Dolci 
or designing maps in the sandbox, knowing 
what you enjoy doing and why will help set 
you on a path for future happiness.
The daunting question of what to do next 
has likely begun percolating in the minds of 
seniors. Oddly enough, both of us interned at 
the same consulting firm in New York City the 
summer before senior year, so we entered the 
fall oriented toward this career path. How-
ever, we also wanted to explore less safe and 
comfortable paths.
We currently find ourselves living in De-
troit (Winson) and Baltimore (Cate) - places 
we never expected to call home - working at 
technology startups that we help grow and 
evolve every day. 
We landed in these places and at these 
companies through Venture for America 
(VFA). During the interview process, we 
learned that independent thinkers who thrive 
on being challenged and enjoy transforming 
ideas into action make good fits for VFA.  We 
knew we needed to be a part of it. 
You can visit the website and learn the de-
tails of the program yourself, but here’s some 
information unavailable on the website--why 
joining VFA was one of the best decisions ei-
ther of us ever made. 
We would be lying if we said the past few 
months have been easy and that we feel con-
tinuously happy at our jobs and in our cities. 
At Winson’s property management company, 
he works with demanding real estate inves-
tors and tenants. While customer success is 
an “unsexy” role in an “unsexy” industry, he 
has the opportunity to help scale a company 
that is improving a broken industry with a 
team he believes in.
Cate works at a health care technology 
startup in Baltimore, a city she is still warming 
up to, as the right-hand to the CEO. On her 
first day of work, her boss asked her to write 
a thought piece about a complex health care 
concept she had never heard of for a medical 
journal. She had no idea where to start, and 
she continues to feel this overwhelming I-will-
somehow-figure-it-out feeling most days. 
These challenges aren’t unique to being 
a VFA fellow per se, but two beautiful things 
have flourished because we are a part of it: op-
portunities to seek guidance from and rely on 
the unparalleled community that is VFA, and 
turn moments of discomfort and even distress 
into ones of self-discovery. 
First, there is the VFA community. VFA fel-
lows spend five weeks at training camp before 
beginning work. While hearing from startup 
moguls, winning innovation challenges and 
gaining new skills was fun, the illuminating, 
inspiring and sometimes tough conversations 
that led to lifelong connections are what made 
it so special. 
Second, we are learning about ourselves. 
A few years ago in The New Yorker, Nathan 
Heller described college as a time to engage 
in “the soul-building process” and “to stand 
outside the world for a few years.” Although 
perhaps an overly rosy depiction, leaving this 
behind was hard and frankly scary, and the 
VFA team understands this reality. We no 
longer have the time or resources to dive into 
a good book on a lazy afternoon or take a silk 
screening class just because, but we’ve found 
other outlets through our new communities 
and daily challenges that give us the space to 
continue figuring out who we are.
If this sounds like you or a community you 
want to be a part of, we encourage you to ap-
ply to VFA. At the very least, spend some time 
thinking about what you love doing, figure out 
why and pursue opportunities that integrate 
these elements. 
Feel free to email us at cate.stanton@
gmail.com and winsonklaw@gmail.com to 
discuss VFA, the application process and 
what the transformative experience has been 
like for us.
Other Middlebury Alumni VFA Fellows: 
Astrid Shanz-Garbassi ’12, Taylor Sundali 
’12, Alex Bea ’12, Peter DiPrinzio ’13, Joanie 
Thompson ’14, Camille Seyler ’14, Kurt Alles 
’14.5 and Brandon Gell ’16.
My alarm went off at 5 a.m. this morn-
ing, like every other weekday, so that I could 
squeeze 30 to 45 minutes of exercise and an 
hour of extra school work into my schedule. 
Besides these two activities, I have also spent 
at least 12 minutes this morning repeating 
“this day will end, you will get through this” 
to my reflection in the mirror, another six 
staring mindlessly at the hastily scrawled 
motivational quotes I have taped around my 
room — which include “When you’re going 
through hell, keep going,” “The only way out 
is through,” and my personal favorite, “You 
don’t suck, college sucks” — and an impas-
sioned five seconds whipping my closet door 
with the metal end of my belt, using all of the 
force I could muster. Just another Tuesday.
What’s important to note is that I’m actu-
ally a naturally happy person. I discovered 
this when I took last spring semester off. 
Working three jobs, I still found myself ap-
preciating minutia and feeling grateful just 
for waking up. There were days, undoubt-
edly, that I dragged my feet going to work, 
but I never felt like I was waging a war. Flash-
forward to Sept. 15, a mere four days into this 
semester, and I was in the trenches and far-
ing quite poorly, I should add. You may have 
seen me around and done your best to avoid 
me — I have a habit of crying loudly in very 
public places and shouting into the phone 
about how anxious I am while I’m walking to 
the library. I have also snapped at more than 
one professor in class about how treacherous 
college is. Even if you agreed with me in your 
head or chuckled in affirmation, you probably 
thought I sounded half-crazed. 
And you were right, I am! My question and 
concern is: why? By anyone’s standards, I am 
doing all of the right things. I live in the sub-
stance-free house. I exercise five to six days a 
week. I eat cleanly, cooking myself breakfast 
and dinner at home and sticking to salads 
and sandwiches in Proctor at lunch. I journal. 
I sleep 8 hours a night. I do my homework 
and I never skip class. I do all of these things, 
and I still feel like I’m sand-papering my skin 
every day. What’s going on?
I have some theories. First, we’re not here 
to learn, we’re here to prove something. I had 
very idealistic notions about education when 
I began college in 2013. I saw learning per se 
as the most beautiful and worthy activity one 
could pursue and schooling as the means to 
actualize it. In my fourth year of college now, 
I understand that I am not here to learn but 
rather to check a box. Furthermore, I trans-
ferred to Middlebury after three semesters at 
Emory University in hopes of finding a com-
munity that valued education purely, instead 
of because of the vanity that came with the 
name of the institution. Instead, I found the 
same box to be checked, and Middlebury was 
even more concerned with its own rank. 
In my semester off, I learned fruitfully. I 
would check out armfuls of books from the 
public library on topics ranging from theo-
retical physics to community building and ev-
erything in between. I engaged in conversa-
tions with strangers, acquaintances, friends; 
I explored new places. I felt my world grow 
bigger and more beautiful in its vastness. 
Back at school, there is dissonance. Middle-
bury should be a place where true learning 
can happen because there are great minds 
and great resources here. Its emphasis, 
though, is on its own prestige. I feel insulated 
with a sickening pride when I tell people I go 
to Middlebury. I do not, however, feel like I’ve 
learned anything more because of it. 
Another reason that I and many of my 
peers feel so unwell here is because the Mid-
dlebury community glorifies stress. This is a 
problem we are all to blame for, myself in-
cluded. On the student side, we are obsessed 
with our own misery. All we discuss is school, 
what we have to do for it, how tense we are. 
On the professor side, there seems to be a tac-
it belief that more work and harsher grading 
translates into more effective learning. Taken 
together, we seem to be deliberately con-
structing illness. It’s not healthy to give your 
whole life over to something. Students, we are 
not any more impressive if we have so much 
to do we can’t sleep and are so stressed that 
we can’t sleep when we’re finally afforded an 
opportunity. Professors, I am here to tell you 
that if you assign 70 pages of reading due next 
class, I am going to spend most of the time 
I should be reading just resenting you. I am 
not going to learn from your class; I am going 
to learn how to play the game, skimming or 
skipping readings altogether, because I feel it 
is my only option. There is no glory in this. 
My final theory for why Middlebury sees 
so much mental disease is simple: we are 
all buying in to the fallacy of achievement. I 
didn’t take spring semester off by choice en-
tirely. I had an absolute mental breakdown, 
driven by a crippling fear that I was not go-
ing to amount to anything in life. Without 
even realizing it, I had absorbed the ambi-
ent anxiety that bounces around campus like 
an ever-present echo. This echo says, “you 
must do more, you must be better.” By Janu-
ary, I couldn’t stand to hear this in my head 
any longer, and I broke. Turns out, though, 
life goes on. I spent the spring doing noth-
ing glamorous — I made pies in a bakery, 
coached high school girls’ soccer and substi-
tute taught at a k-12 school — and I was the 
happiest I had ever been. I was average, and 
it was more than alright. It seems that being 
back in school has made this revelation faint, 
and the result has been a return to feelings 
of inadequacy and tension. I hope like hell 
that I can hold onto the weightlessness of be-
ing instead of the myth of becoming strongly 
enough to get through this year. Otherwise, I 
may have to buy a new closet door. 
The Fallacy of Achievement Generates Stress
Reader op-ed
Joanna Satterwhite ’17.5 writes in 
about student stress at Middlebury.
CARTOONS
Win homer
URIEL ULLOA ADAN
KAITLYND COLLINS
Nolan Ellsworth
 | October 27, 2016 10 features October 27, 2016 |  11features
Design by Emma Hatheway
Written by Renee Chang and Henry Burnett 
M
IDDLEBURY GRANTS
Kellogg Fellowship 
The Rohatyn Center for Global Affairs (RCGA) funds three grants: The RCGA Summer Research Grant, Study Abroad 
Research Grant and Padma Desai Fund. Both the Summer Research and and Study Abroad Grants fund overseas 
research, while Padma Desai Fund funds projects and internships based in Russia. 
Charlotte Tate, associate director of the Rohatyn Center for Global Affairs, said that a strong and compelling 
application consists of “a concise research plan […] that clearly addresses the statement of topic, research questions, 
objectives and significance of the project, [...] and how the research will be incorporated into senior work.”
One such funded opportunity that exemplifies what Tate described is the project of Jinseul Jun ’17, a political science 
major researching Jordanian disability policies. Funded by the RCGA Study Abroad Research Grant, Jun said that her 
interest in the topic grew after taking Dr. Susan Burch’s “American Disability Studies” class. 
“The class exposed us to various social factors – social, environmental, and attitudinal – that shape the term 
‘disability,’” she added.
Jun’s ultimate goal is to elucidate the social and legal processes that influenced the current state of disability policy in 
Jordan. Jun also hopes to empirically observe the effects of these laws and investigate the ways in which disability policy 
is enforced and facilitated in Jordan. 
“My continuous passion and interest in Middle Eastern affairs, specifically on Jordan, led me to learn that Jordan was 
among the first countries to sign the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its Protocols in 2007, 
just shortly after it was adopted by the UN Headquarters in 2006,” she said. “I was curious about the political steps 
taken in – policy suggestions and set procedures – taken in Jordan to protect and promote human rights of persons with 
disabilities.”
During her semester in Jordan, Jun hopes to speak with as many individuals as she can to get a first-hand account of 
what it means to live with a disability. To do this, she hopes to employ what she calls “the oral history interview.” 
“An oral history project method is quite different from a regular interview,” she said. “Oral history creates the space 
for disabled and non-disabled persons to speak for themselves and to narrate their personal memories, acknowledging 
the expertise in diverse communities. The use of oral history method leads to a shift of focus, documenting points of 
views that are generally ignored, such as those of people with disabilities, and as a result, makes them central.” 
Rohatyn Center for Global Affairs 
Each spring, the Center for Careers and Internships awards over $500,000 to students to ease the financial strain of participating 
in unpaid or low-paid internships. CCI staff said the summer funding grants have become more available in recent years.
“We’ve been funding internship for more than a dozen years now,” CCI Director Peggy Burns said in an email. “But the big push 
really began about five years ago when then-President [of the College Ronald D. Liebowitz] made internship funding a priority to 
ensure that students could take advantage of this invaluable real-world experience.”
Burns said that students have used the grant funds - up to $1000 for first-years and $2500 for upperclassmen - to work with 
organizations such as the U.S. Department of State, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Yale Center for Emotional Intelligence and 
even the Charter House Coalition charity in the town of Middlebury.
Katie Mayopoulos ’17 worked with a theater company in Greece this past summer, funded in part by one of the $2500 grants. 
“I did an internship with One Year Lease Theater Company that allowed me to explore what I love – theater that is socially 
relevant, ensemble-based and challenged,” she said. “Throughout the month, our 12-hour work days included anything from acting 
strategies, movement workshops, yoga practice, Greek lessons, hikes through gorges and visits to ancient sites. The internship 
culminated in our ensemble performing an original, hour-long political play entirely in modern Greek, each performance at a 
different rural mountain village.”
Mayopoulos said her experience over the summer gave her a new perspective on her studies at the College. 
“I actually ended up changing my major from Sociology and Theater to Sociology and Spanish upon my return,” Mayopoulos 
said. “While I loved so much about theater through my education at Middlebury, this experience this past summer actually led me 
to realize that what I loved about theater was not unique to theater - in fact it was the community building and social activism that I 
loved best about my experience. Without this past summer's experience, I'm not sure I would have come to this realization this early 
on, or maybe ever.”
Mayopoulos’ experience parallels one of the goals Burns has for students who receive internship grants.
“We believe that real-world experience and the application of liberal arts learning is a critical part of the Middlebury 
undergraduate journey—and is key to helping students explore a variety of paths to life after Middlebury.  With internships, students 
can discover as much about what they don't want to do as what they do,” Burns said.
For those interested in applying, the grant application requires that students have already received an offer for an internship and 
accepted it, or, in the case of a self-designed summer work experience, “plans should be solidly in place.” The deadline was in early 
April for the 2016 funding session, and will likely be around early March for the summer of 2017.
In the meantime, Burns suggested that students explore the CCI’s online internship portal for opportunities they may not have 
considered before.
“About 60 percent of internships on MOJO are paid, so students should keep checking as new opportunities appear every week,” 
Burns said. 
 Students interested in internships should be sure to visit go/careerpaths for all kinds of internship resources and to make an 
appointment with an advisor to discuss J-term or summer internship planning.”
Center for Careers and Internships
Summer Internship Funding Grant
The Center for Teaching, Learning and Research awards small grants for students wishing to attend or present 
in academic conferences through its Undergraduate Research Office (URO). Associate Dean for Fellowships and 
Research Lisa Gates said the URO funds between 70 and 90 students each year.
Gates described academic conferences as a unique way for students to gain a new perspective on their studies in 
an off-campus setting.
“Participating in an academic conference is an excellent way for students to learn more about their discipline, 
connect with others in the field and share the work they are doing,” she said. “It’s a fabulous professional experience 
for students.”
Gates said students have attended events such as the Yiddish New York Festival and Conference, the United 
Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues, the 2016 Midwest Art History Society Conference and the 
International Workshop on Spanish Linguistics.
“The impetus for supporting students travel to academic conferences initially came from senior work and wanted 
to provide students with the opportunity to present their work at professional meetings in their disciplines,” she 
said. “Today we support students presenting their work and attending academic conferences connected to their 
program of study.”
Those interested in applying for travel grants can submit applications online up to 30 days before their expected 
travel plans. Up to $350 dollars is available to attend a conference, and students can receive up to $1000 if they 
present. 
Academic Conference Travel Fund
More information is available online at go/atf
Participating in an academic conference is an 
excellent way for students to learn more about 
their discipline, connect with others in the field 
and share the work they are doing.
Lisa Gates
Associate Dean for Fellowships and Research
“
Without this past summer’s experience , I’m 
not sure I would have come to this realization 
this early on, or maybe ever.
Katie Mayopoulos ’17
“ “
“
Founded in 2014, the Kellogg Fellowship is named in memory of Michael Kellogg, a former Middlebury parent and husband of 
alumna Lucy Pugh ’79. According to Lisa Gates, Associate Dean for Fellowships and Research at the College, the Kellogg Fellowship 
was created to “support independent senior work in the humanities and areas of humanistic inquiry.”
Open to juniors as well as junior and senior Febs, the Kellogg Fellowship seeks to cultivate a diverse body of humanistic research 
and selects up to eight fellows annually. Each fellow is awarded a grant of $5000 to fund their research. 
“We receive applications from students in multiple disciplines, so it’s a fascinating view into the wide range of research questions 
and topics our students engage in,” Gates said. “Selecting the fellows is incredibly difficult though. All the students who apply are seri-
ously engaged with their topic and have been building to this project through their academic and related work thus far.” 
One example of a project that embodies these qualities is the work of current Kellogg Fellow, Jingyi Wu ’17. A philosophy and math-
ematics double major, Wu’s project – called “Toward a Feminist Epistemology in Mathematics and Logic” – will examine the current 
state of quantitative methodologies used in the field of mathematics and how feminist critiques respond to these conventional forms of 
inquiry. 
“I think what epistemologists, feminist epistemologists and feminist philosophers of science are interested in is what kinds of 
knowledge are being produced in our inquiries,” Wu said. “What feminist epistemologists are interested in, in particular, is whether 
these kinds of knowledge, and the process of producing them, are skewed in a certain way that's not conducive to social justice.” 
Tracing the trajectory of feminist critique has revealed, according to Wu, that the methods which underlie quantitative fields such as 
mathematics are not impartial as they appear, operating nominally “under the guise of objectivity.” 
“I think there are ways to look at quantitative methodologies that are not very true, for example, that they necessarily promote 
value-free objectivity,” she said. “ For example, the process of devising categories can be easily value-laden.” 
And it turns out that this illusion of objectivity can have social and political consequences. 
“After all, feminist epistemologist Helen Longino famously proposes the underdetermination thesis and claims that because theory 
choice is always underdetermined by all the evidence we could collect, one cannot legitimately preclude the influence of social and 
political values in theory choice,” Wu said. 
Students, faculty and staff gathered 
in Dana Auditorium Tuesday, Oct. 10 to 
discuss how misogynistic cultural mes-
sages inhibit men’s ability to empathize 
with women. The discussion was led by 
Dr. Thomas Keith, professor of Philosophy 
and Gender Studies at Claremont Gradu-
ate University, who presented his film, The 
Empathy Gap.
Before the screening began, Keith ar-
gued that men in our society have been 
socialized to respond with apathy to the 
female experience. “[Society] teach[es] us 
from boyhood that women’s opinions are 
less important than ours,” he said. 
Keith said that sexism has an adverse 
impact on men be-
cause it promotes 
objectification of 
women, violence 
and a “masculine 
script” as social 
norms. He added 
that, according to 
the Center for Dis-
ease Control and 
Prevention, men in 
the United States 
are four times 
more likely to com-
mit suicide than 
women; are eleven 
times more likely to be incarcerated; and 
die seven years earlier than women on av-
erage.
One of The Empathy Gap’s primary 
goals is to urge men to defy harmful sex-
ist norms, with young men serving as the 
film’s target audience. The film argues that 
men need to make themselves vulnerable 
so they can discuss love openly and devel-
op their natural empathy. 
Keith first perceived an extreme lack 
of empathy in young men when he gave a 
talk about sexism on another college cam-
pus. When he asked audience members to 
imagine how they would feel if their daugh-
ter were being plied with alcohol at a party 
by men who wanted to sexually assault her, 
Keith recalled a student calling out, “It’s 
not my daughter!” It was this remark that 
inspired him to create The Empathy Gap. 
Keith’s film argues that “masculinity is 
performed in groups” in contemporary so-
ciety. On college campuses, some believe 
that peers and older leaders can establish 
and perpetuate a damaging sexist culture 
in groups of men like fraternities and ath-
letic teams.
Although many men are concerned 
about the treatment of women as “sexual 
opportunities,” Keith suggested that for 
others the social pressure to be apathetic 
towards women’s issues or even to engage 
in sexist conversation and behavior can be 
too great to over-
come. 
In the discus-
sion that followed 
the lecture, Keith 
also raised the 
question, “How do 
we all get through 
that apathy in a 
credible way so 
they [young men] 
will take this seri-
ously and partner 
to make a better-
gendered world?” 
According to Keith, “young men listen 
to other men.” As such, The Empathy Gap 
tries to reach those who may be apathetic 
to the feminist message by featuring femi-
nist male athletes, actors and celebrities – 
such as Terry Crews and Daniel Craig – as 
examples of empathetic manhood.
Male-identifying Middlebury College 
students, including many student ath-
letes, made up a large part of the crowd at 
the screening and discussion. Athletes in 
particular were encouraged to attend the 
event, which was organized by the Chellis 
House and co-sponsored by the Athletics 
Deparment, Brother-to-Brother, the Cen-
ter for the Comparative Study of Race and 
Ethnicity, the Chellis House, Distinguished 
Men of Color, Feminist Action at Middle-
bury, the Program in Gender, Sexuality, 
and Feminist Studies, the Queer Studies 
House, Queers and Allies, Sister-to-Sister 
and Women of Color and a special Com-
munity Engagement mini-grant. 
“I was so encouraged to see so many 
male-presenting people and so many peo-
ple who looked like athletes really coming 
to engage,” said Katie Preston ’17. 
The majority of the attendees left the 
event before the discussion began, so their 
opinions about the film’s content remained 
unclear. However, Keith said he was able 
to gauge the reaction of some of the Col-
lege’s athletic coaches when he spoke with 
them about encouraging men to empathize 
with women before the evening event. 
“Three or four of them came up and 
shook my hand, and they were really recep-
tive. But a lot of them just left, so it’s hard 
to say,” Keith said.
When he introduced The Empathy Gap 
Keith addressed Donald Trump’s cam-
paign. “We’re in this amazing political cli-
mate right now where just a few days ago, 
a man tried to excuse the sexual assault of 
women as ‘locker room’ chatter,” Keith ob-
served.
Keith explained that the film – which 
presents Donald Trump as the most “dys-
functional example of manhood in Amer-
ica” – was made a year before Trump de-
clared his presidential candidacy, so its 
relevance to next month’s election is en-
tirely coincidental.
After the screening and conversation, 
the Chellis House hosted a reception where 
some attendees continued to discuss the 
implications of what Keith called Trump’s 
“wakeup call” candidacy and possible pres-
idency.
“The Empathy Gap” is available online 
streaming via go/kanopy.
On Oct. 22, Bernie Sanders spoke at a 
rally for Sue Minter and other Democratic 
Party candidates running for state office. 
Minter headlined the rally and received a 
warm welcome for her proposals for pro-
tection of both the environment and Ver-
mont laborers. Sanders, in his side role, 
focused his speech on the virtues of his 
colleagues by echoing the issues he spoke 
of during his own surprisingly popular 
campaign. 
When the rally ended, the crowd 
stayed around, but not for Sue Minter, 
the Democratic candidate for Vermont 
governor who had just finished speaking. 
Instead, they stayed around to greet and 
hopefully get a photo with Senator Bernie 
Sanders. 
Sanders took photos with dozens of 
people, and he spent a few minutes giving 
what looked like a pep talk to several high 
school students. At one point, a young 
girl - no more than five or six - ran up to 
him and hugged his leg
Although Sanders did not headline the 
rally, it was clear that he commanded the 
most attention. It was symbolic of the ef-
fect that Sanders’ unprecedented run for 
President has had on the state of Ver-
mont. During his campaign he captured 
the respect, adoration and criticism of 
millions of people throughout the entire 
United States, thrusting the small state 
into the national spotlight. 
Sanders and Minter highlighted the 
importance of Vermont in their speeches. 
The Green Mountain State, these can-
didates suggested, is destined to play a 
greater role in pushing for progress in the 
United States. Vermont may be a small 
state, but it has big ideas.
“One of the great aspects of the Unit-
ed States is our federalist system - local, 
state, federal government,” Sanders said. 
“And what is happening increasingly is 
that an idea that starts in New Mexico 
spreads around the country. An idea that 
starts in Vermont spreads around the 
country. And I have believed for a doz-
en different reasons - the history of the 
state, the composition of the state, the 
hardworking people of the state, that this 
small state can have the vision to trans-
form America and help us create a very 
different nation.”
Minter, too, spoke of a Vermont with 
a lot of potential to grow into a state that 
leads the way on progressive issues. But 
she also had some scathing words to say 
about her competitor, Republican Phil 
Scott, who she says wishes to stymie envi-
ronmental regulation and social improve-
ment.
But for most of her speech, she em-
braced much of Sanders’ platform: in-
creasing taxes on the wealthy, protecting 
local businesses and helping slow down 
climate change. And the subtext of her 
speech seemed to be: the Sanders move-
ment is alive and well.
As Sanders distances himself from his 
unsuccessful run for President and to-
ward an embrace of his newfound fame 
to bring light to both Vermont’s issues 
and its triumphs, his popularity among 
the public remains sky-high. Among 
major politicians, Sanders remains the 
most liked, above even President Barack 
Obama and Vice President Joe Biden, 
according to an Economist-YouGov poll 
from mid-October. 
His popularity lingers, too, at the Col-
lege. As recently as Sept. 28, The Campus 
editorial board noted, “We come under 
attack as people who will not vote or who 
will vote for Trump out of frustration be-
cause we are disillusioned after Bernie 
lost the nomination.” 
That disillusionment is something that 
many students have felt in the months 
since the Democratic primaries. Those 
who adhere to beliefs further to the left 
on the political spectrum were given, for 
what felt like the first time, a serious can-
didate holding those same beliefs. Then 
he lost - and dreams of a democrat social-
ist as President died. But his power to 
push his agenda remains.
At this event, Sanders did not even 
mention his own campaign. Rather, he 
called for harnessing the groundswell of 
progressive support to sweep Minter and 
other Democrats into office. His speech 
called for unity of purpose and for com-
ing together to continue the push for 
change that his own campaign had begun. 
“I think Bernie recognizes the power 
that he currently holds among supporters 
and he was clearly using that to divert at-
tention to the gubernatorial race,” Elana 
Feldman ’17.5 said. “At the rally, it felt 
like he was calling upon the symbols he 
had used during the race, but clearly he 
wasn’t trying to win anything. But it was 
nice that he was using his power to help 
other politicians.”
James Callison ’17.5, who also attend-
ed the rally, thought that both Sanders 
and Minter placed too much emphasis on 
the rhetoric and did not take enough time 
to actually propose solutions to the prob-
lems that they highlighted. But he also 
appreciated that both politicians’ rhetoric 
focused on Vermont’s unique position as 
a small, liberal-leaning state. 
“I think it is the rhetoric that is needed 
right now,” he said. “As such a small and 
socially forward thinking state in many 
ways, Vermont is uniquely positioned 
to, on a small-model basis, test and push 
for many policies that can be examples 
for the rest of the nation in the coming 
decades... Anything that can positively 
shape our future and move our nation 
forward is a mission that should be at the 
heart of VT’s ethical drive to be about the 
politics of change and possibilities.”
Empathy Gap Film Features Toxic Effects of Masculinity
By Alex Newhouse
Features Editor
Sanders and Minter Share Vision for Vermont 
 snopes.com
Thomas Kieth spoke about masculinity, empathy and Donald Trump on Oct. 10.
By Lucy Grindon
Contributing Writer
“I was so encouraged 
to see so many male-pre-
senting people and so 
many people who looked 
like athletes really com-
ing to engage.” 
Katie preston ’17
Bernie Sanders speaks to a crowd in Vergennes on Oct. 22 to endorse Sue Minter.
12 features |october 27, 2016
Alex Newhouse
PAID ADVERTISEMENT
13featuresoctober 27, 2016   
Fall break at the College falls right in the 
midst of midterm season. It would be an un-
derstatement to say that it is a stressful time 
for students. While many opt to relax and un-
wind or spend their days catching up on piles 
of readings and papers, a group of students 
opted instead to immerse themselves in the 
high school experience in Barre, Vermont. 
This fall break, the Middlebury Alterna-
tive Trips (MAlt) and Language in Motion 
(LiM) programs collaborated to organize the 
second annual LiM Mini-MAlt trip. On this 
trip, a group of five students traveled to Barre 
to engage in three days of inter-cultural ex-
change through in-class presentations and 
community service work with high school 
students at Spaulding High School and the 
Central Vermont Career Center (CVCC), the 
affiliated technical school.  
“Language in Motion works primarily 
with the local secondary schools, and we try 
to bring inter-cultural perspective and lens 
to different class-
rooms there,” LiM 
Coordinator Kristen 
Mullins said. “Dur-
ing the school year, 
we can’t really go far-
ther out than the lo-
cal high schools, but 
we thought, looking 
at the MAlt model, 
how wonderful if we 
could use breaks as 
an opportunity for 
students who are in-
terested in doing this but also interested in 
learning about schools in Vermont that are 
further away.” 
According to Mullins, the cultural ex-
change flowed both from the college students 
and from the high school students with whom 
they worked. While the five students who 
participated in the trip all had significant in-
ternational experiences - all had lived abroad 
for some part of their life - that they hoped to 
share with the high school students, they did 
not have much lived experiences of Vermont 
outside the immediate Middlebury area. 
“To go to a part that’s not Middlebury and 
see what a different part of the state is like 
was very eye-opening for me,” Co-Leader 
Michiko Yoshino ’17 said. “Learning about 
Barre through the eyes of high school stu-
dents especially helped me realize how much 
they have to offer and how valuable of a per-
spective they have.”
The cultural exchange took place both in-
side and outside the classroom setting. Out-
side the classroom, the Middlebury group 
worked with the Congregational Church in 
the town of Barre and groups of high school 
students in community service work. In the 
classrooms, the Middlebury group developed 
presentations around themes that they found 
significant to their own international experi-
ences. 
Each presenter delivered their themes to a 
variety of classrooms, from US Government 
to Human Services 
to Spanish. In order 
to engage each class-
room, the Middle-
bury group focused 
on directly engag-
ing the high school 
students and letting 
their interests drive 
their discussions.
“We were all very 
free to create our own 
presentations, and 
we improved upon 
them each time we 
presented them,” Yoshino said. 
“It was interesting to see the different ways 
people presented and the different ways they 
engaged the high school students. We also 
had a lot of candy,” she added with a laugh.
Shan Zeng ’19 and Kathy He ’19 paired up 
to develop a presentation around the theme 
of community involvement and citizenship. 
To engage the students actively in the presen-
tation, they strayed away from a traditional 
presentation model. Instead, the pair invited 
everyone to share their visions through draw-
ings of their own memories and ideal com-
munities.
“The students were actually eager to share 
their visions once given the opportunity,” 
Zeng said. “Even though our class had a very 
dynamic makeup, we shared very similar 
concepts when asked what our ideal commu-
nity looked like.”
As the Middlebury group shared the lens 
they had acquired from abroad, the high 
school students also shared their own per-
spectives as high school students and of their 
town.
“The high school students explained that 
their town had a perception of being called 
‘scary Barre’,” Yoshino said. “They talked 
about the fights, teenage pregnancy and so-
cioeconomic divides within the town, and it 
was eye-opening to see how much the [high 
school] students care and to see them back up 
the arguments they make.”
It was also interesting to have such open 
discussions about issues that are seemingly 
invisible on campus because they are experi-
ences that just aren’t prevalent here, Yoshino 
said. 
This two-directional inter-cultural learn-
ing is what Mullins holds to be at the core of 
the LiM program. 
“People are really interested in not only 
sharing what they’ve been thinking about 
and who they are but also learning from oth-
er people about what they’ve experienced and 
who they are,” Mullins said. “In my experi-
ence, that is one of the most exciting things 
that there is in the world. There’s this beauti-
ful coming together of experience, excitement 
and hard work.”
LiM will collaborate with MAlt to orga-
nize another LiM Mini-MAlt trip over spring 
break. Anyone who is interested is encour-
aged to contact Kristen Mullins at kmull-
ins@middlebury.edu
Fall Break Trip Inspires Inter-Cultural Learning
By Charmaine Lam
Features Editor
Nancy Fowler
The group of five students got to know the town of Barre, VT over fall break. From L to 
R: Yingshi Liang ‘18, Mary Baillie ‘18, Michiko Yoshino ‘17, Kathy He ‘19, Shan Zeng ‘19.
“To go to a part that’s 
not Middlebury and see 
what a different part of 
the state is like was very 
eye-opening for me.”
Michiko yoshino ’17
Last year, Professor of Political Science 
Matthew Dickinson went on sabbatical to 
write a book on the White House staff. Dick-
inson has been working on the book for many 
years, and a year on leave presented a great 
opportunity to finish it. 
Soon after his sabbatical began, that plan 
went awry. In short: the race for the presi-
dential nomination happened. What started 
out as a relatively quiet year to finish a book 
became a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to 
closely follow a once-in-a-lifetime presiden-
tial election. 
“I never made a conscious decision to give 
up on the White House book project,” Dickin-
son said in an email. “It’s just that following 
the campaign became more interesting as I 
realized this election was unfolding in unpre-
dictable and potentially historic ways.” 
And this is how Dickinson’s lecture on 
Oct. 19 began. Titled “How I Squandered 
My Leave Year Chasing Presidential Candi-
dates Across the Country in a Quixotic Bid 
to Make Campaign Coverage Great Again,” 
his lecture presented his journey across the 
United States to document and investigate 
a presidential election that, to many people, 
has seemed uniquely bizarre. 
“[The lecture was] really entertaining to 
watch. His take on each of the candidates was 
interesting and it seemed like a really cool 
way to spend your leave,” Karina Toy ’17 said. 
Indeed, throughout Dickinson’s talk, he 
stressed that the common perceptions of 
the presidential candidates were limited and 
misrepresenting – but he had to go to the ral-
lies himself to learn that. Traveling to rallies 
became the driving goal of his sabbatical.
“As [the campaign unfolded] it increas-
ingly consumed my free time as I began at-
tending more rallies in various states while 
also blogging about these events,” Dickinson 
said. In his lecture, he showed off a series 
of photos from rallies for Jeb Bush, Marco 
Rubio, Carly Fiorina, Chris Christie, Bernie 
Sanders and Donald Trump. For Dickinson, 
the Trump rallies were where the campaign 
became particularly interesting.
“When I went to my first Trump rally, and 
realized that he had tapped into something 
important to a significant number of voters, 
I was pretty much hooked,” he said. 
As he pointed out in the lecture, when 
Trump entered the presidential race, Dick-
inson wrote a sarcastically worded blog post 
called “Why I’m Telling Donald Trump: 
You’re Hired!” In the post, Dickinson wrote, 
“He will solve our critical problems by using 
common sense and hiring good people and 
making deals and threatening opponents and 
doing it all for pennies on the dollar. I know 
because he said he will.” 
Dickinson explained that he wrote this 
with very low expectations of Trump’s cam-
paign actually going anywhere. A few months 
later, he said, Trump was at the top of the 
polls and Dickinson was traveling across the 
country to figure out what it was that the real 
estate mogul had tapped into.
What he discovered was that Trump 
seemed to be a poor candidate to run in the 
Republican primaries – historic numbers of 
people voted against him in the primaries, 
even as he gained a historically high number 
of votes. Trump is simply not a candidate 
built to appeal to mainstream republicans 
and win against one or two more traditional, 
stronger candidates like Jeb Bush or Marco 
Rubio, Dickinson argued. The catch was, 
however, that he was running against more 
than a dozen other 
Republican candi-
dates. 
Trump should 
have been a stron-
ger general elec-
tion candidate, 
said Dickinson, 
and running 
against Hillary 
Clinton, Trump’s 
ant i -es tabl i sh-
ment, anti-cor-
ruption campaign 
should have given 
him a big boost. 
But Dickinson 
ended the lecture 
by stating that, in 
spite of Trump’s rhetoric about an election 
rigged against him, the candidate has rigged 
the election himself with his racist and mi-
sogynistic speech.
Trump is not the only interesting part of 
the race, though. During the lecture Dickin-
son made passing mention to the huge popu-
larity of Bernie Sanders among undergradu-
ates, especially at the College. In an e-mail, 
Dickinson explained that he was taken by 
surprise at the intensity of support for Sand-
ers at the College.
“The great level of support for Bernie’s 
campaign, and the passion students had for 
his candidacy, really stood out,” he said. “At 
the same time, I was struck by how little in-
terest my students showed in the historic 
nature of Hillary’s candidacy to become the 
first women president. 
I guess it’s a measure 
of how far we’ve come 
toward gender parity 
in this nation, but it 
surprised me.”
He also gave a 
stark appraisal of 
the state of political 
diversity at the Col-
lege. “Of course, the 
overwhelming lack 
of support for Trump 
– or any Republican 
presidential candidate 
– among students, 
while not surprising 
given the rather one-
dimensional political 
leanings on campus, is nonetheless a remind-
er of just how lacking we are in political and 
ideological diversity on campus.” 
At the end of his speech, Dickinson pre-
dicted that Hillary Clinton would win the 
election. He further suggested that a Clin-
ton victory will likely be as much to do with 
Trump’s own self-inflicted wounds as Clin-
ton’s strengths. 
By Alex Newhouse
Features Editor
Professor’s Sabbatical Spent Chasing the Election
“When I went to my 
first Trump rally, and re-
alized that he had tapped 
into something important 
to a significant number of 
voters, I was pretty much 
hooked.”
Matthew Dickinson 
political science professor
“The Global Illicit Drug Trade: Confronting Challenges and Exploring Solutions”
Friday, 10/28, RAJ
12:15 p.m.     "The International Drug Policy Reform Agenda: Why It Misses 
the Major Problems and Opportunities” 
Peter Reuter, University of Maryland
1:45 p.m.      “Marijuana Legalization 2016: Assessing the International  
Policy Landscape and Implementation Issues” 
Beau Kilmer, RAND
  
3:00 p.m.    “The Constitutional Costs of the War on Drugs” 
Alejandro Madrazo, CIDE (Mexico)
4:45 p.m.     “(Re) Imagining Drugs and Addiction: The Past, Present and 
Possible Future of Drug Policy” 
Rebecca Tiger, Middlebury College
ROHATYN CENTER for GLOBAL AFFAIRS aka The RAJ
"Sexuality, Gender, and the Muslim Body"
THURSDAY, 11/3, 12:15 p.m., Axinn 229
by Katherine Ewing, Professor of Religion, South Asia 
Institute, Columbia University. 
*Lunch provided. RSVP by 10/31 to dmdiloreto@middlebury.edu.
arts &  sciences
don’t
miss
this
A Discussion with Julia Gruen
Join us in the exhibition POST POP: Prints of Keith 
Haring as curators Emmie Donadio and Chris Murray 
interview Julia Gruen, Haring’s long-time friend and 
studio manager since 1984. Her knowledge of Haring 
as a visionary artist, celebrity and force for political 
and social change is unequalled.
10/28, FRIDAY, 12:15 P.M., MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE MUSEUM 
OF ART, CHRISTIAN A. JOHNSON GALLERY
VSO String Quartet: Halloween Family Concert
The Vermont Symphony Orchestra’s quartet presents a 
musical narration of Steve Schuch’s book, A Symphony of 
Whales, inspired by the true story about whales stranded 
in the Siberian Sea and the heroic efforts to free them. 
Music plays a key role in the rescue, and the concert audi-
ence becomes part of the recovery. 
10/30, SUNDAY, 3 P.M., MAHANEY CENTER FOR THE ARTS, ROBI-
SON HALL
Breakdance/Original Hip Hop Dance 
Presentation
Pioneering feminist breakdancer Ana ROKAF-
ELLA Garcia discusses the rise of hip hop and 
the culture of New York’s dance clubs from the 
time of Keith Haring to the present.
10/27, THURSDAY, 4:30-6 P.M., MAHANEY CENTER FOR 
THE ARTS, DANCE THEATER
Smashing watermelons into smith-
ereens, an interview with Bob Dylan, a 
monologue from a fallen angel; the cast of 
the Middlebury first-year show Savage + 
Love took these difficult and outlandish 
acts on with enthusiasm and ease. These 
actors, who all took the Middlebury stage 
for the first time, graced the Hepburn 
Zoo from Oct. 20-22, performing a series 
of Sam Shepard one-act plays that were 
anything but conventional. 
Most of the one-acts were written ear-
ly in Shepard’s career and were experi-
mental in nature, but the actors did not 
back away from the challenge, and their 
proficiency in his work was evident in 
their performances. 
First-year director and alumna, Re-
becca Martin ’04.5, joined the fourteen 
first-years in putting on Savage+Love. 
This was her first time back on the Col-
lege campus since she graduated, and 
she was thrilled to share the first-year 
experience with the cast. Martin had per-
formed Shepard as an actress and wanted 
her actors to challenge themselves with 
his work as a part of their first Middle-
bury theater experience.
“I really respond to the visceral quality 
in his writing,” Martin said. “I respond to 
the imagination, the multi-sensorial im-
ages and things that he makes his actors 
do, and I love that. That’s why I gravitat-
ed towards this material; I want people 
to have a raw experience of theater.”
One of Martin’s goals for the actors in 
the show was to form long-lasting bonds 
with each other. These bonds, Martin 
said, are the relationships that can carry 
a cast through grueling rehearsals and 
late nights. Martin also hoped that ex-
posing the cast to Shepard’s earlier piec-
es would push the actors and teach them 
what it is like to do theater at a high level.
The show’s material was physically 
and emotionally demanding, which 
made the cast’s mastery of it all the more 
impressive. Each act varied greatly in 
subject matter and theme, calling upon 
new challenges and roles for the cast to 
assume with each time the stage was lit 
up. The first act, “Short Life of Trouble,” 
chronicled an actual interview between 
Shepard and Bob Dylan. Another, “Ica-
rus’s Mother,” depicted an unusual scene 
at a Fourth of July picnic, complete with 
fireworks, a plane crash and an equivocal 
and suspenseful ending. 
“The War in Heaven (Angel’s Mono-
logue)” explored the condition of a fallen 
angel and the woman keeping him pris-
oner for herself. One of the final acts, 
“Just Space,” was a phone conversation 
between a daughter and her mother as 
the daughter explains the predicament 
of her recent estrangement from her hus-
band. Many scenes were accompanied by 
a live keyboard, others with acoustic and 
electric guitars. Each act was unique and 
unpredictable, and the actors explored 
each new character with both emotional 
and intellectual depth.
One such actor, Sean Meagher ’20, 
made his Middlebury theater debut in 
the one act “Icarus’s Mother.”
“It took us a long time to understand 
the play that we were doing,” he said. 
“It’s very experimental, very profound in 
some ways, but so fun to do.” 
He added that he grew very close 
with the other actors in his cast as they 
bonded over the difficulties and charms 
of Shepard’s work.
Another cast member, Steph Miller 
’20, gave some insight on the rehearsal 
process, which started soon after classes 
began.
“I think it’s really nice that they have 
it start so soon so that freshmen can get 
involved so early,” Miller said.
First-year student Laurel Rand-Lewis 
’20 agreed, and added that she liked per-
forming one acts as opposed to a full-
length play.
“Doing one acts gives you much more 
freedom to have more people,” she said. 
“It’s also much more coherent to do in 
such a short period of time.”
Alexander Herdman ’17 stage man-
aged the show with help from Assistant 
Stage Manager Coralie Tyler ’20. Herd-
man was also the set designer and prop-
erties manager of the performance, and 
acted in his own first year show three 
years ago.
“I’m still friends with the cast!” he 
added, a testament to the teambuild-
ing and sense of community with which 
the first year show provides newcomers. 
He has taken part in faculty shows ever 
since.
As a new-coming director at the Col-
lege, Martin also emphasized the cama-
raderie of the first-year cast.
“We don’t know what to expect and we 
don’t know what to do,” said Martin. “We 
don’t know exactly what it’s going to be 
but we kind of created it together.”
Novel by Alum Discusses Sexual Assault
First-Year Show Masters Intense Content
By Sabine Poux
Contributing Writer
It is rare to find a story so relevant 
that it feels like it takes place on your col-
lege campus. It is rarer to find a story so 
relevant that makes you realize it does.
One such story is found in Wrecked, 
the latest novel by Maria Padian ’83. 
Padian, who lives in Brunswick, Maine, 
is also the author of Out of Nowhere 
(2013), Jersey Tomatoes are the Best 
(2011) and Brett McCarthy: Work in 
Progress (2008).
The story, which chronicles sexual as-
sault on college campuses, shifts between 
the perspectives of Haley and Richard, 
two college students who see their worlds 
change after a fateful night of partying.
One night, Haley’s roommate, Jenny, 
returns from a party as a different girl, 
shaken and wounded. Richard’s friend, 
Jordan, returns from the same party tell-
ing a story about a drunken hookup with 
a freshman. When Jenny accuses Jordan 
of rape, the worlds of these four people 
collide and change forever.
It is a story often told in young adult 
literature. Wrecked, however, is differ-
ent. Its story is not told by the victim but 
by two outsiders without all the details. 
Their perspectives mirror our own as 
readers, as we are never quite sure what 
really happened. Haley and Richard 
come together as they struggle to sort out 
truth from lie and memory from imagi-
nation. They are confronted with the 
rape culture and victim-blaming that too 
often affect the lives of women and men 
who face the realities of sexual assault.
Because the story isn’t told from the 
victim or the accused, the task of weed-
ing through the many details to find the 
truth becomes even more complex. It 
underscores for the readers the toll sex-
ual assault exacts on peoples’ lives, high-
lights the unhealthy relationship some 
college students have with the words 
‘yes’ and ‘no’ and demonstrates how easy 
it is for doubt to creep in.
The story takes place at MacCallum 
College, a fictitious but eerily familiar 
small private school. The characters par-
ty, concern themselves with sports and 
grades, engage in casual sex and even oc-
casionally recline in an Adirondack chair 
on the green. 
Padian said that “[t]he setting is very 
much influenced by living in a small col-
lege town,” but she maintained that it 
was not actually based on Middlebury or 
Bowdoin College.
MacCallum College is probably based 
on all small private schools. It’s easy to 
see the similarities between its setting 
and characters and any liberal arts col-
lege or university in America. The very 
fact that the setting can take on so many 
real locations is why the story feels so 
possible and so visceral. If something 
like this could happen at MacCallum, it 
could happen at Middlebury. And it cer-
tainly does. 
Padian’s characters come beautifully 
to life in this enthralling and powerful 
novel. They allow us to step into their 
shoes and wonder how we would act, 
what side we would choose and if right 
and wrong can be defined as sharply as 
the world wants them to be. 
By Finne Murphy
Arts & Sciences Editor
Maria Padian
Wrecked tells the story of a sexual assault at the fictional MacCallum College.
Maria Padian
Author Maria Padian ’83 lives with her 
family in Brunswick, Maine.
October 27, 2016 | 15arts & SCIENCES
By Sabine Poux
Contributing Writer
Yoga on Campus a Welcome Retreat
Deborah Leedy ‘16, a member of the 
Dance Company of Middlebury, is cur-
rently choreographing a piece for the 
Fall Dance Concert. 
This will be her second year as a stu-
dent choreographer, though she stated, 
“I am no less intimidated by the idea of 
creating.” 
The Fall Dance Concert is an oppor-
tunity for students of DANC 360 and 
DANC 460 to showcase what they have 
learned in class, as well as their deeply 
personal creative explorations into the 
movements of dance. 
When asked about the importance of 
art, Leedy stated, “This is art, and art 
comes from deep within whether we in-
tend it to or not.”
She begins the creative process by 
pulling inspiration from multiple songs, 
choreographing short phrases, or se-
quences of movements that flow togeth-
er, based off of the energy and texture 
of the songs. Leedy then follows the 
direction of the choreography, experi-
menting with how well the steps she has 
put together mesh with the context and 
mood of the music. Most of her work, 
though, is a result of collaboration with 
the dancers in her piece, who are fellow 
students in the college community. 
“I am interested in how they move 
and not just how good they are at copy-
ing my movement,” Leedy said. “So I 
have also experimented with creating 
structures that allow my dancers to gen-
erate the movement themselves.” 
As a dancer in her piece, I can af-
firm the major role that improvisational 
technique plays in rehearsal. Several 
segments of the piece are composed of 
movement that has been created in the 
spur of the moment, or steps that we 
have set based off of minimal direction 
from Leedy. 
Recently, the student choreographers 
showcased their progress in a First 
Showing, where they received feedback 
from professors and fellow choreogra-
phers. 
Based off of the First Showing, Leedy 
urges fellow students to attend the Fall 
Dance Concert, saying, “I think the 
Fall Dance Concert will be impactful 
for Middlebury because there is a wide 
variety of pieces all exploring different 
ideas. 
By going to this concert, you would 
be opening yourself up to see a differ-
ent perspective.” She went on to say that 
“whether it seems superficial or not, our 
dances say a lot about us as choreogra-
phers.” 
As well as working on her original 
piece for the Fall Dance Concert, which 
will consist of two shows on December 
2 and 3 at 7 p.m., Leedy is preparing for 
an upcoming show in January as part 
of the Dance Company and is an active 
member of the Swing Dance Club on 
campus.
STUDENT ARTIST SPOTLIGHT: Deborah Leedy
By Hope Leng
Contributing Columnist
Deborah Leedy is choreographing a piece for the Fall Dance Concert on Dec. 2.
Middlebury College Music Department
You know the yoga is relaxing when 
you are standing in eagle pose and have 
completely forgotten about the two pa-
pers, midterm and four homework as-
signments due Monday. That was me 
finding my zen on Sunday night in the 
Chateau Grand Lounge. I stood in a po-
sition I had previously considered to be 
contortional, wobbling only a little bit, 
listening to instructions from a fellow 
student and loving every minute of it. 
I wasn’t stressing about my academic 
classes or worrying what the other yo-
gis around me were thinking; I was just 
practicing yoga, something I had never 
tried before.
As a college student, finding peace 
of mind is no small feat, which is what 
makes the Middlebury Yoga Club such a 
wonderful organization. The Yoga Club 
has been functioning as a de-stresser 
and exercise option for students for five 
years now, and its accessible nature and 
student-taught classes help it to achieve 
its goal as stated in the club’s mission 
statement, “…to provide yoga series for 
the Middlebury College community to 
offer the benefits of yoga’s reflective and 
balancing effects.”
The goals of the Yoga Club have re-
mained consistent since the club’s hum-
ble beginnings in 2011. The idea for the 
club began in the town of Middlebury at 
the Otter Creek Yoga Studio, when stu-
dents Cassy Charyn ’12 and Lilah Leo-
pold ’12.5 approached instructor Rus-
sell Comstock and asked him to teach a 
class at the college. The students secured 
a space in the Hepburn lounge, but as 
more and more newcomers from differ-
ent dorms joined the club, it was appar-
ent the small space would no longer do. 
The yoga bug was catching at Midd, and 
it was catching fast.
After two or three semesters at Hep-
burn, the effort was underway to create 
an official Yoga Club. Comstock began 
teaching classes at the CFA, and classes 
were open to students from all dorms. 
Comstock saw much enthusiasm among 
the kids in the club, who he says were 
looking for a way to “help balance some 
of the pressure and various demands of 
college life.”
Five years later Comstock still teaches 
yoga at Midd and offers two classes a 
week to accommodate the large num-
ber of students who are part of the Yoga 
Club, ranging from 60 to 100 students 
per class. Eight Middlebury students 
teach the remaining nine weekly classes. 
Chelsea Colby ’17.5 is a certified yoga 
instructor who became involved with 
the club two years ago when she needed 
teaching hours for her yoga training cer-
tification. Now Colby is the club treasur-
er and teaches two classes a week. Her 
goals for the club include expanding on 
its sense of community and introducing 
possibilities such as a yoga rave, col-
laborations with the mountain club and 
added morning classes to work into stu-
dents’ busy schedules.
“We’re trying to see how we can make 
it more of a community,” she said. “There 
is such a focus on individual practice and 
your own mat and your own practice and 
your own hour.”   
The yoga club has seen immense suc-
cess, which is in part due to its accessi-
bility. Classes are free and students are 
allowed to go to any classes they want, 
depending on which best fit into their 
days. There are 11 classes to choose from 
and a range of options each day of the 
week, and each class welcomes yogis of 
all levels. Breaking the rigidity of a typi-
cal club schedule gives Yoga Club mem-
bers more control over their own yoga 
practices, and allows them to choose 
whichever classes work best for them.
Adeline Cleveland, an employee at 
the Snow Bowl, and one of the original 
members of the Yoga Club, pointed out 
the need for this availability and method 
of escaping academic pressures. “Mid-
dlebury College is an amazing institution 
and a very overwhelming environment,” 
she said. “We recognized the need to get 
students out of their heads and into their 
bodies and wanted to provide free class-
es for anyone and everyone interested, 
including faculty!”
The availability is also implicit in the 
club’s constitution, which reads as one of 
its purposes: “To offer classes accessible 
to those who want to try yoga for the 
first time, for those who want to practice 
weekly, or for those who would like to 
drop in on a particularly stressful week.” 
So, whether you have been practicing for 
years or have never even stepped foot on 
a yoga mat, the Yoga Club is a viable in-
volvement opportunity for you.
The tolerance for yoga newcomers 
was evident in the Restorative Yoga class 
I attended, which began with easier prac-
tices like stretching and slowly increased 
in difficulty to a vinyasa flow sequence. 
Throughout the class Colby was encour-
aging and accommodating, offering up 
alternatives to poses for those who had 
more experience but explaining in detail 
the poses for those – like myself – who 
had none. By the end of the hour I was 
extremely relaxed and felt strong and in 
control of my own body.
According to Comstock, “one big ben-
efit [of yoga] is gaining a deeper sense 
of learning about your own energy and 
how to manage that energy, and how to 
feel like you have some sort of internal 
guidance as a student because you have 
so many external pressures.”
In this way the yoga classes offer a di-
version from the anxiety and intensity of 
school, and allow students to take care of 
their bodies. This effect of the practice is 
not lost on the Middlebury community, 
which has enthusiastically embraced the 
club.
The Yoga Club is still growing, owing 
much to the passion that students bring 
to the table. The club also has evolved 
with the changing goals of the school.
“In the past year or so with [President 
of the College Laurie L. Patton] coming 
onto campus, there’s been a lot more 
talk about mindfulness on campus,” said 
Colby, “and so it’s definitely grown, even 
since my time starting here.”
However the club is still very much 
connected to its roots. The mission of 
the original founders of the Club is very 
much in sync with that of the Club lead-
ers now.
And ask any of the hundreds of kids 
who attend the classes weekly – I am 
sure they would agree.
Yoga instructors prepare for class by practicing their own poses and sun salutations.
Middlebury College Yoga club
16 arts & SCIENCES
Upon hearing Antigone, most people 
immediately think of the Greek tragedy by 
Sophocles, in which tradition and loyalty play 
a significant role. Greek tragedy aside, The 
Middlebury College Theatre and Dance De-
partment will present The Antigone Project 
this Oct. 27-29 in Seeler Studio at the Mah-
aney Center for the Arts. Directed by Profes-
sor of Theatre Richard Romagnoli, this per-
formance combines five plays, four of which 
were written by female playwrights of color.  
          Each playwright takes a spin on the origi-
nal Greek tragedy about a young woman who 
defies the state to uphold a religious principle 
– the unwritten law of the gods – and ulti-
mately condemns herself to death.
The five featured plays are “Hang Ten” 
by Karen Hartman, “Medallion” by Tanya 
Barfield, “Antigone Arkhe” by Caridad Svich, 
“A Stone’s Throw” by Lynn Nottage and “Red 
Again” by Chiori Miyagawa. Hartman’s piece 
features arrhythmic and rhythmic dialogue. 
Barfield’s piece features a black laundress, 
with stubborn and dignified beauty, who 
demands a Medal of Honor in light of her 
missing brother’s body. In Svich’s piece, an 
archivist beautifully reconstructs Antigone’s 
narrative; Nottage’s piece depicts the dispro-
portionate punishment of women in various 
religions, countries and political realms. In 
the final piece by Miyagawa, the characters 
wrestle with the injustices caused by political 
conflict around the world.
In contrast to the original Ancient Greek 
tragedy, these contemporary plays can be 
funny, serious and authentically human.
“I’m excited to be part of a play that is 
thoughtfully comedic and touches on very 
important topics,” actor Jabari Matthew ’17 
noted. “I think the show will surprise people. 
They’re going to walk in not knowing what 
to expect, and it will take a couple of days to 
digest – which is what you want out of a per-
formance.”
The Antigone Project also lets students 
stretch their creative talents.
“I’m really looking forward to demonstrat-
ing my capacity as an actress,” Rebecca John-
son ’16.5 stated. “This piece has allowed me 
to explore three very distinct characters and 
I’m excited for what Thursday night brings.”
The Antigone Project will be performed 
on Thursday, Oct. 27  at 7:30 p.m., Friday, 
Oct. 28 at 7:30 p.m., and Saturday, Oct. 29 
at 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. in the Seeler Studio 
at the Mahaney Center for the Arts. Get your 
tickets at go/boxoffice or 802-443-6433.
By Hiruy Ephrem
Contributing Columnist
Yeager Anderson
The Antigone Project is made up of five plays that take a spin on a Greek tragedy.
Performing Arts Sp    TLight: The Antigone Project
   | October 27, 2016
GREEN
The official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
LOCAL | HANDCRAFTED | FRESHLY PREPARED |AT YOUR CONVENIENCE
[802] 388-3164
PEPPERS
WANT A PIECE OF THE ACTION?
The Middlebury Campus is seeking people to join our team for the fall 
semester. Writers are needed for all sections!
To express interest, please send an email to campus@middlebury.edu detailing the 
section(s) for which you’d like to write.
In Salman Rushdie’s book Haroun 
and the Sea of Stories, the titular char-
acter asks his father, “What’s the use of a 
story that’s not even true?” 
On Friday Oct. 21, Assistant Profes-
sor of Italian Stefano Mula attempted to 
answer this same question with another: 
“How can we read stories written eight 
centuries ago that talk about events that 
might seem totally useless and untrue 
and show how we can actually use them 
to better understand the past, and even 
ourselves?” 
In his seminar “Truth or Fiction,” 
Professor Mula presented his audience 
in the Robert A. Jones ’59 House with a 
short analysis of the literary traditions 
of the Cistercian Order, a French order 
founded in the 11th century. He will soon 
be releasing a new book analyzing Cis-
tercian records of visions and miracles 
recorded in the Liber Visionum et Mi-
raculorum Clarevallensium by Herbert 
of Torres. He is also working on a mono-
graph on early Cistercian moral stories.   
This order of monks became famous 
for its use of exemplum, short stories 
that were put into sermons in order to 
convince the audience of an edifying les-
son. These stories were meant to take 
stories from daily life that exemplified 
Christian spirituality. As the Cistercians 
spread throughout Europe these stories 
eventually became necessary to preserve 
the ideological unity of the order and of-
fer a means of keeping track of historical 
events.   
Although these stories are far re-
moved from their original purpose as in-
structional fables, Mula noted that “we 
should go back to the text[s] to remem-
ber what we have lost and learn from our 
ancestors something that can be valuable 
today.” 
The veracity of these exempla ulti-
mately does not have much impact on 
the messages. Instead of dwelling on the 
facts of the story, Mula maintained that 
the readers of these ancient texts should 
suspend their disbelief in order get the 
full strength of the ideas presented in the 
text. 
He went on to quote German scholar 
Harald Weinrich, stating that Weinrich 
“knew of no case in which Jesus’ disci-
ples or other listeners asked him if his 
stories were true.” 
His parables were not valuable simply 
because they were seen as true, but rath-
er because of the spiritual enrichment 
they gave to the disciples and people who 
studied the stories. This same style of 
literary analysis influences the research 
that Mula continues to do into medieval 
texts.  
This lecture was part of the Interna-
tional and Global Studies Colloquium, a 
forum designed to allow researches and 
practitioners to present projects that have an international orientation. This series takes place on Friday afternoons 
in the Rohatyn Center for Global Affairs 
with lunch provided for participants.    
By Dominick Tanoh
Arts & Sciences Editor
Lecture Examines Medieval Short Stories
 Midd Mouth: Featuring Nellie Pierce
This week’s Midd Mouth poet is 
Nellie Pierce. Nellie was born and 
raised in Middlebury, and is now a 
Super-Senior Feb with a major in cog-
nitive science. She enjoys metaphor, 
the work of the later Wittgenstein and 
Buffy the Vampire Slayer. She hosts a 
show on WRMC called Memorywis-
domdrugs, and in her grapheme-color 
synesthesia, her first name resembles 
a green-speckled ripening apple. Here 
are some of Nellie’s reflections on po-
etry that she shared with me last week: 
Matthew Blake (MB): How 
would you describe your creative pro-
cess? 
Nellie Pierce (NP): The aston-
ishment of seeing a change in aspect; 
the mental equivalent of brushing my 
teeth; mushrooms pushing up through 
asphalt; putting on an antenna that 
translates wavelengths of light into 
frequencies of sound; seeing blurrier-
than-normal without your eyeglasses 
on but clearer-than-normal with them; 
turning a glitch into a new kind of sen-
sitivity.
MB: How would you describe your 
relationship to poetry? 
NP: For me, poetry is a mode of 
conceptual activity that warps the 
boundary between thought and expe-
rience. It allows me to see words not 
only as dry little museum placards that 
label an experience under glass, but as 
animate in themselves -- resonant with 
and participating in the world that they 
“stand for.” I turn to it when the cogs of 
my mind are stuck in sterile patterns, 
or alternately, spinning in a blizzard 
of visual noise. I honestly can’t imag-
ine having to move through the world 
without it.
An octopus can suffer from depression.
Herein, a lesson: don’t go envying 
The squishy selves of simpler nervous systems.
So why did you give him that book to read?
About how our big brains are maladaptive.
A bomb gets dropped, or something. Everyone dies.
You couldn’t have known he was so maladapted.
It was too different from your own disease.
Your intellect kept playing its Soviet chess,
Pursuing its research in telepathy. 
He put the book in his jacket pocket, and said
I think it’s weird that we aren’t still worried.
The world could come to an end at any second.
Apocalypse is, after all, our native element.
_
The fifth floor stairwell where you almost fell
Is marked with riverbeds, by heads of mops.
Your nervous system twitches in a thrall
Of well-learned pleasure and its well-learned lapse.
You cannot build the law for everyone.
The law is written in a cryptolect,
Worm-eaten into wood -- or there is none.
The alphabet, a nibbling insect.
And though you’d like to cut it into stone,
This must be said: it’s harder than it looks.
Someone you love waits up his nights alone
Hacking real matter with his heart’s dull hook;
Your matter is a subtler sort, but still
The matter won’t be settled by your will.
_ 
The universe is none of the above. 
Your language, concepts? Close, but no cigar.
And though you tend to set your sights on love,
What’s love, but a shared giving-up of words?
We sit amidst our questions on the floor
Avoiding them like christmas gifts, or bombs.
He taught you this, and you taught him the more
Abstruse endeavor of defusing them;
The snapdragon within the shorting bulb,
Kids half-asleep in their flameproof pajamas. 
You half-expect to wander down the halls
And find the tree gone up in fiery tongues --
It would not be a sign of anything.
A mushroom cloud. We would join hands, and sing.
By Matthew Blake
Featuring Nellie Pierce Galapagos
by Nellie Pierce
Salman Rushdie
Professor Stefano Mula’s lecture analyzed the book Haroun and the Sea of Stories.
October 27, 2016 | arts & SCIENCES17
The men’s and women’s tennis teams 
finished their seasons the past two week-
ends, with the men’s MIT Invitation-
al on Oct. 15 and 16 and the women’s 
Middlebury Invitational this past week-
end. The men sent two players to the fi-
nals in the singles draw, and the women 
posted wins in singles and doubles.
On Oct. 15, Lubomir Cuba ’19 lost in 
three sets in the ITA Oracle Cup singles 
national title match against Aman Manji 
of Emory after winning the USTA Re-
gional Tournament for the northeast re-
gion. 
Cuba, who was unseeded in the draw, 
knocked off the No. 2 and No. 3 seeds 
in straights sets to reach the tourna-
ment finals. He lost the first set of the 
championship match 6-4, but picked up 
a 6-3 win in the second set. Manji took 
the match after going 7-5 against Cuba. 
With the loss, Cuba finished at 10-2 for 
the fall season.
“I felt pretty good physically through-
out the whole tournament. I at least 
thought that I was more fit than most 
guys there, so that definitely helped,” 
Cuba said. “Although I didn’t necessar-
ily play my best, I competed hard and 
was fortunate enough to make the finals. 
Losing in the final was tough, but I’ll 
take this tournament as a learning expe-
rience and look to better myself for the 
spring season.”
The rest of the men’s team competed 
at the MIT Invitational on Oct. 16, play-
ing in a singles draw of 64 players and 
a doubles bracket of 
32 pairs. William de 
Quant ’18 advanced to 
the final in the main 
singles draw, defeat-
ing players from MIT, 
Bowdoin, Tufts and 
Wesleyan. In the final 
matchup, de Quant 
fell in three sets to 
Grant Urken of Bow-
doin, 6-4, 1-6, 6-1.
Hamid Derbani ’17 
lost his first match 
in the main draw, 
but won his next four 
matches in the back-
draw and reached the 
finals of that bracket, 
before Wesleyan’s Cameron Daniels de-
feated him in the finals, 6-2, 6-4. 
Kyle Schlanger ’18 won a blowout two-
set match against Williams’ Rohan Shas-
tri and a tight three-set match against 
Amherst’s John Heidenberg in the back-
draw, before losing in the quarterfinals.
The Panthers had five pairs in the 
main draw in doubles play, with four of 
them winning at least one match. The 
pair of Derbani and Schlanger had three 
wins to reach the semifinals before los-
ing 8-4 to the eventual champion pair, 
Wesleyan’s Michael Liu and Jake Rob-
erts. Peter Martin 
’19 and Timo van 
der Geest ’18 ad-
vanced one round 
over a Brandeis 
pair, as did Allen 
Jackson ’17 and 
Aleksandr Samets 
’20 over Tufts.
The women’s 
team saw sev-
eral players 
earning wins at 
their own annual 
Middlebury In-
vitational from 
Oct. 21 to 23 in 
a format similar 
to a round robin. 
Teams played a dual in either singles or 
doubles against each other, playing ei-
ther six singles or three doubles match-
es. There was no-ad scoring, and doubles 
was one pro-set.
On Friday evening, Middlebury 
played in doubles matches against Wil-
liams and Brandeis. Catherine Blazye 
’20 and Molly Paradies ’19 won against 
the Ephs, as did Christina Puccinelli ’19 
and Maddi Stow ’20. Other Panther pairs 
posted wins, including Lily Bondy ’17 
and Skylar Schossberger ’20, Katherine 
Hughes ’20 and Puccinelli ’20, as well as 
Heather Boehm ’20 and Paradies.
In singles play against the Brandeis 
team, Blazye, Boehm, Paradies, Pucci-
nelli and Schossberger picked up wins 
in straight sets. The Panthers won five 
of six matches against Amherst, also all 
in straight sets. Against Williams, Fields 
and Puccinelli won in a superbreaker set, 
and Paradies won in straight sets. Sun-
day’s play saw wins against Amherst by 
Schossberger/Hughes, Kaysee Orozco 
’17/Stow and Puccinelli/Boehm.
The women’s team hopes to build off 
last season’s 16-5 showing next spring, 
after a run to the national semifinals for 
the second time in the program’s history.
The men’s team will vie for the na-
tional championship, after reaching the 
final match each of the last two seasons, 
but falling to both teams.
“As a team we are going to work hard 
on and off the court, pushing each other 
whenever we can in order to reach our 
goal of winning a national title,” Cuba 
said.
On Tuesday, Oct. 25, the women’s soccer 
team traveled to Williamstown to play No. 2 
Williams, who entered the match undefeat-
ed, for its final regular season and NESCAC 
conference game, but lost 1-0 and its eight-
game winning streak in the process.
Before this showdown, the Panthers beat 
Bates on Saturday, Oct. 22. Adrianna Gildner 
’17, Amanda Dafonte ’19 and Rebecca Pala-
cios ’18 all scored in the second half of the 
match.
“This game is going to be huge for us go-
ing into the post-season,” said Gildner before 
the Williams game. “All season we’ve focused 
on being that number one team, and today 
we have a chance to do so. We’re all mentally 
and physically prepared--we have nothing to 
lose, and we are going to leave it all out on 
the field.”
“Williams is traditionally our biggest rival, 
and we beat them last year,” added Maddie 
Morgan ’18. “They play great soccer, but we 
known that if we work together a team we can 
crush them. This is our biggest game.”
The Ephs held off the Panthers in the 
showdown of a classic rivalry. Middlebury 
had a chance to score in the 17th minute when 
Amanda Hotvedt ’17 placed a corner kick to 
the front of William’s net before Gildner redi-
rected the ball towards the net. However, the 
Williams goalie deflected the attempt.
Williams scored in the 29th minute when 
an Ephs forward chased down a through ball 
and touched a shot off the right post and in, 
for the only tally of the game.
 “We definitely controlled the game in first 
part of the first half and essentially the whole 
second half,” said Sara DiCenso ’19. “To be 
honest, their goal was lucky. They slipped it 
right by our defense and luckily hit the right 
post and went in.”
Middlebury had two chances to score in 
the second half by Katherine Hobbs ’17 and 
Alissa Huntington ’18, but Williams denied 
both attempts, and the Panthers saw their 
eight-game win streak snapped by the Ephs.
“We are excited to hopefully play [Wil-
liams] in the NESAC tournament because 
they are definitely beatable,” said DiCenso, 
“but first we have to tackle our opponent in 
the quarterfinals.”
Even though the Panthers fell to the Ephs, 
they are the third ranked seed coming into 
the NESCAC tournament and will host the 
sixth-seeded Bowdoin Polar bears on Satur-
day, Oct. 29. 
| october 27, 2016 18 sports
Tennis Teams Compete at MIT Invitational 
YES
They scored 28 unanswered after 
a sluggish first quarter against 
Bates last weekend. They’ll pull it 
off against Trinity Saturday.
YES
They’ve been finishing better than 
NESCAC competition in the lead-up 
races.
HUSKIES
But Utah will play well in Salt Lake. 
But Washington pulls away in the 
second half.
CAVS
Sorry Phil.
editors’ picks
Remo Plunkett (84-62, .575)
Football:
Will the Panthers remain 
unbeaten after their trip to 
Hartford Saturday, Oct. 29, where 
they play undefeated Trinity?
NBA Tip-Off:
Who do you have tomorrow 
night, Friday Oct. 28, in the 
Eastern Conference Finals 
rematch?
Cross Country:
Will both teams finish better 
than they did last year at 
NESCACs?
CFB Pick ‘em:
Who do you have when no. 4 
Washington travels to no. 17 
Utah on Saturday, Oct. 29?
YES
This is Midd’s year.
NO
This seems like a tall task.
UTAH
I smell an upset brewing out west.
RAPTORS
I don’t think the Raptors are 
better, this is just one game in 
Toronto.
YES 
Trinity is always a tough opponent, 
but our squad has already bested an 
undefeated opponent this year in 
the historic win over Amherst.
YES 
The teams have been strong so far, 
especially when stacked up against 
others from the NESCAC.
WASHINGTON
Roll Dawgs. 
RAPTORS
Six. Six. Six.
will case (40-28, .588)
Andrew Rigas (69-44, .610)
Women’s Soccer Loses to Amherst, Earns No. 3 Seed 
“Losing in the final was 
tough, but I’ll take this 
tournament as a learning 
experience and look to bet-
ter myself for the spring 
season.”  
lubomir cuba ’19
By Ethan Brady
News Editor
By Sebastian Sanchez
Senior Writer 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20
Lebowitz completed 35 of his 56 passes 
for 394 yards, three touchdowns and two 
interceptions. He has thrown 20 touchdown 
passes this year, which puts him on pass to 
break McCallum Foote ’14’s NESCAC single-
season record of 31.
Burke caught six passes for 90 yards and 
a touchdown, and Banky caught 7 passes for 
89 yards and two touchdowns. Meritus ran 
14 times for 61 yards.
“We knew the weather was going to come 
into play but we didn’t let that get us away 
from our game plan,” Burke said when asked 
about how the inclement weather affected the 
Panthers’ offensive game plan. “We watched 
a lot of film and had a pretty good idea about 
what we were going to see from them defen-
sively, so we worked our game plan around 
that rather than around what the weather 
was going to give us. Having said that, we 
did benefit from practicing in the rain on 
Thursday and Friday, because it allowed us 
to get an idea of what would work and what 
wouldn’t with the weather.”
Trinity will enter the matchup of unde-
feated teams having scored at least 36 points 
in all five of its wins. The Bantams have won 
four of its five games by at least 25 points, but 
those wins have come against the NESCAC’s 
worst four teams. Against Tufts (4-1), they 
won 36-28 and led 36-13 at one point.
A year ago, Trinity defeated Middlebury 
26-14 even though the Panthers outgained 
the Bantams by almost 200 yards and led 
at halftime. The winner on Saturday will be 
the lone undefeated team in the conference 
and will control its destiny for the NESCAC 
championship.
Football Continues Strong in an Undefeated Season
The Middlebury field hockey team 
picked up two hard-fought wins over the 
past week, beating Rensselaer 2-0 on 
Wednesday, Oct. 19, and Bates 3-0 on 
Saturday, Oct. 22, pushing their season 
record to 11-3 overall and 6-3 in the NE-
SCAC.
“The team was very excited about 
these two shutouts which can be attrib-
uted to their biggest strength this year 
which is the team’s depth,” said Pam 
Schulman ’17. 
“We have so many different people 
that can play so many different posi-
tions, some of the players that don’t get 
as much playing time would be the lead-
ers on any other team. It’s unfortunate 
that there are only eleven spots on the 
field, but at the same time it’s exciting, 
because any person can be the differ-
ence on any given day,” she added. 
Fifth-ranked Middlebury began the 
match against Rensselaer in a stale-
mate, with neither team scoring for the 
first half. The Panthers were unable 
to capitalize on any opportunities de-
spite their nine shots. Grace Jennings 
’19 had a great shot, but the Rensselaer 
goalie was able to make the save to hold 
Middlebury scoreless. The Panthers suc-
cessfully defended their opponent’s at-
tacks, allowing only two shots through-
out the first half.
Middlebury was quick to strike in 
the second half, as the team came out 
of the locker room fired up and got on 
the board quickly after play resumed. 
Julia Richards ’20 carried the ball into 
the circle and sent a backhanded shot 
towards the goal. The ball was deflected 
to Kelly Coyle ’20, who pushed the ball 
into the cage for her first career goal 
1:02 into the second half.
Annie Leonard ’18 netted the second 
goal of the contest to give the Panthers 
a 2-0 lead that they maintained until the 
final whistle. The goal came from a con-
verted opportunity off a rebound from a 
corner. The goal marked Leonard’s 18th 
tally of the year.
Goalkeeper Emily Miller ’17 com-
pleted the shutout for Middlebury, re-
cording a pair of saves on her way to 
the fourth shutout of the year and 12th 
of her career. In doing so, Miller ties 
for the third-most shutouts in the pro-
gram’s history. The Panthers held a 15-5 
edge in shots and a 7-1 advantage in 
penalty corners on the day.
The following day, the Panthers got 
on the board quickly on a wet, gloomy 
and windy fall day as Emma Johns ’20 
carried the ball up the turf passing it to 
Jennings, who beat the Bates goalkeeper 
just under seven minutes into the game 
to give Middlebury an early lead. 
Less than five minutes later, 
Middlebury was able to capitalize on an-
other scoring opportunity, bringing the 
score to 2-0 in favor of the host team. 
The goal came from Lauren Schweppe 
’19 and was her ninth of the season.
Bates fought to get on the board and 
managed to fire a shot into the goal with 
just a minute remaining in the first half, 
However, the officials disallowed the 
goal after they ruled that the ball hit the 
back of the Bates player’s stick.
Despite their 2-0 lead entering the 
second half, the Panthers came fired up 
out of the locker room and ready to at-
tack as they netted another goal at the 
47:39 mark, giving them a 3-0 lead. 
Schweppe finished the offensive effort 
when she blasted the ball into the net for 
her second of the game.
Solid defense from the Panthers 
thwarted any attempts by the Bobcats to 
mount a comeback. 
Both teams tallied eight shots in the 
contest, while the Panthers possessed 
a narrow 7-6 edge in penalty corners. 
Miller recorded yet another shutout 
with five saves, good for her fifth of the 
season and 13th of her career. The Bates 
shutout allows Miller to advance from 
a tie for third in program history to the 
sole third place record holder.
The 3-0 victory marked the end of the 
regular season home games for the Pan-
thers and an end to the Bobcats’ four-
game winning streak. 
“The difference with the past two 
games is that the team has come to un-
derstand their responsibilities defen-
sively as an entire team,” said Schul-
man. “We’ve been working on shifting 
laterally defensively in the forward and 
midfield lines to disallow other teams 
from gaining yardage on their carries. In 
addition, our goalies Emily Miller and 
Megan Collins ’18 are stellar.”
This past weekend, the Panthers cel-
ebrated the accomplishments of their 
four seniors, Pamela Schulman, Lauren 
Schweppe, Lily Taub and Lauren Ber-
estecky. During their respective careers, 
these four seniors have been with the 
team for two NESCAC Championships, 
two Final Four appearances and one 
NCAA National Championship. 
october 27, 2016| 19SPORTS 
Volleyball Travels to Boston for New England Challenge
Women’s Soccer
Check the article to see if they 
extended their streak to nine 
against undefeated Williams on 
Tuesday.
Women’s Tennis
They had a great weekend at the 
Middlebury Invite.
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKING TEAM
Case’s Court
2
THE CUBS
WE’RE GOING TO 
THE WORLD SERIES 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
3
FOOTBALL
They scored 28 unanswered last 
weekend against Bates after a 
sluggish first quarter.
4
5
7
6
LUBO
“I at least thought I was more 
fit than most guys there,” is an 
understatement. He was second at 
the ITA National Title last week.
CROSS COUNTRY
The women’s side will look to 
make it two titles in three years 
this weekend.
field hockey 
They’re coming on strong here 
as the season winds down. 
Time for another postseason 
run.
MEN’s Soccer
They’re struggling a bit with 
the season winding down. Let’s 
see if they right the ship before 
NESCACs.
Last Friday and Saturday, Oct. 21-22, 
the Middlebury volleyball team travelled 
down to Boston for the New England 
Challenge and faced off against Babson, 
Springfield and the host school, MIT. 
After an 11-1 run in their past 12 
games, which earned them a no. 6 New 
England regional ranking, the Panthers 
finally hit a bit of a road block against a 
trio of teams regionally ranked in their 
own right in New England. The Panthers 
fell to no. 11 Babson in four sets and in 
three sets to both fifth-ranked Spring-
field and fourth-ranked MIT.
On Friday against Babson, the Pan-
thers led for much of the opening set and 
held  late 22-19 lead before Babson ral-
lied to give the set to the Beavers. Isabel 
Sessions ’19 and Becca Raffel ’18 kept the 
Panthers in the set with four and three 
kills, respectively.
Babson carried that momentum to the 
second set and led from wire-to-wire.
Middlebury wouldn’t give up so easily 
though. Down 2-0, they battled back in a 
tight third set. The Panthers nearly saw 
the set slip away after playing right with 
the Beavers to a 7-7 tie. 
From that point, Babson outscored 
Middlebury 16-10 to take a lead 23-17 
lead. However, the Panthers did not give 
up and managed to climb back for a 26-
24 set win.
Despite the momentum the Panthers 
took into the fourth set, they saw their 
early 7-6 lead evaporate as Babson out-
scored Middlebury 18-8 from that point 
on to take the set and the match. In the 
match, Sessions had 12 kills, Gigi Alper 
’20 had 14 digs and Hannah Blackburn 
’16 had 20 assists to each lead the team. 
In the second game of the weekend, 
Middlebury faced a tough opponent in 
Springfield. The Pride got off to a fast 
start, dominating the first set. The Pride 
expanded an early 4-0 lead to 19-11 lead 
before winning the set 25-16. 
The Panthers’ fortunes did not im-
prove in the second set either, as 
the Pride rolled to a 25-13 set win. 
Middlebury did their best to fight back, 
as they did against Babson, but only 
managed to bring the score to 23-19 on a 
kill by Sarah Staver ’19 before ultimately 
falling 25-19. 
In the match, Alper continued her 
strong defensive play with 11 digs, while 
Raffel added 10 kills and Chellsa Ferdi-
nand ’20 contributed a team high 12 as-
sists. 
In the final game of the weekend 
against MIT, Middlebury continued 
their slide as the Engineers got out to a 
quick lead. The Panthers tried to hold 
onto their 9-8 lead in the opening set, 
but MIT went on a quick run to make it 
20-13 and ultimately took the set 25-18.
The second set was a tighter battle 
that saw the Panthers work their way to 
a 14-11 lead after a long serving streak 
from Ferdinand. However, MIT was a 
tough customer in their home gym and 
evened the score at 19 before pulling 
away late for a 25-22 set win. 
With a 2-0 set-advantage, and at the 
back end of what was a long weekend for 
the team, the Panthers ran out of steam 
and could not keep up with the Engineers 
in the third and deciding set. MIT steam-
rolled their way to a 25-16 win and over 
the duration of the game, had a streak of 
seven consecutive points won.
Alper said that the team will use the 
nonconference clashes last weekend as a 
way to ensure they are prepared for the 
final weekend of the regular season.
“Although we didn’t achieve the re-
sults we wanted, the MIT tournament 
provided challenging competition that 
will help us succeed in our last regular 
season weekend,” she said.
“We are looking forward to incorpo-
rating what we learned in Boston against 
Colby and Bates. We are confident that if 
we play to our best ability, we can secure 
the No. 2 seed going into the NESCAC 
tournament,” she added.
While it was a disappointing weekend 
for the Panthers (6-2, 14-7), their strong 
non-conference opponents didn’t impact 
their position in the NESCAC playoff 
race, as they still sit in second-place, a 
game ahead of Amherst, Williams and 
Wesleyan, all tied at 5-3 in third place. 
The Panthers are currently ranked 
second in the NESCAC behind Tufts, 
who has yet to lose a conference match-
up. The team will finish off the regular 
season tomorrow and Saturday, Oct. 28-
29, with a road trip to Maine to face a 
pair of NESCAC opponents, Colby and 
Bates. Colby has yet to win a conference 
contest, while Bates sits at 3-5 in league 
play.  
By Christine Urquhart
Senior Writer
field hockey concludes home schedule 
Volleyball’s Claire White-Dzuro ’19 lunges for a ball. The team returns to action 
this weekend with a pair of away NESCAC contests in Maine, facing Colby on 
Friday before continuing on to Bates for a Saturday matchup. 
michael o’hara
28
Winning streak for the women’s soccer 
team, who improved to 12-2 overall after 
a 3-0 contest with Bates last Saturday. 
Consecutive victories for the football 
team against Bates, including last 
Saturday’s 28-9 win. The Panthers 
are undefeated so far this season. 
by the Numb3rs
13
Number of Panther athletes inducted into 
the Middlebury College chapter of Phi Beta 
Kappa. 
Career shutouts for field hockey 
goaltender Emily Miller ’17, the third 
most in program history. 
8 
5
By Colby Morris
Senior Writer
The Middlebury men’s soccer 
team (9-3-3, 4-3-3) faced harsh 
weather and committed opposi-
tion on Saturday, Oct. 22, ulti-
mately falling in a 3-2 overtime 
loss at home against the underdog 
Bates Bobcats (6-6-2, 2-6-1). The 
Panthers lost again on Tuesday, 
Oct. 25, at Williams, falling 3-0 to 
the Ephs (9-3-3, 6-3-1) in their last 
game of the regular season.
After earning three wins and a 
tie in four games over a span of just 
eight days, the Panthers looked in 
fine form as they notched the first 
goal of the game in the 16th minute. 
A shot from the foot of Drew Gou-
lart ’20 was rejected but quickly 
salvaged by Kyle Moffat ’19 as he 
tapped in the rebound for his third 
goal of the season.
Within a few minutes, Goulart 
and Moffat each nearly added an-
other goal to their lead. In the 22nd 
minute, Goulart fired a shot from 
the right side, but was denied by 
Bates defender Jack Martell just off 
the right post. Moffat returned for 
another opportunity seconds later 
from just three yards out, but was 
left empty handed as his shot hit 
the crossbar.
In the 34th minute, Bates 
scraped their way onto the board 
as Matt DiVite collected a loose ball 
and fired a shot from 25 yards on 
the right side. The shot snuck into 
the upper right corner to leave the 
game knotted at one goal apiece 
through the end of the first half. Di-
Vite returned strong in the second 
half, nagging his second goal of the 
game at 56:25 as a left-side cross 
from Luke McNabb on a free kick 
connected with DiVite’s head and 
put the Bobcats on top for the first 
time of the contest by a score of 2-1.
Middlebury returned the pres-
sure, however, as Goulart placed 
a right-side free kick at the feet of 
Tom Bean ’17, who knocked in his 
second goal of the season. The as-
sist marked the sixth of Goulart’s 
rookie campaign with the Panthers. 
Regulation time would expire 20 
minutes later, the game still tied at 
two.
With just 45 seconds left in the 
first overtime period, a cross from 
Bates’ Julien Williamson would 
find senior Peabo Knoth, who man-
aged to tap in the game winner for 
Bates in their impressive three goal 
performance against a Panther 
team that had only allowed four 
goals in eight NESCAC games this 
season.
On the Middlebury team’s re-
cent injuries and Bates’ perfor-
mance, Coach Dave Saward com-
mented; “The [Middlebury] team 
has performed well but there is no 
doubt the injury list took its toll. 
The loss of Glaser, Horton, Ech-
everria, Sass and Barovick forced 
us to shuffle the lineup. However 
that is not an excuse as this should 
be the opportunity for others to 
make a case for why they should be 
playing. I give Bates all the credit 
in the world for their commitment 
and work rate when they really had 
nothing to play for but their pride. 
Bates certainly achieved that. In the 
modern world of sports where play-
ing with passion and commitment 
for the love of the game is a dying 
concept, I tip my hat to the Bates 
team.”
On Saturday, Oct. 29, 
Middlebury will play in the NES-
CAC quarterfinals on the road.
sports
FIELD HOCKEY EARNS 
PAIR OF SHUTOUT 
VICTORIES 
PAGE 19
VOLLEYBALL 
BATTLES OUT 
OF CONFERENCE 
OPPONENTS
PAGE 19in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Men’s soccer loses twice
Dan Johnson
Despite heavy rain and an early 
9-0 deficit, the football team con-
tinued its undefeated season by 
scoring 28 unanswered points and 
defeating Bates 28-9 for the 28th 
time in a row on Saturday, Oct. 22, 
on Youngman Field at Alumni Sta-
dium. The Panthers, now 5-0, will 
square-off with Trinity, the other 
undefeated team remaining in the 
NESCAC, in Hartford on Saturday, 
Oct. 29, as they attempt to start 6-0 
for the first time since 1977.
With rain falling from the open-
ing kickoff, Middlebury received 
the ball first, but on its fourth play 
from scrimmage, Bates’ Joe Frake 
intercepted a tipped pass thrown by 
Jared Lebowitz ’18 to set the Bob-
cats up at the Middlebury 35-yard 
line.
The Panther defense sacked the 
Bates quarterback twice on the en-
suing drive, and Justin Foley punt-
ed the ball inside the Middlebury 
one-yard line. The next play, the 
Bobcats dragged Drew Jacobs ’18 
down in the end zone for a safety 
and a 2-0 lead.
Bates received the free kick af-
ter the safety and added to its lead 
on that drive, when a Middlebury 
defender slipped and a Bobcat re-
ceiver got behind the Middlebury 
defense for a 48-yard touchdown 
reception.
On the second play of the sec-
ond quarter, with the score still 9-0 
in favor of Bates, Lebowitz threw 
his second interception of the game 
and fifth of the season, underthrow-
ing his wide receiver badly. Corner 
back Nate Leedy ’17 returned the 
favor by intercepting his first pass 
of the season to set the Panthers up 
in Bobcat territory.
“The pass defense has been so 
successful due to the entire back 
seven playing very disciplined foot-
ball,” said Leedy. “We do a great job 
of having our eyes in the right place 
and understanding our assignment. 
It is hard for teams to find an open 
receiver with us doing that, consid-
ering how skilled of a unit we are.” 
With the ball at the Bates 25, 
Lebowitz found Banky streaking 
across the middle of the field for a 
touchdown to bring Middlebury 
within two points of the Bobcats.
After a Bates three-and-out, the 
Panthers drove 77 yards in eight 
plays to take their first lead of the 
game. Lebowitz completed passes 
to four different receivers and hit 
Banky down the seam for a 26-
yard touchdown pass and 14-9 
Middlebury lead.
“I really think we just caught a 
couple of tough breaks early,” said 
James Burke ’17. “Once we got a 
few first downs we started to pick 
up some momentum and then we 
found our rhythm. We knew we 
could move the ball and the coach-
es said the same thing, it was only a 
matter of time until we started put-
ting up points.”
The Panthers extended their 
lead on their first drive of the sec-
ond half by marching 73 yards in 
eight plays. Diego Meritus ’19 ran 
three times for 18 yards and caught 
two pass for 18 more, before Leb-
owitz tossed his third touchdown of 
the contest on a deep route to Burke 
for a 33-yard touchdown pass.
“I think we focused on hit-
ting some short throws as a way 
to get ourselves going and to open 
up looks downfield,” Burke said. 
“When we hit a couple of short 
throws, the defense starts cheating 
up and then we can hit them over 
the top.”
Ahead 21-9, Middlebury started 
its next drive from its own one-yard 
line, where it went three-and-out 
and had to punt from its own end 
zone, setting-up Bates’ next drive 
at the Middlebury 27. The Bobcats 
moved the football to the 10-yard 
line, where they faced a fourth-and-
four. Linebacker John Jackson ’18 
stopped running back Peter Boyer 
in the backfield for a loss to pre-
serve their two possession lead.
From there, the Panthers drove 
down to the Bates 25, but on the 
next play Jimmy Martinez ’19 fum-
bled after catching a Lebowitz pass 
and Bates recovered, halting anoth-
er long Middlebury drive.
The Panthers added one more 
insurance score with 8:30 remain-
ing in the fourth quarter when Mer-
itus plunged in from three yards 
out to give Middlebury a 28-9 lead. 
Lebowitz connected with Banky 
twice, Jacobs once and Martinez to 
set-up Meritus’ score.
The Panther defense sealed the 
victory, as Frankie Purritano ’19 in-
tercepted a pass and Carsen Win ’17 
forced a fumble that Justin Fahey 
recovered on the Bobcats’ last two 
possessions.
The Bobcats recorded only 10 
first downs in the game and con-
verted on only three of 16 third 
downs (19%), as the Panther de-
fense forced them to punt 11 times 
and held them to 229 yards of total 
offense.
“We [the defense] definitely 
came out with tenacity. We had a 
great week of practice, which cer-
tainly contributed to our confidence 
on Saturday,” Leedy said. “We have 
a very close knit defensive unit and 
are all very close. It makes it easy to 
have fun and fly around. Also, with 
so many guys sharing reps, every 
time those guys make a play it is a 
big moment for them.”
Jackson led the team with 13 
tackles, 2.5 tackles for loss and 1.5 
sacks, while Addison Pierce ’17 add-
ed 11 tackles and a sack and Wesley 
Becton ’18 had six solo tackles and a 
pass breakup.
Football winning streak continues
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor 
By Riley Plant
Contributing Writer
CUBA TAKES SECOND 
IN NATIONAL SINGLES 
PLAY
Lubomir Cuba ’19 advanced to the national 
title match of the ITA Oracle Cup, ultimately 
falling in three sets. See page 18 for full cover-
age. 
CONTINUED ON PAGE 18
