On Jan. 7, 2015, the College 
will roll out its new identity sys-
tem. In late September the Board 
of Trustees approved the proposal 
-
-
will adopt a new shield, as well 
Institute of International Studies 
Jan. 7 will be most obvious on the 
-
lished after that date will have the 
some of the adjustments that may 
-
terey. 
“To the outside world, and 
inside, the relationships between 
-
-
Bread Loaf. We thought this was a 
-
The new shield was one of 
an attempt to visually unify the 
College and its many programs. It 
Campus 
in an interview with Burger. Cen-
tral to the navy shield is a stylized 
rendition of Old Chapel, with a 
subtle line of mountains behind 
it. The three smaller elements that 
surround Old Chapel are a globe, 
-
lege was founded. 
“We have a very strong sense 
-
failed redesigns by the UC system, 
and traditions of the institution 
modern. 
the mountains felt appropriate 
but was not representative of 
resulted was the same navy shield 
that instead featured the Segal 
building. 
Institute bought after it was 
-
terey Town library, and features 
-
to liberal arts were two strong 
spring of 2012. The College hired 
-
-
try suggested that the relationship 
-
-
with Neustadt over the last two 
would form the new identity sys-
October 30, 2014 | Vol. 113 no. 7 | middleburycampus.com
VERMONT SOCIAL 
NETWORK “ELLO” 
TAKES OFF
PAGE 5
COCOON SMASHES 
CONCERT HALL 
RECORDS
PAGE 18
BEHIND THE VEST 
INEVSTIGATES 
STEAM VENT 
OUTSIDE THE CFA
PAGE 14in
sid
e
Meeting Reveals 
Tension With 
Town Residents
Michael O’hara
SILENT MARCH 
By Phil Bohlman 
    Courtesy Bradly j. Boner
went with her younger sister to 
shop for bras, she was disturbed 
-
-
-
monly, padded, wired push-up 
bras in  far too large for 
young sister needed was an ap-
would ease her transition into 
-
ripening fruit progresses. “The 
however, it passes through sev-
impromptu meeting was held 
town residents and the adminis-
on Weybridge Street over Home-
the semester left many neighbors 
frustrated.
believe that our students have a 
in a small town neighborhood. 
-
to step into a friendly, neighbor-
The meeting involved 17 peo-
-
-
landlord and the rest neighbors 
-
-
and town residents. However, 
-
yond just being disruptive during 
parties, but also day-to-day in-
-
age of College students live off 
has a lottery system that allows 
120 and this year it is the full 120 
By Claire Abbadi and Ellie 
Reinhardt
Student on Time
By Ethan Brady
SEE TIME, PAGE 2 SEE IDENTITY SYSTEM, PAGE 3
SEE OFF-CAMPUS, PAGE 2
Time
The Student Government Association 
(SGA) met Sunday Oct. 19 and Sunday Oct. 
26.
The meeting on Oct. 19 began with the 
Finance Committee’s Biweekly report, pre-
sented by Treasurer Ilana Gratch ’16.5. The 
Finance Committee received budget and 
grant requests from 25 student organiza-
tions and approved 22 of the requests. The 
Committee will continue to process annual 
budget requests through November 15 and 
Graff noted that there are many new orga-
nizations to see. 
Next, Cook Commons Senator Tiff 
Chang ’17 and Senator Sophie Vaughan 
’17 presented their Student Liaison to the 
SGA on Endowment Affairs (SLSEA) By-
laws Amendment. Vaughan described the 
amendment as “attacking the ambiguity of 
the SLSEA” by clarifying the appointment 
and including a formal process for report-
ing back to the SGA. The amendment was 
discussed further on Jan. 26 and then for-
mally passed into the Bylaws in a unani-
mous vote. 
Another ongoing discussion at the two 
meetings was the proposal for the Mid-
dSafe Resolution by Senators Naila Jahan 
’15 and Kyle Gerstenschlager ’15. The res-
olution suggests initiating MiddSafe by-
stander intervention training for all varsity 
teams. Initially, the resolution faced some 
resistance when it was brought up by Co-
Chair of the Community Council Ben Bogin 
’15 that it may be “redundant and unneces-
sary … bystander training is now required 
by federal law so there is now a training for 
this for all freshman and our orientation 
Sophomore Senator Karina Toy ’17 ar-
gued that, while this training is required, 
up to this year’s training. Senator Zak Fish-
er ’16 was one of the resolution’s most open 
supporters. 
He said, “I think that this bill is one of 
the most important things we can do. In 
response to the criticisms about it being re-
dundant: ‘Stop, drop and roll’ is redundant 
but it saves lives.” The resolution is still be-
be put to a formal vote at next week’s meet-
ing, Nov. 2.  
Other business that was discussed at 
both meetings was the LaundryView Reso-
lution supported by Toy. LaundryView is a 
program that would allow students to check 
online for available washers and dryers. 
At the meeting on Oct. 19 Senator Toy 
announced that after going to the adminis-
tration and receiving little support to install 
LaundryView on campus, she suggested 
passing a bill declaring that SGA wanted 
to research the matter further. After con-
tinued discussion on the matter at the Oct. 
26 meeting, the resolution was passed in a 
15-0-2 vote. 
Next, Speaker Michael Brady ’17.5 and 
Senator Mohamed Hussein ’17 announced 
their Increased Printer Access Initiative 
Resolution, which would entail more print-
ers on campus with around the clock access. 
After talking with the IT department, Hus-
sein announced that the college would be 
printers and the SGA is hopeful to raise that 
number to nine. Possible locations for these 
new printers included: Gifford, Hepburn, 
Forest, Ross, Atwater Library, Battell, Hill-
crest and Proctor. 
Finally, at the meeting on October 26, a 
group of students led by Jack Kerby-Miller 
’14.5 and Larson Lovdal ’16.5 presented 
their plans to build the Burgin Lodge in 
memory of Ian Burgin, Class of 2008. The 
project has been in the works for three years 
and is aimed to be completed by May 2015. 
The lodge would be an outdoor shelter for 
students, faculty and alumni of Middlebury 
College and would be maintained by the 
Mountain Club. The Lodge would be built 
near the Rikert Nordic Center and would 
be accessible in the Fall, Winter and Spring. 
By Claire Treesh 
SGA
Update
| October 30, 20142 NEWS
Off-Campus Parties Cause Rising Tension
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
partying is not new, but some neighbors 
perceive it to be worse in the recent years.
“I can tell you now that we have owned 
the house on Weybridge Street for around 
20 years. It used to be a fairly quiet neigh-
borhood. Our children grew up there since 
the youngest was in fourth grade,” town 
resident Stephanie Smith said.
“But in the last four years the problems 
have gotten increasingly worse. Noise, 
rude and inconsiderate people, drinking 
parties lasting all night long — even when 
police come to help,” she continued.
Another neighbor who wished to re-
main anonymous told the Campus her 
experience during Homecoming weekend:
“Thursday we were woken up multiple 
times throughout the night by people just 
howling on the streets, slamming closed 
doors, and just being generally loud and 
rude so we didn’t get much sleep. So when 
Friday came and the party was growing 
more and more out of control, I decided 
to sleep at my mother in-laws’ house be-
cause I had to work in the morning. When 
I went to leave I couldn’t pull out of my 
driveway because it was so full of people. 
I had to inch my car along to get people to 
move and then what really made me mad 
was that there was one guy who just kind 
of turned and saw me and moved just an 
-
ger across the street. Its just infuriating to 
have to sleep somewhere else so that I can 
be well rested for work and then to get this 
attitude when I’m trying to leave my own 
driveway and not be able to,” she said.
However, though the meeting called for 
by town residents and announced by Head 
of College Communications Bill Burger on 
a local town forum, The Front Porch Fo-
rum, did not include students, many stu-
dents living off campus have expressed 
their concern for how the neighbors feel 
and want to work towards a solution.
“The relationship between students and 
the town is damaged right now and I think 
the town’s complaints are legitimate,” said 
Emily Alper ’15. “As much as they don’t 
want parties with a hundred students, we 
don’t want 100 students coming to our 
house, but because of the school’s short-
sighted, tyrannical policies there aren’t on-
campus party options. My freshman year, I 
would have so many different parties away 
from the town to choose from, and now 
when I talk to underclassmen, they think 
off-campus houses are central party space 
and that has never been the case.”
One major component of this dialogue 
has been the need for on-campus party 
Prescott House and that DKE House was 
not opened during Homecoming weekend, 
as it was in past years.
“I understand that our neighbors have 
the right to go about their days peaceful-
ly,” said Nic Strain ’15. “And it is not our 
intention to disrupt them, but at the same 
time we are just trying to enjoy our college 
experience. I don’t think the administra-
tion is being transparent enough with the 
Middlebury community; there is a direct 
correlation between the actions of the ad-
ministration [banning tailgates/not open-
ing DKE] and the events that transpired 
over Homecoming Weekend. We didn’t 
want to have people over, especially not at 
that volume, but there was nowhere else 
for students to go, and that is an issue that 
is falling on the shoulders of those who live 
off campus, which needs to be addressed,” 
he continued.
However, though the meeting did fo-
cus on the particularly tense relationship 
that has transpired between students and 
neighbors, the exchanges were not all 
negative. Peter Jette, town resident and 
landlord to over 20 students expressed his 
genuine appreciation for college students.
“I have enough experience with the stu-
dents as tenants to make a judgment and 
hand the number of problems I’ve had. I 
didn’t even know what that Front Porch 
Forum was until someone sent me a clip 
from it so I joined it because it kind of 
annoyed me that the only comments per-
taining to Middlebury off-campus housing 
were negative,” Jette said. 
“I can just tell you that the tenants have 
been great; they pay rent on time, they 
take care of places for the most part, and I 
chat with them when they pay rent because 
-
he concluded.
These conversations coincide with oth-
er conversations that have been happening 
on Community Council and throughout 
the College about the implementation of a 
social honor code that would hold students 
accountable, with written documentation, 
for their actions. Although only a discus-
sion as of now, the College is beginning 
to look at what a social honor code could 
mean.
“I would like students to hold each 
other accountable, to be willing to ac-
cept responsibility when things go off the 
rails (and to ask for help when they see 
this happening). Whether a social honor 
code (which has been the subject of many 
conversations in the past several years) is 
required to make this possible is an open 
question,” Abbott said.
design By Julia Hatheway
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
eral shades of yellow that take time. 
Those yellow stages happen naturally, of-
ten awkwardly, and shouldn’t be rushed. 
That is the essence of Yellowberry.”
Yellowberry’s bras offer an alterna-
tive to the overly sexual selection on most 
shelves. The product line includes comfort-
able, colorful training bras with names like 
Junebug and Sugar Cookie. The bras are 
designed without padded cups or under-
wires. The company’s main goal is to instill 
girls, who would otherwise be deluded into 
thinking that bodily sexualization is the 
only means to their expression.
Grassell, is something that every single 
girl goes through. It is often awkward and 
leaves a negative impression. “Based on 
the responses from many of our customers 
-
perience with Yellowberry is almost always 
positive,” Grassell said.
Grassell wants to share her story and 
her business with others who she thinks are 
also interested in empowering young wom-
en. “What better message can a girl receive 
than ‘You have the potential to do anything 
in the world, if you just go out and do it?’”
Through Kickstarter, a funding plat-
form for creative projects, Grassell, work-
ing alongside four others initially raised 
$42,000 — well above the $25,000 goal 
she set for herself — and now runs an on-
line retailer. All of Yellowberry’s products 
are currently available through its website, 
yellowberrycompany.com, and Grassell is 
working with several department stores to 
introduce YBC lines in time for the 2015 
back-to-school shopping season. The com-
with Aerie, a brand of American Eagle Out-
For her work with Yellowberry, Time 
Magazine listed Grassell in its List of Most 
-
ment that certainly stuck out to Dean of 
Admissions Greg Buckles. “Megan’s ap-
plication stood out immediately for us in 
our admissions committee deliberations. 
She presented as a grounded, mature, com-
passionate young person with an entrepre-
neurial streak. She had Middlebury written 
all over her.”
During her Febmester, Grassell has been 
working full-time in marketing and brand-
ing for her company. She plans to continue 
working in some capacity when she arrives 
to Middlebury in February, but intends to 
hire an in-house employee to manage Yel-
lowberry’s social media presence and to 
launch other projects Grassell currently 
has in mind. “Although I am not at liberty 
to reveal everything, I will say that you’ll be 
able to see a new line of Aerie for Yellow-
berry bras coming this spring,” she said.
The population of 120 students currently living off-campus are spread out in a wide geographic area, as shown on the map above.
This past Wednesday, Oct. 22, led by the 
student organization WOC (Women of Col-
or), a group of students and faculty members 
held a silent March on campus against police 
brutality. Wednesday marked the National 
Day to Stop Police Brutality, Repression, and 
the Criminalization of a Generation. 
“Basically we are just having a silent 
march in solidarity with what’s been happen-
ing over the summer, and what’s been hap-
pening throughout American history,” one of 
the student leaders, Ola Fadairo ’15, said as 
he introduced the event.
“It was mostly started by what was hap-
pening this summer in Ferguson with Mike 
Brown, [and] what happened in New York, 
and pretty much everywhere in the United 
States where men of color were gunned down 
going to bring awareness. This is [going to 
be] a silent, peaceful march. And we are just 
trying to bring  moreawareness to campus 
because it is something that should be talked 
about but not talked about enough,” Fadairo 
said.
and three faculty members gathered in front 
of Ross dining hall for the march. The march 
started outside of the Ross Dining Hall. Pro-
testers then passed ADK and walked down 
the hill to the Davis Library, then passed Old 
Chapel and McCullough, and ended in front 
of Mead Chapel. The group made stops inside 
Ross Dining Hall, the library and in front of 
Mead Chapel, where different students made 
speeches to express their cause and promote 
awareness. 
In Ross Dining Hall, after a short speech, 
a student speaker requested that students 
stand with them in silence. A few students 
dining hall stood up along with the marchers.
During the march, many students car-
ried banners and posters which read “Soli-
darity with Ferguson”, “Hands Up, Don’t 
Shoot”, “Black Lives Matter”, “Sagging Pants 
is NOT Probable cause” and “Midd Divest 
from White Supremacy”, to name a few. The 
weather was cloudy with drizzle, the students 
walked in the rain with their posters and ban-
ners in hand, silently.
“For two generations, black and Latino 
youth have been shipped to prison in num-
bers never before seen anywhere else in the 
world,” President of Women of Color Jackie 
Park ’15 said. 
population, but 25 percent of the world prison 
population. More than 60 percent of those in 
U.S. prisons are black or Latino. How many 
debts will it take till we know that too many 
people have died? At least 215 people have 
been killed by cops in live enforcements since 
Mike Brown was killed by Darren Wilson in 
Ferguson. I am often viewed as a safe or non-
threatening woman of color, but I am here in 
solidarity because I refuse to submit to white 
supremacy, and I also refuse to live in a so-
ciety that allows incondolence and violence. 
I am an active member of WOC (Women of 
Color), the violence against women, especial-
ly queer, trans and gender-nonconforming 
women of color is at all-time high. And the 
lives and faces are not visible in the media 
or elsewhere. This violence against women is 
another way the police use brutal repression 
and violence to serve the heteronormative 
and misogynistic agenda of the state. It is so 
important to be in solidarity with and for one 
another and show up in struggle. No justice, 
no peace,” Park said in front of the marchers 
in the Davis Library atrium. 
At the last stop in front of Mead Chapel, 
the group of students raised their hands in 
the air in silence and then lit candles while 
saying the slogan “No justice, no peace” to 
mark the moment of commemoration and 
solidarity.
One student participant talked about her 
objective in joining the march. “I stand for 
equality and justice for everyone to have the 
same opportunity that I was able to have, you 
know, growing up with the privilege I grow 
up with. Being here (at Middlebury), I really 
think everyone should have that opportu-
nity.”
When asked about her seemingly broad 
objective, she said, “It is always more broad 
than this, but it is important to always have 
moments like this when the campus can re-
ally get together and you can get an intersec-
tion of group from all across campus together 
to remember that even though it’s easy to 
feel really isolated here, we are part of this 
broader ecosystem of injustice that has per-
petuated.” 
October 30, 2014 |  3        News
Free Friday Film 
BeetleJuice
FRIDAY AT 6 & 9 P.M. IN DANA 
AUDITORIUM
MCAB Spooky Social
FRIDAY 8:30-1 A.M. IN CROSS-
ROADS CAFE
Zumba 
Come dance the calories 
away in Wilson Hall 
(formerly the Social 
Space)
SUNDAY AT 4-5 PM
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
Student Featured in USA TodayNew Identity 
System
Rana Abdelhamid ’15 was quoted in an 
article in USA Today on Oct. 10 in response 
to Bill Maher’s criticism of Islam on his talk 
show, Real Time with Bill Maher. Abdel-
hamid’s personal experience and her knowl-
edge of this global issue inspired her to start 
the organization Women’s Initiative for 
Self-Empowerment (WISE) and have made 
her one of the leading voices in the Muslim 
American community.
The USA Today article discussed the im-
pact that negative comments made by the 
media have on Muslim Americans. According 
to the article, people in the media such as Bill 
Maher and Sam Harris are still vocalizing the 
stigma of those billions of people who iden-
tify as Muslim.
WISE was founded in the summer of 2010 
by Abdelhamid as “a self-defense, leadership 
and mentorship program for young Muslim 
women in New York City,” according to its 
website.
“It’s an organization that really aims to 
provide young women with the skills they 
need to be professionally empowered, to be 
physically empowered, to be emotionally em-
powered,” Abdelhamid said.
Abdelhamid’s experience dealing with 
negativity towards Muslim Americans start-
ed when she was faced with violence in New 
York  because of her identity. Inspired by this 
experience and her background in Shotakon 
karate, Abdelhamid began working with 12 
young Muslim American girls in her commu-
nity that summer to help create a safe space 
for them.
“We talked about identity and about cre-
ating safe spaces. We talked about what it 
means to be a Muslim woman in the United 
States and how that contributes to our politi-
cal and personal ambitions,” she said. 
From her time with these girls, Abdelha-
mid realized the impact she could have on her 
community and decided to continue building 
the program. 
“As soon as I worked with these young 
it was, particularly because one girl faced 
violence on the streets as I did. I realized this 
isn’t just about my personal experience but 
it’s about my community.”
Abdelhamid was able to continue her 
work in the Muslim American community 
with the help of the College and Center for 
Social Entrepreneurship, which helped her 
create WISE.
Abdelhamid has also worked with Pro-
fessor of Political Science Erik Bleich on re-
search about the representation of Muslims 
in the media after 9/11. According to the 
WISE website, hate crimes against Muslims 
and Arabs have increased by 1,600 percent 
since 9/11. Abdelhamid and Bleich are dis-
covering the role media has played in this 
surge.
Their research shows that the media as a 
whole is not to blame for the negativity. 
“We are focused on the headlines and the 
tone of the headlines (positive, negative, or 
neither), but we cannot say much about how 
headlines affect society. However, we can 
say that the notion that the media has been 
largely negative about Muslims is wrong. So 
if there is Islamophobia in society (and there 
is) it may have less to do with media coverage 
than many people previously thought,” said 
Bleich.
Abdelhamid still raised concerns about 
the impact of the media in society. “The 
negative stories [in the media] affected me so 
much more because that’s what continues to 
come up in the news feeds...What happens is 
it increases aggression towards my commu-
nity and it increases aggression towards peo-
ple who are visibly Muslim, unfortunately,” 
Bleich said. 
“I think its very important with all the 
things that are happening in the Middle East 
and with everything going on in the world 
right now that people understand the impli-
cations of what they’re saying…a majority 
of the people affected by terrorism and the 
radicalization of these beliefs are Muslims 
and people don’t recognize that…People need 
to have a more nuanced understanding of 
what’s happening,” she added.
Abdelhamid has been the recipient of 
many awards in the past and most recently 
she was presented with the Leo Nevas Hu-
man Rights Youth Award from the United 
Nations Association of the United States of 
America. 
At a ceremony held for the winners, Ab-
delhamid was able to meet with prominent 
leaders in the Muslim community and the 
United Nations including Queen Rania of 
Jordan, Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of 
the United Nations, and Samantha Power, 
United States Ambassador to the United Na-
tions.
“People [at the award ceremony] were 
thanking me for the work that we’re doing 
and I think for us, this is so important be-
cause it provides legitimacy for our work 
when there are some challenges that we face 
both inside and outside of the community es-
pecially as young people and as women trying 
to do this,” Abdelhamid said. “So having re-
ceived this award provides us with credibility 
in that we’re being recognized by an interna-
tional organization and we’re seen as an orga-
nization that should be taken seriously.”
2013 to the spring of 2014 on a number of 
possibilities for the naming conventions 
and icon, presenting ideas and gathering 
feedback from students, faculty and staff. 
and polling was an initial shield design that 
featured Old Chapel. After a second series 
of presentations to the community and 
more design sessions that lasted from Feb-
ruary to May of this year, every element on 
-
terey’s unique shield was created. 
Burger presented to over 300 members 
of the community, and said that although 
few students attended the public presenta-
tions, they tended to ask some of the best 
questions. 
“This is an important part of design, not 
only assessing it aesthetically but also with 
the community,” he said. 
Students March Against Police Brutality
By Jason Zhang
By Ellie Reinhardt
Michael O’hara
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
courtesy Jake and Amir
Attention Middlebury Students! On 
Saturday, November 22, MCAB is de-
lighted to present comedic duo Jake and 
Amir from College Humor. Jake Hur-
witz and Amir Blumenfeld are the writ-
ers/actors/editors behind the Webby 
award winning Internet series “Jake and 
Amir.” The duo have released two videos 
a week for over four years, with each epi-
sode now averaging more than 500,000 
views. As a series, “Jake and Amir” has 
won several awards including the Web-
by’s People Voice for Best Web Series 
in 2010 and has been named one of PC-
Mag’s top 15 best web-only shows. Their 
series has also appeared on television on 
MTV’s “The CollegeHumor Show.” The 
two have recently released their first 
ever half hour special, “Fired” available 
for online streaming and in DVD form.
They will be joined by special guest 
Jon Rineman, who is currently the head 
monologue writer on The Tonight Show 
starring Jimmy Fallon. He has appeared 
as a stand-up and performer on Late 
Night with Jimmy Fallon and tours the 
country performing stand-up in comedy 
clubs and colleges.
Jake and Amir will be performing 
their podcast “If I Were You.” Join our 
hosts as they dispense wisdom on areas 
of life they are qualified to talk about. 
Also in areas they are not qualified to 
talk about.
Tickets go on sale at the Box Office 
this Monday, November 3rd, at 6 a.m. 
They will be $12 online, and $15 at the 
door. 
Doors open at 8:30 p.m. and the show 
starts at 9:00 p.m. Can’t wait to see you 
there!
MCAB Is 
Bringing Jake 
and Amir to 
campus
Middlebury students ended the march against police brutality outside Mead Chapel.
Last year, the Keene Pumpkin Festi-
val set the world record for the most lit 
jack-o’-lanterns in one place. This year, 
student riots and police involvement 
brought Keene under a  national spot-
light.
The pumpkin festival is a tradition 
that locals in Keene, N.H. have looked 
forward to every year for the last 24 years. 
Thousands of people come to Keene ev-
ery year to celebrate fall and participate 
in the world record for the number of lit 
jack-o’-lanterns. 
This year, over 60,000 people came 
to the pumpkin festival. Many were col-
lege students who had heard about the 
event through social media, and perhaps 
expected it to be more of a student party 
scene than it typically is. 
Early Saturday afternoon, the po-
lice in Keene broke up two separate par-
ties because of injuries caused by cans 
and bottles that college students were 
throwing. Once the parties were broken 
up and party-goers were dispersed onto 
the streets, tensions escalated. Police re-
sponded to rioting and aggression with 
nonlethal measures that included pep-
per spray, Tasers, tear gas and sponge 
rounds. 84 arrests were made and more 
than 30 people were injured over the 12 
hours of rioting. Luckily, there were no 
major injuries. The student crowd was 
confined so that the actual Pumpkin Fes-
tival in downtown Keene was relatively 
undisturbed.
“Like most New Hampshire citizens, 
I am outraged by the irresponsible, terri-
ble actions that marred a New Hampshire 
tradition,” said Governor Maggie Hassan 
in a statement about the Keene riots. “I 
am confident that law enforcement will 
continue to investigate and prosecute in-
dividuals who are responsible, and I am 
calling on New Hampshire colleges and 
universities to take swift action to hold 
students involved accountable.”
“I am very grateful that there weren’t 
more injuries,” Hassan said. “We must 
be vigilant as a state to review and learn 
from the sad destruction that escalated in 
Keene.”
Since social media caused some of the 
rioting by attracting larger crowds to this 
year’s Pumpkin Festival, it is also aiding 
in assigning responsibility for it. Keene 
Police released 24 photos of rioters, ask-
ing the public to identify them. One ar-
rest has already been made as a result. 
“To be clear, Keene State College 
does not tolerate the outrageous behav-
ior that occurred over the weekend,” said 
Keene State President Anne Huot in a 
statement. “Also, understand that it does 
not represent a great many of the stu-
dents who attend this college.”
Many of the stu-dents causing 
destruction were only visiting Keene 
for the Pumpkin Festival and had no as-
sociation with the college. In fact, many 
Keene State students turned out on Sun-
day morning to help clean up the town.
Student Body President Bobby Gra-
ham also released a statement, asking 
Keene students not to point fingers and 
blame each other: “While very many of 
us were not the perpetrators of destruc-
tion and did not take part [in] abhorrent 
activities that occurred it is an inevitable 
fact that we each share the burden of 
these events equally regardless of if some 
of us feel it differently than others.”
The media coverage of the Keene riots 
sparked debate over Twitter. Why were 
white college students often described 
in less violent terms when they rioted, 
seen as drunk college students causing 
mischief, rather than criminals? Others 
pointed out that even comparing Keene 
to Ferguson was insulting, when Keene 
students were rioting for, at most, their 
right to party and those at Ferguson were 
protesting excessive violence against the 
black community.
“The Pumpkin Festival has always 
been about the pumpkins themselves,” 
said Carolynn Johnson ’15, a Middlebury 
student from Keene, “and more impor-
tantly it’s about the community that 
comes together to create it. Despite what 
you might gather by reading coverage 
of the event, walking around downtown 
Keene this year was no exception. I heard 
about the disturbances from the news 
rather than from my own experience, de-
spite living less than a mile away.”
Johnson has been to every pumpkin 
festival in Keene since she was born – 22 
festivals in all.
“I sincerely hope that the town and 
the college - which is an integral part of 
the community - will be able to reach an 
understanding that allows the festival to 
continue in the future,” said Johnson.
local
Keene Pumpkin Festival Ends in Riots
Students rioted on an overturned, ruined car at this year’s Keene Pumpkin Festival.
Courtesy AP PHOTO/THE BOSTON GLOBE, JEREMY FOX
By Isabelle Dietz
“To be clear, Keene State 
College does not tolerate 
the outrageous behavior 
that occurred over the 
weekend.”
anne huot 
Keene state president
“The Pumpkin Festival 
has always been 
about the pumpkins 
themselves, and more 
importantly it’s about the 
community that comes 
together to create it.”
Carolynn johnson 
Middlebury college ’15
Keene Pumpkinfest holds the record for the number of jack-o’-lanterns lit at once.
Carolynn Johnson
HAVE AN OPINION? 
WEIGH IN TODAY
VOICE YOUR OPINION @ MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM
OR SEND AN OP-ED OR LETTER TO THE EDITOR TO 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
30
By Linley Shaw
Mark Erelli Performing in Ripton
The Ripton Community Coffee House will 
be hosting singer-songwriter Mark Erelli, 
accompanied by Charlie Rose, this Satur-
Friends of the Ripton School. Adults $10, 
seniors and teens $8, children $3. For 
more information, call (802) 388-9782.
NOV. 1, 7:30-9:30 PM
Local 
lowdown
Local 5
Public Ilsley Library Meeting in 
Middlebury
Do you have thoughtful comments about 
Ilsley Library that you’d like to share? 
The perfect time to do it is this Tuesday. 
The meeting is one of a series of outreach 
meetings by the Library Building Com-
mittee. Come share ideas about what 
physical improvements or change the 
Ilsley needs, or email suggestions to kevin.
unrath@ilsleypubliclibrary.org.
NOV. 4, 7-9 PM
Trunk or Treat in Leicester
Kids can go from vehicle to vehicle, 
trick-or-treating, for free! If you want to 
decorate a vehicle, call (802) 247-8187 
or email Heather LaPorte at heatherla-
porte@gmail.com. Vehicle set-up at 5:30 
p.m. at Leicester Central School. 
OCT 31, 6-7:30 PM 
Lincoln Flu Vaccines
not, you should probably head over to 
the Lincoln United Church (in costume 
if you’d like). Flu vaccines are $30, but 
arrangements will be made for those who 
can’t afford the fee. Medicaid and Medi-
care recipients are covered. Reimburse-
ment receipts will be issued for those with 
insurance.
OCT. 30, 9 AM – 12 PM
Ello, the “Anti-Facebook,” 
Soars Out of Burlington
New Haven Dinner
Hungry? Head over to the New Haven-
Congregational Church! Misty Knoll 
sauce, squash, mashed potatoes, apple 
or pumpkin pie, and beverages will all 
be served. Seatings are at 11:30 a.m., 
12:30 p.m. and 1:30 p.m. Adults are $12, 
children 6-12 $6, and children under 6 are 
free! Takeout is available. Reservations 
are recommended: call 453-2342.
NOV 2, 11:30 AM-2:30 PM
Vermont Former Governors Panel
Didn’t get enough Vermont governors 
at the gubernatorial debate? Head on 
over to Dana this Monday! Three former 
governors, James Douglas, Madeleine 
Kunin and Jane Swift will be speaking in 
a roundtable panel titled “Can Democracy 
Survive in an Era of Polarized Politics? 
Three Governors’ Perspectives.”
NOV. 3, 4-6 PM
 | October 30, 2014
 Vermont’s next biggest business 
venture has nothing to do with maple 
syrup or ice cream – that is, unless you 
want to share a picture of it.  Ello is the 
newest social networking website sen-
sation that was founded in Burlington, 
Vermont. Dubbed as the “anti-Face-
book,” Ello is a social networking web-
site that mirrors Vermont’s own decree 
against billboards dedicating itself to be-
ing completely and totally ad-free.  With 
a minimalist design platform, Ello is, as 
its slogan states, “Simple, beautiful, and 
ad-free.”   
On Ello, users can bump friends 
into two different categories: “friends” 
for people with whom the user is closer 
or interested in following and “noise” 
for everyone else.  Currently, users can 
only post text or pictures, but creators 
have said that video and audio capacity 
is coming.  It has a reputation for being 
the artsier, hipster version of Facebook 
and has been called a “Twitter-Tumblr 
hybrid.” Ello designers say that the web-
site was created “to display large images 
beautifully.” Unlike other social-media 
websites, Ello tolerates users posting 
pornographic images, but asks that us-
ers flag their posts to warn those who do 
not wish to view it.  
In the last month, Ello saw its user 
popularity soar.  The spike in popularity 
was mostly credited to the rift between 
Facebook and the drag queen communi-
ty.  In September, Facebook disallowed 
drag queens to hold accounts in which 
they did not use their legal names.  As a 
result, drag queens, much of the LGTBQ 
community and their supporters started 
flooding Ello, which allows users to cre-
ate a profile under whichever name they 
want.  “We embrace the LGTBQ com-
munity … including their adult-oriented 
content needs,” CEO Paul Budnitz said.
The network is invite-only and at 
its peak in September, Ello was receiv-
ing 40,000 user requests per hour.  The 
website’s booming success has caused 
the creators to slow the number of new 
users.  Creators of the website say that 
this is partly to keep up with the over-
whelming activity the site has seen, but 
also to echo the idea that Ello is not 
meant for everyone.  
“We don’t want every person in the 
world to be on it, so we don’t have to 
design for the lowest common denomi-
nator,” one of its co-founders, Lucian 
Föhr, said.   Currently, those hoping to 
gain access to the website can only do 
so if they are invited by an existing user. 
These invites were in such high demand 
that they were being auctioned on eBay 
for a whopping $500.  The website has 
picked up national attention as Budnitz 
has been interviewed by several promi-
nent business magazines such as Forbes, 
Fortune, and Bloomberg.  
While Ello has triumphed with its 
users, business elites have questioned 
Ello’s ability to remain a for-profit com-
pany.  The question is how Ello will make 
any money without advertisements.  Ello 
plans to be a “freemium” social network, 
which means that users will be able to 
add on features for a small fee of one to 
two dollars.  Ello users can personalize 
their homepage through these features, 
like buying an app on an iPhone.  Just 
last week, Ello legally filed as a public 
benefit corporation (PBC).  As Budnitz 
puts it, the moves to become a PBC lets 
Ello “embed a cause in our charter that 
the company has to consider on par with 
making money.”  That means there will 
never be any ads, nor can a future buyer 
ever change their mantra.  Along with 
their promise to be ad-free, the website 
also states in their mission their view 
against data mining.  
“Every post you share, every friend 
you make and every link you follow is 
tracked, recorded and converted into 
data. Advertisers buy your data so they 
can show you more ads. You are the 
product that’s bought and sold … we be-
lieve there is a better way.  We believe a 
social network can be a tool for empow-
erment.  Not a tool to coerce and ma-
nipulate – but a place to connect, create, 
and celebrate life,” says their manifesto.
So what does Ello mean for Ver-
mont?  Ello began with $435,000 from 
FreshTracks Capital, an investment com-
pany out of Shelburne, Vt., that works 
with New England businesses and has 
since raised $5.5 million for Ello.  Bud-
nitz said that they will continue to ac-
cept from investors, but only those who 
share his philosophy.  Budnitz is already 
a well-known name to entrepreneurs 
in Vermont. He currently runs Budnitz 
Bicycles and Kidrobot out of his Maple 
Street, Burlington office.   
“Paul is the perfect type of person 
that we love to see found Vermont com-
panies,” commented Lee Bouyea, the 
managing director of FreshTracks Capi-
tal.  “We invested in Paul and his team 
because we believe in their ability to 
grow a successful company without the 
billboardization of this media platform.” 
Why not try Vermont’s own social 
networking site?  User requests are cur-
rently so backed up right now that re-
quests usually have to wait six to eight 
weeks to be accepted, which is plenty of 
time to change your mind.  For a quicker 
alternative, Ello invite prices on eBay are 
now selling for only five bucks.   
Vermont Pushes Tourism in Ad Campaign
Vermont is just coming off a strong, 
potentially record-breaking tourism sea-
son this year partly thanks to a new ad-
vertising campaign designed by the state. 
Governor Peter Shumlin discussed the 
positive impact that tourism has on Ver-
mont in a press conference last Tuesday.
The extensive advertising campaign 
of $310,000 – an effort by lawmakers 
to lure visitors from major New England 
cities such as Boston and New York – in-
cludes the website www.VermontVaca-
tion.com/fall. The website features a foli-
age forecaster of the state that estimates 
peak foliage days for areas in Vermont. 
The website explains that, “Leaves 
change color based on a variety of factors 
including light level, temperature, soil 
conditions and more. Here in Vermont, 
the color starts in northern regions and at 
higher elevations, progressing southward 
and downward into the valleys.”
The site also lists available lodg-
ing packages, driving suggestions, and 
events. It even links to a Vermont Tour-
ism Youtube channel. Beer tasting and 
covered bridges, two of the state’s tour-
ism attractions, were also discussed on 
the website.
In addition to the advertisement 
campaign, the Vermont Department of 
Tourism and Marketing helps sponsor 
some small tourist attraction programs, 
such as the “Apples to iPods” program in 
which apple pickers who find wooden ap-
ples in participating orchards can claim 
Apple iPods. 
“Given the importance of this indus-
try to Vermont’s economy and job cre-
ation,” Shumlin said. “I’m thrilled we’ve 
had such a strong year, and I am com-
mitted to doing what it takes to ensure 
visitors across the globe know how much 
Vermont has to offer.”
According to Shumlin, more than four 
million people from all over the world 
came to visit Vermont this summer.  Tax 
revenues from Meals and Rooms were 
up 6.9 percent this September from last 
year. Room sales were up 11.2 percent 
from April through June.
The heightened tourism this summer 
bodes well for the autumn, traditionally 
the most lucrative season for the state.
The tourism industry in Vermont 
generates the state an average of $460 
million every fall.
 “Columbus Day holiday weekend 
is the busiest of the year in Vermont,” 
Shumlin said. “With visitors heading to 
hiking trails, inns and lodges, museums, 
restaurants and other attractions across 
the entire state.”
Tourism from September through 
November need not be concentrated in 
specific tourism destinations when color-
ful leaves can be seen from every part of 
Vermont. 
“Vermont’s tourism economy contin-
ues to gain momentum year after year as 
development in our sector continues to 
grow,” said Megan Smith, Commissioner 
of Tourism and Marketing. “Investments 
in Vermont’s infrastructure and tour-
ism facilities have helped to support this 
growth. Vermont’s strong reputation for 
outdoor recreation, unparalleled beauty 
and an unspoiled landscape have contrib-
uted to our strong tourism economy. It’s 
important that we keep these attributes 
in mind as our industry grows.”
To make sure that the strong wave of 
tourism continues throughout the winter, 
the Department of Tourism and Market-
ing is working on a $350,000 Vermont 
winter advertisement campaign. 
By Isabelle Dietz
The Ello homepage features the profile picture of members living across the US.
Courtesy Ello.co
Trace the Problem to the Source
Student behavior over Homecom-
ing weekend struck a nerve for many 
townspeople in Middlebury who were 
affected by the large and rowdy party on 
Weybridge St. Angry re-
Front Porch Forum — an 
email-based community 
bulletin — causing Bill 
Burger, the College’s 
Vice President for Com-
munications and Mar-
keting, to plan a meeting 
between local residents 
and the administration to discuss this re-
lationship.
As we heard in this week’s Campus 
Voice, some of this behavior is completely 
appalling. Complaints included anything 
to public urination to a general lack of re-
spect for the residents of the town. While 
their neighbors, a few notable incidents 
of all off-campus residents, and even of all 
Middlebury students. 
The desire to live off-campus is a natu-
ral one. After three years of Proctor pani-
towel dispensers, many seniors want more 
ownership of their living spaces. The little 
things like candles and tapestries that are 
banned in dorms make a room feel more 
like home. Moreover, living off-campus 
an internet provider, how to pay bills, how 
-
ing when everyone has their own budget, 
even simply how to buy toilet paper. It’s 
a chance to take on the freedom of adult-
hood, while also shouldering the responsi-
bility that comes with it. 
But as Homecoming weekend showed 
us, we have been neglecting that responsi-
bility to our community. 
in demand for off-campus parties as 
the College continues to crack down on 
on-campus social spaces. This follows a 
number of changes in our alcohol policy. 
The recent tailgating ban, the disband-
ing of ADP and Palmer’s probation are a 
Following these changes, it is only logical 
that students would react by moving their 
drinking and larger gatherings to spaces 
that are beyond College authority. 
While the College is obviously behold-
en to local and federal law and students 
should not have free reign to destroy pub-
lic spaces, parties are part of college life 
-
pressing parties that are unsafe and in-
clined towards property damage is one 
thing — micromanaging student social life 
-
veillance is entirely another. Old Chapel 
and the student body must work together 
to create safe and manageable parties, 
and the meeting in Wilson Hall on Sunday 
Nov. 2 is a great place to start.
One way forward is to create more 
options for upperclassmen housing and 
more communal underclassmen housing. 
For upperclassmen, despite high de-
mand for stand-alone houses, there are 
only a handful of options that usually go 
to the best numbers. This leaves suite-
style housing in Ross and Atwater as the 
main option for group living — or blocks 
of singles in Chateau, Starr and Painter 
where students have minimal control 
or common space. By building or buy-
ing more communal housing, the Col-
lege could concentrate student living into 
respond to parties rather than the Police. 
It is true that students have abused these 
large block spaces in the past, but giving 
up on them is not the right way to solve 
the problem. It merely pushes the parties 
elsewhere, and often to places Old Chapel 
doesn’t want them to go.
For underclassmen, this means 
creating more vi-
able communal 
spaces that are 
not aggressively 
regulated by 
Public Safety. 
We have histor-
ically had more spaces 
like these in our dorms, but 
due to increasing enrollment 
as they have been converted into 
doubles and singles. Common 
space means more than just the 
Pearson’s Lounge. More suite-style liv-
ing gives underclassmen a place to hang 
out that feels private so they do not have 
to seek random Atwater parties. There’s a 
delicate line between allowing students to 
engage in illegal activities and giving them 
enough leeway to feel like they have com-
fortable social spaces available to them.
But at the end of the day, the respon-
sibility to be a good neighbor rests with 
the students living off-campus, and they 
have a lot of work to do. Members of our 
community in town have voiced reason-
able concerns — not only about the party 
on Homecoming weekend, but also about 
students who rotate through every year. 
It’s more than just bringing baked goods 
the day you move in as a way of apologiz-
ing in advance for the parties you’re go-
ing to throw. It takes regular engagement, 
pathways for dialogue that don’t have to 
involve law enforcement. Trust has been 
broken and it will take a long time to re-
pair, but we are the only ones who can do 
it. Let’s try being good 
neighbors seven 
days a week — not 
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor.  The 
Campus will not accept or print anonymous let-
Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, edi-
torial comics and other commentary, are views of 
the individual contributors and do not necessarily 
reflect the opinions of the newspaper. The Campus 
welcomes letters to the editor at 250 words or less, 
or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Sub-
mit works directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 
30, campus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web 
site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To be consid-
ered for publications, submissions must be received 
by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
Repairing Trust With Our Neighbors
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Joe Flaherty
MANAGING EDITOR
Conor Grant
BUSINESS MANAGER
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Ellie Reinhardt, Claire Abbadi, 
Christian Jambora
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Lawrence Dolan, 
Edward O’Brien, Isaac Baker
SPORTS EDITORS 
Fritz Parker, Remo Plunkett, Emily Bustard
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Isabelle Dietz,
Alessandria Schumacher
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Ben Anderson, 
Annie Grayer
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio, Leah Lavigne 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Michael O’Hara, Anahi Naranjo
DESIGN EDITORS
Evan Gallagher, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Maggie Cochrane, Jerrica Davy
Alex Herdman
COPY EDITORS
Sarah Sicular, Hannah Blackburn
STANDARDS EDITOR
Kate Hamilton
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Jessica Cheung, Michelle Irei
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
sarah lake
Oct. 23 in the Features section, incorrectly referred to Tiffany Chang ’17 as the Cabinet’s Director of 
Environmental Affairs. Chang is the Cook Commons Senator, and Lindsay Warne ’15 is the Director 
of Environmental Affairs. The Campus regrets the error.
CorrectIon
It is a joy to live in a home rather than 
a dorm. Whether coming back from the li-
living room 
or simply 
returning 
after a hec-
tic day to 
water your 
plants, off-
c a m p u s 
life is a source of strength and often tran-
quility in the craziness of life at Middlebury 
College. It is also a place where we can enjoy 
parties with friends and do so responsibly; 
balancing community awareness and per-
sonal happiness at home is one of the main 
reasons that it feels like preparation for that 
nebulous thing lurking out there in the fu-
Whether selecting a college major, rent-
ing a house or deciding whether or not to 
wear underwear to class, we are at an age 
where we want to be treated as adults, to be 
given agency and to be allowed to make our 
own choices for better or for worse, even if 
that means suffering the consequences.  At 
Middlebury, it can feel like opportunities 
to do so are few and far between. So when 
more students were allowed to live in town 
this year, it seemed like a nod from the ad-
ministration, a tentative step toward auton-
omy for a few more students. 
But after the past few weekends, with 
bumping bass, smashed pumpkins and yell-
ing students on the loose, it’s looking like 
offering such agency was a mistake. Our 
administrators, but more importantly, our 
neighbors in town, see the increase in off-
campus parties as a failure on the students’ 
part to act responsibly. 
Dear neighbors and community mem-
bers: you are right. This behavior is disrup-
tive, disrespectful and completely inappro-
priate. 
Dear College: what has not been dis-
cussed thus far is that partying off-campus 
is a direct result of certain policy decisions 
that have been made on-campus. Not to 
beat a dead horse, but it is no coincidence 
that the ban on alcohol at tailgates coincid-
ed with a number of disruptive, destructive 
and alcohol-laden gatherings in the town 
over Homecoming weekend. More hoops 
for would-be partiers on-campus means 
that off-campus houses look more and 
more appealing as potential sites for the 
kind of gatherings that should be held on 
college grounds. 
We wanted to move off-campus to have 
a more meaningful relationship with the 
community, get away from dining hall food, 
-
Recently, it appears as if some of the other 
students seeking to live off-campus are do-
ing so because they want to throw big par-
ties and feel suffocated in attempts to do so 
in college spaces.
This is not to say that massive ragers are 
-
ties into the community’s lap is unfair to the 
townspeople and the students, and remark-
ably short-sighted: it perpetuates what the 
Res Life staff has referred to as the “Whack-
making the prospect and the reality of host-
ing a party on-campus so frustrating that 
students feel forced to look to off-campus 
friends and acquaintances to play host.  Do 
we want to be associated with an institution 
that views the social scene on its own cam-
pus as a game of Whack-A-Mole, squashing 
social interactions as soon as they occur? 
 Recently, the College has placed the 
blame on students for acting predictably 
(albeit inappropriately) in a situation that 
the administration has created. The conver-
sation is currently centered on student ir-
responsibility, rather than the push factors 
that are causing such behavior. 
We’d like to argue that the logic for keep-
ing — nay, encouraging — student parties 
on-campus is obvious and plentiful.  First 
and foremost is the matter of student safety. 
We can all agree that drunk driving or even 
walking around on busy streets after hav-
ing enjoyed a few drinks is dangerous. Also, 
there is a well-established support system 
on-campus, in the form of residential life, 
peer support and services at the health cen-
without your friends, there is unlikely to be 
a familiar face that knows how to get you 
back to Gifford. 
Furthermore, Middlebury police re-
spond to noise complaints and other is-
sues in town, whereas playing music too 
loudly in a dorm is likely to result in nothing 
-
cer.  One of the most frustrating aspects of 
this situation is that an increasing number 
of students would rather interact with the 
Middlebury police, who are consistently 
reasonable and respectful, than with Public 
are generally polite and courteous, but the 
policies they enforce undermine any sense 
of community and encourage an “us versus 
members of the town police force respond-
ing to calls about college students does not 
look good for the college. 
The institution is currently undergoing 
a process of rebranding, and policy changes 
regarding alcohol and partying are aimed 
at polishing our image. But shouldn’t we be 
more focused on the content of our identity, 
rather than our appearance? If we move for-
ward with integrity to make informed policy 
decisions, focusing on who we are rather 
than who we appear to be, then our image 
will take care of itself.
Failure by the Administration to rec-
ognize the fact that imposing increasingly 
stringent drinking policies won’t stop stu-
dents from doing so has now begun to affect 
those outside of our sphere. It is high time 
life culture that Middlebury’s policies foster 
and considered the ways in which we might 
change our perspective and our goals to 
support a healthier, more respectful drink-
ing culture.
Reader op-ed
Laura Strom ’14.5 is from 
Lopez Island, Wash.
Madison Stebbins ’14.5 is 
from Silver Spring, Md.
| october 30, 2014 7opinions
Hoxie’s Hunches: Forecasting the 2014 Midterms
President Obama claims to not be on the 
ballot this November; however, in a few days, 
we will see if voters agree with that or not. 
Republicans need 
to gain six seats 
in order to “Fire 
Reid,” the Demo-
cratic Senate Ma-
jority Leader. The 
Democrats. They are mostly on defense, de-
fending their gains from 2008. Many vulner-
able incumbents and open seats fall in states 
that Romney won in 2012. Moreover, the 
GOP has recruited many strong candidates 
that there are more races going on besides 
the Senate races, but the House will most 
races are as national as the those in the Sen-
26. The 2012 Presidential Results are from 
Politico. 
 
Alaska: Begich (i) v. Sullivan
RCP Poll Average: Sullivan +4.2
2012 Presidential: Romney 55%
Prediction: 
race from the onset of this election cycle. Be-
overall shows great political aptitude. How-
-
that has been deemed offensive. This, as well 
have created a unique opportunity for former 
fought his way through a crowded GOP pri-
it will be close.
Arkansas: Pryor (i) v. Cotton
RCP Poll Average: Cotton +5
2012 Presidential: Romney 60.5%
Prediction:
behind in the polls as early as March and then 
rallied over the summer, but has since slipped 
-
ence with Obamacare and the President has 
a disapproval rating of about 60.3 percent, 
according to the . Moreover, 
and Law School and has served in the Army, 
Colorado: M. Udall (i) v. Gardner
RCP Poll Average: Gardner +2.8
2012 Presidential: Obama 51.2%
Prediction:
in play this cycle that turned out to be tougher 
a more moderate GOP candidate challenging 
-
rado in recent years has shifted much more 
to the left, supporting marijuana legalization 
and voting for Obama in 2008 and 2012. The 
state legislature even felt safe enough to chal-
lenge the Second Amendment, and that was 
were successfully recalled in 2013, which may 
signal that the GOP is motivated and ready to 
-
-
next year.  
Georgia: Nunn v. Perdue (Open Seat)
RCP Poll Average: Nunn +0.3
2012 Presidential: Romney 53.4%
Prediction: This is a race to watch this No-
vember. Georgia has arisen as the Democrats 
-
ber, and even one could derail a GOP major-
-
candidate will receive 50 percent of the vote 
the focus of national attention and may deter-
two things to consider: who will have enough 
resources to win and how will the runoff ef-
fect turnout? Georgia is experiencing a slight 
and national attention may drive up turnout 
-
due, because midterm voters tend to be more 
 
Iowa: Braley v. Ernst (Open Seat)
RCP Poll Average: Ernst +2.2
2012 Presidential: Obama 52.1%
Prediction:
the scene and become a frontrunner in this 
star. She has many presidential hopefuls 
-
his name, famously telling voters to vote for 
National Guard who has had success pitching 
other hand, has often come across as cold and 
“Baily” Braley.
  
Kansas: Orman v. Roberts (i)
RCP Poll Average: Orman +0.6
2012 Presidential: Obama 52.1%
Prediction: Kansas is probably the most frus-
trating and confusing race of the cycle. Pat 
-
a home in Kansas. Moreover, Greg Orman 
Democrat and march to victory. Orman is 
quite possibly the most confusing candidate 
out there and has been a member of both ma-
jor political parties, most recently the Demo-
crats’. He has also contributed to many Dem-
where this guy stands on anything. However, 
isn’t helping him very much heading the GOP 
-
Roberts, but only because he is an incumbent 
Kentucky: Grimes v. McConnell (i)
RCP Poll Average: McConnell +4.4
2012 Presidential: Romney 60.5%
Prediction:
it would be a major victory for them because 
-
-
-
-
acare out of the race. The big issue of this 
has accused the Democrats of waging a “War 
well; however, she also campaigns with “coal 
-
Louisiana: Landrieu (i) v. Cassidy
RCP Poll Average: Cassidy +4.4
2012 Presidential: Romney 57.8%
Prediction: This is in close second for the 
most perplexing race of the cycle. Mary 
in Louisiana. Most importantly, her brother 
is the Mayor of New Orleans. She also wields 
-
ergy and Natural Resources committee. She 
-
-
Landrieu has more resources at her disposal 
to play a massive turnout game in New Or-
leans, and, if turnout is high, she could hold 
Maine: Bellows v. Collins (i)
RCP Poll Average: Collins +29.7
2012 Presidential: Obama 56%
Prediction:
and thoughtful leadership in a partisan Sen-
alumna, class of ’97. However, she doesn’t 
next time he is in cycle.
Michigan: Peters v. Land (Open Seat)
RCP Poll Average: Peters +10.1
2012 Presidential: Obama 54.3%
Prediction:
She was a successful Secretary of State, but 
her Senate bid has lost steam heading into 
-
Minnesota: Franken (i) v. McFadden 
RCP Poll Average: Franken +10.5
2012 Presidential: Obama 54.3%
Prediction: The funniest Senator is going to 
-
-
mary, and the football coach may not even 
Montana: Curtis v. Daines (Open Seat)
RCP Poll Average: Daines +18  (yes, 18)
2012 Presidential: Romney 55.3%
Prediction: The Democrats pulled out all the 
stops to hold on to Max Baucus’ seat. Yes, 
they shipped the sponsor of the Patient Pro-
-
ing him an “incumbency advantage,” but the 
Democrats put their eggs in the wrong bas-
the Democratic hopes of holding onto Mon-
-
ing to easily win. 
New Hampshire: Shaheen (i) v. Scott 
Brown
RCP Poll Average: Shaheen +2.2
2012 Presidential: Obama 52.2%
Prediction: This is an interesting race and, 
GOP “expanding the map” and increasing 
the number of competitive races. Jeanne 
New Hampshire and has previously served 
the other hand, grew up in New Hampshire, 
but served as a Senator from Massachusetts. 
Shaheen has a few problems to confront, and 
that may just tip the scales for Brown. Obam-
acare is very unpopular in New Hampshire 
associated with Obamacare insurance plans. 
Shaheen’s races have historically tightened at 
-
dict Shaheen will hold onto her seat.
New Jersey: Booker (i) v. Bell
RCP Poll Average: Booker +15.6
2012 Presidential: Obama 58%
Prediction:
and that may have been his only real contest. 
The 2013 election produced one of the most 
though. So, if you don’t want to do home-
and should retain his seat. 
North Carolina: Hagan (i) v. Tillis 
RCP Average: Hagan +1.6
2012 Presidential: Romney 50.6%
Prediction
best to distance herself from an unpopular 
president, and it just may have been enough. 
The polls are close, but most people are say-
-
State House. So that isn’t helping him much. 
Oregon: Merkley (i) v. Wehby
RCP Average: Merkley +13.5
2012 Presidential: Obama 54.5%
Prediction: -
teresting candidate; she’s a neurosurgeon 
and more libertarian, supporting many mid-
dle of the road social stances. However, that 
South Dakota: Weiland v. Rounds 
(Open Seat)
RCP Poll Average: Rounds +10.2
2012 Presidential: Romney 57.9%
Prediction
this race really was never that close. There are 
threat to Rounds’ healthy lead. 
Virginia: Warner (i) v. Gillespie
RCP Poll Average: Warner +10.6
2012 Presidential: Obama 50.8%
Prediction
moderate Senator and former business exec. 
the source of major compromises. He faces 
win with ease. 
West Virginia: Tennant v. Capito 
(Open Seat)
RCP Poll Average: Capito +16.6
2012 Presidential: Romney 62.3%
Prediction: Both of these candidates initially 
She faces Secretary of State, and former 
probably was less than helpful. On the other 
swing Vote
Phil Hoxie ’17.5 is from 
Orinda, Calif.
Map by Phil Hoxie; Design by Hannah Bristol
This map shows Hoxie’s predictions for the midterm Senate elections on Nov. 4.
D R
Key
A year and a half ago I decided to take 
a gap year. The term “gap year” invari-
ably implies backpacking through some 
countries, pick-
ing up the local 
tongues and do-
ing some pro-
bono work. I did 
a bit of that, but 
was never one of 
-
of high school (a.k.a. a post-graduate 
year) in Jordan at a school called King’s 
Academy. 
Fast-forward a year and a half later 
to here at Middlebury. Since my arrival, 
I’ve had several discussions about the 
often, especially after this past summer, 
and when it enters the domain of con-
versation, people become pretty impas-
sioned. I am undoubtedly among the 
zealous people who are moved by the 
situation. In Jordan, the topic was always 
relevant and many of my friends were of 
Palestinian descent. There was under-
standable frustration with Israel’s exis-
tence; my Palestinian friends’ families 
immigrated to Jordan because of what 
occurred between 1947 and 2000. Much 
of the animosity was towards policy like 
the occupation and the general treatment 
of Palestinians in Israel, which I will get 
into later.
In America, we cannot truly empa-
thize with the Palestinian struggle. Many 
other ethnic groups have been forced out 
oppression; the Jewish people are a per-
-
fering in Palestine is unique in its own 
right and we (here in the U.S.) can’t 
imagine how it feels to live in Gaza right 
now. But before talking facts and mor-
als, about whose side to take, and how 
peace can be achieved, the approach to 
The common labels of “pro-Israel” or 
-
-
credibly counter-productive to peace. To 
consider oneself pro-Israel connotes an 
absolute anti-Palestine mindset. It’s the 
mindset of ultra-conservatives in Israeli 
government like Prime Minister Benja-
min Netanyahu, who care less about Pal-
estine or its people. They rather believe 
in the triumph of Israel and the eradica-
tion of anything that may inhibit Israel’s 
climb to hegemonic status. 
Similarly, to be pro-Palestine implies 
a degree of extremism, believing that Is-
rael shouldn’t exist at all. Groups such 
as Hamas and Hezbollah preach this 
rhetoric and commit themselves to the 
destruction of Israel rather than focusing 
on Palestinian sovereignty and equality. 
The radicals on both sides perpetuate ha-
tred and polarize the situation in a hor-
rendous way. Thus, to label oneself pro-
(either nation) is to align with the morally 
-
ing oneself to such a single set of beliefs 
creates a precedent of obstinacy that in-
hibits diplomatic and political progress. 
To be obvious and idealistically frank, 
the goal should be peace and equality for 
the people, not one country over another 
because both have a right to exist.
There is an intricate and controversial 
background to what is now geographi-
cally Israel and Palestine but it’s not too 
essential in analyzing the current con-
the history, Israel has been thoroughly 
established over the past sixty years and 
it’s not going anywhere. The same way 
to get their land back. Therefore the dis-
cussion needs to be in the present tense, 
about the policies and issues of today. 
The match-up right 
now is unbalanced to 
say the least. Israel’s 
a big grizzly bear and 
Palestine is a squirrel 
throwing acorns. The 
death toll from Gaza 
this past summer was 
about 2,200, and about 
2,100 of which were 
Palestinian. Moreover, 
to quote the political analyst recently 
brought by Justice for Palestine, Josh 
collective punishment” in Gaza that took 
nearly 1,500 civilian lives and demolished 
Palestinian infrastructure. Hamas is a 
dangerous threat to Israeli civilians and 
enemy of Israeli defense, but the military 
answer should not be the destruction of 
531 Palestinian villages. This demoli-
tion left innocent Palestinians homeless, 
seeking any refuge available. UN schools 
were made available as safe havens but 
those were later bombed, too. 
Israel is becoming increasingly more 
brutal with its treatment of the Palestin-
ians. Those within Israel suffer from a 
segregation and inequality that is analo-
gous with the former apartheid in South 
Africa. Those in the occupied territories 
seek sovereignty, but are denied free-
doms of assembly and speech. This injus-
tice should not be tolerated by the global 
community because if left unaddressed, 
what remains of Palestine will continue 
to shrink and nationhood will always 
evade its people. 
Our lecturer from last week, Josh, 
advocated for an intense series of boy-
cotting, divestment, sanctions to punish 
Israel for its unjust treatment of the Pal-
estinians. I’m not 
sure that’s a bad 
idea because many 
of Israel’s policies 
have been utterly 
unacceptable. Is-
rael is gradually 
annexing remain-
ing Palestinian 
land, similar to 
Crimea. America should criticize Israel 
-
el’s greatest ally, America, turns its back 
towards them in the form of divestment, 
etc. we’d see more Palestinian integra-
tion and equality and a big step towards 
an autonomous Palestine. In turn, Israel 
as they treat Palestinians better because 
that mitigates Hamas’s case for battle.
Ultimately, extremists cannot be rea-
soned with, and the radicals on both 
sides will always demand more conces-
sions from the opposition. I still have 
hope though, as everyone should, that 
a solution can be reached. As our gen-
eration comes to power, I envision new, 
progressive political parties working to-
wards a single state. We, as future lead-
-
tine but for justice, equality and an end 
to the violence. 
  8 October 30, 2014 | opinions
“Ultimately, extremists 
cannot be reasoned with, 
and the radicals on both 
sides will always demand 
more concessions from 
the opposition.”
Gloria Breck
Thursday 
Page
Josh Claxton ’18 is from 
Summit, N.J.
Pro-Neither
Gun Violence Across the Border
I was sitting in Wilson Café last 
Wednesday, preparing for a job in-
terview with a friend, when my phone 
b u z z e d 
with a New 
York Times 
B r e a k i n g 
News up-
date.
-
liament,” it read.
It was a headline that no Canadian 
thought they would ever see. In disbe-
lief, I opened my laptop, went on the 
CBC News website, and followed the 
tragedy as it unfolded throughout the 
day. 
Shortly before 10 a.m. on that tragic 
day, a mentally unstable Quebec man 
with Islamic extremist sympathies shot 
and killed, with a rifle, an unarmed 
soldier standing on ceremonial guard 
at the National War Memorial in Ot-
tawa. He then drove his car towards the 
Parliament complex, located less than 
half a mile away, and barged through 
the central doors of the main Parlia-
ment building. Once inside, he was 
pursued by police and parliamentary 
security personnel down the Hall of 
Honour, a central passageway leading 
to the Library of Parliament in the back 
of the building. He was eventually sub-
dued just outside the Library, after the 
House of Commons Sergeant-at-Arms, 
a man with a largely ceremonial role, 
fatally shot him.
In the aftermath of the attacks, I 
have thought a lot about what this at-
tack reveals about the differences be-
tween Canada and the United States. 
Firstly, our Parliament, unlike the U.S. 
Capitol, is so open that its main doors 
(through which the attacker entered) 
do not have metal detectors. Its front 
lawn, on a beautiful sunny day, is filled 
with picnic-goers, Frisbee-throwers, 
and even yoga practitioners. Although 
we have seen political violence in our 
nation’s history before, most notably 
during the October Crisis of 1970, Ca-
nadians viewed this attack as a strike 
against that very openness of our po-
litical institutions and the freedoms 
we enjoy.
However, we Canadians were 
more shocked that this kind of gun 
violence could happen in our coun-
try. Mass shootings and lone wolf 
terrorists are things we associ-
ate with the United States. To 
give you some perspective, the 
city of Ottawa has a population 
of 885,000. The murder of the 
soldier at the National War 
Memorial was just the city’s 
fifth homicide of the year. In-
dianapolis, Ind., with a com-
parable population of approx-
imately 840,000, has already 
seen 115 murders this year. 
In 2007, the rate of death by 
firearm in Canada was 
0.51 per 100,000 resi-
dents. In that same year, 
the American rate of 
death by firearm was six times higher, 
at 2.91 per 100,000.
While guns and gun control are a 
politically charged topic, especially in 
big cities like Toronto, we do not have 
a constitutional right to bear arms, 
I think the relationship between our 
low violent crime rate and our robust 
and sensible gun laws is more than a 
coincidence but as a student of political 
science, I am also aware that the differ-
ences between the gun laws of our two 
countries are a matter of 
deeply rooted political 
culture. We never had a 
revolution to throw off 
our colonial masters. We never had 
a need to keep guns in our house be-
cause we were afraid of tyranny. And 
we never had the kind of mistrust 
and skepticism in government that 
you Americans do.
Finally, I would be remiss to 
finish this op-ed without ad-
dressing the difference in the 
way our and your media net-
works covered the attacks last 
week. In the aftermath of the 
attack, the Canadian Broad-
casting Corporation (CBC) 
provided calm, fact-based, and 
reliable reporting, led by the 
most familiar journalistic face 
in Canada, Peter Mansbridge. 
The American channels, es-
pecially in cable news, sensa-
tionalized the attack with 
their shouting anchormen, 
flashy breaking news ban-
ners, and the plopping of the Anderson 
Cooper news team in downtown Otta-
wa hours after the shooting. As Canadi-
ans, we are proud that good journalism 
still prevails in Canada and that quality 
of journalism was especially on display 
during the crisis on our publically-
funded national network.
Perhaps we were too naïve as Cana-
dians to think that this kind of thing 
would never happen in our country. 
After all, we are a staunch ally of the 
United States and usually stand side-
by-side with you in major foreign pol-
icy decisions. We were with you in Af-
ghanistan for more than 10 years before 
ending our combat mission in 2011. 
Our current government is a stronger 
supporter of the U.S.-led operations 
against ISIS. We have had close calls 
before with terrorist plots and given 
what has happened in Madrid, London, 
and Oslo in the last decade, we were 
maybe overdue for something like this.
No doubt, the attack on Parliament 
has changed Canada in many ways. As 
the country heals from this national 
tragedy, we will have to have a conver-
sation about the balance between our 
freedom and our security, the state of 
Canadian multiculturalism, and even 
issues of mental health. I hope that 
we will find a Canadian answer to the 
tough questions, one that allows us to 
remain, as our national anthem says, 
“the true north strong and free.”
Reader op-ed
Danny Zhang ’15 is from 
Toronto, Canada.
I hope I will not appear as too much 
of a nerd by assuming you know about 
the world famous Italian plumber Ma-
rio. Mario 
spends his 
time jump-
ing on tur-
tles and sav-
ing Princess 
Peach in the 
aptly named 
“Super Mario” video games. By today’s 
standards Super Mario is a quaint game 
as it contains no guns, no real violence 
or realistic blood splatters. Cartoon 
characters make funny noises when 
you jump on their heads and the whole 
premise is outlandish and whimsical. 
Mario saves the princess and that’s all 
there is too it. 
Why is this children’s (or college 
student’s) game of any consequence? 
Having two older brothers and a grand-
mother that liked to dote on us, video 
games were a fixture in my childhood. 
For that matter, some of the easiest 
stories to understand were things like 
Dr. Seuss and Mario saving a prin-
cess. What I did not know was even at 
that time I was beginning to form my 
conceptions on how men interact with 
women.
One of the real tragedies of male 
adolescence is that these unsaid mes-
sages begin to manifest. I’m not going 
to blame it all on Mario, movies and 
books did a lot of it too, but certainly 
I began to think that nice guys always 
got the girl. That if you persisted long 
enough in being nice she would eventu-
ally give in. In so much of our dialogue 
concerning sexism and sexual assault 
we assume a dramatic aggression on 
the part of male figures. We give little 
thought to obsessive, perhaps under-
developed, not so popular boys who too 
are putting together a system for how 
they will later interact with women. 
This of course is not something new. 
After all, how many little girls want to 
dress up as princesses? How many men 
grow up expecting a devoted sexual 
partner? This particular narrative is at 
once dangerous and disturbing. Yes, 
society has a clear interest in subduing 
aggression in the male population, but 
what do we replace it with? The not so 
subtle replacement is merely reward 
for good behavior. The villains will 
never win and the “good guy,” the one 
who was there for her when she cried, 
who offered to beat up the guy who 
made her cry, the one who sat on the 
phone for her for hours, will naturally 
end up with her. If we follow this log-
ic through we end up in distressingly 
familiar territory, men believing they 
deserve sex as a reward for their good 
behavior.
If we could solve this 
problem it would go a 
long way towards cre-
ating healthier, more 
stable relationships. 
No matter how hard we 
scream, or perhaps how 
many op-eds we write, 
simply launching an-
ger will not effectively 
change the way male 
self-esteem is formed. 
It is a far more difficult 
thing to raise our sons 
to be courteous, tem-
perate and patient for 
their own sake, with no 
reward in mind. This is 
something churches and 
governments struggle 
with, let alone parents. 
The stories we have told 
children for hundreds 
of years enforce men as 
agents, deserving re-
ward. So what if we just started tell-
ing different stories? Would my tod-
dler self enjoy a game about Princess 
Peach? Maybe we could have fantasy 
novels with sincere heroines and not 
sexual caricatures? 
It Happens Here is on Nov. 10 and if 
things repeat themselves, we’ll hear a 
lot of powerful, often emotionally diffi-
cult stories of sexual assault. For those 
of you that go, ask yourself this: would 
these situations have been avoided if 
men had a better image of how they 
see themselves? I am convinced that 
if we removed sexuality from what it 
colloquially means to “be a man,” we 
would take an enormous step in solving 
the problem of sexual assault. Keep in 
mind too that direct sexual assault and 
violence is one thing, the less obvious 
issue is the quiet young man believ-
ing he will one day be rewarded for his 
good behavior.
To redeem the video game industry 
a little, I have to admit that while it is 
still a male dominated industry, great 
strides have been made. The ability to 
play as male, female, gay or straight 
has become a recurring trend in many 
games. So it’s not all Mario and the 
princess. We can tell better stories as 
students and as a culture. We can tell 
stories about heroines with normal 
sized breasts who fight crime, we can 
tell stories about men who don’t need 
a woman’s affection to still consider 
himself a man. Maybe, the Princess got 
sick of waiting in her tower and maybe 
the handsome Prince simply helped 
her down and proceeded to go about 
his business without thinking much of 
it.
| october 30, 2014 9opinions
Good Guys & Princesses
The Unpopular 
Opinion
Andrew DeFalco ’15.5 is 
from Boston, Mass.
Notes from 
the desk
Jessica Cheung ’15 is a 
Features Editor from San 
Francisco, Calif.
When two news sources asked to ap-
prove their quotes and the article be-
fore it was slated to print in last week’s 
issue, it be-
came clear to 
me that the 
line between 
the press 
and press re-
leases is be-
coming diffi-
cult to discern. The practice of allowing 
news sources to read 
and edit quotations 
as a condition for an 
interview is growing 
into a new standard 
and getting out of 
hand. 
Our newspaper cannot stand to both 
claim transparency and, somehow, re-
main elusive. So the Campus editorial 
board is settling once and for all wheth-
er to eradicate quote approvals as a 
standard practice at the newspaper. 
If this policy changes, writers for the 
Campus will no longer forward quotes 
to news sources for review or edit, ex-
cept in rare situations that require fur-
ther accuracy and clarification. News 
sources will either commit to being on 
the record or off. To introduce a string 
of entangling pre-conditions to an in-
terview is to obscure what should be 
the simple act of asking a question and 
getting a response. More and more, 
writers find where they sit turn over 
from an interview table to a bargaining 
table, trading access to interviews for 
quote approvals. They are forking edi-
torial control over to the wrong people.
Quote revisions are at complete odds 
with our mission of honest reporting. 
Not only do these revisions shroud the 
most meaningful parts of a quote with 
generosity, but presenting a revised 
version of what the reporter initially 
stood witness to as entirely original is 
an act of dishonesty. New York Times 
columnist David Carr says it best: “The 
first draft of history should not be re-
written by the people who make it.” 
Often, that history comes back re-
vised with quotations that enjoy the 
privileges and authority of full attribu-
tion without actually showing how it 
was doctored and by 
whom. “When the 
quotes are sanitized, 
then delivered intact 
with full attribu-
tion, the public has 
no way of knowing 
what the concealed deal was,” former 
CBS news anchor Dan Rather wrote in 
a CNN piece.
In the past two years, the New York 
Times and even peer college newspa-
pers like the Kenyon Collegian and the 
Harvard Crimson ban quote approvals 
as a standard practice. This policy is 
necessary for the Campus.
The distinction between the truth 
and the truth in its best lighting is be-
coming increasingly vague. An equally 
insidious and growing practice is email-
ing interview questions and answers. 
To conduct an interview over email is 
to lose the back-and-forth, real-time 
follow-up questions that reveal the 
most honest and human parts of a sto-
ry: laughter, nervousness, pause, sad-
ness and surprise. If anodyne quotes 
continue to be manufactured on an as-
sembly line of keystrokes over email, 
the stories that go down in history will 
go down drained of its human proper-
ties — and everything historical is stuck 
to script.
This policy move may drive away 
people we want to interview. The 
sound-byte-obsessed media culture 
writ large by BuzzFeed and Twitter 
has brought out the most defensive 
parts in a person when speaking to a 
reporter. I’ve had the entire economics 
department at the College — upwards 
of 11 professors — refuse to speak to 
me before referring me to a designated 
spokesperson for, lest we forget, an ac-
ademic department — out of this very 
fear of what’s on-the-record may turn 
into what’s out-of-context. I’ve had an 
administrator at the College rewrite 
entire Q&A transcripts — interviews 
published verbatim — for the sake of 
sounding more sophisticated. When 
we put articles in the hands of those 
most concerned with keeping up with 
appearances, we are putting it in the 
wrong hands. Here at the Campus, we 
are in the business of writing fair, hon-
est news — not press releases.
That is not to say errors have nev-
er made it to our pages. Our very own 
editors have been misquoted, and we 
have gotten facts wrong. We are hu-
man, we are students with classes and 
participants in other organizations, but 
we don’t let ourselves get away with 
mistakes. When errors warrant cor-
rection, we print a corrections box on 
the opinions page, and time-stamped 
corrections appear on online articles. 
Journalism is not our profession, but 
I’ve spent many nights in the news-
room, standing witness to the fact that 
we treat it as our own.
And we are doing more. We are co-
ordinating ethical reporting workshops 
taught by section editors and guest lec-
turers to train writers, new and old. We 
are expanding our copy editing section. 
We are forming a fact-checking depart-
ment. New to this year is the position 
of standards editor. All this is to en-
sure that inaccuracies are caught and 
prevented — not apologized for. Each 
editor oversees their section and puts 
into it their own personality and edi-
torial judgment, but it is my hope that 
earnest adherence to the same ethics 
and policies is what binds us as a news-
paper — editors, writers, sources and 
readers.
As a co-host of The Campus Voice, 
I know a news story is entirely differ-
ent premeditated than it is when done 
live. I also know that the difference is 
not just between two stories, but also 
between two histories. After all, what 
kind of lives would we be living if Rich-
ard Nixon took back the moment he 
accidently told the truth? “Frankly, I 
don’t want to have in the record discus-
sions we’ve had in this room on Water-
gate,” Nixon said in the very tapes that 
incriminated him. What kind of lives 
would we be living if then-presidential 
candidate Mitt Romney could redact 
what he let slip: “There are 47 percent 
of the people who will vote for the pres-
ident no matter what.” Or if a journal-
ist herself could erase ever referencing 
television producer Shonda Rhimes as 
an “Angry Black Woman.” We would 
not only be living different lives, but in 
a cover-up of lies.
At the heart of it, journalism is about 
telling the truth. When someone asks a 
reporter to unsee what she saw, they 
are revising the truth. They are revis-
ing history. And if the stories we’re tell-
ing are less true, less candid and less 
emotive, then our stories will cease to 
resemble anything of life. 
The Matter of Fact: Why the Campus Should Ban Quote Approvals
“Here at the Campus, 
we are in the business of 
writing fair, honest news 
— not press releases.”
Nolan ellsworth
10 October 30, 2014 | opinions
One of the hardest parts of being a 
fan of hip-hop is being asked the fol-
lowing ques-
tion: “how 
can you listen 
to music that 
revolves so 
much around 
the glorification of violence?” I usually 
deflect the question by saying some-
thing about how you can consume art 
without endorsing its message, but re-
ally that’s all that is, 
a deflection. Con-
suming art, or rather 
understanding it, is 
the act of extending 
one’s humanity and 
allowing the artistic 
expression to join 
with that humanity 
(paraphrasing Ralph 
Ellison there). Listening to rap music is 
a central part of my life, and my rela-
tionship with the art is too deep to pass 
off some CNN sounding B.S. about not 
“endorsing a message” to such a prob-
ing question. The real truth is, I’m not 
sure how to answer that question.
Part of the challenge is nailing down 
what is meant by violence. What kind 
of violence are we talking about? Is it 
Eminem’s maniacal “Kill You,” a veri-
table laundry list of fantasies ranging 
from chopping people up with chain-
saws to developing pictures of the dev-
il, or is it Bobby Shmurda’s “Hot N----,” 
the enormously popular summer an-
them which describes Shmurda and his 
homies mowing down enemies with ev-
ery kind of machine gun you can name 
and several you can’t? It may seem like 
a ridiculous question, but the kinds of 
violence described and celebrated in 
these two songs are extremely differ-
ent and hold varying significance to the 
question at hand. While “Kill You” can 
be pretty chilling to listen to, it hits that 
level of crazy that 
pushes it nearly into 
abstraction. Emi-
nem isn’t trying to 
make us think he’s 
actually done these 
things, he’s trying 
to convince us that 
he actually wants to. 
Beneath its brutal 
descriptions, the song’s real purpose is 
to ask us just how crazy we think he is.
Shmurda’s “Hot N----,” on the other 
hand, has its own element of fantasy, 
in the sense that it isn’t documentary. 
But the activities he’s describing, gun-
ning down his enemies in the street and 
“selling crack since like the fifth grade,” 
reverberate with a violence that feels 
markedly more live-action than the 
cartoonish blood-splatter of “Kill You.” 
Shmurda’s lyrics remind one too much 
of what is actually happening in the 
collective hood of cities across the US. 
Chicago had over 500 murders in 2012, 
and police data indicated that some-
body was shot in the city every 3.57 
hours. In Bobby Shmurda’s hometown 
of New York, over 60 percent of 2012’s 
419 murder victims were African Amer-
ican and were largely the result of gun 
violence. While Eminem’s serial killer 
persona threatens us with the idea of 
Saw come to life, Shmurda focuses on 
a wave of death that is terrifyingly real. 
As such, I find the kind of violence por-
trayed in “Hot N----”, and songs like it 
harder to rationalize.
But what makes this issue so diffi-
cult is that I don’t even feel comfortable 
with that previous sentence. I’m essen-
tially saying that it feels more accept-
able to listen to somebody rave about 
sadistic fantasies than it does to listen 
to another somebody turn the blood-
shed of inner-city violence into a feel-
good club banger. Doesn’t it seem weird 
that I find it harder to justify listening 
to a 20-year-old kid rap about what he’s 
seen all around him as he has grown 
up? If hip-hop is going to be used a 
venue to discuss violence, and it most 
certainly will, it seems wrong to pass 
judgment against expression of actual 
experiences.
I guess the part of me that shud-
ders for a moment whenever I listen 
to “Hot N----” is responding to the 
overt celebration in Bobby’s words. Its 
his eagerness to embody this charac-
ter that makes me ask myself, “is this 
wrong?” But as Rembert Browne of 
Grantland points out in his excellent 
piece on the song, that energy is what 
makes the song so infectious and irre-
sistibly joyous when listened to with a 
bunch of people looking to forget about 
everything other than becoming one 
undulating blob mimicking Shmurda’s 
trademark Shmoney Dance. The most 
amazing thing about “Hot N----” is 
that for all the machine gunnery and 
descriptions of how victims “twirl then 
they drop,” the song is somehow uplift-
ing. The part of me that squirms when I 
hear him and think about the hundreds 
of kids out there shooting at each other 
is swiftly shoved out of the way by the 
exuberant charisma of this dude.
Again, this is the challenge of dis-
cussing violence in hip-hop. I started 
by explaining how “Kill You” and “Hot 
N----” depict two different kinds of vio-
lence and in no time at all, this some-
how devolved into a description of 
turning up on the dance floor. Maybe 
that’s the best way to explain it. Rap 
music provides a means to express and 
entertain violent ideas in a way that 
transforms them into something else. 
At least that’s the best way I can de-
scribe it. If you don’t agree, or if you’d 
rather not listen to music that uses vio-
lence and aggression in that fashion, I 
don’t blame you. But I can tell you in 
full confidence, you’re missing out.
Shmurda She Wrote: Rationalizing Violence in Hip-Hop
The A-List
Luke Smith-Stevens ’14.5 
is from New York, N.Y.
In my last column, I discussed three 
important responsibilities of the SGA on 
campus: 1) allocating the student activities 
fee, 2) manag-
ing student or-
ganizations and 
3) serving as a 
vehicle for stu-
dents to change 
i n s t i t u t i o n a l 
policy. It was on 
the third front, 
I noted, where 
there is much room for improvement. I be-
lieve recent events have further evinced the 
need for the student body to discuss how we 
want to shape our campus.
As recent issues related to social life on 
campus have demonstrated, there is a gen-
eral concern amongst the student body that 
we are not being heard during the college’s 
-
sive to our community and runs contrary 
to the principles we stand for as a liberal 
arts college. In my view, the SGA and Com-
munity Council should provide the forums 
through which student concerns are heard 
and acted upon by administrators and fac-
ulty. Clearly, however, there is at least the 
perception on campus that these bodies are 
One of the problems, I think, is that 
the structure of the SGA has neither been 
changed nor reviewed in the past 30 years. 
The Board of Trustees, cognizant of the 
need to modify governing structures to 
meet changing realities, recently convened 
a working group and completely re-orga-
nized the College’s administrative struc-
ture. The faculty, seeing the wisdom of that 
course, is also in the process of reviewing its 
own governance structure. Likewise, I think 
a similar course of action. To that end, I am 
forming an SGA Reform Working Group to 
of student governance on campus. 
While the group is currently comprised 
of a number of SGA members, it is crucial 
that the greater student body actively par-
ticipate in this process. We plan to encour-
age greater participation by hosting a num-
ber of open forums to hear what students 
think about the way SGA currently oper-
ates. For those interested in taking a more 
active role, though, we encourage you to ap-
ply to join the working group. You can do so 
all-student e-mail earlier this week. 
The working group is intended to ad-
dress two main issues. First, it will examine 
the internal effectiveness of the SGA. We 
will start by determining whether students 
currently believe that the SGA is a meaning-
ful forum through which to express their 
ideas. Rather than merely diagnose prob-
-
dations about how to make the SGA more 
responsive to the student body’s ideas and 
concerns. Second, we will investigate how 
best to increase the level of communication 
between students and the administration. 
As noted earlier, one of the SGA’s main tasks 
is to serve as a facilitator of that dialogue. 
As a result, we will examine how the SGA 
can better represent the student voice to ad-
ministrators in an institutionalized way. For 
example, perhaps the SGA should have the 
power to appoint student representatives 
-
mittees, as it currently does for the Board of 
Trustees Investment Committee. 
Our underlying goal will be to improve 
student life on campus by addressing the is-
sue of how best we, as students, can voice 
our opinion to administrators and faculty 
members before changes are made to Col-
lege policy. Thanks to its long history and 
institutional memory, I am inclined to 
believe that the SGA offers a strong foun-
dation for increased communication and 
greater transparency. Perhaps, however, 
role as a facilitator successfully. Given the 
current level of campus interest in issues of 
transparency and student activism, there 
is clearly a demand for this type of change 
on campus. As the Board of Trustees and 
faculty are currently undergoing a similar 
unique position to address this issue right 
now. There is currently the need, the will, 
and the opportunity to make the student 
body better heard by its government, the 
administration, and the faculty — we should 
-
gers.
Reform Now
The Buck 
STops Here
Taylor Custer ’15 is the 
SGA President and is from 
“Doesn’t it seem weird 
justify listening to a 
20-year-old kid rap about 
what he’s seen all around 
him as he has grown up?”
NEWS LOCAL NEWSFEATURES
SPORTS
OPINIONSWANT A PIECE OF THE ACTION?
The Middlebury Campus is seeking new writer. Write for:
To express interest, please send an email to campus@middlebury.edu detailing the section(s) for which 
you’d like to write.
NEWS
ONLINE  
LOCAL NEWSFEATURES
SPORTS
OPINIONS
ARTS&SCIENCES
10 October 30, 2014 | opinions
One of the hardest parts of being a 
fan of hip-hop is being asked the fol-
lowing ques-
tion: “how 
can you listen 
to music that 
revolves so 
much around 
the glorification of violence?” I usually 
deflect the question by saying some-
thing about how you can consume art 
without endorsing its message, but re-
ally that’s all that is, 
a deflection. Con-
suming art, or rather 
understanding it, is 
the act of extending 
one’s humanity and 
allowing the artistic 
expression to join 
with that humanity 
(paraphrasing Ralph 
Ellison there). Listening to rap music is 
a central part of my life, and my rela-
tionship with the art is too deep to pass 
off some CNN sounding B.S. about not 
“endorsing a message” to such a prob-
ing question. The real truth is, I’m not 
sure how to answer that question.
Part of the challenge is nailing down 
what is meant by violence. What kind 
of violence are we talking about? Is it 
Eminem’s maniacal “Kill You,” a veri-
table laundry list of fantasies ranging 
from chopping people up with chain-
saws to developing pictures of the dev-
il, or is it Bobby Shmurda’s “Hot N----,” 
the enormously popular summer an-
them which describes Shmurda and his 
homies mowing down enemies with ev-
ery kind of machine gun you can name 
and several you can’t? It may seem like 
a ridiculous question, but the kinds of 
violence described and celebrated in 
these two songs are extremely differ-
ent and hold varying significance to the 
question at hand. While “Kill You” can 
be pretty chilling to listen to, it hits that 
level of crazy that 
pushes it nearly into 
abstraction. Emi-
nem isn’t trying to 
make us think he’s 
actually done these 
things, he’s trying 
to convince us that 
he actually wants to. 
Beneath its brutal 
descriptions, the song’s real purpose is 
to ask us just how crazy we think he is.
Shmurda’s “Hot N----,” on the other 
hand, has its own element of fantasy, 
in the sense that it isn’t documentary. 
But the activities he’s describing, gun-
ning down his enemies in the street and 
“selling crack since like the fifth grade,” 
reverberate with a violence that feels 
markedly more live-action than the 
cartoonish blood-splatter of “Kill You.” 
Shmurda’s lyrics remind one too much 
of what is actually happening in the 
collective hood of cities across the US. 
Chicago had over 500 murders in 2012, 
and police data indicated that some-
body was shot in the city every 3.57 
hours. In Bobby Shmurda’s hometown 
of New York, over 60 percent of 2012’s 
419 murder victims were African Amer-
ican and were largely the result of gun 
violence. While Eminem’s serial killer 
persona threatens us with the idea of 
Saw come to life, Shmurda focuses on 
a wave of death that is terrifyingly real. 
As such, I find the kind of violence por-
trayed in “Hot N----”, and songs like it 
harder to rationalize.
But what makes this issue so diffi-
cult is that I don’t even feel comfortable 
with that previous sentence. I’m essen-
tially saying that it feels more accept-
able to listen to somebody rave about 
sadistic fantasies than it does to listen 
to another somebody turn the blood-
shed of inner-city violence into a feel-
good club banger. Doesn’t it seem weird 
that I find it harder to justify listening 
to a 20-year-old kid rap about what he’s 
seen all around him as he has grown 
up? If hip-hop is going to be used a 
venue to discuss violence, and it most 
certainly will, it seems wrong to pass 
judgment against expression of actual 
experiences.
I guess the part of me that shud-
ders for a moment whenever I listen 
to “Hot N----” is responding to the 
overt celebration in Bobby’s words. Its 
his eagerness to embody this charac-
ter that makes me ask myself, “is this 
wrong?” But as Rembert Browne of 
Grantland points out in his excellent 
piece on the song, that energy is what 
makes the song so infectious and irre-
sistibly joyous when listened to with a 
bunch of people looking to forget about 
everything other than becoming one 
undulating blob mimicking Shmurda’s 
trademark Shmoney Dance. The most 
amazing thing about “Hot N----” is 
that for all the machine gunnery and 
descriptions of how victims “twirl then 
they drop,” the song is somehow uplift-
ing. The part of me that squirms when I 
hear him and think about the hundreds 
of kids out there shooting at each other 
is swiftly shoved out of the way by the 
exuberant charisma of this dude.
Again, this is the challenge of dis-
cussing violence in hip-hop. I started 
by explaining how “Kill You” and “Hot 
N----” depict two different kinds of vio-
lence and in no time at all, this some-
how devolved into a description of 
turning up on the dance floor. Maybe 
that’s the best way to explain it. Rap 
music provides a means to express and 
entertain violent ideas in a way that 
transforms them into something else. 
At least that’s the best way I can de-
scribe it. If you don’t agree, or if you’d 
rather not listen to music that uses vio-
lence and aggression in that fashion, I 
don’t blame you. But I can tell you in 
full confidence, you’re missing out.
Shmurda She Wrote: Rationalizing Violence in Hip-Hop
The A-List
Luke Smith-Stevens ’14.5 
is from New York, N.Y.
In my last column, I discussed three 
important responsibilities of the SGA on 
campus: 1) allocating the student activities 
fee, 2) manag-
ing student or-
ganizations and 
3) serving as a 
vehicle for stu-
dents to change 
i n s t i t u t i o n a l 
policy. It was on 
the third front, 
I noted, where 
there is much room for improvement. I be-
lieve recent events have further evinced the 
need for the student body to discuss how we 
want to shape our campus.
As recent issues related to social life on 
campus have demonstrated, there is a gen-
eral concern amongst the student body that 
we are not being heard during the college’s 
-
sive to our community and runs contrary 
to the principles we stand for as a liberal 
arts college. In my view, the SGA and Com-
munity Council should provide the forums 
through which student concerns are heard 
and acted upon by administrators and fac-
ulty. Clearly, however, there is at least the 
perception on campus that these bodies are 
One of the problems, I think, is that 
the structure of the SGA has neither been 
changed nor reviewed in the past 30 years. 
The Board of Trustees, cognizant of the 
need to modify governing structures to 
meet changing realities, recently convened 
a working group and completely re-orga-
nized the College’s administrative struc-
ture. The faculty, seeing the wisdom of that 
course, is also in the process of reviewing its 
own governance structure. Likewise, I think 
a similar course of action. To that end, I am 
forming an SGA Reform Working Group to 
of student governance on campus. 
While the group is currently comprised 
of a number of SGA members, it is crucial 
that the greater student body actively par-
ticipate in this process. We plan to encour-
age greater participation by hosting a num-
ber of open forums to hear what students 
think about the way SGA currently oper-
ates. For those interested in taking a more 
active role, though, we encourage you to ap-
ply to join the working group. You can do so 
all-student e-mail earlier this week. 
The working group is intended to ad-
dress two main issues. First, it will examine 
the internal effectiveness of the SGA. We 
will start by determining whether students 
currently believe that the SGA is a meaning-
ful forum through which to express their 
ideas. Rather than merely diagnose prob-
-
dations about how to make the SGA more 
responsive to the student body’s ideas and 
concerns. Second, we will investigate how 
best to increase the level of communication 
between students and the administration. 
As noted earlier, one of the SGA’s main tasks 
is to serve as a facilitator of that dialogue. 
As a result, we will examine how the SGA 
can better represent the student voice to ad-
ministrators in an institutionalized way. For 
example, perhaps the SGA should have the 
power to appoint student representatives 
-
mittees, as it currently does for the Board of 
Trustees Investment Committee. 
Our underlying goal will be to improve 
student life on campus by addressing the is-
sue of how best we, as students, can voice 
our opinion to administrators and faculty 
members before changes are made to Col-
lege policy. Thanks to its long history and 
institutional memory, I am inclined to 
believe that the SGA offers a strong foun-
dation for increased communication and 
greater transparency. Perhaps, however, 
role as a facilitator successfully. Given the 
current level of campus interest in issues of 
transparency and student activism, there 
is clearly a demand for this type of change 
on campus. As the Board of Trustees and 
faculty are currently undergoing a similar 
unique position to address this issue right 
now. There is currently the need, the will, 
and the opportunity to make the student 
body better heard by its government, the 
administration, and the faculty — we should 
-
gers.
Reform Now
The Buck 
STops Here
Taylor Custer ’15 is the 
SGA President and is from 
“Doesn’t it seem weird 
justify listening to a 
20-year-old kid rap about 
what he’s seen all around 
him as he has grown up?”
NEWS LOCAL NEWSFEATURES
SPORTS
OPINIONSWANT A PIECE OF THE ACTION?
The Middlebury Campus is seeking new writer. Write for:
To express interest, please send an email to campus@middlebury.edu detailing the section(s) for which 
you’d like to write.
NEWS
ONLINE  
LOCAL NEWSFEATURES
SPORTS
OPINIONS
ARTS&SCIENCES
11Advertisements
We've been here in Middle-
bury since 1982 specializing in 
mouth-watering food. Our goal 
has always been to offer a fresh, 
quality, price sensitive meal to 
the whole family whether you 
dine in or take out. And it’s not 
just pizza: try our pasta, na-
chos, wings, and calzones!
802-388-3164 10 Washington StreetMiddlebury, VT 05753
The Middlebury Campus| OCTOBER 30, 2014
WHAT DO YOU WANT TO SEE HERE? 
The Middlebury Campus| october 30, 201412 13features
“Tavern aims to bring together a 
variety of people with the shared 
goal of growing together and 
forming lasting friendships through 
shared experience.  We also strive 
to contribute to the community with 
both social events and community 
For me, Homecoming weekend was 
a great example of how strong a 
bond our members share.  We had a 
really strong showing of former alums 
returning to campus, and the house 
really came to life with them there.  
The weekend was marked by remi-
niscing and happy reunions as cur-
to see old friends.  I truly believe 
that membership makes weekends 
like these even more special for al-
ums and current students alike.”
-Conor Luck ’15, Tavern President
to Mountain Club events, to hosting music events, Brooker 
serves as a hub for the organization of outdoor activities. 
“Last spring I called a mandatory ‘haus bonding session’ 
and wrote up a list of activities for us to do. It ranged from 
a round of Wah (a rhythm game) to a group trek through 
the Brooker woods to a poetry reading. As the evening 
progressed, the bonding had expanded and many friends 
of Brooker joined in on the love. After a sensational recita-
tion of ‘Howl’ by Brooker’s own Scott Berkley (’16.5), and a 
ambunctious performance of ‘The Waking’ by ex-Brookerite 
from Brooker and beyond had some how completed 6 
of the 7 tasks I had listed on the haus email. The list was 
mostly a joke, so I didn’t expect us to get very far, however 
-
ly, we dug into each other’s IT bands and shoulder muscles 
that everyone present thought the same thing at the end 
of the night: ‘I am so thankful for Brooker.’” 
– Jack Peisch ’15, Brooker President 
Weybridge House is the Environmental Studies 
House. Their mission is to serve an all-local food 
of campus. They host three weekly meals each 
week — dinners on Mondays and Wednesdays 
and a brunch on Saturdays — as well as a 
larger feast each semester. All members of both 
the College and town community are invited to 
the public events. 
"Last semester, I was invited to a dinner at Wey-
bridge by one of the residents. It wasn't one of 
the weekly open dinners, but what started as a 
small group just grew naturally into something 
bigger. Weybridge residents came downstairs 
to hang with us, people pulled out instruments, 
and we just hung out for hours, eating, singing 
and talking. That's what made me want to live 
in Weybridge."
 –Jeremy Vandenberg ’17
Queer Studies House: The Queer Studies House (QSH, 
pronounced ‘kwish’) is an academic studies house with 
the mission of promoting students’ studies of queer the-
ory and topics. The house also strives to create a safe 
space for all students regardless of gender or sexual 
identity. It is built on the principle that the study of gen-
of oppression and should be an important of students’ 
academic and social experience at the College.
“For me, it’s less about stories and more about my every-
day life here. Most nights the other people in the house 
and I sit in our living room or in the kitchen and have 
great conversations late into the night, really getting to 
know each other. People pass through the house and 
maybe they stay for a few minutes, or maybe they talk for 
hours, but we can always bring our conversations back 
to queer studies and the mission of the house.” 
MIDD KIDS ON THE  
            BLOCK
Text by Jessica Cheung, Ben Anderson and 
Annie Grayer. Design by Evan Gallagher and 
Julia Hatheway. Cartoon by Eunice Kim.
*Three Campus editors are currently living in three of 
the houses featured. 
bucolic setting as a home to students who are 
interested in talking about issues of race and eth-
nicity. “It’s a place for people who are interested in 
intercultural issues and for people who don’t feel 
-
so smart, so accomplished, so genuine, interesting 
and conscientious people.” 
Everyone in the house comes from all walks of life to 
-
right vocabulary for talking about race and cer-
tain issues, but they were always very patient about 
talking about these things with me,” Mejaes said. 
“They never discouraged me from talking about 
things that other people are scared to talk about. 
[My experience here] taught me never to be scared 
of voicing my opinion.”
Between Meeker and the CFA is the “intentional living” house. What does “intentional living” at Munford House mean?
“Munford is intended as a space that brings people together in community, crafting an atmosphere of mindfulness that is — sadly — seldom 
found on this campus,” she said. “It’s so easy to get swept up in the rush and stresses that get constructed in a place like Middlebury. We 
see it as essential to take time to slow down and appreciate the people around us.”
Use their bathroom and you may catch yourself looking at the Munford-curated bathroom-art collection — slated to arrive any week now. 
But for Munford residents, home isn’t just for those who live there. 
lived there and thus participated — a crew got up early to cook scrambled eggs, pancakes, fruit salad and other delicious things. Then we 
“Those who live in Chromatic – Middlebury’s new-
est social house – are a pretty vibrant bunch. 
Whether we’re music-pumping, paint-smudging, 
-
bers put the ‘we’ in ‘weird.’ Although not every-
one here is involved in the arts, many of us play 
musical instruments, sing acapella, dance or take 
pictures of things. Whatever the hobbies, Chro-
matic members all agree that ‘The Attic’ is like the 
East Garden City of Middlebury College. Except 
unlike that artistic district in Boise, you might ac-
tually want to live here.
Who wouldn’t? As a Junior who has endured the 
riot-proof hamster maze of Ross, Chromatic’s lofty 
guest room and its many prodigious communal 
before: community. Plus, as the founding fathers 
of the social house, we retain a great deal of 
we promote concerts, showcase student art 
incoming recruits this fall. Please, come help us 
shape our house – no previous sculpting experi-
ence required.”
-Harry Cramer ’16.5
14 features
By Julia John
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Sistah Vegan On Food Justice, Vegans of Color
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 | october 30, 2014
-
-
-
-
Subaru Outback/Legacy Wagon
-
-
-
Mazda 3 Hatchback. -
-
-
-
-
-
Swagger Wagon (Volvo V70.)
-
By Hye-Jin Kim
By Charlie Ascher
THE PREMIER CAR COLUMN
Michael o’hara
“I’m totally addicted to Sour Patch Kids,” 
said everyone ever. You have probably heard 
someone say something along those lines re-
cently, or have said something similar your-
self. Similar to saying, “I’m so depressed,” or 
“I’m starving,” most of us do not mean we are 
“addicted.”
Despite our casual use of the word, ad-
diction can be a big problem for young adults. 
Addiction is a chronic disease involving com-
pulsive substance use and abuse, often with 
harmful consequences. According to the 
American Psychiatric Association, drug and 
alcohol abuse are the leading causes of pre-
ventable illnesses and premature death in so-
ciety today. In 2012, 17.7 million Americans, 
or 6.8 percent of the population, abused or 
were dependent on alcohol, according to the 
National Institute on Drug Abuse. Though 
this was a decrease from the 7.7 percent 
found in 2002, this still constitutes a large 
number of people.
Perhaps more worrisome is the fact that 
19 percent of college students meet the cri-
teria for alcohol abuse or dependence, ac-
cording to the National Epidemiologic Study 
on Alcohol and Related Conditions. Heavy 
drinking, especially when occurring outside 
of a college party culture, can lead to alcohol-
ism, a disease that can wreak havoc on one’s 
physical and mental health: it is often asso-
ciated with depression and can cause severe 
liver damage, impotence, infertility, prema-
ture aging, birth defects and increased risk 
of heart disease — not to mention problems 
Fortunately, alcoholism and alcohol de-
pendence can be treated, especially if you do 
not allow it much time to develop. In college, 
it may be the norm for some to drink more 
than 5 drinks in one night or at one time. Ac-
cording to the National Institute on Alcohol 
or in one night more than 5 days per month 
constitutes “heavy drinking.” That may not 
seem like a whole lot of alcohol in a college 
setting, but in any other setting, this behavior 
would be seen as worrisome. It is important 
to stay vigilant and monitor your own alcohol 
use and that of your friends. Maybe it is the 
norm for you to be drinking a lot with your 
friends here at the College, but when you or 
a friend start drinking alone, drinking before 
going to class or blacking out every single 
weekend, this is cause for concern.
If you’re worried (or just curious!) about 
your alcohol consumption, it is worth mak-
ing an appointment at the Parton Center for 
Health and Wellness counseling to do the 
BASICS (Brief Alcohol Screening and Inter-
vention of College Students) Assessment. 
students that assists them in understanding 
-
uum of drinking behaviors, helping students 
assess the relationship between their alcohol 
habits and life goals and provide resources 
to reduce harms. It does not tell students 
not to drink, nor does it involve judgment or 
confrontation. This personal report can be 
reviewed with a nurse or counselor to help 
identify how to reduce further risks and to 
provide local resources if desired.
You can call counseling services at 802-
443-5141 to make a BASICS appointment. 
Another great resource is a blood alcohol cal-
culator (BAC), which can now be found the 
form of an smartphone apps: DrinkTracker, 
available on the iPhone, is one example. This 
allows you to input the drinks you’ve had and 
does the work for you, so you can monitor 
your own alcohol use.
Some basic information to be aware of: 
the average per-
son’s liver can 
digest one drink 
per hour and for 
a 185 lb. male, 
2 drinks in one 
hour will yield a 
BAC of 0.025. For 
a 130 lb. female, 
2 drinks in one 
hour cause a BAC 
of 0.053. Women 
have less dehy-
drogenase, an en-
zyme that breaks 
down alcohol, than men, so the same amount 
of alcohol will produce a higher BAC in a 
woman as compared to a man. In addition, 
a higher percentage of body fat and hormone 
A common misconception is that drink-
ing will cure a bad mood. In reality, drinking 
alcohol can cause sadness or anxiety to get 
worse, in addition to changing how alcohol is 
processed in the body. Feelings of fatigue are 
also exacerbated by alcohol consumption — 
-
ing to a higher BAC than normal.
Another important thing to be aware 
of is alcohol’s interaction with other drugs. 
Some antibiotics, when taken with alcohol, 
can have unpleasant and even serious side 
-
tions combined with alcohol can cause se-
vere and unpredictable reactions, so alcohol 
should be avoided in these circumstances. 
Alcohol combined with antihistamines can 
cause severe drowsiness, while opiates com-
bined with alcohol can enhance the seda-
overdose. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors 
(MAOIs), can cause dangerous spikes in 
blood pressure leading to stroke, and should 
never be taken with alcohol.
Many over-the-counter medications 
and vitamins come in a time-release capsule; 
however, alcohol dissolves the coating, lead-
ing to the immediate release of the full dose. 
It’s vital that you keep track of any medica-
tion you’ve taken before drinking alcohol, 
as some of these interactions can occur with 
both heavy and light drinking. Most medica-
tions have warnings explaining any drug in-
teractions, but information can also be found 
online on a certain drug’s interactions with 
alcohol or other drugs. It’s never a bad idea 
to ask your prescribing physician whether it 
is okay to drink alcohol in conjunction with 
medication, and if so, how much.
It is important to be conscious of your al-
cohol consumption habits, and if necessary, 
seek treatment and more information from 
Parton. Drinking responsibly and looking 
out for your friends can help prevent injury, 
assault, sexual abuse and death. The Col-
lege’s Good Samar-
itan policy states: 
“There may be 
times when safety 
concerns arise 
from a student’s 
excessive drink-
ing or drug use, 
and in these situ-
ations, students 
should not hesi-
tate to seek help 
from the Student 
Safety, medical 
or counseling professionals, and/or local or 
state police out of fear of disciplinary action. 
Under this Good Samaritan policy, neither 
the student in distress nor the student or or-
ganization seeking assistance will ordinarily 
be subject to disciplinary action for the pos-
session, provision, or consumption of drugs 
or alcohol.”
 If you see someone who looks like they 
may need immediate help due to alcohol or 
drug use, call Public Safety, who will be able 
to provide rides to Porter Hospital. For more 
long-term concerns, Parton can be a valuable 
resource.
15featuresoctober 30, 2014   
Fighting Alcoholism in College 
By Emma McDonald
By Lee Michael Garcia Jimenez and 
Rubby Valentin Paulino
start? Chances are you’re about to say some-
thing along the lines of sex beginning when 
the penis is inserted into the vagina (or other 
who’s never had sex with a man a virgin? The 
concept of female sexuality, especially lesbian 
sex, is heavily unexplored and misunderstood 
by society. In terms of lesbian sex, we may not 
be experts or have a lot of experience, but like 
we just like bringing up topics we think are 
important.
We see heterosexual erotica in the media 
all over. Even every now and then we’ll see the 
occasional homoerotic male advertisement 
or fashion photo shoot. But lesbian erotica is 
rarely displayed and when it is, it’s very mis-
representative. 
In order to understand how the public 
sees lesbian sex, we have go to where society 
learns about sex in general. Unfortunately, sex 
is still a taboo subject in the American educa-
tion system, which means most people are 
likely to turn to porn for further … education. 
Since most of porn is consumed by and adver-
tised to men, it would only make sense that 
porn and the media feature rough, penetra-
as “lesbian sex.”
Why isn’t there a bigger uproar over how 
lesbian sexuality is portrayed if it’s so wrong? 
Partially because lesbians generally have a 
small voice in society, especially in how they 
are portrayed. Secondly, because the people 
to whom lesbian porn is marketed (men) and 
people outside of the loop (straight women/
gay men) have no idea and put no thought 
into what lesbian sex is supposed to be like. 
Why? Frankly, it’s because people don’t care 
and aren’t interested, and that’s wrong. When 
asked about what lesbian sex is, most students 
on campus came up with terms like “intense 
scissoring?” and “a lot of oral?” Obviously 
Middlebury is weak on the queer-lady knowl-
edge.
Like we said in our last article, society 
loves penis. So if there’s no penis, it can’t even 
be called sex. Well maybe if there’s a dildo or 
something, it’s kind of sex, right? But if sex is 
about penetration, then why don’t men have 
to be penetrated to lose their virginities? Is 
it about the orgasm then? Men don’t have to 
be penetrated when they lose their virginities, 
but they do orgasm. 
But this is also wrong, because it’s focused 
on the penis. Sure, he ejaculated, but did the 
woman have a good time? Did you educate 
yourself on the clitoris? Probably not. There 
are various sexual activities partners can par-
take in. Oral, anal, fondling, … the list goes on 
and we all have our boundaries of when we 
feel we’ve lost our virginities. Yet lesbians are 
still often told, they’ve never had ‘real sex.’
That’s because people don’t care about 
female sexuality. If you ask us, two women be-
ing with each other in a sexual act where they 
make a connection, is a lot more valid than a 
man penetrating a woman for two minutes 
without even thinking about her pain or en-
joyment in the process.  
In the patriarchy of today’s society, the 
place of a woman is to please a man. So when 
you’re a lesbian, you’re either going to be fe-
tishized in porn for straight men or simply 
ignored. The consequences go beyond the ex-
tent of people’s understanding of your sex life 
being a silly little hand gesture. Many lesbians 
are raped or harassed, under the philosophy 
‘real sex’ is like. 
The way our society misunderstands 
understanding of sex in general. Women are 
human beings and deserve to have proper and 
enjoyable sexual experiences when they want 
to (with or without men). And sex is so much 
more than one part going into another and 
making babies. It is an experience. And this is 
why lesbian sex is so wonderful, because de-
spite all the misconceptions, lesbians didn’t 
learn sex from what porn or the media taught 
them. It’s an experience of intimacy and dis-
covery, much like all sex should be. Also, we 
hear the clitoris is lovely.
in-queer-y
Weybridge Serves Fall Feast
Last Saturday, Weybridge House hosted their annual Fall Feast, pulling in a smaller than usual crowd. Featuring an 
enormous spread of dishes all prepared with local food, the feast brought both students and parents to the house lawn. 
Michael o’hara
“Perhaps more worrisome is 
the fact that 19 percent of col-
lege students meet the criteria 
for alcohol abuse or dependence, 
according to the National Epide-
miologic Study on Alcohol and 
Related Conditions.” 
 emma mcdonald
columnist 
16 features
Darkroom Develops Nostalgia For Students
Middlebury College’s student-run dark-
room lies tucked away in the basement of 
Forest Hall, proving that hidden amongst the 
drone of washing machines, Forest basement 
is also a place of creativity. 
Previously, the darkroom existed out of 
necessity and was used by Campus photog-
’14.5, the Darkroom club’s current president, 
darkroom.
“There were signs everywhere advertis-
ing phone numbers for the Campus, and old 
issues strewn about,” she said.
Currently, the darkroom is run by the 
Darkroom club, and embodies an escape into 
-
ical advancements lead to superior results.
have so much control very quickly, and any-
thing can be altered on Photoshop. I like the 
an unregulated space where they can have 
free reign over the creative process. 
“The darkroom is a really nice place on 
campus that is pretty rare,” Fernandes said. 
“People who are not in the art program and 
have not taken any art classes have a space 
they want in a non-academic related way.”  
To gain access to the darkroom, students 
can either pay $65, which includes admission 
for one semester and J-term, or $100, which 
allows for use for the full year. The fee cov-
ers 24/7 access, all chemical materials, occa-
“I’d like to be able to lower the cost of 
access,” Fernandes said. “Although the dark-
room’s prices pale in comparison to real 
world prices, I think the price tag is what 
turns people away. I think if more people 
used it, the SGA would be willing to give the 
-
erybody. However, making it free and open 
to everybody could potentially be a real issue 
because it’s a scary thing to grant open access 
to all of the serious chemicals that are used in 
the dark room.”
Fernandes points to the free admis-
sion of the ceramics club as a model that she 
hopes her own club can emulate. She eventu-
ally withdrew from this notion however, by 
saying, “a fee is necessary because it shows 
you are really serious about doing this, which 
is necessary considering all of the unmoni-
tored access your membership gives you.”
SGA Treasurer Ilana Gratch ’16 further 
explained why the darkroom club requires a 
fee.
-
ent needs, which is why we have a committee 
responsible for allocating the Student Activi-
ties Fee [SAF], as opposed to an automated 
process. In some cases, there are hard and 
fast rules [the Student Government Associa-
tion Finance Committee guidelines] to which 
we always adhere. In other cases, we must 
use discretion to determine how to most 
appropriately respond to budget proposals. 
So, for example, while it is feasible for the 
Finance Committee to allocate funds to en-
able the ceramics studio to function without 
a cost to the students, the same isn’t neces-
sarily true of the dark room, and this is due 
to maintain these studios, as well as the esti-
mated cost per student.”
Gratch continued, “The Finance Com-
and, as a result, there is sometimes a cost for 
participation in an event or activity. In the 
case of the darkroom, there is a relatively 
high cost per student, a cost that would not 
be sustainable for the Finance Committee to 
carry out for every organization. As a com-
mittee, we do our best to subsidize as many 
costly events as we can, but again, we are not 
working with endless funds.” 
Despite the club’s fees, the darkroom’s 
popularity is on the rise. With over 70 people 
on the email list and 12 students actively us-
ing the darkroom this semester, it is clear 
that Fernandes is not alone in her call to nos-
talgia. Support from Commons Coordinator 
Commons Dean Ian Sutherland, who donat-
ed a camera to the club, demonstrates that 
the community wants to see the club succeed. 
The club also has big plans for the future. 
Fernandes will host a J-term workshop that 
covers an introduction to darkroom pho-
photos from the enlarger and from negatives. 
-
cussed the possibility of producing a show to 
be displayed in the McCullough Social Space 
or the M-Gallery. 
With her graduation this February, Fer-
-
ment to take over the club. 
who wants to make the darkroom a really 
nice spot for people to use,” she said.  
The darkroom serves as a reminder that 
a return to simplicity and artistic control can-
not be ignored.
By Annie Grayer
 | october 30, 2014
A patchwork panorama display of the scene inside Forest Hall’s student-ran darkroom.
Caroline fernandex
On Oct. 23-26, monks of the Namgyal Monastery created a sand mandala, a 
Family Library. The sand mandala was dismantled as a lesson of impermanence. 
jessica cheung
In Davis Library, Monks 
Create Sand Mandala
Where do you want to go? 
Applying is now faster and more personal.
peacecorps.gov    -     855.855.1961 
PEACE CORPS  
APPLICATION WORKSHOP
Tuesday, November 4
2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Davis Family Library
Middlebury College
The Middlebury Campus| OCTOBER 30, 2014 17
Sundays, 12 p.m. to 1 p.m.
WRMC, 91.1 FM
on
middlebury college radio
Advertisements
On Friday, Oct. 24, the Middlebury 
MothUP hosted the second annual Cocoon 
in the Mahaney Center for the Arts.  Fea-
turing six storytellers from wildly different 
backgrounds each tackling the theme of 
blood, Cocoon was an intimate and singular 
experiment in narration and audience en-
gagement.  
For the uninitiated, Cocoon is funda-
mentally inspired by The Moth, which was 
originally created in 1997 by George Dawes 
Green as a live storytelling event in New 
York City.  Since then, it has been adapted 
for radio by NPR 
contributor and six-
time Peabody Award 
recipient Jay Allison 
as The Moth Radio 
Hour, in addition to 
countless variations 
across the country.
While the Col-
lege has hosted its 
own incarnation 
of The Moth since 
2010, Cocoon aimed 
to bring the popular 
storytelling format 
to a larger audience 
while featuring an 
expanded cast of storytellers. The event, now 
in its second year, was completely sold-out 
and boasted a waitlist of about 40 people, 
one of the largest crowds ever to express in-
terest in a MCA Concert Hall performance.
Produced by Veronica Rodriguez ’16.5 
and coordinated by Luke Greenway ’14.5 and 
Rachel Liddell ’15 and Director of the MCA 
Liza Sacheli, Cocoon was a startling and cap-
tivating experience.  Each storyteller offered 
something at once entertaining and uninhib-
ited.  From Kathryn Blume, an Oregonian 
relatives, to Bill Torrey, a Vermont native re-
counting a tale of teenage rebellion, the sto-
rytellers offered glimpses into dynamic and 
complex life experiences.  Often fantastic 
pacing and a natural ability to balance com-
edy and sobriety enabled the speakers to eas-
ily endear themselves to the audience, draw-
ing us in while managing to retain a wholly 
singular voice.
The beauty of the storytelling format 
in particular, bare of any script or visual 
aid, was that each storyteller managed to 
conjure up entire backdrops with just a few 
words, allowing the imaginations of the au-
course of a single evening, the audience was 
transported to the backwoods of midcen-
tury Vermont through Torrey, the swamps 
of Jacksonville, Florida through Assistant 
Professor of Dance 
Christal Brown, and 
a darkly comical 
funeral in a Jewish 
cemetery through 
Kathryn Blume, as 
well as Chris de la 
Cruz ’13 and Melissa 
Surrette ’16.  Each 
storyteller offered 
not only a sense of 
self, but also a sense 
of place.  Through 
this we can begin to 
sense the purpose of 
traditional storytell-
ing.  Why have oral 
traditions existed throughout history, but to 
bring people to places they may never have 
the chance to see and to allow them to vicari-
ously live through experiences they other-
wise can’t?
The live setting only enhanced the 
strength of the storytelling format.  While 
radio broadcasts may reach a broader audi-
ence, they lack not only the physical shared 
space of a live show, but also cannot possibly 
recreate the sense of intimacy that is gener-
ated both among members of the audience 
and between the storytellers and the audi-
ence.  
In his story, Otto Pierce ’13.5 used blood 
in multiple contexts, underlying his rela-
tionships with three other young men and 
exploring the social and political forces that 
have led them, since their initial meeting, 
to live very different lives than him.  Be it 
an HIV infection, spilt blood or near-death 
experiences, blood and race have become 
young men who otherwise share common 
ground.  Pierce mixed the personal and pro-
found adeptly, using his personal experienc-
es to consider the social forces that in many 
ways determine our futures, and invited the 
audience to do the same.  We came away not 
only delighted by a story of brotherhood and 
youthful misadventures, but also sobered 
by the realization that there still exists such 
stark injustice in a country that has yet to ful-
ly resolve long-established racial disparities. 
“Each format has its own kind of beau-
ty,” Allison, who acted as emcee of the event, 
said.  “Just listening is lovely, but going and 
sitting in a room with an audience and being 
able to watch people’s faces is also beautiful.” 
Yet despite the myriad formats The 
Moth can take, it has maintained its essential 
core since its inception.  
“It doesn’t change or grow in any funda-
mental way,” Allison said.  “The concept of 
it has stayed true since the beginning; you 
just sit there and listen to your fellow man 
say something honest about their lives, take 
it or leave it.”
It is this honesty that gives an event 
like Cocoon its potency.   Not only was each 
story well crafted and interesting, but they 
all also came from a willingness to share 
some meaningful experience with virtual 
strangers, despite the potential for failure or 
embarrassment.  While every story offered 
something valuable, Brown’s story in par-
ticular was able to skillfully marry deft pac-
ing with a raw and resonant subject.  While 
carefully plotted and articulated in a simple 
and straightforward manner, her explora-
tion of her relationship with her late father 
still seemed to burst with moments of spon-
taneous passion.  The mark of truly transfor-
mative storytelling, Brown seemed to make 
new discoveries in a story she had likely re-
hearsed and told many times before.  As a 
result, the audience was left feeling they had 
witnessed something both deeply personal 
and massively momentous.  The event be-
came not only a shared experience, but also a 
willful exchange between speaker and audi-
ence member.  A speaker offered their story, 
and in exchange, the audience members 
were left to assess its meaning and perhaps 
see their own lives a little differently.  
In this sense, Cocoon, though high-con-
cept and distinctive, boiled down to the es-
sence of conversation, something that is easy 
to lose in a world that often seems driven by 
competing distractions.  Yet Cocoon, like all 
other incarnations of The Moth, suggests 
there is a craving for this type of extended 
and unornamented engagement.  
“The lovely thing is that people are hap-
pily willing to sit there and listen to a single 
voice for an extended period of time,” Allison 
still pay attention to each other without tak-
ing a phone call or needing special effects.”
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Off the Wall: The Sabarsky Collection
Ellen Price, curator of the Sabarsky Collection, talks 
about prominent art dealer Serge Sabarsky, his col-
lection and the formation of the Neue Gallery. Enjoy 
further conversation over a light lunch in the lobby. 
$5 donation suggested; free to College ID cardholders.
10/31, 12:15 P.M., MCA ROOM 125 AND MUSEUM
Stories We Tell
In this genre-twisting documentary, Sarah Polley inves-
tigates the secrets kept by her family of storytellers. Ex-
ploring the elusive nature of truth and memory, Polley 
11/1, 3 AND 8 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
Mendel Inc.
A heartwarming comedy set in NYC in the 1920s, 
this play follows the aspirations and travails of a 
Jewish family seeking a toehold in the American 
dream. It is presented in honor of the 60th an-
niversary of Middlebury Hillel. $12/10/6.
10/30-11/1, 7:30 P.M. EACH EVENING, WRIGHT THEATRE
Cocoon Smashes Concert Hall Records
ben savard
By Luke Linden
Producer of The Moth Radio Hour Jay Allison served as the emcee for The Middlebury MothUp’s 2014 presentation of Cocoon.
ben savard
Assistant Professor of Dance Christal Brown told a moving tale at the 2014 Cocoon.
“You just sit there and lis-
ten to your fellow man say 
something honest about 
their lives, take it or leave 
it.”
jay allison
2014 Cocoon emcee
producer, the moth radio hour
 
Despite a lack of advertising, the Hep-
burn Zoo hosted a full audience for the Dra-
ma Lab on Friday, Oct. 24, presenting six 
student-written ten-minute plays. Featuring 
topics ranging from abortion to drug use to 
death to insanity, the plays demonstrated an 
impressive level of skill in playwriting, per-
formance and production and delighted the 
audience with their unique wit, innovation, 
gravity and humor.
Katy Svec ’15 oversaw the event’s con-
ception and production, working in the span 
performance of each play. 
“I wanted there to be an opportunity to 
get involved with theater in a smaller time 
commitment rather than leaping into a se-
mester-long production, because not every-
body has the time for that, and I really think 
that theatre should be accessible and open for 
people to try new things,” Svec said.
The evening began with The Trunk by 
Win Homer ’16, a play extremely powerful 
in its simplicity. Sam, played by Steven Me-
dina ’17, and Mike, acted by Steven Zatarain 
’15, are faced with a trunk left to them by a 
man who gave them money and told them to 
dispose of it right away. The imaginations of 
the men run wild as they envision increas-
ingly outrageous contents of the trunk like a 
dead body or, even worse, a live person. Me-
dina and Zatarain engaged in tightly choreo-
graphed physical blocking under the direc-
tion of Sally Seitz ’17, participating in multiple 
it is only an unopened trunk, its possibilities 
tear the men apart, culminating in Sam’s vi-
cious shovel attack on Mike and subsequent 
the mouth in his desire to discover the con-
tents. Though it is somewhat of a relief to the 
audience that the trunk only holds women’s 
looks to the sky yelling “Leave me alone” to 
the unknown voice in his head, proves a chill-
ing psychological twist to the tale.
Involvement to participate was open to 
any students interested in the theatre com-
munity, though all of the playwrights have 
taken or are currently enrolled in Visiting As-
sistant Professor of Theatre Dana’s Yeaton’s 
Playwrighting I course.
In Chocolate Cake by Marium Sultan 
’16, Chelsea Melone ’15’s acting was particu-
larly strong as a Eureka, a young and perhaps 
overzealous missionary who uses chocolate 
cake as a bribe to convert an unsuspecting 
passerby from the darkness to the Prophet 
Irake.  Paul, acted by Connor Pisano ’18, is 
one such passerby, on his way to his “well-
lit frat house.” The battle of conversion that 
ensues brims with humor as Paul tries to 
convert Eureka to the ways of physical love 
through a kiss and Eureka worries that she 
the end, the two realize that they are unwilling 
to compromise to join the other’s world, and 
and Eureka’s exclamation of her own name. 
-
version, religious or otherwise, in the world, 
and the relatively easy realization and respect 
of differences shown by the youth in the play 
is certainly a lesson in understanding and the 
best example of the night of how a seemingly 
light-hearted subject can be crafted to repre-
The most clever play of the night, primar-
ily due to its subtly, was, in my opinion, Snow 
Day by Erica Furgiuele ’15. The emotion of 
the piece built on an immediately established 
Sebastian Zavoico ’17.5, deletes a voicemail 
from a girl named Lily before she is able to 
state her business. A scene of conversation 
between the father and his son, Jacob, played 
by Josh Goldenberg ’18, distracts from any 
foreboding before Jacob prompts his father 
to open the door upon Lily’s insistent knock-
ing. The father’s avoidance of Lily clearly de-
notes an ominous event, especially when the 
girl, played with increasingly honest emotion 
by Maggie Cochrane ’16, somberly returns a 
box of belongings to the father. It is clear that 
somebody has died, but as Lily continues to 
-
nally references the boy in the third person, 
little gasps of surprise throughout the audi-
ence indicated that the character on stage 
speaking to his father was deceased. The 
poignancy of the script lay in the shocking 
revelation halfway through the work, coupled 
with Cochrane’s depiction of the emotional 
anguish of living with trauma and Golden-
berg’s portrayal of Jacob’s calm wisdom from 
the afterlife. Zavoico could, only one or two 
but the emotional pull between his charac-
ter’s dead son and the living girl in front of 
him was always apparent on his face. 
Svec emphasized her desire to make the 
production one of open access.
“During the casting process we tried to 
give people chances who had never acted 
before,” she said. “We sat outside Proctor for 
some auditions and asked students if they 
wanted to read a part, and I think that al-
lowed for a great diversity in the casting.”
Seitz’s Over the Line featured some of 
the most natural acting of the evening with 
Caitlyn Meagher ’17 and Mary Baillie ’18 ac-
curately portraying the late night party talk 
of girlfriends without simply acting like ste-
reotypically overemotional and physically 
obsessed twenty-something females. As Ka-
tie and Rachel stumble into a bathroom at a 
party to discuss Katie’s decision of whether 
to accept a line of cocaine, their discussion 
escalates from girl talk to an argument over 
the girls’ increasingly dysfunctional friend-
ship and the weight of each friend’s respec-
tive ‘problems.’ 
The simple set design, excellently chosen 
by director Vivian Sabla ’17 and stage man-
ager Avery Travis ’18, allowed Katie and Ra-
chel to be visible on one side of a closed door 
played by Austin Stevens ’18, made a drunk-
en appearance on the other side, granting 
a comedy that nicely balanced the increas-
ing severity of Rachel’s apparent cocaine 
and emotional issues. Entering in a lacrosse 
pinny, sideways baseball cap and continual 
smirk,  he played the role of intoxicated ‘bro’ 
to the audience’s delight, delivering mini-
mal dialogue with excellent timing and tone. 
In addition, his performance was primarily 
physical, consisting of just the right amount 
of stumbling, fumbling and eventual dejec-
tion as he slid to a sitting position that turned 
to a full body crawl away from the scene. The 
smart visualization allowed by the door in 
the middle of the stage added to the juxta-
position of humor and depth, yet the ending 
of the work felt a little abrupt and may have 
apparent shattering of the girls’ friendship.
The variety of roles available allowed 
students a unique exploratory experience.
“For actors, playwrights, stage managers 
what theater is and what they want to do with 
it is a just a great chance to play,” Svec said.
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio’s ’15 Sleep 
Talk engaged the audience with serious in-
tensity from the beginning, despite some 
comedic elements. Katie Mayopoulos ’18 
played Lyd, a woman whose midnight sleep-
talking alerts her husband, Tim, played by 
August Rosenthal ’17, to her emotional fragil-
ity as she prepares for an important meeting 
the next day. The couple’s confrontational 
conversation leads to the climax of the play, 
in which Lyd admits that she got an abor-
tion without telling her husband. The play’s 
strength is the nuanced layering of Lyd’s dis-
satisfaction with the expectations on her sex, 
countless examples of female coworkers she 
has watched fall down the corporate ladder 
after having children. Lyd’s guilt for making 
a personal decision is pervasive and avoids 
falling into clichés about women choosing be-
tween a family and a career, and Mayopoulos 
and Rosenthal maintained a high level of per-
formance throughout the piece, never waver-
ing in their emotional charged performances 
as each of their characters experienced their 
own disappointments and frustrations.
The last play of the evening, Dead Den-
nis by Nicholas Hemerling ’14.5, showcased 
the most effective combination of humor and 
gravity as well as the best acting partnership 
in Lee Garcia Jimenez ’18 and Spencer Wat-
son ’18. Playing Phil and Bernie, respectively, 
the two men quarreled over whether to bury 
or cremate the dead man on the side of the 
highway, whom Bernie has named Dennis in 
honor of the pair’s deceased cat.  In the course 
of their argument, they grapple with larger 
questions of their own desires after death and 
who is granted the choice of making after-
death decisions for a man who can no longer 
express his own wishes. Confusion and hilari-
ty ensued when Dennis slowly awakened and 
Phil gathered cremation materials from the 
nearby materials. The strength in Jimenez 
and Watson’s performances stemmed from 
their collaborative ease, switching smoothly 
between natural comedic banter and more 
serious, but still humorously tinged, musings 
on the journey of a body after death.
variety of theatre events throughout the year 
to showcase a wide spectrum of student work.
“I think a free theatre event is unique, 
as the process of obtaining a ticket often dis-
courages people from coming out,” she said. 
“This format openly invites people to drop by 
and see really exciting work that’s happening 
at the student level.”
All six plays possessed their own 
strengths that made for a fresh and exciting 
presentation enjoyed equally by students and 
families in the audience. In all, 35 students 
showcased their budding skills in writing, 
producing or acting, and the polished pieces 
of work that made it to the performance felt 
more professional than student-driven, dis-
playing the great potential and artistry of 
students in all stages of their student careers. 
Upcoming productions at the Hepburn 
Zoo include a show by Iron Eyes Cody on 
Oct. 30 and Getting Out, a play directed by 
Rebecca Coates-Finke ’16.5 from Nov. 6 to 8. 
By Cullen Coleman
POLITICS OF
P    WER
Student Theatre Fills the Zoo 
By Leah Lavigne
october 30, 2014 | 19arts SCIENCES
Fifty-four years ago this past Sep-
tember, in 1960, the global cartel known 
as the Organization of the Petroleum Ex-
porting Countries (OPEC) was founded. 
Thirteen years later, in 1973, the Arab 
members of OPEC played their trump 
card, initiating the ‘Arab Oil Embargo’ 
in protest to American involvement in 
the Yom Kippur War. The resulting lack 
of supply throughout the western world 
caused the price of oil to leap from three 
dollars to 12 dollars per barrel through-
out the 1970s. More important than this 
price increase was the newfound global 
order that placed OPEC at the forefront 
of global oil production and pricing. This 
OPEC-centric global order witnessed 
permanently higher prices. Meeting 
twice a year in Vienna, Austria, OPEC’s 
oil ministers set a production quota, de-
ciding to either increase or decrease sup-
ply. Though there was always cheating 
among its members, OPEC has been very 
effective in keeping prices where they 
want them to be. Since 2011 the price 
of oil has remained relatively constant 
at 100 dollars per barrel. However, just 
in the past few years there has been in-
creasing speculation that due to Ameri-
ca’s own ‘energy revolution,’ the power of 
OPEC is rapidly declining and might not 
even survive the next decade in the same 
capacity.  
Since June, the global price of oil has 
fallen 25 percent, settling at around $80 a 
barrel this past week. Popular sentiment 
maintains that seven of the 12 members 
of OPEC will fail to balance their budgets 
when oil prices are below $100, and this 
number only increases as prices fall. The 
Arab Spring of 2010 and 2011 drove a 
number of important OPEC members, in-
cluding Saudi Arabia and the United Arab 
Emirates, to escalate government spend-
ing in order to placate their own popula-
tions. These higher budgetary concerns, 
combined with increasing North Ameri-
can production, have thrown OPEC into 
seeming disarray. In short, the supply of 
oil is greater than demand, and it would 
appear that OPEC has lost its ability to 
control the supply. In addition, accord-
ing to industry experts, the costs of find-
ing and producing oil and gas in America 
will continue to decline. The American 
energy industry, as a result, might be 
better suited to weather sustained price 
drops than OPEC members. Is the end of 
OPEC upon us?  Though this all seems 
plausible it does not hold up to the real-
ity on the ground.
OPEC as an institution will exist in 
whatever form Saudi Arabia deems stra-
tegically expedient. These ‘break-even’ 
oil prices of today, which allow OPEC 
members to balance their budgets, fail 
to take into account the trillions of dol-
lars in sovereign wealth funds (SWF) 
many of these countries possess. In many 
cases these SWF’s deliver more financial 
income than the oil revenues of their 
respective countries. Oil prices are low 
because of increased supply, and this is 
exactly what the Saudis want. The Saudis 
might be trying to stimulate the global 
economy, manage a slowing Chinese 
economy, grab market share, strategical-
ly contain Russia and Iran (an alignment 
of American interests) or simply curtail 
renewable energy projects. Whatever the 
reason behind Saudi Arabia’s decision 
to maintain a lower global oil price, the 
takeaway is just that — it is still Saudi 
Arabia that is setting the price. Just like 
the peak oil theory, I expect talk of the 
‘decline of OPEC’ to be a contentious is-
sue, but for now, OPEC still has a strong 
leader with strong direction.lisa meyer
Chelsea Melone ’15 and Connor Pisano ’18 in Marium Sultan ’16’s Chocolate Cake. 
OPEC
ArtS  sp tlight: PERFORMING ARTS SERIES
b0oking it
BY GABRIELLE OWENS
No one but Jonathan Safran Foer 
– who spoke at the Middlebury College 
Commencement in 2013 – could have 
written Everything Is Illuminated. Of 
course, this is true to a degree of any piece 
of writing, but one can imagine that if an-
other author was, for example, given the 
outline of an Agatha Christie novel and 
asked to write it, the story would remain 
intact. Not so with Everything Is Illumi-
nated. Foer’s unique, extraordinary style 
is integral to the novel at every level, clear 
in the plot, the characterization, the emo-
tional investment and the terribly beau-
tiful series of climaxes. Foer’s writing 
shapes them all.
It is not a comfortable novel to read. 
If you are new to Foer, I would recom-
mend possibly starting with his other fa-
mous novel, Extremely Loud and Incred-
ibly Close. Although the writing in the 
latter is not by any means conventional, 
the plot and the general sense of the novel 
are far more straightforward. In Every-
thing Is Illuminated, Foer never lets you 
rest. It stretches across time, from the 
crash of a wagon in a tiny unnamed town 
in the middle of Ukraine in 1791 to the 
troubled family life of a teenage boy in 
modern-day Odessa. The novel will jump 
scrounge up scraps of the past and leave 
you dizzy wondering what year it is, or if 
it even really matters. That which is com-
ic Foer turns poignant, and that which is 
odd Foer makes comic, with moments of 
drama appearing when you least expect 
them. The reader careens from one emo-
tion to the next, never entirely sure what 
the experience is or should be and even-
tually coming out the other side confused 
but not untouched. The semi-memoir, 
leaves one unsteady. Was it real? Was it 
but what is important is the greater liter-
ary truth that it 
expresses.
On the sur-
face, the story 
does not seem all 
that complicated. 
A young Ameri-
can man, named, 
coincidental ly , 
Jonathan Safran 
Foer, comes to the Ukraine with an old 
photograph searching for the woman he 
believes saved his grandfather from the 
Nazi’s. It has the potential for a satisfy-
ing and moving tale, laced with the hu-
meals in Eastern Europe and the slightly 
inept translator coping with his cranky 
grandfather as chauffeur and the clueless 
American client. Foer, however, makes 
this story far, far more.
No sooner do you open the book than 
you are greeted with “An Overture to the 
Commencement of a Very Rigid Journey,” 
an introductory chapter that begins with 
“My legal name is Alexander Perchov. But 
all of my many friends dub me Alex, be-
-
sion of my legal name.” Roughly half of 
the novel is told from the perspective of 
Alex, who is the occasionally incompe-
tent translator mentioned above. All of 
lines. His English is awkward at best, at 
times downright wrong and confusing 
at its worst. Yet 
Foer’s genius 
shines through 
as he uses his 
narrator’s lan-
guage to com-
municate tone 
and feeling in a 
way not possible 
with traditional, 
proper English. Alex’s stilted repetition 
of the translations between Ukrainians 
and the “hero,” Jonathan Safran Foer, 
conveys the confusion and awkwardness 
of the back-and-forth better than any 
description could do. His gradual loss of 
punctuation, paragraph breaks, and even 
indications of who is speaking catches the 
reader in the stream of action so that one 
is as much in the moment as the charac-
ters. Foer’s use of language transcends its 
ways we encounter when speaking in ev-
novel.
Alternating with Alex’s chapters are 
those written in Foer’s voice. In these, he 
does use proper grammar and vocabulary, 
but his style is still far from traditional. 
His story ranges from the mundane to 
the almost fantastical, from passages of 
farcical characterization to strange and 
beautiful descriptions of love and paint-
ed hands and sex and dreams and death. 
Through it all, the novel maintains the 
ability to surprise. The present and recent 
and distant pasts interweave in ways one 
does not expect, but Foer is not one to tie 
everything together with a neat bow. The 
ending does not leave everything resolved 
or even trace each character succinctly 
back to his or her roots. Instead, I think 
Foer captures something much more 
truthful, beautiful and sad about the past. 
There are connections where one does not 
expect them, and there are none where 
but other ones are.
Everything Is Illuminated is, above 
to laugh or cry, what is past or present 
and even who the characters are. Its title 
is misleading. Yet it is precisely because of 
its ambiguity that this novel can capture 
you, whisk you away to Ukraine, and leave 
you moved by its passion and beauty.
everything is illuminated
by Jonathan Safran Foer
Nathan Laube is the New Meghan 
Trainor.
Are you all about that bass? Do you 
think bigger is better? This Sunday, Nov. 
2 at 3 p.m., Mead Chapel will be taken 
by storm by one of the largest and most 
majestic instruments in the state. Twenty-
Laube is returning to the College to rattle 
the campus with our very own organ once 
more. 
organ music with a brilliance rarely seen 
in an artist twice his age, Laube is an out-
lier you can’t afford to miss. Prodigious 
playing, fantastical arrangement and gra-
cious demeanor have thrilled audiences 
and stunned critics since he joined the 
ranks of the world’s most elite performers 
at an age comparable to our own. Tickets 
-
joy the tremendous depth and grandeur 
of a beautiful instrument in the hands of 
a true artist.
Not only will the audience experience 
the talent of one the country’s most pre-
eminent musicians, Laube will be play-
ing an instrument as unique as he is. The 
than forty years ago for Mead Chapel, has 
been refurbished to perfection. After play-
ing a concert here, the organ chair at Jul-
liard College admitted with envy, “I wish 
Julliard had an instrument like this!” 
As Laube has said, an organ is so 
much more than shiny cylinders seen ris-
ing from lacquered wood. 
“It’s the earliest form of a computer 
system in a way,” he said. “You set up 
combinations of stops that you call upon 
as you play by using these preset buttons!” 
Organists play keyboards with both 
hands and feet to coordinate hundreds of 
tones and create the passionate melodies 
own organ has over 3,000 pipes, and oth-
ers have tens of thousands. 
Complexity on such a massive scale 
results in something uniquely organic, 
an instrument with a life of its own that 
represents an incredible swathe of history 
and styles. Few appreciate or are even cog-
nizant of the nuance and life that comprise 
such an entity. Don’t miss the opportunity 
to hear the history and intricacy behind 
this beautiful instrument as explained by 
Laube during his pre-concert lecture at 
2:15 p.m. in Mead Chapel. 
Laube’s incredible trajectory into the 
uppermost echelons of performers began 
-
ing the Chicago Academy for the Arts, Na-
than graduated from the renowned Curtis 
Institute of Music and was recognized 
with the institution’s two most prestigious 
awards, the Landis Award for Excellence 
in Academics and the Aldwell Award for 
Excellence in Musical Studies. Since then, 
he has performed at some of the most dis-
tinguished venues in United States and 
Europe, such as Carnegie Hall, Wash-
ington D.C’s National Cathedral, Verizon 
Hall, Walt Disney Hall, Trinity Cathedral, 
Exeter Cathedral and Canterbury Cathe-
tours and is the artist-in-residence at the 
American Cathedral of the Holy Trinity in 
Paris, France. 
Chapel, Laube will be playing a delightful 
compilation of Bach, Windor and others. 
Although his vast repertoire spans from 
pre-Baroque to living composers, he is 
most praised for his vibrant and virtuosic 
transcriptions of Bach, Strauss, Mahler 
and Rossini’s orchestral works. 
-
by the “majesty” and “mystery” of the pipe 
organ, Laube’s humble bearing allows the 
to resonate deep within his audience. This 
unassuming bearing also serves to high-
light the eloquence and poetry he uses to 
express his love for the organ and all its 
facets. 
Recently he has turned this ability to-
ward teaching at the Eastman School of 
Music in Rochester, New York as Assistant 
Professor of Organ. Although fortunate for 
the next generation of organists, teaching 
could delay future visits until the majority 
of us have graduated, so don’t miss your 
chance to see his performance! 
faculty, staff, alumni, and other ID card 
-
Cullough Student Center or the Mahaney 
Center for the Arts!
BY CONNOR FORREST
Organist Nathan Laube will help celebrate the Performing Arts Series’ 95th anniversary season with a performance on Nov. 2. 
courtesy mahaney center for the arts
october 30, 2014 | 20arts SCIENCES
Carol’s Hungry Mind Cafe has just been selected to be a distributor of marijuana.
Advertisements 21 | october 30, 2014
and we started to get some chances.”
Coming out of the break with the 
scoreless tie still intact, Wesleyan was 
able to keep the upper hand that they had 
the lead. 
into the game and began to suffocate 
the Wesleyan attack. The Cardinals only 
of which were on target and three of which 
were goals.
“I though that Conrad had a great game,” 
us an energy boost by winning balls all 
his work rate, as well as the energy of the 
crowd, and put some sustained pressure on 
their goal.”
kick. In a fashion reminiscent of the game 
one goal apiece.
skating toward the Wesleyan end line, 
Glaser beat a defender to the ball, controlled 
the ball, and burned the defender to send 
the left side. In the commotion in front of 
shoulder with his back to the goal for his 
second goal of the day.
after taking the lead, highlighted by a 
that found the head of a streaking Tom Dils 
it bounced off the crossbar. 
The Panther defense held strong as 
across the face of goal, but they didn’t 
pushed their keeper forward in search of 
corner kicks in the last three minutes, all 
of which were cleared. The last clearance 
found Conrad’s feet in the Wesleyan half 
with less than a minute to play; he beat the 
lone defender and danced on the penalty 
side to complete his hat trick.
sizable parent’s weekend crowd on a sunny 
on Wednesday afternoon to determine the 
Panthers are guaranteed either the third 
or fourth seed in the tournament, both of 
“This was one of the biggest wins that 
this program has had in a long time and 
it’s a great opportunity to be able to play 
Wesleyan Cardinals at home on Peter Kohn 
the Cardinals, boosting their record to an 
play with an unassisted goal off of a penalty 
minutes later, tapping the ball in off of an 
performance, scoring the following three 
play and was scored unassisted after a battle 
for her second goal.  Unassisted, Instrum 
scored her third goal of the game tapping the 
mark. 
who tapped the ball into the back of the goal, 
win for the Panthers.
When asked what most attributed to 
credited the Panthers’ possession game.
unrelenting Panthers.
season game against Connecticut College 
|  october 30, 201422 sports
By Hailey Cosseboom
Page Song
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 24
Panthers hunt in the rain (and 
snow). but I’m not sure it’s going to matter.
Pick ’Em: Who will win Saturday’s 
NESCAC women’s cross country 
team championship?
Who will lead volleyball in kills 
against Conn. College?
Closest to: Number of points 
that Middlebury football scores 
against Hamilton.
Who will win Sunday’s AFC 
showdown between the 
Broncos and Patriots?
crew will take care of business.
It’s going to be an ugly afternoon 
for the Continentals.
The senior comes through for 
the regular season.
It’ll be a close one, but I think the 
Pats pull it out.
The pressure will be on Brady 
against the league’s top run 
defense, and I don’t think he’s up 
for the challenge.
editors’ picks
REMO PLUNKETT (11-6, .647)
Fritz Parker (55-51, .518)
 
The Panthers, currently ranked 
III schools, will dominate on their 
home course.
Coming off of their great 
performance last weekend 
continue to do well.
season.
Emily Bustard (7-10, .411)
Panthers wrap up their regular season 
Connecticut College and Tufts.
The second set went the way of 
without much resistance.
this week. 
The Panthers grabbed the opening set 
as they took the last two sets from the 
assists.
well as a block and three block assists.
the Panthers on multiple fronts. 
In terms of seeding for the conference 
tournament, wins (and some help) can put 
a combination of multiple other teams. 
By Will Case
Men’s Soccer Rolls into Postseason Tournament 
This Saturday, Nov. 1, the NESCAC 
cross county championship returns to 
Middlebury for the first time since 2003. 
Unlike other sports, cross country does 
not tabulate regular-season records 
or use a tournament to determine the 
NESCAC champion; the title is instead 
awarded based on this one meet featur-
ing the eleven member institutions.
Middlebury’s course presents a num-
ber of challenges for the runners, pri-
marily its variety of hills. Many teams 
will also be seeing the course for the first 
time this weekend — Colby and Hamilton 
are the only teams besides Middlebury 
with runners who have raced the course 
after competing in this year’s edition of 
the Aldrich Invitational. Saturday’s fore-
cast also calls for a true Vermont autumn 
day with near freezing temperatures, 
rain and snow possible.
As has been written in this space, the 
Middlebury teams have had successful 
seasons and are sure to contend for NE-
SCAC team titles. 
The men won their one and only cham-
pionship four years ago at Hamilton. As 
defending champions, the women would 
tie Williams for most titles in the history 
of the conference with a victory. Michael 
Schmidt ’12 was the school’s most recent 
individual champion on either team, 
taking home the title in 2011 at Amherst. 
The women, on the other hand, have not 
had an individual victory since Jessica 
Johnston ’01 took the crown in 2000.
On the men’s side, the team competi-
tion is wide open. Williams, Colby and 
Middlebury are all ranked in the top 
10 nationally and Amherst is not far 
behind at 16. This year, Colby won the 
Purple Valley Classic in September by 
eight points over Williams, who then 
came back with a strong performance a 
week later at the Paul Short Invitational 
against strong Division-I competition. 
Middlebury, who struggled at Purple 
Valley, came on in mid-October as the 
top Division-III team at the NEICAAA 
Championships and the top team overall 
at the Albany Invitational.
The race for the individual title prom-
ises to be as intriguing as the team com-
petition. Colby sophomore David Che-
limo, the winner of Purple Valley, has 
the ability to run away from the field, 
but he has not raced since Sept. 27. Wil-
liams senior Colin Cotton finished three 
seconds behind Chelimo at Purple Valley 
and ran 24:10 at Paul Short, the fastest 
eight kilometers clocked by a NESCAC 
runner this year. Teammate Bijan Maza-
heri was 3rd at Purple Valley and ran 
24:29 at Paul Short, giving Williams a 
formidable duo up front.
From Middlebury, Wilder Schaaf ’14.5 
is fresh off a blazing 24:46 for seventh at 
NEICAAA Championships in Boston, a 
performance that garnered him national 
Runner of the Week honors. Teammate 
Kevin Wood ’15 has also run well this 
year and will be in the front group. Oth-
er contenders include Amherst freshman 
Mohamed Hussein and Colby senior Pe-
ter Hale.
For the women, the team battle is 
likely to fall to either Middlebury or Wil-
liams. The Panthers and Ephs have ei-
ther won or tied each other for the title 
in 23 of the 31 years the meet has been 
run, and this year promises to be no dif-
ferent. 
Middlebury is ranked third nation-
ally after taking a second-place finish 
at NEICAAA Championships and a vic-
tory at Albany. Williams is currently 
ranked seventh in the nation and recent-
ly won the Little Three Championships. 
Middlebury got the best of Williams last 
year with 29 points to 51, but Williams 
came back two weeks later at regionals, 
44-57, and took second at NCAAs to the 
Panthers’ third.
Individually, Middlebury boasts the 
top two returners from the NESCAC 
last year in Alison Maxwell ’15 and Er-
zsie Nagy ’17. Maxwell garnered national 
accolades for her 18:00 performance at 
NEICAAAs and has run strong all season 
while Nagy, who battled an injury early 
in the season, has been improving with 
each race. 
The front group will also hold Tufts 
junior Audrey Gould, who beat Maxwell 
at Purple Valley but fell behind at NEI-
CAAAs, Amherst sophomore Savanna 
Gornisiewicz and a bevy of other Pan-
thers and Ephs. 
The team title is likely to be won 
by the packs of Middlebury and Wil-
liams runners: both teams like to run as 
groups, and could sacrifice an individual 
title if working with their teammates 
could guarantee a team championship.
The men’s race starts at noon and 
is followed by the women at 1:00 p.m., 
with awards following shortly thereafter. 
Races begin and finish on the rugby field 
behind the squash center.
Following last year’s game against 
Trinity — an instant classic in which 
Middlebury downed the heavily favored 
Bantams to earn a share of the NESCAC 
title — the Panthers went into this year’s 
rematch knowing Trinity would have the 
loss firmly on their minds. Trinity, again 
considered one of the strongest teams in 
the conference, went into last weekend’s 
game sporting an undefeated streak at 
home spanning 53 games and 13 years. 
With Trinity having not lost a game 
at Jessee-Miller Field since before many 
of the team’s current first-years were 
even in kindergarten, coming away 
from Hartford with a win seemed like a 
daunting task for Middlebury. However, 
it seems that the Middlebury football 
team doesn’t care much for history, as 
they not only beat, but thoroughly rout-
ed Trinity by a score of 27-7. 
Middlebury’s offense started strong 
with a 25-yard return from Ryan Rizzo 
’17 to the 30-yard line, followed by a se-
ries of moves from Matt Milano ’16 and 
company. 
Setting the tone for the day, Milano 
linked up early and often with receivers 
Matt Minno ’16 and Brendan Rankowitz 
’15, finding the pair for completions of 
15 and 26 yards on the drive respective-
ly. Reaching Trinity’s four-yard line be-
fore stalling and botching the field goal 
attempt, Middlebury’s offense showed 
great facility in throwing the ball down-
field.
Middlebury’s defense came out just 
as strong as the offense, shutting down 
Trinity and their vaunted running game. 
Gil Araujo ’16 and Tim Patricia ’16, 
part of Middlebury’s tough front seven, 
found themselves frequently in the Ban-
tam backfield during the first quarter of 
play, with Patricia infiltrating Trinity’s 
offense’s A-gap to record a particularly 
impressive tackle resulting in a loss of 
seven yards for the Bantams.
The hard work done by the Middlebury 
defense would be rewarded late in the 
first quarter. 
After a three and out, the Panther of-
fense took over on their own nine yard 
line following a booming 62-yard punt 
by Trinity. 
The Panthers disregarded their ad-
verse field position, driving the ball at 
will. With Milano completing passes 
to five different receivers on the drive, 
and running backs Drew Jacobs ’18 and 
Jonathan Hurvitz ’17 picking up solid 
chunks of yardage on the ground, the 
91-yard drive only took four minutes of 
game time, with Milano completing a 
28-yard score to Minno to put the Pan-
thers up 7-0.
The game would break open again 
early in the second quarter with a great 
play from the Panthers defense. With the 
Bantams driving down the field, and the 
goal line in sight, Trinity looked poised 
to score. 
However, Middlebury’s Dan Pierce 
’16 had other intentions, picking off the 
ball in the end zone, the junior defensive 
back took the return 71 yards, giving the 
Middlebury offense a great field position 
just outside Trinity’s red-zone. 
Milano and Minno decided to give the 
rest of the offense a breather, with two 
passes, including a four yard touchdown 
reception, giving the Panthers a bigger 
lead. A failed field goal attempt would 
make the score 13-0, which held to the 
end of the half.
Having elected to receive the ball to 
begin the 3rd quarter, Trinity set up for 
the return. 
Catching Trinity off-guard, 
Middlebury successfully pulled a sur-
prise-onside kick, with Pierce coming 
up big on the recovery. Just 40 seconds 
later, Milano found Minno for a 24-yard 
score, the third touchdown for both on 
the day. Putting the Panthers up 20-0, 
the Panthers did look back.
The ensuing drive from Trinity was 
another three and out, with big stops 
from Patricia and defensive tackle Nick 
Burdeau ’15. 
The Panthers offense, however, sput-
tered, causing the two teams to trade 
punts for much of the third quarter. 
Some semblance of action came late in 
the third, with Trinity finally breaking 
through on the scoreboard. A 33-yard 
score early in the fourth quarter proved 
to be a rare misstep for the dominant 
Middlebury defense.
Pierce, recording his second intercep-
tion of the game, then set up the offense 
near midfield. Milano soon capped off 
the drive with a 26-yard pass to Brendan 
Rankowitz ’15 for the final score of the 
game. 
With the Panthers up 27-7, the 
Middlebury defense rode out the rest of 
the game to secure the win.
For their efforts, Milano and Pierce 
were the respective NESCAC Players of 
the Week on offense and defense. 
Milano, going 25-36 on the day for 
286 yards and four touchdowns, turned 
in his finest effort as a starter to date, 
showing continued and sustained devel-
opment at the quarterback position. 
Pierce, meanwhile, was all over the 
score sheet, doing a little bit of every-
thing for the Panthers defense. Record-
ing 12 tackles on the day, including 10 
solo tackles, as well as 1.5 tackles for 
loss, two interceptions and an onside 
kick recovery, there really was nothing 
the defensive back didn’t do. 
Milano and Pierce were not alone in 
their outstanding performances, as the 
win was truly a team effort, with the of-
fense, defense and special team units all 
contributing to the victory.
Going into next weekend’s matchup 
against Hamilton, a lesser opponent 
than Trinity, the Panthers should be 
more than confident about their ability 
to win.
XC Runners Gear Up for NESCACs on Home Course
 october 30, 2014 | 23SPORTS
Milano, Pierce and Panthers Hand
Trinity First Home Loss in Over a Decade
By Stephen Etna
4775
11:21
22
12
Number of days in Trinity football’s 
home winning streak before 
Middlebury’s Saturday victory. 
Amount of time separating Bridget 
hockey’s 6-0 victory over Wesleyan.
Points scored by men’s soccer player Greg 
Conrad ’17 this season, who leads the 
NESCAC in the category. 
Tackles for defensive back Dan Pierce ’16 in 
football’s monumental win against Trinity. 
Season-high number of digs recorded 
by volleyball’s Emily Kolodka ’18 
by the Numb3rs
28
panther sc0reboard
football vs. Trinity 
women’s soccer  vs. Wesleyan
men’ soccer vs. Wesleyan
 field hockey vs. Wesleyan
volleyball 
Middlebury football staged a complete 
home since Sept. 29, 2001. 
Greg Conrad ’17 scored all three goals 
as the Panthers surged past Wesleyan 
appearance at home. 
The Panthers edged by Wesleyan with 
a late goal scored in the 88th minute by 
Carter Talgo ’15, clinching a spot in the 
Bridget Instrum ’16 tallied a hat trick in 
the win, leaving the squad vying for the  
matches in their appearance at the Hall 
of Fame Tournament. 
27-7 W 
3-2 W 
3-1 W
6-0 W
3-2 L
By Bryan Holtzman
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Plunkett’s Predictions 
2
Football 
53 consecutive wins at home? 
Yeah, no problem. 
Halloween
Trick or treat! Get hungry, 
Panthers.  
3
field hockey
this team’s dominance in the 
NESCAC. 
4 
men’s soccer
Huge rebound after last week’s 
disappointing loss to Castleton. 
5
women’s soccer
The team’s powerful offense 
pulled out the deciding goal with 
two minutes remaining.
7
6
volleyball
Sitting at 11-10, volleyball looks 
Cross Country 
No race last weekend, but I bet 
they would’ve won if they did.   
mondays  
I think this is a unanimous 8th 
place selection. Any objections?
The men’s soccer team (8-3-
3, 5-2-3) came from behind with 
a hat trick from Greg Conrad ’17 
to beat Wesleyan and secure hope 
for a playoff berth in the NESCAC 
tournament after a midweek, non-
conference defeat at Castleton.
 On Tuesday, Oct. 21, 
Middlebury traveled to Castleton 
to face the Spartans and fell 
behind early. In the seventh 
minute, Castleton put a header 
past Greg Sydor ’17 off of a cross. 
Middlebury fought back but were 
minute, and in the second half, the 
Panthers peppered the frame with 
shots, but were either off target or 
denied by Spartan keeper Amir 
Pasic. 
In the contest, Middlebury 
led 15-5 in shots and 7-1 in 
corner kicks, but only were able 
to generate four shots on goal 
throughout the game. The loss was 
play that the Panthers failed to 
win as they fell to 7-3-3 on the 
season.
On Saturday, Oct. 25, 
Middlebury played host to 
Wesleyan, who were tied with the 
Panthers on points in the NESCAC 
but had played one fewer game. 
nearly put the Panthers in a big 
net thanks to saves from Sydor 
and the goalposts. 
In the third minute, Sydor 
saved a point-blank strike; in the 
sixth minute, the Middlebury 
defense cleared a good Wesleyan 
cross; and a Cardinal shot in 
the seventh minute went off 
the crossbar. Despite giving 
up the opening opportunities, 
Middlebury found their rhythm 
in the 13th minute with a long 
possession that culminated in a 
shot from Conrad that went wide 
right.  
The best Middlebury chances 
kick from just outside the penalty 
area in the 16th minute. Conrad 
took a hard strike over the wall 
but the ball hit the crossbar. Kirk 
Horton ’17 was there to collect the 
rebound, but his shot was saved. 
Middlebury’s chances in the 
but the Panthers denied several 
half, including a one-handed save 
from Sydor in the 27th minute. 
The Cardinals led 6-5 in shots at 
halftime, and 4-1 in shots on goal. 
“We just had a few slip-ups in 
Deklan Robinson ’16. “It took us a 
little while to get into the game but 
once we did, the mistakes stopped 
After falling behind to Wesleyan 
late in the game as the result of a 
scored penalty kick, the Middlebury 
women’s soccer team rallied back 
and took the lead with two minutes 
left in the game, allowing them 
to clinch a spot in the NESCAC 
playoffs. Wesleyan, who went into 
the game with a record of 1-10-2 
and had yet to win a NESCAC game 
Cardinal Sarah Sylla off of a cross 
from Madeline Keane 22 minutes 
After Sylla’s goal, Middlebury 
began to apply offensive pressure 
on Wesleyan, producing three 
consecutive shots from Hannah 
Robinson ’16, Adrianna Gildner 
’17, and Carter Talgo ’15. Wesleyan 
bombardment when Robinson 
Soroka ’16 to the near post. With 
half, Middlebury continued to 
pepper the Wesleyan defense, but a 
number of big saves from Wesleyan 
goalie Rachel Hobert prevented 
Middlebury from scoring. Wesleyan 
caught a big break 65 minutes into 
the game after a Middlebury foul in 
the box allowed Wesleyan’s Marisa 
With the post-season on the 
line, Middlebury received a wave 
their momentum into a goal. Thirty 
seconds after Yang’s penalty kick, 
Katherine Hobbs ’17 found Soroka, 
Hobbs over the Wesleyan goalie’s 
After tying the game, 
Middlebury continued to pressure 
Wesleyan’s defenders with a 
number of solid attempts at the 
goal including an attempted cross 
far pipe of Wesleyan’s goal. Finally, 
shot by Soroka and scored, giving 
Middlebury the go-ahead goal 
with two minutes left to play. A last 
minute attempt by Wesleyan to tie 
the game was thwarted by Panther 
goaltender Emily Eslinger ’18 who 
made a diving save to prevent 
Wesleyan’s Madeline Keane from 
scoring late in the match.
Throughout the game 
Middlebury dominated Wesleyan 
in shooting and corner kicks, out-
shooting the Cardinals 24-7 and 
leading the Cardinals in corner 
kicks 7-2. Middlebury’s Eslinger 
earned the win in goal, making 
game with seven saves, facing 10 
shots on goal from the Panthers. 
Soroka looked positively on the 
win. “Our win against Wesleyan 
NESCAC regular season and a 
fantastic win for our seven seniors 
With the win against Wesleyan, 
Middlebury women’s soccer earned 
a spot in the NESCAC playoffs, and 
awaits the news of their matchup 
for next Saturday in the NESCAC 
“We need to continue to bring 
our competitive edge coupled with 
our possession-oriented style of 
play to practice every day, and 
know that we need to take the 
tournament one game at a time in 
order to be as successful as we all 
sports 24
By Gabe Weissmann
LAte goal sends women’s 
soccer to the postseason 
VOLLEYBALL PICKS 
UP A PAIR OF WINS 
IN HALL OF FAME 
TOURNAMENT
PAGE 22
XC SET TO HOST 
NESCAC MEET ON 
SATURDAY
PAGE 23
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Conrad’s Hat Trick Leads 
Men’s Soccer Past Wesleyan
By Colin McIntyre
 Courtesy Jeff Patterson
MICHAEL O’hara
Middlebury’s Gred Conrad ’17 runs past a defender en route to a 
three-goal performance in the Panthers’ 3-1 win over Wesleyan. SEE MEN’S SOCCER, PAGE 22
One for the Books
Oct. 25. Dan Pierce ’16 returned this interception 71 yards to 
See page 23 for full coverage.
