October 31, 2013 | Vol. 112 no. 7 | middleburycampus.com
SHACKSBURY 
CIDER COMES TO 
SHOREHAM
PAGE 4
IN SPECIAL 
COLLECTIONS, 
PRESERVATION IS 
KEY
PAGES 13
A WRAP-UP OF 
THE ‘COCOON’ 
STORYTELLING 
EVENT
PAGE 15in
sid
e
Benjamin Kramer ’14 and a group of students won “Best Film” 
and “Audience Choice” for their short thriller “Room for Rent” at 
Sleepless in Burlington
“ROOM FOR RENT” IS MOVING ON UP
Students attend the biannual Powershift climate conference in Pittsburg, PA during fall break to pro-
test pollution, fracking and fossil fuels, as well as to discuss ways to encourage the spread of clean 
Zane ANthony
POWER SHIFTING IN THE STEEL CITY
Chance the Rapper Lyrics 
Spark Student Animosity
Cheating Last Year
are still thinking about what they 
coming musician Chancelor Ben-
name Chance the Rapper, the Chi-
cago born hip-hop artist is riding 
But the concert created as much 
-
ing around an initial lack of tickets 
-
-
ministration asked Chance not to 
-
to Dean of the College Shirley Col-
lado, Chance has agreed to refrain 
Day, after a ten day suspension 
during his senior year of high 
school, Chance soon garnered 
-
tion of Forbes magazine, which 
-
ognition landed Chance a spot 
opening for fellow rapper Childish 
Gambino on tour, and spurred fur-
ther collaborations with rappers 
Acid Rap, Chance’s second mix-
tape released in April of this year, 
downloads and catapulted the 
rapper into wider national rec-
Action Bronson, Acid Rap re-
Hip Hop Award nomination for 
best mixtape, landing him a spot 
on the famous Lollapalooza festi-
Will Brennan ’16 grew up in 
Chicago and attended school 
just a few train stops away from 
Chance’s school, Jones College 
Prep, learning of the rapper’s 
huge ambitions through mutual 
“He and other rappers on the 
were making singles and dropping 
mixtapes left and right,” Brennan 
had no idea that Chance would 
make it as big as he has in recent 
-
the fall concert because of 
demonstrated student inter-
est in more rap and hip-hop 
and Chance’s up-and-coming 
well known on campus before 
his appearance was announced, 
-
started playing Chance on his 
home connection, but became 
a much bigger fan after the re-
“His jazz harmonies and 
electronic beats made a really 
-
think of his squawkish noises at 
of his playful nature as a musi-
-
sic that is ultimately true to him-
self and more importantly true 
By Leah Lavigne
By Jessica Cheung
routine cheating, an economics 
professor told Billy – whose name 
has been changed to protect his 
identity – and his friends to write 
down their names and where they 
-
mand plunged Billy into an emo-
week we were freaking out – what 
are we going to tell our parents? 
What are we going to do?”
Billy and three other friends 
had sat in a line together, the 
smarter of his friend passing solu-
students in Warner Science Build-
ing and no proctor, Billy would 
copy the answers from his friend 
to the left and down the line the 
“We were absolutely sure it 
-
hear about it within the next few 
But the twists just keep com-
week that it was, in fact, another 
group of guys in that same exam 
room that got caught cheating—
guess is that someone pointed 
half the class cheated in that exam 
Billy said, throwing his hands 
down in one of the few state-
ments he made without stum-
bling through words like pretty 
cheat again and that we’ll just 
getting derailed, he admits that 
the experience “didn’t complete-
What makes Billy’s story so 
compelling is that he is emblem-
spring conducted by Craig 
-
the Honor Code at least once in the 
landing on Associate Dean for Judi-
cial Affairs Karen Guttentag’s desk 
about what it means for us and what 
it means for the student body,” said 
Liebowitz, who admitted to bringing 
cheating charges against students 
-
Voluntary Leave Numbers Spike
SEE MORE STUDENTS, PAGE 3
By Emily Singer
An unusually high number of stu-
with more questions than answers 
-
-
does not include students who de-
start of the fall semester for medi-
cal, family-related or other personal 
-
but does not display any noticeable 
-
what’s so interesting,” said Dean of 
Students Katy Smith Abbott, who 
has been working with Commons 
Deans and fellow administrators to 
might see a lot of students citing 
academic stress, needing time away, 
we’d see exactly, but we thought 
we’d seem more of a trend and it’s 
-
a study abroad program, interna-
tional students spending time with 
family in a home country, medical 
withdrawal for surgery and work-
ing on a farm in an unusual location 
as among the reasons why students 
is necessary for a better understand-
SEE CHANCE, PAGE 14
SEE SPREAD, PAGE 10-11
Le Monde
Der Spiegl
BY DANNY ZHANG
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| October 31, 20132 NEWS
Students Rekindle Divestment Fire
By David Yang
“This whole 
promise that he 
made in his email 
to the revolution 
or our endowment 
Adrian Leong ’16
divest middlebury member
Trustees Talk Restructuring, Goals
By Mitchell Perry
The Campus
By Nate Sans
October 31, 2013 |  3        News
THURSDAY 9-11pm
MCAB TRIVIA 
NIGHT
Halloween-themed trivia with 
Homecoming shirts and Grille 
FRIDAY 9:30pm-12:30am
QUIET LIFE AND 
HIP HATCHET
THURSDAY 8-9:30pm
STUCK IN T
HE MIDDLE
SIM is Middlebury College’s 
FRIDAY 8-10pm
SOUND 
INVESTMENT JAZZ 
ENSEMBLE
-
the music that’s been called 
America’s National Treasure. 
SATURDAY 8-11pm
MINT JULEP
sweet and scandalous 
First, before you read this column, 
go/foodsurvey! Quick! You can help us 
influence the budgeting and sourcing de-
cisions of Dining Services. Plus, 12 lucky 
respondents will win prizes! You could 
win a date night to 51 Main, a day at the 
spa at Studio 7 or even Dolci tickets!
Now that you’ve finished the survey 
(right?), I want to update you on the 
Community Education Requirement. 
The Campus Editorial Board suggested 
such a requirement three weeks ago. 
Since then, I have met Associate Vice 
President for Operations Norm Cush-
man, Special Assistant to the Assistant 
Vice President of Operations Linda Ross, 
Director of Facilities Services Mike Mos-
er and Manager of Employee Relations 
Laura Carotenuto to discuss the feasibil-
ity of a Community Education Require-
ment.
We face several challenges as we create 
this credit. For starters, when students 
spend time working without pay, their 
labor replaces the work of employees. 
Additionally, large-spread management 
of student work is incredibly difficult 
for facilities to execute, and, historically, 
has not been successful. Plus, students, 
in all likelihood, will not have the skills 
or the training needed to complete tasks 
efficiently, or even well. As such, the 
amount of and types of jobs available to 
us are extremely limited. Ideas such as 
leaf raking, weeding, or snow shoveling 
are all seasonal and weather-dependent 
and therefore imperfect.
Despite these challenges, the afore-
mentioned people were supportive of 
the Community Education Requirement. 
They conveyed the complexities and pit-
falls of such an offering, but they also ap-
preciated the sentiment behind the rec-
ommendation. We brainstormed some 
more options, such as creating a system 
concentrated on dish return or litter col-
lection, both of which are currently done 
by facilities workers in an informal fash-
ion. Additionally, the Recycling Center, 
which already manages many student 
workers, may serve as an excellent op-
tion. They have the infrastructure to 
manage students and the volume of work 
might support the number of hours we 
want to require. Plus, the Recycling Cen-
ter offers a particularly educational ex-
perience —  sorting through waste would 
expose the irresponsible disposal habits 
of students, such as discarding dishes in 
trash cans, to their peers.
As we’ve considered this idea, sever-
al questions have arisen. Is eight hours 
enough? Is it a meaningful amount of 
time to contribute to the service of our 
community? What constitutes our com-
munity? Could service off-campus count 
towards this requirement? It could ac-
complish similar goals, namely enforc-
ing the expectation that students give 
back to the community. In order to an-
swer these questions, we all need to dis-
cuss what we aim to gain through this 
requirement. Empathy? Respect? Less 
vomit in Battell?
Finally, our two hard-working First 
Year Senators Karina Toy ’17  and Wen-
hao Yu ’17 have formed this year’s First-
Year Committee. The First-Year Com-
mittee started last year as a forum for 
first-year students to voice their opin-
ions about their college experiences and 
to foster community building by organiz-
ing inter-commons events just for first-
years. This year, with the help of last 
year’s First-Year Committee, the Class of 
2017 has already had the opportunity to 
attend a Mix-and-Mingle at 51 Main and 
an Atwater dinner. This year’s commit-
tee is made up of eight members, in ad-
dition to Karina and Wenhao. Two Feb 
students from the Class of 2017.5 will 
join the committee during the spring se-
mester.
Class of 2017, what would you like 
the first-year Committee to work on this 
year? A particular concern you want to 
share with the administration? A bon-
fire? A massive J-Term snowball fight? 
Email us with ideas and sugges-
tions at sga@middlebury.edu!
By Rachel Liddell
sga update
On the Community Education
Credit Discussions
More Students Pause Studies for Time Away
instances of students taking time off, however, 
can be divided into two groups: a need for per-
sonal recuperation due to academic pressures, 
and a desire to pursue opportunities related to 
post-graduate plans.
Both President of the College Ronald D. 
Liebowitz and Dean of the College Shirley Col-
spike.
“I wouldn’t be surprised if, in some ways, 
-
cult it is to get here,” Liebowitz said. “Another 
thing is that we’d like to look into what the 
reasons are. Is the workload excessive? Is the 
atmosphere in some way not what students 
thought? We want to be open-minded about 
what the causes are.”
After taking a leave of absence last spring to 
work in Burlington, Lucy Whipps, admitted to 
the class of 2014, decided to extend her leave of 
absence into the fall semester.
“I needed a break to get my bearings about 
I was feeling less and less like Middlebury is a 
place where I want to be in general,” Whipps 
said, noting that she is unsure whether she will 
re-enroll in February.
While Smith Abbott acknowledged that ac-
ademic pressure can contribute to a student’s 
decision to take time off, she cited the College’s 
recent emphasis on experiential learning and 
entrepreneurship through programs such as 
MiddCORE and the Center for Social Entre-
“As our language as an institution becomes 
more about student innovation, students 
charting their own course and developing 
ways of mapping their education [in a way] 
that really resonates with them and supports 
who they want to become … is there something 
about that ethos that we’re creating at Middle-
bury that means we’re going to see more of 
this?” Smith Abbott mused, citing the unlikeli-
hood of a school adhering to a more traditional 
similar spike.
Collado echoed Smith Ab-
bott’s feelings, citing students’ 
diverse ideas and desires as 
pushing them to explore rele-
vant work and life experiences 
before returning to the College.
“The thing about college is 
that you’re kind of just going 
along this course and trying to 
-
times students need space to 
“I see that as a life skill.”
Unresolved medical issues 
led Madie Hubbell ’14.5 to take a leave of ab-
sence in the middle of her Junior fall semester, 
and while she wasn’t initially planning to take 
time off, she has returned to campus with a dif-
ferent outlook on her college experience.
“Coming here, I actually think I have 
learned more about myself ... than I have aca-
demically. The environment at Middlebury is 
like nothing else I have ever experienced. It’s 
intense academically, socially and athletically, 
-
bell wrote in an email, adding that time off al-
lowed her to realize that “there is life outside 
of college, and while school is important, so is 
your health and your well-being.”
Smith Abbott went so far as to call the sud-
den spike a “new version of the gap year,” al-
lowing students to take the time to enrich their 
college experience, take ownership of their 
education and chart new territory with once-
in-a-lifetime opportunities.
“I think Middlebury is a place that encour-
ages students to think creatively and expan-
sively about how they’re putting their educa-
tion together, and I think we’re just starting 
to get better at that,” Smith Abbott said, citing 
the College as being especially 
encouraging and accommodat-
ing in such situations.
Lander Karath ’14.5 took a 
leave of absence during the fall 
semester of his Junior year to 
work on the Obama presiden-
tial campaign, but his decision 
was not without hesitation and 
a fear of missing out on life at 
the College.
“I had felt extremely bogged 
two years here and I was crav-
ing hands-on, practical experience,” Karath 
said. “The campaign work provided that for 
me and more. Even though I had moved from 
one high-stress environment to another, I felt 
like I was doing something that enriched my 
life, which was a feeling I never had at Middle-
bury,” adding that the campaign led him to re-
alize the career path he wants to pursue.
The College’s openness with regard to in-
years taking gap years.
“We have an entire Feb class, we have the 
term super senior, which students use affec-
tionately and with pride,” Collado said. “It’s 
something you don’t usually see at top liberal 
arts colleges. Usually there’s a pathology as-
sociated with taking extra time, taking a se-
mester off or starting college late. But for us, 
it’s something that we generally celebrate. I’m 
proud of the fact that we have the room, and 
even a language and a culture, around people 
coming in later.”
A student’s decision to take a leave of ab-
sence is collaborative and requires meetings 
with the student’s Commons Dean and aca-
demic advisor, along with family members. 
However, there exist possible negative impli-
cations of taking a voluntary leave of absence, 
If a student who has been granted aid takes 
a voluntary leave of absence, he or she remains 
entitled to eight semesters of aid. Problems 
arise, however, if a student takes more than 
eight semesters to graduate or if the decision 
the semester. In such situations, students must 
-
nancial aid approval, as outlined in the Student 
Handbook. Financial aid is very rarely granted 
to a student for more than nine semesters.
With regard to a student’s ninth semester, 
however, Director of Financial Aid Operations 
Michael McLaughlin said that, upon being ap-
proved, the College will meet 100 percent of a 
students’ demonstrated need.
Smith Abbott, who views the voluntary 
leave of absence spike in a mostly favorable 
light, noted that if this semester’s spike contin-
ues and becomes a noticeable trend, the Col-
lege will need to change planning for housing, 
enrollment and other facets of student and 
academic life.
“I think we can manage it and I think un-
derstanding it is important, but that’s going to 
be a matter of looking at the numbers over a 
number of years,” she said.
“I’m proud of the 
fact that we have 
... a language and 
culture around 
people coming in 
later.”
Shirley Collado
Dean of the college
a rambunctious roots sound. 
SATURDAY 4-6pm
DEBATE: IS FACEBOOK 
GOOD FOR SOCIETY AND 
INDIVIDUALS?
-
SATURDAY 8-11pm
SUNDAY NIGHT 
FOOTBALL
Colts v Texans on the big 
Shacksbury Cider, the creation of Colin Da-
vis ’03, David Dolginow ’09 and Michael Lee, is 
no Woodchuck Hard Cider, as they proudly pro-
claim. Rather, this new hard cider company in 
Shoreham, Vt. boasts something unique.
Their brewing process harks back to America’s 
earliest settlers, when pioneers like Johnny App-
leseed planted smaller cider apples instead of the 
standard larger ones sold in grocery stores today.  
Back when the first Europeans were settling 
Vermont and the greater New England area, law 
required that homesteaders plant 50 apple trees 
each. 
The apples they planted — cider apples — were 
more bitter than desert apples and the apples we 
consume today. However, once fermented,  the 
apples produced a tasty cider that helped alleviate 
the trouble of uneasy access to portable water.  
A few historical developments prevented the 
beverage from entering widespread commercial 
use the way beer and wine did. Urbanization en-
croached on once rural orchards, prohibition the-
oretically stopped all alcohol consumption and the 
popularization and accessibility of  German beer.
A few heirloom 
trees survived the 
changes that took 
place in Vermont. 
And now, the three 
cider-connoisseurs 
of Shacksbury Ci-
der are determined 
to harvest these 
tree’s fruits once 
again. 
The team 
searched through 
cow pastures, for-
ests and down 
remote country 
roads in search of 
these rare trees. With the apple tree owners’ per-
mission, they collected apples in a primitive yet 
surprisingly effective and ultimately efficient way. 
They simply using a standard pole to shake the 
fruit off branches and into a tarp.
Their quest extends beyond just Shacksbury 
Cider, though, and on a larger scale, is called “The 
Lost Apples Project.” 
Kickstarter, the world’s largest online crowd-
funding platform, helped finance the trio’s adven-
ture. 
After their fruitful search, they’ve successfully 
brewed cider and hope to put their first batches on 
the market this week.
They distinguish their product from other 
mass-produced hard ciders by their brewing 
method which they claim preserves the natural 
tastes of the apples.
“It is pretty much a very different product,” 
said Dolginow. “That juice has already been 
cooked up and stabilize. What you’re doing is tak-
ing a lot of the amazing characteristics that make 
really good cider out of the juice.”
Shacksbury Cider possesses a much more 
complex, more rich taste than the “sweet pixy 
stick flavor” of today’s hard ciders, according to 
the Shacksbury Cider team.  
They compare their product to wine because 
of the sophistication of the art form inherent in its 
crafting and creation.  
One key question remains unanswered. If 
these cider apples were lost and cider-making 
changed so drastically from the time of the first 
settlers to our current drink, how did these men 
learn a lost art? Europeans taught them. Produc-
ers in Spain, France and England educated them 
about traditional ciders and how to brew them.
Their process and learning lent itself to a sim-
ple philosophy that backs their entire endeavor 
and acts as a guiding principle for Shacksbury Ci-
der.
“You can’t fake the fruits,” said Dolginow. 
According to him, that marks another essen-
tial difference between their production and oth-
er’s. 
“To start with the fruit that [other commercial 
cider makers] are using isn’t the right fruit,” said 
Dolginow. “The end products you sit down with, 
you wouldn’t consider the same product.”
The team wants to make Vermont the Borolo 
of hard ciders. The northern Italian town pro-
duces excellent wine but is less glamorous than 
other wine-producing regions like the Napa val-
ley, which renders the comparison appropriate, 
according to Lee.
However, a few impediments stand in the way 
of them reaching national markets and fulfilling 
their goal.  
First, Shacksbury Cider lacks a consistent 
source of apples. Until now, they’ve relied solely 
on apples they’ve gathered from other people’s 
property. 
In attempts to combat this limitation, Shacks-
bury cider hopes to work with local growers to 
plant 500 cider apple trees. For the property own-
ers, this might be a risk, as the trees take 5 years 
to fully mature and do not promise any successful 
results.
 Shacksbury Cider also lacks their own press 
and must share one with other local apple grow-
ers. Since a tree costs only 20 dollars, the Lost 
Tree Project has asked for donations in a three 
minute film online.
To what end, Lee asks himself towards the 
video’s end. “To revive [a] tradition, to find the 
perfect apples, and make the perfect cider.”
local
Shoreham Welcomes Shacksbury  Cider
 | October 31, 2013
The makers of Shacksbury Cider are raising money to plant more cider apple trees in Vermont.
Courtesy of Jeff Kubina via www.shacksbury.com
Carol’s Hungry Mind Cafe has j u s t 
Yelp.com
By David Ullmann
“To revive [a] tra-
perfect apples and 
cider.”
Michael Lee
Co-owner of shacksbury cider
Shacksbury Cider wants to recreate the original hard cider that European settlers drank in New 
England; the types of apples they use are an old, small variety. Picking methods are basic as well.
courtesy of www.shacksbury.com
JOIN 
US
WRITE FOR 
THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, 
NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS 
AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE  
INTERESTED, EMAIL 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
If you’ve already purchased a pre-
made and unoriginal costume for Hallow-
een, it’s never too early to start thinking 
about next year’s costume. Why not try an 
alternative to the classic itchy polyester 
costume packaged in a seal-tight plastic 
bag? 
In town, Mendy’s, a high quality, 
fashion forward women’s clothing store 
on Main Street, lies “The Good Witch.” 
Named after Glenda the Good Witch from 
the Wizard of Oz, “The Good Witch” is a 
costume shop owned and operated by the 
manager of Mendy’s herself, Addy Dor-
man. 
Dorman crafts the costumes by hand, 
selects the accessories and works all year 
long to create the most creative and elabo-
rate costumes for this exciting time of year. 
At age 10, Dorman’s mother taught 
her how to sew because she foresaw her 
clothes. After years of practice, she started 
working with recycled materials such as 
jersey knit t-shirts. By age 17 , Dorman 
was selling her original skirts constructed 
out of old recycled t-shirts. 
After graduating high school, Dorman 
attended the College for a brief time before 
she transferred to the Massachusetts Col-
lege of Art. She graduated in 2009 with a 
BA in Fine Arts 3D, with a concentration 
to Middlebury and worked at Mendy’s 
-
neurial endeavor. 
Ever since she was a young girl, Dor-
man has always loved “dress up,” but was 
particularly fond of Halloween. Some 
might even say that her passion for the fall 
holiday began at birth.  She was born on 
Oct. 27, just four days before Halloween. 
According to Dorman, however, her fond-
ness for this holiday stems from her life 
goal: being her own person. By designing 
and creating Halloween costumes, Dor-
man is able to live out a life in fashion 
with her own sense of direction and self-
autonomy. 
Witch is carrying both men’s and wom-
en’s costumes. Dorman commented on 
a theme she noticed regarding the most 
popular getups. The top three costumes 
most admired by both men and women 
have been, a super hero, a Native Ameri-
can and a pirate. 
Out of the three, Dorman’s favorite is 
Wonder Women.
“Every girl wants to be Wonder Wom-
en,” Dorman said. “And any guy would be 
superman, batman, the green lantern, the 
hulk, ironman, and captain America. Men 
like to dress up as superheroes and so do 
girls.”
Dorman provided some advice for 
girls attempting to dress up as Wonder 
Woman. She suggests starting out with a 
onesie, then adding tights, a gold crown, 
cuffed wrists, a red corset, a gold bust and 
a star-spangled banner bottom. 
According to the costume expert her-
self, there is no need for a college student 
to spend more than $40 to $50 on a cos-
tume. Further, no one should ever be ex-
ceeding $100. In Dorman’s eyes, a great 
dress or body piece and $15 to $20 for ac-
cessories”. 
Wondering what the Queen of Hal-
loween is dressing up as herself? Dorman 
will be going as a white pegacorn, which is 
a combination of Pegasus and a unicorn. 
Inspired by the original Disney fantasia, 
she will wear a white horse costume with 
wings and a horn.
advice when it comes to dressing up on 
Halloween.
“Have fun with the costume, don’t be 
afraid to push the limits, go all out and 
dress as your alter ego,” she said. 
As for Halloween night, “Be a good 
sport, join the party and be part of the 
event,” Dorman said. “Most importantly, 
however, admire other costumes and gath-
er inspiration from the night.” 
31
By Mary Claire Ecclesine
Holiday Bazaar in Middlebury
Need a study break on Saturday? The 
Middlebury Congregational Church will 
be hosting the annual bazaar, featuring 
wagon rides, wooden crafts, quilted items, 
backed goods, American Girl doll clothes 
and tons more random stuff. Santa will 
even stop by between 10 AM and noon! 
For more information email midducc@
comcast.net.
NOV 2, 9 AM – 3 PM
Local 
lowdown
Local 5
Day of the Dead Altar and Celebration 
in Middlebury
Come to the Vermont Folk Life Center 
to celebrate and learn about Day of the 
Dead, a Mexican holiday celebrating and 
remembering friends and relatives who’ve 
left us. There will be an authentic alter, 
traditional music and food.
NOV. 1, 6 – 9 PM
“Macbeth” Broadcast in Middlebury
If you’re too old to trick or treat (i.e. older 
than 10), this screening could be a good, 
cultured alternative. Town Hall Theater 
will screen a broadcast of Manchester 
International Festival’s production of 
“Macbeth,” staring Kenneth Branagh. 
Tickets are $17/$10 students. Call (802) 
382-9222 or visit www.townhalltheater.
org.
OCT. 31, 7 – 9 PM
Brooks Williams in Concert in Ription
If, like some of us, you occasionally 
have a very strong desire to get out of 
Middlebury, head to the hills for a concert 
on Saturday. The Ripton Community 
Coffee House will host Americana guitar 
player Brooks Williams. Before the per-
formance is a one-hour open mike. Tickets 
are $10 for adults, seniors and teens $8, 
children $3. For more information call 
(802) 388-9782.
NOV. 2, 7:30 – 9:30 PM.
Courtesy
The Good Witch is packed to the gill 
with costumes ideal for all occasions.
Halloween Ideas from “The Good 
Witch’s Owner,” Addy Dorman
Turkey Supper in Orwell
In case you want an early/pre-Thanks-
giving, the Orwell Town Hall will host a 
turkey supper. There will be turkey, gravy 
-
First Congregational Church of Orwell. 
Adults $10, children under 10 $5. Takeout 
available at (802) 989-3322.
NOV. 2, 5 – 7 PM
Winter Sports Injury Prevention Work-
shop in Middlebury
It’s almost that time of year! Snow is just 
around the corner and the build up to 
the winter games in Sochi 2014 is grow-
ing! Just as important as having fun in 
the snow is staying safe and not tearing 
your ACL when you’re skiing some pow 
in the backcountry. Matt Horne of Wells 
anatomy and explain how common win-
ter sports injuries occur and will suggest 
exercises to reduce risk. The talk will be 
at Middlebury Fitness. Sign up at (802) 
388-3744.
NOV. 6, 5:30 – 7:30 PM
Addy Dorman is going as a Pegicorn.
Courtesy
t
life &S YLE
 | October 31, 2013
opinions
Earlier this semester, a Middlebury 
student found a note threatening 
violence and sexual assault against her 
on the basis of her 
sexual orientation 
taped to her door. 
Now, just weeks later, 
the College prepares 
to welcome Chance 
the Rapper, a musical 
artist who refers to 
himself as a “slap-
happy faggot slapper” 
in one of his songs. As a community 
that strives to create a safe and inclusive 
space for people of all sexual identities, 
it is unacceptable to give a stage and a 
microphone to a person who delivers this 
type of violent and intolerant message. 
It is true that Chance’s lyrics contain 
but a brief homophobic slur. This is 
not a theme present throughout all of 
his music, but the line in question is 
sufficiently problematic that it does not 
matter whether he has agreed to exclude 
that language from his performance 
this weekend. Enough attention has 
been brought to the performance that 
students will be well aware of what they 
did not hear. 
To pass a microphone to a speaker 
who boasts – however casually – of 
violence against homosexuals while 
using a derogatory name sends a 
powerful message to our community. It 
says to those concerned about violence 
due to their sexual orientation that their 
fears are not important. It tells those 
who make homophobic comments and 
jokes that their views are acceptable. 
It shows the gay couple afraid to hold 
hands in public that they should not 
speak out about their experience; that 
they should just lighten up and hide 
their true selves. It takes a serious issue 
and trivializes it.
We would not tolerate a professor 
who advocates violence against women, 
a speaker who professes a fondness 
for hitting Jews or a comedian who 
jokes about beating up people of color. 
A student who sent another student 
a note with the exact slap-happy line 
delivered by Chance would presumably 
face disciplinary action. The music that 
we bring to campus should not get a free 
pass from the standards to which we 
hold our community.
As journalists, as writers and as 
artists, we are painfully aware of the 
dangers that come with censoring 
expression. Advocating or glorifying 
violence against a group that already 
faces daily persecution – both on this 
campus and beyond – crosses the 
line between protected speech and 
hate speech. Taunts against such a 
group clearly violate the College Anti-
Harassment policy. While we feel 
uncomfortable creating a blanket rule for 
excluding speakers and performances 
from coming to Middlebury, the selection 
of these acts demand extra research, 
and the groups responsible must keep 
in mind the safety and comfort of the 
entire community. The controversy over 
Chance’s performance could easily have 
been avoided by a thorough review of his 
lyrics and a more diverse membership 
on the Middlebury College Activities 
Board Concert Committee.   
There is also an important 
distinction between the freedom of 
expression that we guarantee as an 
institution of learning and the expression 
that we choose to pay for as members of 
the Middlebury community. Middlebury 
is not a concert venue, where the cost 
of a concert is covered solely by those 
who choose to purchase a ticket and 
those uncomfortable with the content 
of the performance can stay home and 
save their money. When the Concert 
Committee elects to bring a performer 
to campus, the cost is heavily subsidized 
by the Activities Fee to which all 
students must contribute. It is insulting 
to all students who feel disrespected 
by Chance’s taunts that their money be 
spent to put him on stage and heard over 
speakers. 
We recognize that by imposing 
additional qualifications on the musical 
acts brought to campus, we make the 
Concert Committee’s difficult job even 
harder. But it is all too easy to forget 
that people in this country and in this 
community still face assault and worse 
for their sexual orientation. In 2011 
alone, United States law enforcement 
agencies reported over twelve hundred 
instances of harassment, assault, rape 
and murder based on this factor. Violent 
language is a concern that we must take 
seriously, and for this reason we believe 
that the MCAB Concert Committee 
should have more seriously considered 
the potential concerns of all community 
members before inviting Chance to 
perform at Middlebury.  
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifi-
able events; the use of vulgar language or per-
sonal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article 
that contains any of the aforementioned will be 
removed before publication. Contributors will 
be allowed to reference prior articles published 
in the Opinions section or announcements for 
the public record. If a reference is made to prior 
articles, the submission will be considered a let-
ter to the editor.  The Campus will not accept or 
print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed 
by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as 
reviews, columns, editorial comics and other com-
mentary, are views of the individual contributors 
and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submis-
sions at 800 words or less. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at 
www.middleburycampus.com. To be considered 
for publications, submissions must be received by 
5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic 
year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and busi-
ness offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, 
Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is 
produced on Apple Macintosh computers using 
Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press 
Republican in New York. The advertising deadline 
for all display and classified advertising is 5 p.m. 
Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Mid-
dlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business 
phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribu-
tion concerns to the Business Director. First class 
postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
Not A Chance
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kyle Finck
MANAGING EDITOR
Alex Edel 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Emily Singer, Kelsey Collins, Claire Abbadi, 
Nate Sans
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Zach Drennen,  
Jack Dolan
SPORTS EDITORS 
Damon Hatheway,
Owen Teach, Alex Morris, Joe MacDonald
LOCAL EDITORS 
Molly Talbert, Illana Gratch
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Isabelle Stillman, 
Joe Flaherty
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Ben Anderson,
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anthea Viragh, Paul Gerard,  
Jessica Munyon
DESIGN EDITORS
Olivia Allen, Ian Stewart
ONLINE EDITORS
Greg Woolston, Stephanie Roush
COPY EDITOR
Dan Bateyko
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
decided by the 
editorial board.
In light of the current debate surrounding Chance the 
Rapper’s performance at the College the idea of artistic free-
dom in conjunction with hip-hop has arisen in a big way. By 
telling Chance he cannot perform a certain song or say a cer-
tain word on our campus, are we not then limiting the very 
artistic freedom by which we pride 
ourselves, or is the censorship of 
Chance necessary in order to create 
a safe environment for all?  
These “banned” songs and lyr-
ics can instantly be streamed on 
Spotify or listened to on Youtube 
(you do not even have to log-in to 
prove you are 18). The material is already out there waiting 
for the world to listen to it, yet there is not a lot of dialogue 
in the general online discourse surrounding Chance that ad-
dresses his offensive lyrics. More than 
saying something about Chance, I think 
that this says something about hip-hop 
as a musical genre. For some reason 
hip-hop seems to be the baby brother in 
the music industry that gets away with 
everything.
 Do not get me wrong; I love 
hip-hop. From the day I bought my first Eminem album to the 
time I saw Kanye perform for all of Seattle when I was 14, I 
have always loved hip-hop. Yet, a lot of the hip-hop I listen to 
does not necessarily spit rhymes full of respect for women or 
allow for success to be viewed outside of the realm of bitches 
and billfolds. Rap’s social message continues to perpetuate 
the heteronormative culture, with little room for artists or 
songs that do not fit this ideological mold.  
We applaud Jay Z for having a smoking-hot wife and be-
ing one-half of the wealthiest couple in music industry, and 
yet his lyrics still contain violent and derogatory language. If 
Arcade Fire writes a lyric that says, “Fool me twice that’s my 
bad I can’t even blame her for that/Enough to make me wan-
na murder,” (Jay Z, “Holy Grail”) the music blogs would ex-
plode with an in-depth analysis of what message they’re try-
ing to get across. However, when written by Jay Z, a lyric like 
this gets bumped at full volume in cars of twenty-somethings 
around the country without the blink of an eyelash.  
As of late, the rap industry has become little by little more 
accepting.  Frank Ocean became the first out-of-the-closet 
rapper to win a Grammy. A$AP Rocky appeared on the cover 
of Complex magazine with his gay fashion-designer friend 
Jeremy Scott. Yet, some of the greatest rappers to come out 
of the last decade have not been scolded for their homopho-
bic remarks. Rappers like 50 Cent, Ja Rule, T.I., and Tyler, 
the Creator have all either written homophobic lyrics or made 
homophobic comments, and in light of their fame (and swag), 
have gotten away with it.  
So, if Chance the Rapper grew up listening to these rap-
pers that for years got away with snide 
anti-gay remarks or the occasional mi-
sogynistic lyric — and we will assume 
he did because he is only 20, then he 
grew up thinking that in rap music this 
is okay. Hip-hop is a posse culture. 
Rappers have their ever-changing cast 
of characters behind them that is their 
crew. Artists take turns doing verses on each other’s tracks 
and the respect you need as a rapper to become successful is 
hard-fought.  
So, here lies the problem. Rappers strive to get credit 
from other rappers to boost their career and often this credit 
is through offensive, yet catchy lyrics and a crazy flow. While 
few artists, like Macklemore, have made valiant efforts to 
subvert the social harm of their predecessors, the truth re-
mains that our standards for social messages and violent lan-
guage drop significantly when we talk about rap. Yes, rappers 
should have their artistic freedom, but we, as their listeners, 
should also hold them more accountable for their words.
Notes from 
the desk 
Stephanie Roush ’14 is 
from Seattle, WA
Stuck on Repeat
“For some reason, hip-
hop seems to be the young-
est brother in the music in-
dustry that gets away with 
everything.”
HAVE AN OPINION? 
WEIGH IN TODAY
VOICE YOUR OPINION @ MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.
I spy with my little eye, something that begins 
with the letter “S.” That’s right, scandal. As Edward 
Snowden nestles up in Moscow using his own father as 
a media battering ram, and Julian Assange is holed up 
in the Ecuadorian embassy launching vain campaigns 
-
model defender of progressive transparency), a more 
dusty muscles: 
the press. 
It was 
France’s “Le 
Monde” who 
revealed that 
the NSA has 
indeed been 
spying on 
French nation-
als without the 
consent of the 
French govern-
ment. There 
were also ac-
cusations that 
they tapped 
the phones of 
leading French diplomats which would go against ev-
ery known notion of immunity and international re-
spect. It was then followed by the “Spiegel” saying that 
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s phone was bugged since 
2002. There has of course been loads of recent out-
USA, but now that it has been snooping and stealing 
across the borders of its allies, the scandal has reached 
a whole new level.
In all honesty, however, it comes as no great sur-
and German phone calls may be being recorded by the 
defender of the Land of the Free without any authori-
zation. As the NSA says itself, they do nothing which 
others countries don’t already do. There is a double-
edged sword dangling in the midst of all this: either 
what the NSA says is true and they are just the worst 
at being intelligently secretive or they are lying and 
the NSA is miles deep in what the French call merde. 
Either way it paints are rather disappointing picture 
of one of the world’s supposedly more effective intel-
ligence services and of the U.S. defense project in gen-
eral.
I think few people would have a problem with an 
effective government that compromises individual 
privacy in the interest of some ulterior good — say pre-
venting the creation of a violent terrorist cell. But when 
that so-called effective government is better equipped 
-
ing session than to provide you with comprehensive 
medical care were you to suffer an actual stroke, then 
the problem onto the international scene — that is the 
nature of this column after all — then you see a super-
power better prepared to spy on the citizens of fellow 
democratic states than to defend the interests of those 
still oppressed by non-democratic ones.
If the allegations are true and the NSA has indeed 
been spying on both civil-
politicians, then the U.S. will 
lose further credibility on the 
international stage. One can-
not pretend to be a bastion 
of freedom whilst undertak-
ing such practices, especially 
when they are done so stupidly.
If it really is in the U.S. national interest to risk a 
huge amount of its international prestige, then it should 
really be stealthier with its operations. There is no doubt 
that other powerful countries have similar operations; 
I just believe that the difference is that they don’t get 
caught whilst 
at it. In short, 
I don’t mind if 
the NSA knows 
e v e r y t h i n g 
that some ran-
dom French 
guy, your sis-
ter or I do or 
talk about. I 
just wish they 
were better 
at keeping 
their own op-
erations secure 
and secret.
|october 31, 2013 7opinions
Books teach us that culture matters. 
This truth, as the late Democratic New 
York Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan 
observed, is fundamentally conservative. 
But liberals would also do well to take ac-
count of it. Any attempt to improve society 
through political means must recognize 
the limits and restraints cultural traditions 
and mores place on change.   
relationship 
between indi-
vidual and col-
lective claims 
of right and 
cultural mores 
since Homer. 
Nowhere is 
the tension more directly confronted, 
however, than in “The Misanthrope” by 
-
ential seventeenth century play, the main 
character, Alceste, seeks to do away with 
the ridiculous social customs which de-
refuses to play the traditional social games 
in his attempts to woo the woman he de-
sires. He gives none of the requisite super-
love’s requital because he views them as 
stupid and insincere. His holier-than-thou 
attitude earns him no friends. 
Yet what frustrates the audience of 
“The Misanthrope” so much is that Al-
ceste is perceptive. The moneyed classes 
of Renaissance France had absolutely ri-
diculous customs. Alceste anticipates the 
erosion of French high society that would 
come in the late nineteenth and early 
twentieth century. That it would take an-
other 250 years for the culture to change is 
instructive, however, because what Alceste 
fails to recognize is that for all his aware-
as much subject to the same social conven-
tions as everyone else. Everyone else in the 
play is, as Alceste comments, ignorant of 
the pettiness of the society they perpetu-
ate. In Alceste’s view, nothing they say is 
true or real. But the only person foolish 
enough to attempt to bypass society is Al-
ceste. By the end of the play, Alceste has 
completely alienated himself from his so-
ciety and has lost his lover to a less self-
righteous man. Alceste thus ends up being 
more unaware of the demands and struc-
ture of culture than anyone else.
the individual’s relation to society in Tol-
stoy’s “Anna Karenina.” In that novel, the 
heroine seeks to overcome the social con-
straints which bind her to a man she does 
not love and to a life she does not wish to 
lead. Although she views herself less as a 
crusader for truth than Alceste does, Anna 
has a desire to escape or, indeed, over-
come society. Her desire to change her cir-
cumstances pits her individual happiness 
and condition against the oppressive and 
tumultuous nineteenth-century Russian 
culture. As with Alceste, we sympathize 
with Anna. Unlike Alceste — and this is a 
tribute to Tolstoy’s genius as a writer more 
than to anything else — we do so until the 
end. We fall in love with Anna and take 
her struggles on as our own. Her feminism 
becomes ours and her unhappiness makes 
her lover, Vronsky, as she is. Yet, we also 
see the futility of her attempts. The reck-
lessness of her decisions is laid bare for 
us. We know that she cannot live the life 
she desires, in part because she does not 
always know what she desires. As with Al-
ceste, Anna seems driven by a dissatisfac-
tion that is always shifting, never clearly 
Alceste’s situations and tragedies that we 
can learn something of our own predica-
ments. Moliere and Tolstoy give accounts 
that call into question the possibility and 
reality of progress. They challenge the 
ways we seek to change the world. But they 
also tell compelling stories about people 
who seek to make society better. Anna and 
Alceste are constrained by their cultures. 
Always seeking to escape or improve soci-
ety, they fail to recognize the inevitability 
of their complicity in its foibles. In Alceste 
and Anna, we see the feminist who seeks 
and the environmentalist who asks us to 
stop driving so much. Books warn us not 
to be too arrogant or ignorant in our pro-
the enduring appeal of such campaigns.
Contrary to what many ideologically-
driven readers assert, the political lessons 
found in literature cannot be easily cat-
egorized. Moliere neither supports Obam-
acare nor condemns it. What reading Tol-
stoy and Moliere does is reveal the limits 
of our liberalism and pave the way for it 
to become smarter. Reading does this be-
cause, in the words of literary critic Lionel 
Trilling, “Literature is the human activity 
that takes the fullest and most precise ac-
-
We should read books not because 
they will tell us how to draft immigration 
legislation but because our political sensi-
bilities could use an infusion of the quali-
books because they force us to consider 
the limits and abilities of human efforts to 
change the world.
What do we carry with us? What do 
we take into classrooms, dining halls and 
dorms? How are we perceived by others 
-
ception? I have no idea what any of these 
answers are.
If you look closely at the — ahem — 
of you can pick up on the constant question 
of identity that all Middlebury students 
face at some point. We are constantly try-
interests, our need to be involved in every-
thing. After two years here, though, I won-
der how much of that we create and how 
much people create for us.
I went out in a button-down shirt and 
tie last weekend. I asked a girl what she 
thought my social upbringing was like. She 
responded that it was likely that my grand-
parents had 
been wealthy. I 
repeated this at 
other times in 
-
nel and people 
responded that 
they could not 
tell. This did not 
surprise me, 
even if the sci-
of my tiny so-
cial study was iffy at best. I have to ask the 
question then, if people make judgments 
on what I dress alone can I ever check it at 
the door so to speak? Or is perception im-
possible to escape?
There are environments on this cam-
pus where we approach the issue of ill-
conceived judgment. Certain classes I have 
taken where who you are as a person is en-
tirely based on what you say. It is sterile in 
some sense, but takes perception out of the 
equation. You are judged on how academi-
Not a bad way to be at an elite liberal arts 
college.
Any humanities student can attest to 
the opposite. Who you are, your stories and 
-
sized, asked for and constantly sought af-
ter. There are merits to this, too. We learn 
lives.
I worry, though: how do we balance 
implicit bias if peoples’ stories are shared? 
Or, more importantly, if their stories aren’t 
shared? I worry that our ability to “check 
it at the door” is an illusion, that it can’t be 
escaped and we are forever stuck making 
assumptions based on gender, skin color, 
clothing choice or accent.
It is murky water. Identity should be 
something we can positively embrace but 
too often it is something negatively project-
ed onto us. Nobody is immune from this. If 
you had just met me you could likely glean 
that I am white and male before I had any-
thing to say, and, 
to the world, that 
might be enough. 
You might notice 
the cross around 
my neck and in-
fer a Catholic up-
bringing and that 
would certainly 
give people some natural bias.
Now I am not looking for pity here, but, 
from those few details, which are essen-
tially beyond my power to conceal, barriers 
are constructed. 
It makes it dif-
that I consider 
myself a femi-
nist, for in-
stance. We can 
assume what 
people are not 
just about as 
much as we can 
assume what 
they are.
So I do not think we can just check it 
at the door, as much as we would like to. 
We are not color blind, gender-blind or any 
other kind of blind even if it was convenient 
to say we are. All of us are guilty on some 
level of projecting identity onto others, 
whether they are strangers or our closest 
friends. How do we get past this? How do 
others the freedom to do so?
A lot of it comes down to just being less 
judgmental. Smiling more? Saying hello 
more? The ability to make fun of ourselves, 
that our community will immediately 
see that as weak or unintelligent is never 
taught in a classroom. So I am telling you 
yourself so seriously.
We cannot check ourselves at the door 
because nobody is comfortable enough to 
do it. We do not let each other do it. We 
-
cations for their actions and words. We 
should really just let their actions and 
words speak for themselves. So I encourage 
you to bring it down a notch. Don’t assume 
things of collared-shirted “bros”, tight-
jeaned “hipsters” or particularly opinion-
ated “feminists.” Let people have the ability 
to check it at the door if they want.
The 
Unpopular 
opinion
Andrew DeFalco ’15.5 
is from Toronto, Canada
the limits of liberalism Check It at the Door
citizen 
kanye
Harry Zieve-Cohen ’15 
is from Brooklyn, NY
The spy who bugged me
eyes on the 
outside
Jack George ’15 is from 
London, UK.
“We are not colorblind, gender-
blind or any other kind of blind 
even if it was convenient to say we 
are. All of us are guilty on some 
level of projecting identity onto 
others, whether they are strang-
ers or our closest friends.”
Samantha Wood ’15
opinions8 october 31, 2013 | 
A friend on the MCAB Concert 
Committee wrote to me after middbeat 
had posted my email, “I love to mess 
around as much as you do, but saying 
‘let’s get these fascists’ doesn’t really al-
low for an honest discourse that could 
make the entire process better, rather 
than immediately trying to make people 
defensive.” 
First of all, no, my friend from 
MCAB, you do not love to mess around 
as much as I do. Secondly, making 
people defensive is in fact the only way 
this “New Deal” (the term future histo-
rians will use to refer to the movement 
of Chance to Nelson) got made. The 
Concert Committee — I won’t gener-
alize by calling them MCAB; I got no 
beef with the rest of that organization 
— only cared about this situation after 
the brave folks at middbeat put them on 
the defensive. 
And they were right to be defensive 
— only advertising the ticket sale date 
on Facebook was irresponsible and self-
ish. 53 of my friends on Facebook “like” 
MCAB. About half of those friends have 
graduated from this institution. I would 
really hope those recent alums have bet-
ter things to do with their time than tell 
me about seeing the one post the Com-
mittee made about the sale date of the 
Chance tickets. Other friends who “like” 
MCAB on Facebook include my ex-girl-
friend and Public Safety Officer Christo-
pher Thompson. I’m afraid I don’t talk 
to either of them as much as I should. 
I was never going to find out about 
the Chance tickets from Facebook. I am 
not alone in that realization. The MCAB 
Concert Committee’s idea of “honest 
discourse” was a curt, dismissive, con-
descending email to a single student 
who criticized them. They were defen-
sive from jump street. The Committee 
got Lawrence Taylor-level defensive 
when middbeat proved that their inac-
tion pissed off more than a single super 
senior Feb 
who happens 
to be taking 
the Creative 
Process and 
has a lot of 
time on his 
hands. 
The Com-
mittee had a 
problem: due 
to the show’s 
p l a c e m e n t 
in McCullough, there were not a ton of 
tickets. Their solution was to sweep it 
under the rug by only advertising on 
Facebook. That wasn’t the action of 
people who cared about students seeing 
this show. 
The Committee suggested I use 
“proactivity” next time around. That 
was right after admitting that they 
chose to only advertise on Facebook. I 
hope the anonymous meanie-face who 
wrote the email — I learned recently it 
was not written or even approved by the 
entire Committee —  is not an English 
major, because that is some ass-chap-
ping irony. 
Proactivity would have been to 
advertise the hell out of the sale date 
(posters, emails, announcements on 
WRMC), and then to help kids get tick-
ets. To avoid the box-office website 
overloading, encourage students to line 
up outside McCullough the morning the 
tickets went on 
sale. Hand out 
hot cocoa. Make 
a whole thing 
out of it. The 
Concert Com-
mittee scored 
huge in get-
ting Chance to 
come to Middle-
bury. Then they 
copped out. 
They didn’t wait 
through the 30 seconds of silence in 
“Pusha Man” to get to “Paranoia;” they 
just skipped to the next track. 
Why did they do this? I’ve noticed 
a tendency in my peers towards passive 
aggression. It’s understandable — we all 
have to live together, so we avoid con-
flict at all costs. The Concert Commit-
tee exemplified this behavior at every 
turn. We can’t have that in our lead-
ers. Stepping on toes is an unintended 
consequence of progress. You should be 
able to get over the pain of a stubbed 
toe quickly. When that happens, you 
can get to work resolving the conflict. 
I’m not sure if the 
Concert Commit-
tee shrugged off 
their boo-boo to 
help overcome 
the ticket situ-
ation. In my eyes, we got the concert 
moved to Nelson because of an incred-
ible effort by JJ Boggs. 
For those not familiar with Ms. 
Boggs, she is the Dean of Students for 
Student Activities & Orientation. To be-
gin with, you’ve got to be a saint to work 
orientation every year. What’s more 
stressful than trying to convince hun-
dreds of terrified/horny 18-year olds 
that they will feel at home for the next 
four years of their lives? JJ is able to 
make us comfortable during orientation 
because she knows she will never stop 
working to make this place our home. 
That home happens to have semiannual 
rap concerts. 
Hopefully this ordeal will open up 
a greater degree of transparency and 
communication between MCAB and 
the students it represents. Were that to 
happen, we could get to the bigger is-
sue, which is, of course, people cheat-
ing at Grille Trivia Night. That needs 
to stop. You’re seriously ruining it for 
everyone.
Take a Chance, MCAB
On Oct. 1, the Obama Administration 
launched healthcare.gov, a government-
run website aiming to provide Ameri-
cans with easily adopted and inexpensive 
healthcare coverage under the Affordable 
Care Act (ACA). From its conception, 
‘Obamacare’ prompted intense partisan 
divisions, im-
passioned po-
litical attacks, 
and ideological 
defenses. Re-
publican and 
L i b e r t a r i a n 
policy makers 
viciously and almost unanimously criti-
cized the ACA for expanding government 
control over one-sixth of the American 
economy, coercing American citizens to 
adopt health insurance and subsidizing 
health care with the simple and econom-
ically-ignorant excuse that ‘healthcare is 
a human right.’ And yet, despite all this 
criticism, few of Obamacare’s critics pre-
dicted that its implementation would be 
so catastrophic. While the ACA’s website 
has been up-and-running for a full month 
already and Health and Human Services 
administrators brag that nearly half-a-
million applications have been started, 
healthcare providers estimate that fewer 
than 100,000 Americans have effectively 
signed up for health-insurance through 
the problem-riddled program. 
Last Saturday, President Obama 
supposed to make it easy to apply for 
and purchase the insurance is not work-
ing.” But while the Presidential radio ad-
dress admitted the program’s failures, it 
blamed ‘glitches’ caused by heavy website 
The extreme 
problems with 
healthcare.gov 
are system-
atic failures 
that will take 
months to re-
pair rather than 
mere ‘glitches’ 
provoked by the site’s fewer-than eight 
million weekly hits. 
Firstly, the site’s healthcare ap-
plications are far too complicated and 
time-consuming for the average, healthy 
American to sit through, with some site 
visitors admitting they spent over an 
hour trying to enroll in a program before 
ultimately giving up. 
Secondly, according to one health 
care provider, “even when 
consumers have been able to 
sign up, [we] can’t tell who... 
new customers are because 
of a separate set of computer 
defects.” In 99 percent of ap-
plications, the Obamacare 
site has failed to provide po-
tential insurers with enough 
facilitate enrollment. Even 
more disconcerting is the fact 
that the website, according 
to insurance expert Bob La-
zlewski, enrolls, un-enrolls, 
and repeatedly re-enrolls the 
same individuals, thus con-
fusing healthcare providers 
and prompting them to ig-
nore completed applications.
-
dence in the program watching 
Health and Human Services Secretary 
Kathleen Sebelius’ interview on Jon Stew-
art two weeks ago. When asked point-
blank how many people had enrolled in 
health care plans through Obamacare, 
Sebelius replied, “I can’t tell you because 
I don’t know,” a confession of startling 
ineptitude that begs the question: if the 
government can not identify who enrolls 
in health coverage through their website, 
how can it expect to manage the system?
Yet these structural failures, ex-
treme as they 
are, draw atten-
tion away from 
the Afford-
able Care Act’s 
greatest short-
coming: its 
unaf fordabi l -
ity. As Obam-
monthly premiums and cover people with 
preexisting conditions, insurers raise de-
ductibles to stratospheric levels far out-
side the average American’s price-range. 
Additionally, by regulating compe-
tition, premiums under Obamacare’s 
cheapest plans are estimated by the 
Manhattan Institute to be 99 percent 
more expensive for men and 62 percent 
more expensive for women than cur-
rent premiums. As the Affordable Care 
Act overcharges the healthy to subsidize 
the health care of the chronically ill, el-
derly, and impoverished, these dispari-
ties are even wider for healthy, young, 
middle-class Americans. The result? The 
vast majority of the 50 million uninsured 
Americans will not sign up for Obam-
acare unless coerced. 
Of course, this is exactly what Obama 
plans to do this spring, when the ‘indi-
-
zens for not owning health insurance. 
But penalizing Americans until they 
adopt expensive insurance plans should 
not be our government’s tactic; its pri-
mary goal should be to create more af-
fordable and varied healthier plans for 
citizens to choose between. Regardless of 
the ‘individual mandate’ and the inher-
ent political problems that arise through 
coercive governance, Obamacare looks 
destined to collapse. The system requires 
seven million participants, the major-
ity of whom must be healthy, in order to 
function, and with fewer than 100,000 
minimum seems unattainable. 
Nevertheless, conservative Ameri-
cans and Obamacare opponents should 
not rest smugly with the knowledge 
that this program is collapsing. Instead, 
Americans should be wary that the Dem-
ocratic Party will inevitably attempt to 
pump taxpayer money into the program, 
government-subsidized health care. Re-
publican policy makers therefore must 
immediately begin to brainstorm cost-
effective, free-market alternatives to the 
ACA and advocate for the program’s re-
placement. The Obama Administration 
has already spent half-a-billion dollars 
creating an unusable website. This is just 
a website. If the federal government is 
incapable of effectively and frugally set-
ting up a website viewed by eight million 
people weekly, how can we trust it to ef-
fectively manage the complex and varied 
health care needs of 400 million Ameri-
cans? 
The elephant 
in the room
Ben Kinney ’15 is from 
Camano Island, W.A..
The Obamacare Catastrophe
“The Concert Committee 
scored huge in getting Chance 
to come to Middlebury. Then 
they copped out. They didn’t 
wait through the 30 seconds of 
silence in ‘Pusha Man’ to get to 
‘Paranoia;’ they just skipped to 
the next track.”
“The structural failures, ex-
treme as they are, draw atten-
tion away from the Affordable 
Care Act’s greatest shortcom-
ing: its unaffordability.”
Reader Oped
Adam Benay ’13.5 is 
from Fairfax, VT
Maddie Dai ’14
Maddie Dai ’14
Dear Editor,
I write in response to Zach Dren-
nen’s recent ill-informed and unfortu-
nate column, “End the Feb Program,” 
with the following points. 
1) Mr. Dren-
nen’s assertion 
that the College 
“only reports the 
diversity statis-
tics of fall ad-
mits” is simply 
untrue. All the information on class sta-
tistics we provide on our website, in our 
publications, and to prospective fami-
lies during information sessions, fairs, 
and school visits includes the entire 
first year class for 
both September 
and February. The 
only exception is 
the federal report 
for IPEDS, the 
U.S. Department 
of Education’s 
annual data col-
lection program. 
That program 
mandates that we report statistics each 
fall for enrollment as of a specific Octo-
ber date. Our data on the entire student 
body always includes the previous year’s 
February matriculates, but it may not 
include the upcoming Febs, according 
to those federal regulations.
2) Mr. Drennen is correct that the 
enrollment origins of the Feb program 
no longer make much sense, which is 
why that is no longer the reason we have 
it. Today’s generation of college-bound 
students are much more interested in 
seeking non-linear routes through their 
education, hence the increasing interest 
in gap years, the Feb program, intern-
ships, and other experiential forms of 
learning. Middlebury has been a leader 
in encouraging those paths, and the Feb 
program is a reflection of that school of 
thought. 
3) Any sense of inferiority one might 
have as a Feb would seem to be strict-
ly self-induced. The average academic 
ratings, test scores, and selectivity for 
Feb’s is virtually identical to Septem-
bers, and, in some categories, has actu-
ally been higher than that of fall first-
years. Our current Strategic Plan calls 
for Feb admission to be voluntary, and 
now typically 95 percent of the annual 
class is so. We do not admit any candi-
dates for Early Decision unless they in-
dicate they are willing to be considered 
for a Feb start, and the same holds true 
for the vast majority of regular decision 
applicants, who would ordinarily have 
multiple options, in order to ensure no 
student would enroll as a Feb against his 
or her wishes.
4) I re-
gret that 
Mr. Dren-
nen would 
resort to us-
ing a three 
and a half 
y e a r - o l d 
quote from 
my prede-
cessor in a 
previous Campus article to bolster any 
claims he is making. I respect the work 
of Campus journalists and have a strong 
track record of transparency and coop-
eration with them. My direct contact 
information is readily available to any 
Middlebury student. We have, and will 
continue, to work very hard to shape the 
annual Feb class in a more diverse man-
ner; no student would be directed away 
from Feb consideration based on race, 
culture or socioeconomic background.
Like any top college or university, 
Middlebury is an appropriately self-crit-
ical institution; we have plenty of room 
for improvement and there are crucial 
areas in need of continued pointed as-
sessment. Tilting at February windmills 
is not one of them.
Respectfully,
Greg Buckles
Dean of Admissions 
Don’t End the Feb Program
letter to 
the editor
Greg Buckles is the 
Dean of Admissions
“Like any top college or uni-
versity, Middlebury is an ap-
propriately self-critical institu-
tion; we have plenty of room for 
improvement and there are cru-
cial areas in need of continued 
pointed assessment. ”
The More Beautiful World
|october 31, 2013 9opinions
Emily cox ’15
Physics · Chemistry · Calculus · Statistics 
Tutoring
Dr. Matthew Kohler
Former college professor; full-time tutor for 10 years. 
In-person or online; occasional or weekly. 
$60/hr. 
802.282.2763
www.vermontphysicsguy.com
matt@vermontphysicsguy.com
Even though the percentage 
of self-reported cheaters last 
year was only slighter higher 
than those in 2008, the number 
of convictions for cheating – 
excluding plagiarism, which is 
less cut-and-dry – is climbing. 
According to the Honor Code 
Review Committee report pub-
lished last spring, the number 
of instances in which a student 
was found guilty of cheating 
increased four-folds over the 
course of just three academic 
years.
But it’s tricky business figur-
ing out why cheating convic-
tions and cases of self-reported 
cheating are on the rise. Dean of 
Judicial Affairs Karen Guttentag 
said there are only theories right 
now and no definitive answers 
to the why questions.
“Maybe it’s a reflection of an 
increase in comfort in admit-
ting to cheating,” she said. “But 
sadly, my sense is the taboo on 
cheating seems to be weaker, so 
students are less inhibited about 
acknowledging their unethical 
actions. All of which is to say – 
bad news.”
But from talking to numer-
ous student leaders, adminis-
trators, faculty members and 
national research experts, there 
is a clear shift in the academic 
culture that is threatening to 
hollow out the Honor Code.
A Close Call
“It seemed easier to cheat, 
because cheating was more ac-
ceptable than a C-,” said Billy. “I 
was scared, coming into fresh-
men year and worried about 
my GPA and potential for the 
future.”
Since his near miss back in 
the first-year microeconom-
ics course, Billy claimed he 
sworn off the large-scale cheat-
ing. But he hasn’t been totally 
clean. When asked when the 
last time he cheated was, Billy 
sighed. He had a look like he 
was finding his footing into 
more honesty and before leaving 
self-preservation, but decided to 
sidestep the question entirely: 
“Well, the best way I can put 
it is that I’ve gotten a lot more 
self-conscious – well, not self-
conscious – but I have a lot more 
integrity from the work,” he said. 
“But I couldn’t say that I haven’t 
glanced over a person’s test and 
taken an answer.” 
“I am in something that 
genuinely feels like a passion 
and not in economics trying to 
get into a high-paying finance 
job,” he said. “Personally, I 
would take the lessons I learned 
and take them with me into 
the real world, but I could see 
how someone who, after having 
abided by the honor code for 
four years and then getting into 
the real world where there is no 
honor code, could get back into 
cheating in many ways.”
When asked whether every 
cheater gets what is coming to 
them, he let out a smile. “I don’t 
think so.”
Billy’s story is something of a 
failed morality tale, one driven 
by a desire to survive, scarred by 
the threat of losing everything, 
and changed – maybe only 
slightly – by the College’s culture 
of academic integrity central to 
2007-2008
2008-2009
2010-2011
2011-2012
2012-2013
6
21*
16
22
21
Number of Academic Honesty Violations Per Year
*The tripling of academic honesty violations 
coincides with the 2008 housing bubble bust
HARDLY A SECRET
CHEATING:
the Honor Code. But whether he 
was changed by it, even he didn’t 
seem to know.
“After that experience, it was 
more about the integrity of the 
work. It’s a good feeling to know 
that I don’t need anyone else’s 
answer and I can accept it.”
Nearing the end of the in-
terview, it was clear that he was 
scarred, but not transformed. 
“I couldn’t promise you that 
if a person’s answer was right 
in front of me, and all I needed 
was just one more question, I 
wouldn’t say there’s a 100 per-
cent chance that I wouldn’t look 
at that person’s paper,” he ex-
plained. “But I haven’t done that 
in a while. I wouldn’t say that I 
would never cheat on anything 
in my life.”
Here and Now
Associate Professor of His-
tory Amy Morsman was struck 
by the cynicism of academic in-
tegrity from the students in the 
first-year seminar she taught last 
fall. She passed out an article 
about the recent cheating scan-
dal at Harvard University, think-
ing this was a chance to impart 
to her students what life means 
with an Honor Code. 
“I expected them to be 
shocked and outraged by this 
breach in ethics,” she said. “I was 
mystified by the sort of ho-hum 
response my first-year students 
gave.” 
Some of her first-years em-
braced an attitude of  “well, in 
the world of today, to get ahead 
you might have to do this,” 
Morsman recounted. “Some of 
my students already seemed so 
jaded by the world.”
As it stands, the Code re-
quires students to report wit-
nessed cheating. But students 
who fail to, face a punishment 
that even the Chair of the Stu-
dent Honor Code Committee 
(SHCC) Alison Maxwell ’15 
couldn’t articulate.
“I don’t know what the spe-
cific punishment is [for a wit-
ness who failed to report cheat-
ing], because it’s not common 
for the judicial board,” she said. 
“We can’t actually know when 
someone has broken the honor 
code in that way.”
All the assets that an Honor 
Code offers ¬– an unique trust 
between student and professor, 
the freedom to take an exam 
without suspicion in the room 
– gets no play at Middlebury, if 
integrity is lost on students in 
that same room. This failure has 
sent the SHCC to reevaluate the 
sustainability of peer-proctored 
exams. 
But the chronicity of cheat-
ing and rising number in cases 
of apprehended cheaters is not 
a sure-fire sign that the com-
munity’s morality is hemor-
rhaging red. Approximately one 
in four allegations, usually in 
the context of plagiarism, are 
cases, in which the students are 
confused, “the result of insuf-
ficient instruction on the part of 
the College, [but more likely] a 
failure on the part of the student 
to internalize that information,” 
according to Guttentag.  
The flurry of information 
sharing has also led to more 
confusion where the Internet 
has colored gray an area in pla-
giarism. Constant information 
juggling obscures our original 
ideas from the ideas we read 
and, as a result, the lines on pla-
giarism blur.
“Notions of originality have 
transformed today, because 
thing are so easily copy-able,” 
Media Studies Professor and 
Academic Judicial Board (AJB) 
member Jason Mittell said. “So 
much of what people are read-
ing are re-blogs of other people’s 
works or references to other 
people’s creativity – with or 
without citation. We live in a 
culture of quoting and of remix 
and reference. 
“I think traditional citation 
guidelines really hard to wrap 
your head around if you’ve been 
brought up in this generation 
of – I don’t want to say loose 
standards, but different types 
of practices where citing is not 
relevant,” he added. “Precise 
referencing or asking permission 
to quote someone just doesn’t 
make intuitive sense to students 
today. And it doesn’t make sense 
to me either sometimes.”
And SGA President Rachel 
Liddell hinges on Mittell’s point 
about the clash of tradition and 
today. For her, the Honor Code 
has a different meaning when its 
tradition, over a breadth of time, 
is worked into today’s context, 
a state of academic honesty she 
is “dissatisfied with at Middle-
bury.”
“The Honor Code has a 
beautiful history, where students 
got together and worked really 
hard to write it and pass it,” she 
said. “We don’t own it anymore. 
And if we don’t want to own it, 
then we have to figure out what 
else we want to own.”
Dean of the College Shirley 
Collado, suggest that the pres-
sure to succeed doesn’t happen 
in a vacuum.
“We’re seeing a trend not just 
in Middlebury but at a num-
ber of selective colleges – and 
I’ve talked to many colleagues 
around the country about this 
– that students are really feeling 
the pressure: what it’s going to 
be like to be part of a global job 
market and exceling and being 
an excellent student at Middle-
bury,” she said. “So I don’t know 
how much of a role that plays in 
stress or academic dishonesty. 
It’s a question I raise.” 
Beyond the Bubble
But cheating is not a Middle-
bury-centric issue. It is widely 
accepted that cheating is lower 
at schools with an Honor Code. 
The College’s cheating statistic 
runs consistent with similar 
schools with honor codes like 
Duke University, which identi-
fied in 2006 that 29 percent of 
students admitted to unauthor-
ized collaboration. But in larger 
schools without an honor code, 
like Harvard University, more 
than 40 percent of freshmen 
admitted to cheating on home-
work, according to a survey 
conducted by the The Harvard 
Crimson earlier this year.
“Schools with honor codes 
are better off,” said Donald Mc-
Cabe, professor at the Rutgers 
Business School and leading 
researcher in cheating. “Overall, 
honor codes work reasonably 
well though not perfect. The 
smaller the community, like at 
Middlebury, the easier it is to 
do. It creates a sense of com-
munity in which students real-
ize that when they cheat, they’re 
cheating their fellow classmates. 
Large schools like Penn State 
and Rutgers are trying to in-
crease the level of integrity 
among students and finding it 
very difficult.”
But compare Middlebury 
to the University of California, 
Berkeley, with nearly 36,000 
students, where there is more 
anonymity and less noticeable 
impact.
“Cheating is no big deal, 
because it happens all the time,” 
Jasmin Soltani, a chemical-engi-
neering student at UC Berkeley 
said. “It is ridiculously easy at a 
school this big with understaffed 
faculty in test-taking rooms.”
When explained the inten-
tion behind the Honor Code 
— that there is supposed to be 
ethical temptation, Soltani was 
skeptical. 
“The kind of unproctored 
exams at Middlebury would not 
work at all in Cal. 500 students 
taking the same exam in an un-
supervised room? That sounds 
like a joke,” she said. “The 
academic environment (at Cal) 
is very cut throat and people 
would not pass up a chance to 
get ahead of the curve.” 
Other students offer a more 
nuanced take on the cheating 
culture at UC Berkeley.
“Honestly, I saw very little 
cheating during my four years 
at Cal,” said Emma Vadapalas, 
a history and economics major 
who graduated UC Berkeley 
this year in May. “Most of the 
instances I recall involve minor 
infractions, such as students 
copying problem sets from each 
other or getting a friend more 
versed in the material to do 
a problem set for them. I call 
these minor infractions because 
if caught cheating, the student 
would get a zero on the assign-
ment but not flunk the class.”
McCabe warns against this 
kind of lowered standards that 
qualify cheating. “The number 
of general cheating have gone 
down, but at the same time, 
there are a number of students 
who dismiss low levels of cheat-
ing and feel okay justifying it. 
I see it as a danger,” a slippery 
slope toward rationalizing severe 
acts of cheating. 
Unlike UC Berkeley, Middle-
bury’s judicial process reviews 
cheating cases by the case.
Even if the College does have 
a lower prevalence of cheating 
than its larger counterparts, 
Liddell said that especially at a 
small community, there is a real 
cost to dishonesty – and we all 
pay it.
“The truth is, if I were to 
cheat, I hurt myself, but I also 
hurt professors and my fellow 
students,” Liddell said. “If I were 
to cheat and I get a 98, and then 
the professor looks at you, who 
got an 82, and you look worse. 
Cheating of all forms damages 
all students.”
The Future of the Honor 
Code
That does not mean improve-
ments are not in order. But even 
with great strides taken to ad-
dress problems of the Honor 
Code in last year’s review – the 
HCRC redesigned go/citations 
and developed field-specific 
responses to ethical dilemmas – 
this semester, nine professors are 
currently piloting Turnitin.com, 
a plagiarism detection service. 
After this semester’s trial run, 
there will be talk of Turnitin’s 
expansion, the implications of 
which could severely shake the 
trust built into the Honor Code.
But students and professors 
staked out different views on the 
introduction of Turnitin.com. 
“The point of using Turnitin.
com is not to catch and haul 
students into the AJB room on 
charges of plagiarism, but to fix 
the problem before it becomes a 
habit,” said Morsman, one of the 
nine professors experimenting 
with Turnitin.com. 
“We do ask professors to 
check for plagiarism when they 
read our papers and Turnitin 
provides a more efficient meth-
od of the same process,” Liddell 
said. “But though not a violation 
of student rights, Turnitin is not 
congruent with the idea of the 
Honor Code, because it does not 
rely on trust and it does not rely 
on mutual respect.”
The introduction of Turnitin 
might be a prelude to the far 
greater changes the Honor Code 
could suffer if cheating contin-
ues. 
Indeed, at a time when cheat-
ing reports are climbing, strides 
are being made to tackle the 
problem from all directions: 
top-down ¬– through Turnitin 
– as well as ground-up. A main 
of focus of the recently formed 
SHCC is to fix the system of 
peer proctoring, which Max-
well says is a broken part of the 
Honor Code. 
“I feel like we are forcing 
students to break the honor code 
when we ask them to proctor 
each other,” Maxwell said. “Ev-
eryone we’ve talked to said ‘I 
will never tattle on a fellow stu-
dent,’ so it’s very clear it doesn’t 
work. We’re coming up with a 
solution, but I don’t know how 
it’s going to turn out. Only time 
will tell.”
But Associate Professor of 
Economics Jessica Holmes, who 
teaches Economics of Sin, argues 
that peer-proctoring empirically 
does not work, but offers a quick 
solution. 
“The fix is simple: proctor-
ing. It is too small of a com-
munity and no one wants to be 
viewed as the ‘rat.’ Proctoring 
[would] reduce both cheating 
and the pressure on students to 
report on each other,” she said. 
“How can I ensure the academic 
integrity of the exam environ-
ment if I am not in the room?” 
But even professors who 
have not brought students up on 
charges are aware of the shifts.
“I’ve been teaching here for 
12 years and I’ve never brought 
a student up on charges,” Mors-
man said. “But I hear about 
cheating more from students 
and I hear it more from staff and 
the people bringing cases to the 
judicial board. I’m aware that it 
exists, that it’s getting worse, and 
the College is responding to it.”
Members of the community 
are slowly backing away from 
the original vision of the Honor 
Code. Doubtless, students 
and professors hope to see the 
Honor Code hold its own in an 
increasingly competitive soci-
ety and succeed. But there are 
signs that things are about to 
be different. In the midst of the 
decisive failure of peer proctor-
ing, the formation of the SHCC 
and the fortification of preven-
tative measures like Turnitin, it 
is entirely possible that perhaps 
a decade from now will look 
entirely different — a proctor in 
every exam room and a website 
reading each paper.
1 in 3 Middlebury 
students admitted to 
violating the Honor 
Code last academic 
year. Why and what 
does this mean? 
Continued from page 1
By Jessica Cheung
Design by Olivia Allen
26.53%
35.28%
1.04%
Number of students convicted by the 
Academic Judicial Board for academic 
honesty violations in the past year
Number of students reporting that they 
have committed an honor code viola-
tion in the past year
Number of students reporting that they 
have cheated at least once in the past 
year
The Middlebury Campus| OCTOBER 31, 201310 11features
I had a minor shock the other day when, 
through a seemingly innocent email from 
our academic director, I found out that we’re 
already halfway through the semester. In 
disbelief, I did a little mental check-up, and 
yup – it’s been almost two months since I 
from fellow passengers and clutching on to 
my host family’s address for dear life.
Reaching the mid-point of the semester 
is always kind of mind-boggling, but being 
abroad gives it a twist. All of a sudden, you 
are in a position to “evaluate your study-
-
You realize you’ll soon be answering ques-
shudder at the thought of that past-tense 
‘was’, you wonder how you could ever stitch 
together, into coherent language, the  mosa-
ic of sights, tastes, frustrations and delights 
that make up these last couple months –half 
contradict that?
The thing is, I’m nowhere near halfway 
done with my mental abroad-to-do list, that 
vaguely formulated set of goals for my time 
as many museums as possible and attaining 
a respectable level in the art of wine-and-
cheese tasting. It also includes getting com-
fortable with spoken French, which, to start 
on a positive note, is one area in which I’ve 
made decent progress. Although I’m still a 
little self-conscious about my slightly-Span-
ish, slightly-American accent, and I’m rarely 
want to, I’m not shy about talking and usu-
ally make myself understood. Plus, lately 
I’ve begun incorporating little phrases like 
speech, which adds a whole lot of coolness 
to my French, if you ask me. So there’s that.
My museum-visiting record is another 
Louvre I wasn’t even worried about getting 
-
ured I’d be back plenty of times. Well, not 
only haven’t I returned, but I haven’t set foot 
inside the Musée d’Orsay either, which is 
kind of unacceptable given that it’s a twenty 
minute walk from my house. And it’s free for 
students. In my defense, there is an unbe-
lievable amount of stuff to do in Paris on any 
given day, and I keep telling myself that the 
museum will always be there. But I won’t! 
That’s been my ongoing realization 
since Amy’s e-mail, and it’s prompted me to 
Centre Pompidou, another of the big muse-
ums. At least I haven’t bought a mid-semes-
ter-crisis red beret yet.
I’m happy to say my palate training is 
going slightly better. My host mom was 
impressed the other day when she saw I’d 
tucked away a particularly strong cheese in 
the fridge. Go fearless me. I just hope she 
didn’t realize I also have a weakness for 
Babybel, which I suspect is only a couple 
tiers above string-cheese in the cheese-qual-
ity scale... NOT a point in my favor. As for 
the wine, although I do very much appre-
when it comes to buying it. I was actually 
close to getting a bottle of Barefoot the other 
day, just because it was familiar, but I ended 
up pulling myself together and getting a an 
award-winning-French-something-or-other 
in the seven euro range instead. It was a 
close call. I’m telling myself I might not be-
and that I should maybe just aim for enjoy-
ing whatever’s in my glass. ..…yeah, not sure 
how poetic that sounds.
Bref, there’s a reason I refrained from 
making an ACTUAL to-do list before coming 
shouldn’t make a detailed list of goals for the 
second half of this semester – not if it means 
pre-set standards. There are certain things 
greatest goal for the coming weeks will be to 
remain open – to allow each day to surprise 
me, adding however it might add to the com-
Even if it that means the whole thing will be 
harder to describe after.  Pass the Babybel!
12 features | october 31, 2013
By Vicky Marambio
By Joe Flaherty
On Getting   
       Lost in Paris
Past a locked glass door and a chair 
that belonged to Robert Frost is Special 
Collections within the Davis Family Li-
brary, the space in the Library’s base-
ment that primarily comprises the books 
you will not find shelved in the stacks.
“It’s both a collection of materials 
-
sive or fragile, so there are a few different 
-
chives, and Digital Scholarship Rebekah 
Irwin said. “Generally, the oldest books 
in the collection are here, and some spe-
Special Collections are the collections of 
books such as the Abernathy Collection 
– a trove of manuscripts and rare books 
from great American authors of the 19th 
and 20th centuries. 
Priceless books such as Henry David 
kept in Special Collections.  
“So that’s a very valuable and, of 
course, irreplaceable item which is kept 
-
cial Collections and Archives Danielle 
Rougeau. Even if they are not books, 
items of significance to the literary world 
are also housed in the collections.
“Thoreau’s father and Thoreau for 
part of his young adulthood were pencil-
makers.  So we have Thoreau pencils and 
said.  “I don’t know how many students 
know that the chair that sits in the front 
is Robert Frost’s chair and his moth-eat-
en sweater that sits on top of it, and his 
Other collections are more uncon-
ventional, such as the Helen Flanders ar-
chive, made up of recordings collected by 
the eponymous researcher and folklorist 
who traveled across Vermont during the 
mid-1900s to record folk songs. 
“We have 250 or so of her Edison 
well as thousands of records and early 
said. “It is a collection wthat is very pop-
ular among folklorists, musicians and re-
searchers who are interested in how folk 
Rare Books and Manuscripts holds 
the books that, for the sake of preserva-
tion, have to be kept in certain conditions 
and not tossed in a backpack and walked 
around campus. These books are instead 
used in the Special Collections reading 
room.
“The Manuscripts part of [Rare 
Books and Manuscripts] is unique manu-
said.  These manuscripts include drafts 
of books before they are published, as 
well as letters and research papers. 
Oftentimes, these manuscripts re-
veal information about an author. 
“We have those collections, so if 
someone is interested in the process an 
artist or writer goes through, we have 
that is something you can study to learn 
about the person or the process of writ-
collection of Civil War letters. 
A recent gift came from the spouse 
of an alumnus who was a niece of Ernest 
Hemingway and gave many of personal 
diaries and letters from the family.  
“So if you’re really into Hemingway, 
Watson said. “It’s the kind of thing that 
we would have researchers coming na-
tionally or inter-
nationally to do 
The College 
Archives, a collec-
tion of any items 
and publications 
produced by peo-
ple associated 
with the College, is 
an important part 
of Special Collec-
tions’ mission. 
“By the nature 
of being as old a 
school as we are, 
we have an amazing range of materi-
als in the collection dating back to 1800 
is happening in society by the activities 
happening here and we have the benefit 
While the priceless items in the col-
lection are of use to researchers, the Spe-
cial Collections staff primarily serves stu-
dents as well as administrators. 
“When the College does new things, 
-
win said.  Especially when considering 
changes to departments, such as the split 
of History of Art and Architecture and the 
Fine Arts department in 1997, according 
the precedent that can be viewed in the 
Archives. 
“We’re supplying them usually with 
research information that they need to 
produce flyers and brochures but they’re 
said.
According to her colleagues, 
Rougeau’s ability to recognize and name 
the faces in the photographs of the Ar-
chives is unrivaled.
“She’ll look at a photo of a dinner in 
1905 or 1911 of the alumni group in New 
York City, and she names 10 people in 
speculates that 
working with the 
materials since 
1994 is why her 
memory of the peo-
ple in Middlebury’s 
past is so keen. 
“I feel like I 
have a responsibil-
ity to try to docu-
ment this so that 
the names are there 
Rougeau said. 
At the end of 
the day, however, 
Special Collections can only delay the 
inevitable.
“All things made of paper are made 
of organic materials, and all organic ma-
terials slowly degrade whether it’s our 
bodies or a tree or a piece of paper and 
the point of preservation is to slow that 
down as much as you possibly can if you 
said. This reality has led to a digitization 
effort, with photographs, manuscripts, 
and materials from the Archives are be-
ing scanned in order to preserve them. 
Nevertheless, the ability to digitize has 
its downsides. 
“We have photos and scrapbooks 
and letters and diaries of students of 
Middlebury College through the 1900s 
and into the 20th century but the last 
time one of you or your classmates wrote 
a letter to a friend, kept a journal on pa-
per or took a photo and made a print of 
The Internet and digital media are 
hampering the Archives’ ability to tell 
the story of events that happened on 
campus. 
“A student can come to our archives 
and can study how women at Middlebury 
organized themselves around women’s 
suffrage or abolition or any big political 
movement because we have documents 
a student 10 years from now wants to 
understand what was happening around 
climate change on campus or divest-
ment, so much of that was happening not 
on paper but on social media and digital 
cameras and cell phones and on blogs. 
We need to make sure that we can tell 
that story and that a student doing a his-
tory thesis a decade from now is able to 
Special Collections: Quietly Preserving 
the Past for the Sake of Midd’s Future
From a 1930s-era photo album, students taking notes on skeletons for an anatomy class.
college archives, Special Collections, Middlebury CollegE
Members of the Alpha Chi Sorority study while a portrait of Gamaliel Painter looks on. 
College Archives, Special Collections, Middlebury College
“A student can come to our 
archives and can study how 
women at Middlebury or-
ganized themselves around 
women’s suffrage ... because 
we have documents that tell 
that story.”
Rebekah Irwin
director of collections, archives, and digital scholarship 
and Interim Curator of special collections
13featuresoctober 31, 2013   
Over Midterm recess, two groups of stu-
dents embarked on short weekend trips to 
Port Henry, New York, and the Merck Forest 
& Farmland Center in Rupert, Vt. Both out-
ings were part of the College’s student-led 
initiative known as Middlebury Alternative 
Break Trips, which is endearingly referred to 
by many students as MAlt. This year’s Octo-
ber Break mini-excursions marked the 6th 
consecutive year in which the trips have been 
offered to students during the fall term.
The primary objective of MAlt is to prao-
vide students with an opportunity to engage 
in community service in the local New Eng-
land region. MAlt advisor and alumna Ashley 
Calkins ’06 believes that what distinguishes 
the trips from other fall break activities is 
how they serve as “ways for students to en-
gage their peers in a community-based issue 
they are passionate about.”  
Casey Wanna ’16 and Casey Watters ’15 
shared their passion for helping individuals 
suffering from developmental disabilities by 
planning a trip to the Mountain Lake Services 
facility in Port Henry, NY.
Founded in 1967, Mountain Lake Servic-
that take recently institutionalized [men] with 
a mean IQ of 65 and provides them with the 
shelter and therapy they need to live again,” 
Wanna said. Besides providing the men with 
basic necessities, the Mountain Lakes Ser-
vices helps these men “discover new passions 
such as artwork and outdoor recreation” to 
provide individuals with “lives they had never 
experienced” before, according to Wanna.
On the trip, students were fully inte-
grated in the everyday lives of the men, with 
activities including hiking, dining, visiting the 
facilities workshop and recreation center and 
playing video games.
“Although we came in believing that 
these individuals were remarkably different 
from us, I think we [were] all stunned by how 
similar they were to us,” said Wanna. “They 
had boyfriends and girlfriends, wanted to talk 
about families and school, had hobbies and 
passions just as we did.”
Adam Lang ’14 led the trip to the Merck 
Forest & Farmland center in upstate Ver-
mont. The Merck center strives to educate the 
public about sustainable forest and farmland 
management. Approximately a one-hour 
drive from campus, the trip was a perfect 
way to get to know other Middlebury College 
students in a close-knit setting while simul-
taneously engaging in innovative community 
service, said Sophie Vaughan ’17, who partici-
pated in the trip.
At Merck, group members built a trail 
surrounding an education park in an effort to 
make the center more easily accessible to the 
public. The cabin at Merck is open during the 
winter for volunteers in exchange for free ac-
cess to breathtaking cross-country ski trails. 
Chores such as taking care of bunnies, herd-
ing sheep and stacking wood were part of a 
typical day’s routine at Merck.
“Although many of the tasks may seem 
tough manual labor was rewarding because it 
is not something that can be expected in the 
traditional classroom setting,” said Vaughan. 
In addition to engaging in environmental 
sustainability, the Merck group had the rare 
opportunity of experiencing quintessential 
Vermont country life. Students stayed togeth-
er in a rustic cabin, which was once a former 
sap house. Equipped with only a wood-burn-
ing stove and no electricity, the cabin was free 
from the distractions of modern technology.
At a modest cost of $30 dollars for food 
and accommodation, MAlt is a college sub-
sidized and sponsored activity that gives 
students the rare opportunity to form close 
bonds with one another as they learn about 
and serve the surrounding community.
of MAlt is how students return to campus 
reenergized and ready to share their experi-
ences with their peers.
“What makes MAlt different from other 
organizations on campus is the emphasis on 
-
riences, and considering how all of this can 
have an impact on Middlebury campus,” said 
Wanna. 
MAlt Services Community
By Renee Chang
On Thursday Oct. 24, journalist Peter 
Savodnik ’94 gave a lecture sponsored by the 
Department of English and American Litera-
ture, Ross Commons and the Rohatyn Center 
for Global Affairs titled “Why We Need a New 
Media Now and What It Will Look Like”, the 
-
ries this year, in the conference room of Rob-
ert A. Jones ’59 House.
to hear Savodnik, who has contributed to The 
New York Times Magazine, Bloomberg Busi-
nessweek, The New Yorker, The Washington 
Post and GQ among other publications and 
has reported from Russia, China, the Middle 
East and across the United States, speak 
about the future of media. In addition to be-
ing a graduate of Middlebury College, Savod-
nik has also taught two Winter Term courses 
at Middlebury. 
“We talked a lot about ideas,” said Harry 
Zieve-Cohen ’15, who was a student in the 
literature and politics. It was a more rigorous 
and [academically] serious ...  J-term course 
than most J-term classes. People should take 
his class this January.”
In his lecture, Savodnik discussed how 
Stateless Media, the news company he found-
ed that produces short videos called “short-
reals” that deliver news stories in a more 
exciting and cinematic format, began. The 
is about a British man named Nasser Shaikh 
the hotel where his brother Khuram was 
murdered and where Khuram’s girlfriend 
was raped. 
Savodnik then spoke about why we need 
a new form of media. Though for many years 
he had vowed to remain a print journalist, in 
recent years Savodnik began realizing the de-
is rapidly shrinking, making it no longer a 
medium that engages the public. “Journalists 
... run the distinct risk of becoming more and 
more like academics, that is, instead of speak-
ing to the whole world, [they are] speaking 
more and more to each other,” Savodnik said.
The lecture captivated the audience’s at-
tention and caused a spirited discussion in 
the Q&A session, in which many members of 
the audience, who have grown up with tradi-
tional media, questioned Savodnik’s idea of 
new media. As the organizer of the Meet the 
Press Lecture Series, Scholar-in-Residence 
Sue Halpern from the English and American 
Literatures department observes, “[t]here 
were a fair number of skeptics in the audi-
ence and ... their pointed questions were use-
ful in helping the rest of us understand Peter 
Savodnik’s vision.”
The topic of journalism relates further to 
America’s troubled democratic regime. Many 
problems that plague the government today 
seem to be closely connected to the condition 
of the media. 
“At this point in time it’s questionable 
whether we have either a free press, given the 
corporate ownership of so many media out-
lets, or a functioning democracy, as evidence 
by the government shutdown among other 
gerrymandered disasters,” Halpern wrote in 
an email. “What makes so-called new media 
important is the possibility of reinvigorating 
the press, in part by bypassing the constraints 
of traditional media.”
“Without a healthy media, democracy 
cannot function,” Zieve-Cohen said. “Indeed, 
I don’t think it’s a stretch to trace many of 
American democracy’s current problems to 
our present lack of a mature and intelligent 
media.”
Campus journalism seems to embody 
in some respects the idea of new media, as 
shown by many projects on campus.
“Because students are already familiar 
and comfortable and used to multimedia as 
consumers,” wrote Halpern, “and because 
there are so many students here who have 
multimedia skills themselves, Middlebury 
students are already doing this kind of work 
themselves. MiddBeat is a good example. The 
Journalism fellows is another, as is the ‘Por-
traits (in) Justice’ project, and there are many 
others.”
Lecturer Emphasizes online media
By David Yang
Monday
thru
Friday 
8:30-5
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
The Sound Investment Jazz Ensemble
The College’s swingin’ big band features great musi-
cians playing the music that’s been called America’s 
National Treasure. In previous appearances at 51 
Main, the band played to full houses that didn’t want 
snapping and toes tapping!
11/1, 8 P.M., 51 MAIN
Alpenglow and Lucius
Alpenglow, an indie-folk band that began at the Col-
lege, is opening for Lucius, a Brooklyn-based quintet, at 
Higher Ground in Burlington this weekend. The band is 
using the show as their Vermont release for their debut 
EP, Solitude.  
11/3, 8 P.M., HIGHER GROUND, BURLINGTON, VT
Vinegar Tom
Vinegar Tom is a play with songs and a play 
with subversive intent—a cabaret about hanging 
witches. Written by Caryl Churchill; directed by 
Cheryl Faraone. For mature audiences.
10/31-11/2, 8 P.M., MCA SEELER STUDIO THEATRE
Chance Will Not Perform ‘Favorite Song’
The cover of ‘10 Day’, the mixtape that shot Chance the Rapper to fame in late 2012.
datpiff.com
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Brennan was not the only student 
impressed by Chance’s distinctive sound. 
Adam Benay ’13.5 is a huge fan of Chance, 
listening to Acid Rap every day this past 
summer.  
“I was getting so into him,” Benay 
day of school that he would be coming, 
semester and this was a nice capstone.”
When MCAB announced Chance the 
Rapper as the fall concert, needless to say, 
many people on campus were extremely 
excited.  In an all-student email on Sep. 
23, MCAB revealed the Nov. 2 concert 
date, announcing “Tickets on sale soon,” 
and directing people to look to Twitter and 
Facebook for more information. MCAB 
decided to advertise the event solely 
through their Facebook page and on the 
many students without tickets. Late in the 
day on Oct. 14, the campus buzzed with 
news that the tickets to the concert had 
sold out, leaving many scrambling and 
willing to pay well above the $12 ticket 
charge to obtain a highly sought after 
ticket.  
Fouhey explained that the 
organization decided how to advertise the 
event at MCAB executive board meetings, 
brainstorming for electronic advertising 
alternatives to the all-student email, 
which has in recent years experienced a 
push for limited use. 
“MCAB made an online status which 
was shared by dozens of students on MCAB 
in the hopes that it would reach all corners 
of campus,” Fouhey said. “We thought 
that with the excitement on campus 
and word of mouth, the ticket release 
information would spread throughout the 
student body. Our standard procedure 
is to release the tickets and then do an 
advertising push once they have been put 
on sale.”
Benay, who had not ‘liked’ MCAB 
on Facebook, was one of the students 
shocked to discover that he had missed 
his opportunity to purchase a ticket. 
“There was a huge portion of people 
who fell through the cracks,” Benay said. 
“I found person after person who said 
‘What are you talking about? When did 
the tickets go on sale?’” 
Due to uncertainties regarding the 
Memorial Field House construction, 
MCAB booked the concert in the 
McCullough Social Space, which only 
allowed for 600 tickets to be sold. 
In addition, the event was limited to 
students only and each ID holder could 
only purchase two tickets.  
Many students may not be aware of 
the multi-step process involved in bringing 
an artist to Middlebury, including the 
important role of a middle agent to assist 
in communicating with MCAB which 
price range. According to Associate Dean 
of Students JJ Boggs, bringing a desirable 
artist to rural Vermont for the right price 
is no easy task, and the MCAB committee 
the College.
“[MCAB has] a challenging job, and 
they have been criticized in the past 
for hosting unpopular shows,” Boggs 
said. “They are simultaneously trying 
to meet student interest, manage their 
budget responsibly, offer a variety 
of programming, and at the same 
time, consider ‘what might the social 
The problem with MCAB’s marketing 
strategy, according to many students, is 
that not every student is on Facebook, and 
even those who are may not check their 
accounts on a regular basis.  At the time 
of the sale, MCAB had a little over 1,100 
followers in a student body of 2,500, many 
of which were alumni. The organization 
had previously used posters and emails 
to advertise concerts and many criticized 
the decision to publicize through social 
media accounts that students had to join 
Fouhey acknowledged that the ticket 
release issue is a learning experience 
for MCAB and that the organization 
never meant to cause the dissatisfaction 
resulting from the social media marketing 
idea.
“We understand the frustrations of 
students about ticket sales,” she said. “It 
was never our intention to limit or restrict 
who would know about the ticket release 
information. We fully acknowledge that 
we could have done a better job navigating 
this ticket release. We will certainly learn 
from this mistake, and in the future 
we will look to broader methods of 
communication.”  
Boggs reacted to an impassioned 
middbeat, and other general student 
concerns over the way the ticket sales 
were handled, quickly taking action. On 
Friday, Oct. 25, Boggs sent out an all-
student email announcing that the College 
was able to secure Nelson Arena, and that 
more tickets would be made available for 
purchase soon due to the larger venue. 
The move to Nelson was motivated 
by safety concerns, as administrators 
realized that McCullough did not have the 
capacity for the crowd or the extensive set 
and entourage that travels with Chance.  
“The real hero of this story is JJ 
Boggs,” said Benay, pleased with this 
outcome. “People are reasonable here and 
it’s very reassuring to know that things 
can get done.” 
Lyric Controversy
In the email, Boggs also referenced 
student concerns expressed over the 
perceived misogynistic and homophobic 
language in Chance the Rapper’s lyrics. 
But for students like Luke Carroll Brown 
’14, Co-Chair of the Community Council, 
limiting the lyrics and song choice was 
not enough.
“I think we can all agree that violent 
homophobia and misogyny are clearly 
out of bounds and have no place on this 
campus,” Brown said. “Multiple songs on 
Acid Rap depict actions that are in clear 
violation of our community standards, 
a reality that should prohibit Chance’s 
presence on campus. This performance 
is especially upsetting in light of the 
recent hate-letter that managed to 
combine homophobia with the threat of 
rape against a student at this college; at 
a time in which our community should 
groups feel safer, we instead chose to hire 
an unabashedly homophobic singer to 
perform a concert.”  
“The Concert Committee co-chairs 
and I were completely unaware of the 
content in question when we booked 
Chance,” Fouhey said. “The concerns 
over some of the lyrics were brought to 
our attention last Monday, Oct. 22. I do 
sincerely apologize. We never intended to 
hurt anyone.” 
Besides Brown, the controversy has 
sparked a debate from a variety of other 
opinions about discussing homophobia 
on campus and applying community 
standards to artists visiting the College.
SGA President Rachel Liddell ‘15said 
that Chance’s content is disrespectful and 
offensive to many students on campus, 
but worries that talk about completely 
canceling the concert would have crossed 
a line from concern to censorship. 
I respect the right of others to tell me 
things with which I don’t agree,” Liddell 
said. “I don’t want people to be censored. 
I think that saying ‘bringing Chance to 
campus condones homophobia’ is an 
overstatement.”
Liddell further explained that if the 
concert had been canceled, Middlebury 
still would have been obligated to pay 
Chance for a show that never happened. 
She also believes that the debate resulting 
from the controversy is a positive 
outcome, asserting that, “the concert will 
spark the conversations people wanted to 
have.”
Boggs added that a complicated 
conversation took place when considering 
what to do about the concert. 
“Right now we don’t have criteria 
for evaluating these kinds of decisions. 
compassionate and effective allies amid 
all the complexity in a short period of 
time. We have a lot to learn from this 
together,” Boggs said.
Collado personally spoke with 
Chance’s management, requesting that 
the artist leave homophobic lyrics out of 
his performance.
“[Chance] is aware of our concerns 
and our plans for an engaging and honest 
community forum,” wrote Collado in 
an email. “[Chance’s manager] said he 
understood and respected our request 
and that he was looking forward to being 
on campus and performing for us.” 
Cailey Cron ’14 appreciated the 
censorship of the lyric, but feels that 
the controversy should be channeled to 
discuss a larger campus issue. 
“If a lyric is missing, it’s not going to 
matter unless we seize the opportunity to 
have a conversation about homophobia 
on this campus,” Cron said. “Chance will 
come on Saturday and then on Sunday 
he will leave. This is not about Chance 
blissful ignorance. Chances to address 
homophobia have come up twice in the 
past few weeks, and as a campus we need 
to talk. I’d like to see the administration 
take a strong, public stand against 
homophobia. I’m at a loss as to why that’s 
controversial.” 
Benay disagrees with the idea of 
canceling the concert. 
“Of all rappers, Chance’s stuff is way 
more about drugs and how hopeful he is 
about his future, and he has lyrics about 
anti-violence.”
 While Benay disagrees with Chance’s 
use of the word ‘faggot’, he thinks that the 
compromise between Chance and Collado 
is reasonable.  
“It sort of bums me out that he uses 
that word, but the idea that he would not 
come just because of that is sad especially 
because MCAB hit it out of the park in 
terms of choosing an act this time.”
Big Forum. Big Possibilities.
To address this issue, Boggs 
announced that at 7 p.m. on Monday, 
Nov. 4 in Axinn 229, Student Activities 
and MCAB will be hosting an open forum 
to discuss how decisions are made about 
all kinds of possibly offensive art forms 
at the College. The forum aims to allow 
candid conversation about the application 
of community standards to artistic 
expression and how they should affect 
choices about who is invited to campus. 
MCAB also hopes that this conversation 
will help to better inform the student 
group’s decision making in the future.  
Cron does not think that the 
controversy should revolve around two 
groups of students pulled to join one 
extreme opinion or the other. “We’ve 
created a false choice between having 
performers violate community standards 
and censoring all dissenting opinion,” 
Cron said. “I hope we can use the concept 
as an entry point to a far more important 
conversation that has to do with us as a 
community and the relationship between 
the student body and administration. It 
is a hard conversation to approach if the 
administration hasn’t publicly stated its 
commitment to protecting and welcoming 
the queer community and concerns.” 
Boggs has high expectations 
regarding the potential impact of the 
forum. 
“I hope that while we wrestle 
with these issues, we can commit to 
listening carefully, act in ways that foster 
inclusivity, and bridge the divide that’s 
happening right now,” she said. “Knowing 
that this is just an initial conversation, 
I’m hopeful we can both show support 
for students who feel marginalized and 
Two leather chairs and an array of 
lamps sat atop a faded, ornate rug on stage at 
the Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 Center for the Arts 
(MCA) Concert Hall. Concert Hall Technical 
Director Mark Christensen played his guitar 
quietly, contributing ethereal and jazzy mu-
sic to start off the event. This set-up, a warm 
display reminiscent of a cozy, family living 
room, was a warm welcome for an audience 
that packed the seats of the Concert Hall for 
Cocoon, a night of story-telling hosted by 
the creators of MothUP and sponsored by 
the MCA and the Committee for the Arts. 
Cocoon brought six storytellers on 
stage, three students, two community mem-
bers and a professor, to tell stories all cen-
tered around the loose topic of metamor-
phosis, stories of growth and change that 
jobs to a heartwarming story of love and 
loss. 
“Change is one of the only true con-
stants in life,” said Luke Greenway ’14.5, one 
of the three students in charge of the event 
and MC for the evening, during his intro-
duction.
-
son, the director of Middlebury’s Town Hall 
Theater. “I think we’re wrong about mira-
cles,” he said as he walked up to the micro-
phone. 
Anderson’s story talked about his time 
teaching at Amherst College. With an exten-
sive history in theater, he was brought on to 
teach in both the theatre and English litera-
ture departments. With a hint of bitterness 
in his voice, Anderson pointed out to the au-
dience that he had never taken an English 
class in his life, a fact that Amherst College 
somehow overlooked.
The story proved to be a strong start for 
the evening. Anderson’s experience in the-
of storytelling quickly caught the attention 
of the audience. 
However, though there were probably 
just as many non-students as students in the 
audience, it seemed a bit odd to lead with 
this story. Anderson’s story was far beyond 
my experience as a student and, after the 
show, I heard complaints about his com-
ment that teaching at community college 
was the “worst thing that could happen to 
someone in academia.” 
The second storyteller was Mariam 
Khan ’16. Khan spoke about her experiences 
during her year abroad, during which she 
spent time working at a hospital in Indian 
slums and DJ-ing at a night club in Thai-
land. Khan’s story spanned four countries 
and raised interesting questions about iden-
America. Her experiences were incredibly 
fascinating and the wide range of her story 
was captivating, though her delivery was 
quite fast, making her hard to understand 
at parts. Also, because there was so much 
going on, sometimes the separate parts felt 
disjointed.
“Though it may not look like it,” Khan 
started her story, wearing a headscarf and 
traditional Pakistani clothing, “I’m as Amer-
ican as they come.”
It was at this point in the show, after 
starting to wish that the organizers had bet-
ter utilized — or used at all — the set-up on 
stage. The chairs and lamps created an in-
teresting scene and I feel that the relaxed 
atmosphere of the event could have taken 
something from having two other speakers 
sit in the chairs while the stories were being 
told.
For me, the strongest speaker of the 
night was the third speaker, Emily Jacke 
’12.5, who was the last speaker before the in-
termission. Jacke told a story about her re-
lationship with her close high school friend 
Jesse, who struggled — and eventually lost 
the battle with — leukemia. The story was, 
naturally, incredibly emotional and Jacke 
had an incredibly powerful and distinc-
tive method of conveying her story. Her 
sentences had an almost sing-song tone to 
them, coming to quiet stops at just the right 
moments. 
And while the story was incredibly 
emotional, it was also funny. Jacke seemed 
to know exactly when to add a joke or light 
detail. When she said, “Then, Jesse stopped 
coming to school,” my heart dropped and 
then — seemingly moments later — I was 
laughing at the image of Jacke unable to 
cross the bridge at prom in her 108-inch cir-
cumference skirt.
During the intermission, the hosts of 
slips of paper answering the question “What 
are you becoming?” Between each of the 
acts after the intermission, Greenway read 
some of the responses, which ranged from 
“A freshman of life — I’m graduating,” to “A 
It’s too early to tell.”
Throughout the show, Greenway con-
tributed an array of one-liners and jokes 
and, in the second half of the show after 
places around campus — a story, she said, 
that was “not a love story, but [was] a story 
about love” — he shared his own story about 
storing his possessions in an air duct over 
the summer. While his jokes were certainly 
cheesy, his persona worked well on stage fa-
cilitating the transitions between stories. 
The highlight of the second half of the 
show was a story by Associate Professor 
of English & American Literatures Daniel 
Brayton. Brayton told the audience about his 
home from visiting his sister outside Paris. 
High above the Atlantic Ocean, a Moroccan 
man sitting next to Brayton on the plane was 
by two drunk Frenchmen. Brayton, who had 
some experience wrestling and boxing, got 
involved with the dispute happening at the 
back of the plane, helping his new friend. 
 Brayton’s story felt almost like a change 
in genre, from the more heart-warming sto-
ries before to one with a bit more tension. 
And while two French drunks and a Moroc-
sounds a bit outlandish, his story was in-
credibly real, vividly told and very human. 
Near the end of the show, Greenway 
announced that, in January, MothUP will be 
expanding. 
The hosts of that event received an of-
NPR. NPR and students at the College will 
be working to start the Vermont Story Slam 
which will feature stories both here in Mid-
dlebury and in Burlington.
All in all, the event was a huge success. 
A wonderfully curated group of stories pro-
vided for a night of strong emotions. Each 
storyteller brought an interesting perspec-
tive and a wide range of experiences that 
captivated the audience.
“We were very proud of all the story-
tellers,” Greenway wrote, in an email. “It’s 
a tribute to the strength of our storytellers 
that in our conversations with audience 
members, every single storyteller has been 
cited as a personal favorite.”
By Ben Anderson
‘Cocoon’ Amazes, MothUP Plans Expansion
Art Director Liza Sacheli, Luke Greenway ’14.5, Mariam Khan ’16 and Emily Goins ’17 sit in the audience as Emily Jacke ’12.5 tells her story about love and loss (right.)
courtesy of todd balfour
“It is the month of May for me,” he be-
gins, oblivious or irreverent of the incongru-
ous autumn leaves and woolen sweaters. 
Though the dark wood and dry books of the 
cloistered room seem to forbid speaking, the 
narrator persists, joined by a second, more 
feverish storyteller, then a third in the plain-
tive tones of a cello. Thus in a room more 
accustomed to the close of dissertations and 
research projects, a far more dramatic work 
So begins Beckett’s little-known radio 
play “Cascando,” a brief but potent journey 
through Beckett’s hallmark themes of exis-
tentialism and the end of language. Original-
ly billed as “a radiophonic invention for mu-
sic and voice” in its 1963 debut, the roughly 
16-minute work was tangibly realized this 
past Sunday by a prominent cast including 
PBS Newshour anchor Jeff Brown as ‘the 
Opener ‘ and Assistant Professor of Theater 
Alex Draper as ‘the Voice’, the two spoken 
roles of the play. The work explores the ef-
forts of the Opener, our chief narrator, to tell 
the story of a man called Woburn (who, in 
true Beckett style, never actually appears.) 
The narrative is told both verbally by the 
Voice and musically by world-class cellist 
composed for the production by Pulitzer 
prize-winning composer David Lang.
“What you’re hearing is the important 
thing,” prefaced director Dare Clubb, co-
head of the Iowa Playwrights Workshop, 
though the four-person tableau behind him 
could not help but draw visual attention as 
well. Brown, seated at the sort of long ta-
ble suited to an evening news anchor, was 
and Lang on the other, a commanding di-
chotomy for the relatively intimate space of 
the room. 
The project, initially conceived and 
staged by Clubb and Suzanne Bocanegro for 
the dance theatre in the Kevin P. Maheney 
Center for the Arts, was moved to Axinn 
when a plumbing issue rendered most of the 
buildings on Route 30 unusable for a public 
performance. 
“We had done it in the [Abernethy] 
room the night before in the invitation-on-
ly performance, though, so it wasn’t a hard 
transition,” Draper said. 
Though one might imagine how the 
acoustics of the spacious dance theater might 
have enhanced such a music-dependent pro-
duction, ‘Cascando’ didn’t appear to suffer 
contrary, the proximity afforded a close view 
of the dynamics between the players that 
might have otherwise been lost — the mean-
ingful looks, the forceful gestures, the tense 
hovering of a bow above the strings. Draper’s 
the staging, an expressive performance that 
radio play. 
Draper, who has collaborated previ-
ously with Clubb, cited “the sheer amount of 
energy and drive that the Voice needs — to 
make sure you’re doing that without over-
running the text” as the chief challenge of 
the role. “You have to resist the urge to make 
too much sense out of it for the audience, to 
over-interpret. You have to let them work it 
out for themselves.”
opened to just that in a general discussion 
between the audience, performers, and di-
rector. “Thoughts? Questions? There’s no 
-
tening intently as audience members offered 
their observations on everything from the 
“gnarly-ness of the script” to whether the re-
lationship between voice and cello was more 
of a competition or collaboration.
“The way it feels to me, at least, is that 
there are two sides of the story which need to 
be told: there’s what happens to this person 
and what this person feels, and we need both 
the words and music to tell that story,” Lang 
said. “I feel that in the end, when they over-
each other.”
After the open forum and a brief recess a 
second restaging of the play was performed, 
in which Beiser and Lang took the central 
space at the front of the room while Draper 
and Brown took to the mezzanines of the 
room in deliberately hard-to-spot positions. 
version almost all eyes were rapt on the per-
formers, in the second more audience mem-
bers were inclined to let their gaze wander or 
even close their eyes.
“The second time around there are way 
more people who are just listening,” Draper 
said. “They’ve thought about it and they’ve 
heard other people’s thoughts about it, and 
they don’t need to pay as much attention vi-
sually.”
Perhaps it was this shift from looking to 
listening or Lang’s comments on the cooper-
ative nature of the different elements of the 
piece, but the second iteration certainly felt 
much more balanced between the players. 
Beiser’s haunting realization of Lang’s score 
was allowed to take a more central role, and 
while both versions delivered on Beckett’s 
work, the reprisal seemed closer to his origi-
nal intentions for the audio play.
Ultimately ‘Cascando’ offered a rare 
chance for the best of both theater and music 
to be united by one piece. 
“It’s one of his most puzzling plays, 
but with the talent we were able to pull in, 
it made the most sense to do Beckett with 
music,” Draper said. “They’re all astonishing 
people to be working with.”
october 31, 2013 | 15arts SCIENCES
‘Cascando’ Falls into Abernathy Room
By Angeline Rodriguez
SC ENCE
soc etyand
By Will Henriques
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
october 31, 2013 | 16 arts SCIENCES
Scientific literacy in america
for the rec  rd
BY CHAD CLEMENS
reflektor
Arcade Fire
to Neon Bible 
The Suburbs
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
WHAT DO YOU WANT TO SEE HERE? 
With Middlebury trailing 24-20 and 
facing fourth-and-goal from the Trinity 
seven-yard line with less than 90 seconds 
remaining in the game, quarterback 
McCallum Foote ’14 connected with wide 
receiver Matt Minno ‘16 in the end zone 
to give the Panthers the lead. 1:12 later, 
into delirium.
5-1, giving Middlebury an outside shot at a 
ending Trinity’s 14-game winning streak. 
the game-winning score.
the season and 63rd of his career, breaking 
“Mac really deserves it,” said Minno the 
an unbelievable level for so long for this 
Defensively, the Panthers limited Trinity 
move the ball against a stiff wind and  a 
stingier Middlebury defense that held the 
total rushing yards. 
year. I thought last year we kind of shied 
mouth and gave it right back to them and 
they didn’t like it.”
Defensive Player of the Week for his efforts.
coached,” said defensive coordinator Doug 
offense is going to do] and he takes 
advantage of it and that’s why he makes 
however, threatened to derail Middlebury 
their second drive of the game, the Panthers 
been disastrous for Middlebury turned into 
an oncoming Trinity rusher and, with a 
convoy of blockers in front of him, the 6’2’’, 
the game with just 39 career rushing yards, 
carried the ball 19 times for 68 yards and 
some contact and was in the moment 
he ran really hard with his shoulders 
south to get everything he could and always 
fell forward.”
Middlebury’s lead was short-lived, 
drive of the half with 5:24 remaining, as 
the game, this time from 15 yards out after 
Playing against the wind in the third 
quarter, the Panthers managed to outgain 
lead.
of Middlebury defenders, but managed to 
land on his feet and regain his momentum. 
at the 50-yard line to save a touchdown. 
’16 chased down Puzzo from the blindside, 
Trinity inside its 20-yard line with a 43-
yard boot.
the 10-yard line, Puzzo connected on a 34-
arced the ball over the coverage for a 39-
yard throw and catch, giving Trinity a 24-
20 lead with 4:52 remaining and silencing 
The Panthers began the following drive 
offense, which had managed just two 
ball over on downs with 2:50 left in the 
game.
the offense the ball back with a chance to 
win the game, the Middlebury defense 
three timeouts. 
“Ultimately for them to win the game, 
in 2:21 to win the game. The Middlebury 
receivers won on their routes immediately 
and the offense quickly moved the ball into 
throw in between the corner and the safety 
seven-yard line.
The Panthers, who had converted less 
line. 
that you run from the seven-yard line and 
things that didn’t work and then on fourth 
touchdown on.”
the defense, held the defense on one side of 
crossing route between the corner and the 
linebacker.
“They brought both safeties over to 
the front side and the quick look I had to 
the front side was really just looking away 
an unbelievable catch going down to the 
ground and holding onto the ball.”
Trinity moved the ball to the Middlebury 
“They hadn’t thrown the ball to my side 
a double move to try to get me to bite on 
something, but I knew they were going to 
the end zone and I saw the ball in the air 
ball.”
The Panthers, who need to win out for 
 october 31, 2013 | 17SPORTS
Foote Sets Touchdown Record in Victory
By Damon Hatheway
-
Courtesy Todd Balfour
SQUASH COURT OPENING
19
the number of tackles 
totaled by NESCAC 
Defensive Player of the 
Week Matt Benedict ‘15
football
by the numbers
110
135
the number of receiving yards recorded by NESCAC 
co-offensive player of the week, Matt Minno ‘16
Trinity entered the game allowing on 
average fewer than 135 yards per game<
2823
# of rushing yards 
by NESCAC 
rushing leader 
Evan Bunker 
(Trinity)
# of rushing yards 
by Middlebury 
punter Mike Dola 
‘15
65
the number of career touchdowns 
thrown by McCallum Foote ‘14, 
A NEW PROGRAM RECORD
th
e 
pe
rc
en
t o
f T
rin
ity
 p
os
es
si
on
s
th
at
 e
nd
ed
 in
 th
re
e-
an
d-
ou
ts
3
3
:
hear the player’s thoughts online at go/thecampus
Field Hockey Beats Wesleyan 3-1; 
Captures Fourth Seed in NESCAC 
The Middlebury volleyball team suffered 
a tough set of losses over the fall break as 
Middlebury rebounded the following week 
Amherst for the loss earlier in the season with 
Tufts is having a similar season to 
relegating Middlebury to seventh in the 
Middlebury would earn one of their most 
The loss was a blemish on an otherwise 
we were all getting tired by the end of the 
Middlebury was unable to add another 
shots in overtime with neither team able to 
while learning from mistakes made in the 
been here before and know that our seeding 
it looked like the Panthers would sulk into 
The Panthers have struggled to gain 
|  october 31, 2013 18 sports
Women’s Soccer Extends Unbeaten Streak
By Alex Morris
By Ben Buckles
the middlebury
great  eight
8
happy Halloween
Big night tonight! Don’t 
accept any candy from 
strangers.
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Owen’s Opinions
2
Men’s rugby
6-0 and repeat conference 
champs. MCRC’s got it.
football
And a merry Homecoming 
to everyone!
3
women’s soccer
This team hasn’t lost since 
its season opener, going  
10-0-3 in that span.
4 
field hockey
Five straight wins and this 
team is getting in gear.
5 men’s soccerA loss to Wesleyan stops a 
7
volleyball
An up-and-down October 
6 cross country
By John Wyman
The Middlebury men’s soccer team had 
Early in the second half both teams failed 
Middlebury dominated the majority of the 
There is an incredible amount of desire 
Men’s Soccer Falls in Final Game Against Cardinals
 october 31, 2013 | 19SPORTS
BC Blowout Clinches MCRC Perfect Season
By Owen Teach
Owen Teach (82-82, .500)
Damon Hatheway (127-110, .536)
Joe macdonald (13-11, .542)
How far will will the men’s 
soccer team go in the NESCAC 
tournament?
share of the NESCAC crown?
Who will win World Series MVP? Who will be Middlebury’s top 
country NESCAC championship?editors’ picks
Alex Morris (16-8, .667)
17
329
+231
50
Number of goals Catherine Fowler ’15 has 
scored in the regular season. The junior 
netted one in the game against Wesleyan.
Number of receiving yards recorded by 
Calvin Johnson - seven short of an NFL 
record in the Lions game against the 
Cowboys on Sunday, Oct. 27.
Point differential for the men’s rugby 
team this season. The team’s 305 
points also were 135 from the closest 
opponent (AIC).
Seconds left in the women’s soccer game 
before Scarlett Kirk ’14 chipped the keeper 
for the winning goal against Williams.
Number of games out of 13 in which 
the men’s soccer team has outshot its 
opponents.
by the Numb3rs
12 
By Joe MacDonald
WOMEN’S SOCCER 
CLINCHES TOP SEED 
IN THE NESCAC
PAGE 18
MCRC CAPS TITLE 
SEASON WITH BC 
WIN
PAGE 19
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
ANTHEA VON VIRAGH
sports 20
UPENDED: Panthers knock 
off undefeated Bantams
to beat previously undefeated Trinity, 27-24, avenging a 45-7 loss in Hartford a year ago. Senior quarterback McCallum Foote ’14 broke the all-time passing touchdown record, 
ANTHEA VON VIRAGH
SEE FOOTE, PAGE 17
