College faculty and the Student 
Government Association (SGA) 
carefully monitor political activ-
ity on behalf of student organiza-
tions throughout the academic 
year. However, compliance with 
the College’s policies is particu-
larly pertinent during the election 
season. 
“We’re a 501(c3) non-profit 
corporation which has huge tax 
benefits for the College,” said 
Derek Doucet, associate dean of 
students for student activities. In 
order to maintain the College’s 
eligibility as a 501c(3), the Col-
lege must abide by the IRS Rev-
enue Ruling 2007-41 stating that 
501c(3) organizations may not 
“participate in, or intervene in (in-
cluding the publishing or distrib-
uting of statements), any political 
campaign on behalf of (or in oppo-
sition to) any candidate for public 
office.” 
“The way that plays out on the 
ground for student orgs is that 
there are a handful of policies that 
they need to follow to make sure 
that they are expressing them-
selves as they wish, but also mak-
ing it clear that they are operating 
as a separate agent from the Col-
lege,” Doucet said. 
Student organizations can en-
dorse or oppose a candidate only 
if they explicitly attribute that po-
sition to the organization and not 
to the College. Organizations can-
not use their student activities fee 
budget to fund activities that en-
dorse or oppose a candidate, and 
organizations are not allowed to 
directly   fundraise for a particular 
candidate. 
The Student Activities’ Student 
Organization Handbook specifies 
that political activity conducted 
by student organizations must be 
consistent with the IRS regula-
tions. Though handbook states 
that a violation of the policies 
“may result in the immediate in-
activation of the student organiza-
tion in question,” Doucet said the 
College may not be so severe de-
pending on the circumstance. 
“If a student org violated this 
policy accidentally it would be a 
teachable moment. If it ever be-
came a pattern we really could 
have a significant problem. Losing 
our tax exempt status would be a 
big deal. But would there be puni-
tive action against an organization 
if they did this and it was a good 
faith mistake? No,” said Doucet. 
Student Activities and the SGA 
work to prevent violations of these 
policies in the first place. 
“It’s part of our student org 
Just before noon on Friday, 
Oct. 21, the Middlebury Police 
Department received a call from 
a hiker reporting the discovery of 
human remains in the woods be-
tween Seminary Street Extension 
and Court Street Extension. The 
man hiking and his grandson had 
strayed a bit from the main path, 
the Trail Around Middlebury 
(TAM), when they came upon the 
remains. 
The remains were identified as 
those of 28-year-old Sun Mi Shin, 
a Korean citizen from Fairfax, Vir-
ginia. Her name was released one 
week after her body was found, 
due to time taken to find and con-
tact relatives. 
Upon receiving the report of 
the remains found, the Police 
Department Crime Scene Unit 
promptly located the body and re-
sponded to the scene, along with 
an assistant state’s attorney and 
the assistant medical examiner. 
November 3, 2016 | Vol. 115 no. 7 | middleburycampus.com
ANTIGONE RE-
INTERPRETS 
CLASSIC PLAY
PAGE 15
“SPOOKTACULAR” 
BRINGS FRIGHT TO 
MIDDLEBURY
PAGE 5
STUDENTS 
RENEW PUSH FOR 
MAKERSPACE
PAGE 14in
sid
e
SEE COLLEGE’S, PAGE 2
Student Groups Face Restrictions 
In Endorsing Political Candidates
SEE BODY, PAGE 4
On Tuesday, Nov. 1, Shaun King, an activist and leading voice of the Black Lives Matter movement, 
spoke to an audience of over 200 in Mead Chapel. See page 2 for quotes from his speech. 
Michael o’hara
ACTIVIST SHAUN KING SPEAKS ABOUT BLACK LIVES MATTER
Human Remains Found 
in Woods Near TAM
By Elizabeth Sawyer 
Staff Writer
College Receives 
Funds to Prevent 
Sexual Assault
By Kyle Naughton 
Contributing Writer
The College received a three-
year, $299,305 continuation 
grant from the Department of 
Justice (DOJ) to preemptively 
counter and respond to acts of 
sexual violence on all Middle-
bury campuses. The College 
received a similar three-year, 
$272,528 DOJ grant in 2013 
that supported training pro-
grams and resources within the 
undergraduate college. This new 
funding will aid Middlebury in 
implementing similar measures 
across all of its campuses. 
The new funding will spe-
cifically target the Bread Loaf 
School of English, the Bread 
Loaf Writers’ Conferences, the 
Institute for International Stud-
ies in Monterey, the Summer 
Language Schools and Middle-
bury-affiliated schools abroad. 
The grant will also fund the 
translation of informational ma-
terials for Middlebury programs 
operating in languages other 
than English.
Director of Health and Well-
ness Education Barbara McCall, 
the manager of the 2013 grant 
funds, worked as an author of 
the 2016 grant, and she will step 
down from her managerial posi-
tion once the new funds are im-
plemented.  
“[As alternate grant manager 
of the 2013 funds], I was respon-
sible for the goals and objectives 
related to peer advocacy (Mid-
dSafe) and violence prevention 
and education (Green Dot, our 
online course “Think About It,” 
etc.)” McCall said. “Moving for-
ward, I will continue to have 
oversight and responsibilities 
for goals that attend to Mid-
dSafe, Green Dot and other edu-
cational/prevention efforts.”
McCall felt particularly op-
timistic about the future of the 
2016 funds. 
 “I’m excited to work on and 
witness how we will expand edu-
cation efforts across the institu-
tion,” said McCall. “No matter 
where someone is a Middlebury 
student (i.e. MIIS, Language 
Schools, Schools Abroad, under-
graduate in Vermont, etc.) they 
will be accessing universal mate-
rials, tools and program expec-
tations that strengthen our com-
mitment to reducing violence as 
an intuition.”
To help inform the broader 
Middlebury community about 
sexual violence, the administra-
tion will continue its collabo-
ration with Green Dot, a non-
profit organization that educates 
communities on the dangers of 
bystander passivity and provides 
training resources for bystander 
intervention. Relationships with 
the State’s Attorney Office, the 
Middlebury Police Department, 
Porter House, the Pride Center 
of Vermont and the non-profit 
WomenSafe will also be empha-
sized to fortify sexual violence 
prevention. 
WomenSafe in particular 
will provide consulting services 
to strengthen the relationship 
between Middlebury programs 
and their community partners 
around the world, while the 
Vermont Pride Center will aid 
students in improving their cul-
tural capacities. Furthermore, 
the partnership between Porter 
Medical Center and Middle-
bury’s Parton Center for Health 
and Wellness will provide en-
larged community access to sex-
ual-assault related medical aid.
 The 2016 grant looks to ex-
pand the confidential peer ad-
vocacy program MiddSafe and 
offer student support on the 
Middlebury and Ripton campus-
es over Middlebury’s summer 
programs. Additionally, these 
funds will expand ongoing staff 
training on properly responding 
to reports of sexual misconduct.
This year, the College is one 
of twelve grant recipients in Ver-
mont. Funding for the grants 
came from the Violence Against 
Women Act, co-authored by Ver-
mont Senator Patrick Leahy.
By Alessandria Schumacher
Local Editor
Early Voting in Vermont!
•Thursday, Nov. 3rd 7:30am-5:30pm
• Friday, Nov. 4th from 8:30am-4:30pm
• Town Clerk’s Offices (77 Main Street, on the traffic circle)
    OTE
Dont forget to
Need a Ride to the Polls on Election Day?
•Pick-Up every hour at ADK on Tuesday, Nov. 8th
• 9:00 am - 5:00 pm (last shuttle departs at 5:00)
TUESDAY
 NOV. 8th
| November 3, 20162 NEWS
By John Gosselin
Community Council Correspondent
Community 
Council
Update
The Oct. 11 Community Council 
meeting began with Associate Dean of 
Students Doug Adams discussing the 
roles and responsibilities for the Coun-
cil’s Residential Life Committee. This 
committee reviews issues such as room 
draw, house member selection and so-
cial house regulations. Several students 
volunteered, including Yovany Barahona 
’20, Holley McShan ’19.5, Charles Rainey 
’19 and Sarah Yang ’19.5. Associate Pro-
fessor of French William Poulin-Deltour 
volunteered to represent faculty, and 
Solon Colburn volunteered to represent 
staff.
After these brief presentations, Karen 
Guttentag, associate dean for judicial af-
fairs and student life, discussed two pro-
posals. The first proposal would change 
the way the Honor Code Review Com-
mittee functions. Currently the commit-
tee meets every four years to look at the 
Honor Code and recommend changes to 
it. This year, when the committee met, 
they had the idea to form a standing 
committee with an expanded role in pro-
moting academic integrity. 
According to Student Government 
President Karina Toy ’17, the SGA Honor 
Code Committee has suffered from a lack 
of participation and this new committee 
could potentially replace it. Guttentag 
also said that student training, proctor-
ing and promoting a culture of academic 
integrity could be the responsibilities for 
this potential committee.
The second proposal discussed the 
oversight of the Community Judicial 
Board and its process of making changes 
to the handbook. Under the current sys-
tem, certain changes need to wait until 
mid-year to be added, after approval 
from Community Council and the fac-
ulty. Since the Community Council does 
not usually start meeting until October, 
the changes cannot be made by the start 
of the academic year. 
Under this new proposal, a group 
made up of students and faculty would 
meet over the summer to discuss the 
changes, approve these recommenda-
tions when necessary and recommend 
those which need more discussion to the 
fall process.
Emma Bliska ’18 then reported on the 
working group of Community Council 
and proposed forming an ad-hoc com-
mittee to continue the discussion. The 
proposal passed with 17 in favor and one 
abstention. 
At the Oct. 25 meeting of the Commu-
nity Council, members discussed SGA’s 
resolution concerning the Black Lives 
Matter flag. 
Council Co-Chair, Vice President for 
Student Affairs and Dean of the College 
Katy Smith Abbott brought up the need 
to create a “zone for free expression” on 
campus. Members discussed what other 
colleges have done to create spaces for 
students to express ideas.  These ongo-
ing conversations will continue at the 
next meeting, set for Nov. 1.
C0-Chair Abbott also announced that 
a donor and friend of the College has cre-
ated a fund that will offer grants to stu-
dents who may not be able to take inten-
sive J-term classes due to work-study or 
other employment commitments. 
Dining Services Considers 
Changing Grille Hours  
College’s Non-Profit Status Limits
Endorsments, Prevents Fundraising
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
training at the beginning of the year. We 
include it in the conversations that we have 
with presidents and treasurers…And then 
cluster managers who work really closely 
with student orgs…make sure they’re aware 
of those policies,” Doucet said. 
“For student org re-registration there are 
all of these clauses and caveats about how 
you can’t use funds to endorse candidates. I 
didn’t know that that was even a thing until 
this election cycle,” said Kevin Benscheidt 
’17, SGA finance committee chair. 
Organizations must submit receipts of 
their expenses to be checked by the SGA Fi-
nance Committee and then by Maria Farn-
sworth, office and budget manager of stu-
dent activities. 
However, “there’s no rule that says orgs 
have to spend that money on what they re-
quested it for, so they can get money and 
spend it on whatever they want. So the re-
sponsibility also falls on student organiza-
tion leadership and there’s a lot of trust that 
goes into that,” Benscheidt added. 
“I understand that using campus re-
sources is off limits that totally makes sense 
to me. That would risk not only our orga-
nization’s status but our College’s status,” 
said Hazel Millard ’18, president of the Col-
lege Democrats.
“At Middlebury we collect an activities 
fee from every student and use that money 
in aggregate to support all student organi-
zations,” Doucet said. Political organiza-
tions are aware of their responsibility to 
spend this money while honoring the idea 
of a communal activities fee. 
“I know that students on both sides of 
the aisle who pay that activities fee might 
not want that money going to candidates 
that they don’t support or actively oppose,” 
said Alexander Khan ’17 of the College Re-
publicans. 
Khan experi-
enced the limita-
tions of the Col-
lege’s policies prior 
to this election cy-
cle, when the Col-
lege Republicans 
tried to bring can-
didates to campus. 
“We ran into a 
few difficulties be-
cause you’re not al-
lowed to have one 
partisan candidate without having the can-
didate from the other party.” Candidates 
are only allowed to visit campus without the 
candidate of the other party if the visit does 
not involve any political activity or speech. 
Millard said that neither the College 
Democrats nor the College Republicans of-
ten endorses candidates. While the clubs’ 
shared goal of remaining welcoming to 
members of different opinions explains 
much of this, ambiguity in the past policies 
has discouraged them from endorsing. 
“It was unclear if we could endorse which 
is another reason why we didn’t. They clari-
fied the rules a lot more this cycle…now its 
much more definitive which makes a huge 
difference,” said Millard
Khan suggested that student political 
organizations could be more effective in in-
creasing students’ po-
litical knowledge and 
involvement if orga-
nizations had greater 
ability to coordinate 
events that involve 
supporting particular 
candidates.  
“My friends that 
go to other schools 
and are in political 
organizations actively 
support candidates 
and use their club 
as a means of getting people politically in-
volved,” Khan said. “While we have limited 
means of doing that here, we can’t actively 
support or work for any candidates. Ideally 
we would love to.”
“The really critical piece to remember is 
that we have no interest in limiting political 
activity or speech. We just need to protect 
our 501(c3) status,” Doucet said. 
By Kate Criscitello
Contributing Writer
Trivia Night
Take a break from studying and bring 
your friends to Trivia! There will be free 
food and prizes.
THURSDAY FROM 9 P.M. TO 11 P.M. IN CROSSROADS
Honeysuckle Concert
Join this progressive folk band for a night 
of music as they blender older influences 
with modern effects and inspiration! 
SATURDAY AT 8:30 P.M. IN PALMER HOUSE
Yoga with Chelsea
Come take a break and attend this 
restorative yoga class taught by certified 
instructor Chelsea Colby ’17.5!
SUNDAY AT 7 P.M. IN THE CHATEAU GRAND SALON
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
Middlebury College Dining Services is 
considering plans to close the Grille be-
tween the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 
p.m.
According to Dan Detora, executive di-
rector of food service operations at the Col-
lege, a combination of low sales numbers 
and long shifts for employees do not justify 
the Grille being open during that time. 
 “Average sales were well below break-
even for the Grille.  We don’t necessarily 
waste food, but it is just not worth the ef-
fort to remain open during that time, espe-
cially since the dining halls are open and 
the majority of our Grille sales are between 
10:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m.,” he said. “The 
sales during that time period do not justify 
us being open. Opening that early makes 
for a very long night for our employees, 
particularly on Friday and Saturday nights 
when they do not go home until 3:00 or 
4:00 a.m.”
Closing the Grille during these hours 
will also allow for employees to work at 
other locations when needed. 
“This will allow us to allocate staff to 
the Snow Bowl snack bar when it opens in 
Mid-December,” Detora said.
Detora also met with the College’s Stu-
dent Government Association (SGA), at 
the Oct. 9 SGA Senate meeting to go over 
the proposal and ask for their support. The 
SGA Senate unanimously voted at their 
Oct. 23 to support closing the Grille during 
those hours. 
“We voted unanimously in support of 
his decision. However, this is not binding 
since SGA has no control over the Grille,” 
said SGA President Karina Toy ’17. “But I 
appreciate him coming in to run the idea 
by students [as opposed to making the 
changes without student support, which 
he totally could have done].”
Detora said an official decision will not 
be made until he consults with the faculty 
and staff to make sure that they are ok with 
the decision. Detora said the final decision 
will come from his department and the 
College’s Senior Leadership Group. 
“I know that students on 
both sides of the aisle who 
pay that activities fee 
might not want that money 
going to candidates they 
don’t support or actively 
oppose.”
Alexander Khan ’17
Last Tuesday night, writer and activist Shaun King spoke to a packed Mead Chapel on the “peaks and valleys” of humanity, the state of 
black lives in the United States today, and the importance of the Black Lives Matter movement. The Campus chose some of its favorite 
quotes from his speech. Look in next week’s issue of The Campus to read more about the speech and community responses to it.
Shaun King on Black Lives Matter
“Injustice is an ever-present reality, but 
it doesn’t have to be as bad as it is now.”
“The hard work 
of addressing rac-
ism has been left 
up to the wrong 
people … It cannot 
and should not be 
left up to African 
Americans to fix 
racism, because 
African Ameri-
cans are not ad-
vancing racism.”
“We need to pivot 
from awareness to 
change.”
“This movement 
will have prob-
lems, complica-
tions, struggles. 
But every move-
ment has that.”
“We’re in our ver-
sion of 1955 and 
1956 [with BLM].”
3Advertisementsnovember 3, 2016 | 
 “Our initial crime scene search, 
processing and scene protection in-
volved eight of our officers, two deputies 
from the sheriff’s department and the 
VSP Crime Scene unit over a 30-hour pe-
riod,” Middlebury Police Chief Thomas 
Hanley told the Addison Independent.
The remains found 
were partially decom-
posed and showed 
signs of animal pre-
dation and wear from 
the weather, making 
it hard to identify the 
body immediately. 
According to Chief 
Hanley, this made 
identification using 
DNA evidence by fo-
rensic examiners im-
possible.
I n v e s t i g a t o r s 
were, however, able to identify Ms. Shin 
through dental records and determine 
that she had not previously been report-
ed missing.
The remains were sent to the Office 
of the Chief Medical Examiner where 
authorities conducted a post-mortem 
examination. As a result, investigators 
returned to the scene to collect further 
evidence. A team of four Middlebury po-
lice officers were working full-time on 
the case, 16 hours a day, in the days fol-
lowing the discovery. 
However, according to a post on the 
Middlebury Police Department Face-
book page on Oct. 27, the “Cause, man-
ner, and date of death are as yet unde-
termined.” 
“There is no indication that Ms. Shin 
was subjected to or involved in any un-
lawful activity leading up to her death,” 
Chief Hanley continued in the Facebook 
post. Chief Hanley 
believes that the 
public is not at risk, 
but the department 
is continuing to in-
vestigate this case. 
With the help 
of the Korean 
consulate, the 
Middlebury Police 
Department found 
and contacted Ms. 
Shin’s parents and 
relatives, who are 
currently living in 
California. Together, the consulate and 
the police department are working with 
Ms. Shin’s family for the repatriation of 
her remains and for further investiga-
tion into her case. 
“The investigation is proceeding 
into reconstructing her activities from 
Virginia to Vermont in an effort to de-
termine cause and manner of death,” 
wrote Chief Hanley in the Oct. 27 media 
release on the department’s Facebook 
page. The date of her death is also uncer-
tain. Moving forward with the investiga-
tion, the language barrier has provided 
an additional complicating factor, since 
Ms. Shin’s personal digital records are in 
Korean.
“We’re getting into a long protract-
ed part of this investigation now going 
through her computer and text records...
we not only have to go through this digi-
tal media and get what we can, but then 
we have to go through the long process 
of getting it translated,” Chief Hanley 
said to WPTZ Burlington.
Currently, there appears to be little 
known about Ms. Shin herself, other 
than age, place of residence and nation-
ality. 
On Friday, Oct. 21, the Middlebury Police Department discovered the human remains 
Sun Mi Shin, a 28-year-old from Fairfax, VA,  on the Trail Around Middlebury.
 My Champlain Valley FOX44 & ABC22
Body of VA Woman Found Near the TAM 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE ONE
local
Humans of Vermont: Farms, Flowers and Family
Behind a table of flowers, Greg 
Witscher talks to customers and passers-
bys at the Middlebury Farmers’ Market.
The sweet sound of an acoustic guitar 
rings in the background, and a slightly 
chilled wind runs through the market. 
Greg’s orange hat sits lightly on his head, 
marking the start of autumn and the end 
of the yellow and pink and red petals in 
front of him.  
He’s come from Understory Farm 
in Sudbury, VT, where he collaborates 
with his wife - he raises the pigs, and 
she grows the flowers.  But, he says, it 
isn’t always as idyllic as a rural farm life 
might sound. 
Greg and his wife Jessie raised their 
daughter on the move, going from farm 
to farm. They began in northern Arizona, 
where they had to leave because of the 
drought. 
Their travels in New England led 
them to the land they now own in Sud-
bury.  He says that his daughter Saw-
yer is incredibly social and adaptable, 
so she has moved as gracefully as pos-
sible. However,  not having a home base 
proved a challenge for the beginnings of 
their family. 
“It’s really hard to have a farm busi-
ness with your partner,” Greg says, paus-
ing to think.  
“It’s important to have very well de-
fined boundaries for what you’re each 
responsible for.”  He explained that work 
on the farm and the way they work to-
gether is ever-evolving.  It is a constant 
learning process, but one that he loves.  
His wife is also a teacher, which gives 
them space to thrive in their separate 
spheres during the day and come togeth-
er with their family in the afternoon. The 
community of farms in Vermont too has 
given them a place to grow together. 
Greg’s daughter comes up to the table 
and stands in the back, in front of a pho-
to of her sitting on one of their pigs.  
Greg turns to her, smiling. “Last week 
we were castrating piglets, and Sawyer 
was there. She is finally at that age where 
she can come down and help us do this 
work that is really challenging.” 
Sawyer scrunches up her face. “I 
didn’t end up helping I went somewhere 
else and plugged my ears!” she squeals. 
Greg laughs, shrugging. 
“It was a beautiful thing,” Greg said.
For Greg, family time is the most im-
portant aspect of it all. Amidst the dif-
ficulties is his love for his family, which 
seems to keep him going forward. 
“There’s always a million things to do 
on a farm, it’s non-stop,” he says. “But if 
we don’t stop and make time to spend as 
a family then what’s the point? It doesn’t 
matter if you’re having a wonderful rural 
life on the farm, if you’re not enjoying 
each other’s company, forget about it.”
As we thank Greg for sharing his sto-
ries with us, he thanks us for our ques-
tions.  He remarks that it is important 
for people to think about what they 
might not always ask themselves, and he 
urges us to dig even deeper.  
If people are willing to share, we lis-
ten to the threads of their lives as they 
weave their answers; as others learn from 
thinking about their own experiences, 
we learn by listening.  It seems that the 
patience Greg has with his family and 
farming requires a sense of listening, 
too.  We wish him luck as he prepares for 
the colder months ahead, knowing that 
spending time with who and what mat-
ters will surely bring warmth. 
By Wendy Walcoff
Staff Writer
Greg and Jessie Witscher, who run Understory Farm in Sudbury, VT, along with their 
daughter Sawyer, are regulars at the Middlebury Farmers’ Market. 
Wendy Walcoff
“There is no indication 
that Ms. Shin was sub-
jected to or involved 
in any unlawful activ-
ity leading up to her 
death.”
Thomas Hanley
Chief of Middlebury Police Department
The Witscher family started farming together in Northern Arizona in 2010. 
UnderstoryFarmvermont.com
November 3, 2016   | 5Local
“Spooktacular” Event Takes Over the Town Green 
On Sunday, Oct. 30, Middlebury resi-
dents, young and old, gathered on the 
Town Green for “Spooktacular,” an an-
nual Halloween celebration. From 1 to 
3 p.m., children in costume roamed the 
Green and Main Street in celebration 
of the Halloween season. There was no 
shortage of enthusiasm or creativity 
from the attendees.
“I usually come here every year. It’s 
really fun because you get to see all your 
friends and their costumes,” noted a 
young attendee dressed as a mythical 
huntress. “The candy is definitely the 
best part of the event. Sometimes people 
do really cool things to the candy—like 
one person made turkeys out of lollipops 
and it was really cute.”
The candy was not the only enjoyable 
aspect of Sunday’s festivities. Games and 
prizes for children and their families cov-
ered the green and music filled the air. 
Volunteers from local high schools ar-
rived in costume and helped to organize 
friendly competition among the kids.
“We’re here volunteering and man-
ning the games section because we fig-
ured this would be a fun community 
event for us to get involved in,” said Lucy 
and Anna, two student volunteers from 
Middlebury Union High School. “We’re 
running a potato sack race where the 
kids can get in a bag and hop around the 
tree.”
Other competitions included an apple 
on the spoon race and a pumpkin tar-
get game. These games were favorites of 
children and volunteers alike.
“I’m in charge of the bean bag jack-
o-lantern toss, and I’ve worked at this 
event all four years of high school,” com-
mented Brittany, another Middlebury 
Union High School volunteer. “Seeing 
little kids have fun and get excited about 
winning prizes is definitely the best part 
of this event for me.” 
Along with the games, attendees of 
Spooktacular could take pictures with 
spooky characters, have their faces 
painted and listen to festive music.     
     The last half hour of Spooktacular 
consisted of a procession of all of the 
children in costume from the Post Office, 
continuing along Main Street and even-
tually arriving in Cannon Park. Local 
merchants handed out candy along the 
route, creating a trick-or-treating event 
for all of the kids involved.
These Halloween-themed events have 
kept young families returning to the 
event year after year.
“My daughter is four years old and my 
son is two years old,” shared one enthu-
siastic mother. “We came to this event 
back in 2013 with my daughter. The kids 
are really looking forward to taking a 
picture with the witch this year.”
Local businesses are responsible for 
making Spooktacular a continued suc-
cess as well as for making the event free 
and accessible to all. Happy Valley Or-
chard provided apples and donuts and 
Monument Farms supplied chocolate 
milk. Other Spooktacular sponsors in-
cluded R&L Rubbish, The UPS Store, 
Discovery Maps and G Stone Motors. 
Spooktacular is organized annually by 
the Better Middlebury Partnership.
“This is the 9th year that we’ve been 
putting this on,” explained one of the 
head organizers of Spooktacular. “It’s 
a completely free event and we attract 
about 600 to 700 people. It’s a wonder-
ful local event and it’s really enjoyable to 
see all the communities from around the 
county come together. I’ve been a part of 
it for nine years, and I’m one of the four 
that puts it on. It’s great to see all the 
families come together and see the kids 
year after year with their homemade cos-
tumes.”
 
By Rebecca Walker
Local News Editor
ReBecca Walker
Rebecca Walker Rebecca Walker
JOIN OUR PACK. WRITE FOR THE CAMPUS.
SINCE YOU’RE INTERESTED, EMAIL CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
On Oct. 23, the 
Student Govern-
ment Association 
and the Black 
Students Union 
u n a n i m o u s l y 
passed a resolu-
tion that called for 
Middlebury College to raise the banner and 
flag of the Black Lives Matter movement in 
prominent locations on campus for the du-
ration of the fall semester — for more, refer 
to “SGA and BSU Urge College to Endorse 
Black Lives Matter” in the Oct. 27 issue of 
the Campus. The SGA also took this time 
to formally endorse Black Lives Matter. On 
Nov. 1, Shaun King spoke in Mead Chapel 
to a full room on “Why We Must Say ‘Black 
Lives Matter’” and appealed to our commu-
nity, and students especially, to take action. 
As an editorial board we stand with the 
BSU and the SGA in their support of Black 
Lives Matter and in their call for a timely 
public display of community solidarity 
with this movement.
The SGA and the BSU sent their resolu-
tion to Vice President for Student Affairs 
and Dean of the College Katy Smith Abbott. 
Smith Abbott, on behalf of the College’s Se-
nior Leadership Group (SLG) replied, “The 
SLG is in strong support of the BSU hang-
ing a flag or banner in a central space on 
campus… In fact, our conversation led us to 
determine that we are in support of creat-
ing a permanent, central space that student 
groups can have access to for the purpose 
of raising awareness and for creating sup-
port for a major cause or concern.” 
She also confirmed that, “The College 
will include a note of support for Black 
Lives Matter in a message announcing the 
establishment of the zone for free expres-
sion.” We think all of this is great. 
However, Smith Abbott and the SLG do 
not address the BSU and the SGA’s requests 
to either: hang a Black Lives Matter flag at 
the Athletic Center, hang a Black Lives Mat-
ter banner on Mead Chapel or hang a Black 
Lives Matter banner on Old Chapel. These 
buildings are inherently associated with 
the administration and would represent a 
public display of administrative and com-
munity support of the movement in a way 
that a student space at McCullough could 
never do. We would like to call on the ad-
ministration to stand united with the SGA, 
the BSU and, now, the Campus.
We understand that Black Lives Matter 
is associated — and parts of it are publicly 
aligned with — a number of causes that 
the administration and many others in the 
community wouldn’t endorse. We also un-
derstand that the administration believes 
that initiatives such as these are more 
powerful when they come from students, 
and so the administration would rather 
not be fully involved. But the BSU’s ask is 
straightforward, and we are not convinced 
the administration’s reasons for avoiding an 
explicit endorsement — or at least a banner 
and flag displayed proudly right now — are 
good enough. 
Every movement in history has had its 
nuances, and it’s impossible to agree on ev-
ery detail. But we can look to the broader 
and more obvious picture and get behind 
that message: in this case, that black lives 
have value. We can also get behind the guid-
ing principles of Black Lives Matter as out-
lined on their website: Diversity, Restorative 
Justice, Unapologetically Black, Globalism, 
Collective Value, Transgender Affirming, 
Black Women, Black Villages, Empathy, 
Black Families, Queer Affirming, Loving 
Engagement, Intergenerational. These are 
the values that guide the movement. How 
one sub-group interprets them from anoth-
er may differ, but we believe these guiding 
principles stand in line with our community 
values and give us ample reason to support 
the cause now. 
The BSU and the SGA went to the admin-
istration for a reason: administrative sup-
port of Black Lives Matter would signal uni-
fied community support of the movement. 
We believe that it is our duty as a community 
to address that our country is divided and in 
crisis. In his speech on Tuesday, Shaun King 
pointed to The Atlantic’s endorsement of 
Hillary Clinton to demonstrate the gravity 
of the struggle we face today. The media em-
pire has only published an endorsement for 
a political candidate two other times since 
their founding in 1857: once for Abraham 
Lincoln on the eve of the Civil War, and once 
for Lyndon B. Johnson during the height 
of the Civil Rights movement. As they did 
then, we now stand at a potential crossroads 
in our nation’s history. We as a 
community need to be on 
the frontline of promot-
ing a more equitable 
and just future for our 
country. King noted the 
difficulty of acknowledg-
ing when you’re part of a 
significant moment in his-
tory. As an elite academic 
institution, we must recog-
nize the weight of this mo-
ment and the urgent need 
to stand united.
In the absence of concrete 
statements from the SLG, speculation 
occurs. It seems as though convenience 
has trumped the administration’s sense 
of urgency. Perhaps the administration 
fears offending the political sensibilities of 
alumni donors. Perhaps they are hesitant to 
make swift decisions about such a fraught 
and turbulent political topic.
 But to exist in a black body in 
America is, all too often, to be the explicit re-
cipient of threat and injustice. The work and 
value of black bodies in America is explicitly, 
repeatedly and systematically undermined. 
And this injustice must be the priority, not 
the comfort of those with the freedom to sit 
back and wait for a semester to pass without 
any explicit threat to daily livelihood. To be 
able to opt out of challenging the status quo 
suggests that the status quo is not directly 
threatening to that individual or group. But 
we as a community must stand in solidarity 
with those who do not have the freedom to 
opt out, with those who are directly and per-
sistently threatened, with those who cannot 
wait. 
We must learn from the lessons of the 
Civil War and the Civil Rights Movement. 
We cannot stand on the sidelines or dip our 
toes in the water. We must dive in, as we 
have in the past when the College endorsed 
other progressive movements. And so, the 
Campus editorial board wholeheartedly 
endorses the Black Lives Matter movement. 
We stand in solidarity with the BSU and 
SGA. We urge other student groups to join 
us in supporting Black Lives Matter. This is 
an issue that concerns us all. We should be 
glad and proud to stand in solidarity with 
such an enormously important cause. And 
we urge the SLG to join us not only with ea-
gerness, but with urgency.
opinions
editorial board 
The content written within the 
Opinions pages may cause emotional 
distress. Please exercise discretion.
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor. The 
opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions 
section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial com-
ics and other commentary, are views of the individ-
ual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the 
opinions of the newspaper. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.
middleburycampus.com. To be considered for pub-
lications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. 
Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all 
submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
In Support of Black Lives Matter
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Ellie Reinhardt
MANAGING EDITOR
Christian Jambora
BUSINESS MANAGER
Julien Miller
NEWS EDITORS 
Caroline Agsten, Phil Bohlman, Ethan 
Brady, Will DiGravio, Eliza Teach
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Blackburn, Erin Van Gessel, Sara 
Hodgkins, Francesca Haass, Edward 
O’Brien
SPORTS EDITORS 
Will Case, Remo Plunkett, Andrew Rigas 
LOCAL EDITORS 
Annie Grayer, Harry Kramer, Alessandria 
Schumacher, Rebecca Walker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Henry Burnett, Renee Chang, Charmaine 
Lam, Alex Newhouse
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Toby Aicher, Finne Murphy, Dominick 
Tanoh, Elizabeth Zhou,
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Michael Borenstein, Anahi Naranjo, Mi-
chael O’Hara, Ivan Valladares
DESIGN EDITORS
Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway, Corde-
lia Prouvost
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Pyone Aye, Jerrica Davy, Elaine Velie 
COPY EDITOR
Rachel Iacono, Emma Walker
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Nathaniel Wiener, Sara Hodgkins
OFFICE MANAGER
Sarah Koenigsberg
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
official opinion of 
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
Disclaimer: Reader op-eds do not reflect the opinion of The Middlebury Campus editorial board. 
WRITE A PIECE FOR US!
THE MIDDLEBURY CAMPUS ACCEPTS OP-EDS AND 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR EVERY WEEK.
SEND SOMETHING TO  
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
AND HAVE YOUR VOICE BE HEARD.
HAVE A THOUGHT? 
WANT TO COMMENT ON A 
CAMPUS ISSUE? 
7:15 am: I am standing on the sidewalk in 
front of the downtown Oakland family plan-
ning clinic, looking across the quiet street at 
the warehouse where hipster baristas at Blue 
Bottle are walking in bleary-eyed, about to 
start the first batch of coffee. 
7:23 am: Shivering in my bright orange 
vest, I look like a crossing guard for pre-
schoolers — except “Clinic Escort” is written 
across the front. Some bicyclists yell “Good 
job guys!” at my partner and me as they cycle 
by. Police officers pull up in their squad cars 
outside the Blue Bottle and disappear behind 
the door, emerging ten minutes later with 
pastries and lattes. Young men in their twen-
ties park and re-park their cars along the 
street in front of the clinic after dropping off 
their wives or girlfriends or sisters. They pace 
up and down, waiting. Sometimes they check 
their phones, light a cigarette or read the pa-
per, but they always pace. I silently send them 
thoughts of support and vow that I will pro-
tect the women from harm and shield them 
from protesters holding grotesque signs of 
baby feet, posters saying “You would make a 
great mom” and portraits of the virgin Mary 
held up in their faces by angry men. 
8:30 am: A group of five people line up 
across the street and begin to take out Bibles. 
They walk up and down the street praying.
This was an ordinary Saturday morning 
for me during the past two years I worked as 
an escort for a family planning clinic in Oak-
land, California. Recent political comments 
have made me reflect on my time there, and 
what I learned. 
Abortions can be draining; for some it is 
a difficult choice, for others it is a no-brainer. 
Pro-life politicians like presidential candidate 
Donald Trump tend to paint all abortions in 
a negative light. I have seen women of all 
ages and all races going into the Oakland 
clinic on Saturday mornings. Sometimes 
they are accompanied by family members, 
sometimes they come alone, but they are 
always composed, always strong. I remem-
ber seeing them come out of the clinic after 
their procedures. Some looked bored, or re-
lieved, and some looked sad as I opened the 
door for them, leading them to the outside. 
In a 2015 study by Plos ONE, 95 percent of 
women who had abortions reported feeling it 
was the right decision for them and were less 
depressed over time than women who were 
denied abortions. 
The process is difficult, but most women 
who decide to have an abortion don’t do it 
because it’s “for fun,” because they flagrantly 
disregard condoms or because they engage 
in illicit sexual conduct like many politicians 
say they do. Abortions aren’t anyone’s first 
choice; they are most often done out of ne-
cessity due to the specific situation a woman 
is in, be it financial insecurity, sexual as-
sault, dangerous fetal abnormalities or the 
fact that she just plain isn’t ready to have a 
child. Frederica Mathewes-Green, an author 
and speaker on abortion, describes the deci-
sion: “A woman does not want an abortion 
like she wants an ice cream cone, a new dress 
or a Porsche; she wants an abortion like an 
animal caught in a trap wants to gnaw off its 
own leg to escape.” Above all, women deserve 
to have the choice either way. 
During the third debate, I watched in 
Crossroads Café as candidate Donald Trump 
used language that candidate Hillary Clin-
ton called “scare rhetoric” and inaccurate 
information to describe abortions. Many of 
the students around me laughed and booed; 
however, large populations of the United 
States and the world at large are susceptible 
to his lies. 
We are privileged to live in such an edu-
cated, liberal community where we can usu-
ally tell fact from fiction. Donald Trump 
said that if he were President, the Supreme 
Court would strive to overturn Roe V. Wade, 
the 1973 landmark Supreme Court case that 
banned all first-trimester abortion regula-
tion. A Supreme Court History article, “Ex-
panding Civil Rights,” from PBS said, essen-
tially, the court voted to legalize abortions 
because it is unconstitutional based on rights 
of privacy. 
However, there are still regulations con-
cerning second- and third-trimester abor-
tions, a fact Mr. Trump seems to be unaware 
of. During a section of the debate about abor-
tion, he said an abortion provider can “take 
the baby and rip the baby out of the womb 
on the ninth month, on the final day.” Almost 
immediately after Mr. Trump made this 
statement, fact-checking articles popped up 
everywhere on the internet. Most have taken 
a satirical approach, such as an article from 
Huffington Post, “Donald Trump Confuses 
Birth with Abortion,” and Vox’s article, “Dear 
Donald Trump: I’m an OB-GYN. There are 
no 9-month abortions.” 
There are regulations that prevent some-
one from, say, aborting a fetus the day before 
their pregnancy ends like Mr. Trump sup-
poses, because second- and third-term abor-
tions can be threatening to maternal health 
and the fetus may be viable after six months. 
Additionally, using the word “rip” to describe 
the medical procedure is inaccurate, meant 
to intimidate and frighten those who may be 
uneducated on the topic. Describing abor-
tions in graphic terms is a tactic anti-choice 
supporters use to distract from the real is-
sue of women’s rights and choice. Late-term 
abortions are incredibly uncommon. Accord-
ing to the Guttmacher Institute, a reproduc-
tive research organization, only 1.2 percent of 
abortions happen at or after 21 weeks. Even 
then, there are virtually no ninth-month 
abortions, says Doctor Jennifer Gunter, an 
OB/GYN and pain medicine doctor, and 43 
states have laws preventing abortions after 
the seventh month. According to the Huffing-
ton Post, a ninth month abortion is akin to 
a unicorn: they don’t exist. Candidate Trump 
insinuating that they happen regularly is 
dangerous because his celebrity influence 
might easily impact Americans who are un-
educated on the topic and considering voting 
for him. If he is elected, Planned Parenthood 
and landmark abortion rights will surely be 
put in jeopardy.
Overall, abortions are performed out of 
necessity, not out of boredom or fun, and 
most women are relieved to have done it. 
Through my work at the family planning 
clinic, I have seen first-hand how difficult of 
a choice this can be, but also how it might be 
the best one. In my opinion, no seventy-year 
old, uninformed white man has the right to 
decide what I can and can’t do with my body.
  7opinions
Setting the record straight 
I am writing to express my deep con-
cern about the errors of fact, misrepre-
sentations and false assumptions made in 
the anonymous Beyond the Green op-ed 
titled “A Critique of Recent Public Safety 
Emails,” which was published in the most 
recent issue of the Campus. As Middle-
bury’s Title IX Coordinator/Compliance 
Officer, I am responsible for Middlebury’s 
compliance with the Clery Act, Title IX, 
and all applicable state and federal anti-
discrimination laws. In addition, in accor-
dance with Middlebury’s Timely Warning 
policy, I was one of the individuals — along 
with other College officials — involved in 
the decision to issue the Timely Warn-
ing notice relating to this matter.  As 
such, I feel compelled to respond to set 
the record straight.
The safety and wellbeing of our stu-
dents and employees is our primary 
focus when there is a potential threat 
to our community. It is important to 
note that, contrary to the assertion 
made in the piece, the alleged perpe-
trator was not in police custody when 
the timely warning was issued in the 
early morning hours of October 18. He 
had been interviewed by the Middle-
bury Police Department and the Col-
lege had issued a no-trespass notice to 
him, which directed him not to be on 
the Middlebury College campus, but there 
was no guarantee that he would abide by 
that notice. It would have been irrespon-
sible to not advise the community once 
we determined that there was potentially 
a serious, ongoing threat to students and 
others. 
The anonymous op-ed insinuated that 
this incident received different treatment 
because the alleged perpetrator was not a 
member of our community. It also asked 
why other cases of reported sexual assault 
have not produced similar warnings. Ac-
cording to the U.S. Department of Edu-
cation (DOE), which enforces the Clery 
Act, the decision to issue a timely warning 
“must be decided on a case-by-case basis 
in light of all of the facts and circumstanc-
es surrounding a crime, including such 
factors as the nature of the crime; the con-
tinuing danger to the campus community; 
and the possible risk of compromising law 
enforcement efforts.” We make decisions 
about timely warnings based on the infor-
mation available to us at the time the inci-
dent is reported. In this instance, we had 
information suggesting an alleged, ongo-
ing pattern of criminal behavior, we did 
not know how many people were (or were 
about to be) involved in such behavior 
and the alleged perpetrator’s whereabouts 
were unknown. 
The op-ed’s interpretation of the sec-
ond email notice was also flawed. That 
notice to the community, issued the fol-
lowing day, was prompted by significant 
and growing concerns about the nature 
and potential scope of this incident and 
whether there were other individuals who 
might need resources and support. Pub-
lishing a photo of the alleged perpetra-
tor was an appropriate investigatory tool 
under the circumstances and one we have 
used in the past. Our decisions to send the 
first and second email did not represent a 
change in policy, as the op-ed suggested. 
Middlebury also takes issue with the 
criticism expressed regarding Public 
Safety’s use of the term “fondling.” The 
author’s off-handed dismissal of the legal 
basis for this term ignores our obligations 
under federal law that quite clearly apply 
here. As a recipient of federal funding, 
Middlebury is governed by the Clery Act, 
which means that we are required, among 
other things, to disclose to the public and 
report to the federal government crimes 
that occur on our campus – as those 
crimes are defined by Clery. Under Clery, 
sexual assault includes rape, fondling 
without consent, incest or statutory rape. 
“Fondling” means “the touching of the 
private body parts of another person for 
the purpose of sexual gratification, with-
out the consent of the victim, including 
instances where the victim is incapable of 
giving consent because of their temporary 
or permanent mental incapacity.” This is 
sexual violence, plain and simple. Fur-
ther, to suggest a reconsideration of “the 
language we use to talk about these issues 
at the institutional level” is tantamount 
to a request that we knowingly and inten-
tionally ignore a clear and unequivocal 
regulatory mandate.
The piece also erroneously claims that 
Public Safety was legally required to in-
volve law enforcement because the al-
leged perpetrator was not affiliated with 
the College.  Our policies and procedures 
regarding notification of law enforce-
ment are clearly articulated in our Policy 
Against Sexual Misconduct, Domestic 
and Dating Violence and Misconduct, 
and Stalking (see Section 7). If a stu-
dent, faculty or staff member wishes 
to report a sexual assault incident to 
the police, we will assist them in do-
ing so whether the alleged perpetrator 
is a member of our community or not, 
and we are obligated by the Clery Act 
to do so.
Finally, I must draw attention to 
the calling into question of Middlebury 
College’s “role as in institution in part-
nering with police forces to increase 
their use of surveillance and crimi-
nalization of residents of the town of 
Middlebury, staff, faculty, students 
and visitors to Middlebury, particularly 
of Black and Brown people, immigrants, 
poor people, people with disabilities and 
queer and trans people.” I don’t know 
what the word “partnering” means in this 
context, but I can state without equivoca-
tion that it would be a violation of our pol-
icies, principles and the law to dissuade 
anyone in our community from reporting 
a crime to the police. 
I regret having to go to this length to 
address the many problems with this op-
ed.  But given the very real need for our 
community to have accurate information 
about our policies regarding sexual as-
sault and timely warnings regarding po-
tential threats, it is incumbent on the Col-
lege to set the record straight.
letter to the editor
Sue Ritter, Title IX Coordinator and 
Compliance Officer, responds to “A 
Critique of Recent Public Safety Emails” 
from last week’s paper.
NOvember 3, 2016 |
As I have communicated to the edi-
tors of the Campus, I believe the deci-
sion to publish the Beyond the Green 
post “A Critique of Recent Public Safety 
Emails” was an error in judgment in two 
respects. First, I believe it represented a 
break with longstanding Campus policy 
against publishing anonymous pieces 
absent a compelling reason for the re-
quest. The piece presented no such ratio-
nale. Until last week I believed this was a 
settled matter. 
Second, as my colleague Sue Ritter, 
Middlebury’s Title IX Coordinator/Com-
pliance Officer, more than ably explains 
in a separate letter, the piece itself was 
inaccurate and misleading in many ways. 
The Campus editors had every opportu-
nity to vet the piece before publishing it. 
That is the role editors should play.
In justifying the publication of this 
op-ed, it has been said that the piece 
reflected the confusion some students 
experienced about the decision to send 
two all-campus emails, as if that justified 
its publication. Given the complexities of 
the legal requirements, I understand the 
confusion. However, there is a difference 
between asking questions and casting 
aspersions. Anyone interested in learn-
ing more about Middlebury’s policies 
has many avenues to do so. I hope in the 
future they will avail themselves of those 
opportunities.
“To suggest a reconsidera-
tion of the ‘language we use 
to talk about these issues at 
the institutional level’ is tan-
tamount to a request that we 
knowingly and intentionally 
ignore a clear and unequivo-
cal regulatory mandate.”
letter to the editor
Bill Burger, Vice President for 
Communications, responds to “A 
Critique of Recent Public Safety 
Emails” from last week’s paper.
Trump is wrong about abortions
Middlife Crisis
Abbie Rosenbaum ’19 writes 
about abortion.
Asking 
Questions 
vs. Casting 
Aspersions
CARTOONS
Win homer
URIEL ULLOA ADAN
KAITLYND COLLINS
Nolan Ellsworth
9Cartoonsnovember 3, 2016 | 
GREEN
The new official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
PEPPERS
LOCAL | HANDCRAFTED | FRESHLY PREPARED |AT YOUR CONVENIENCE
[802] 388-3164
VAasu Taneja
 | November 3, 2016 10 features November 3, 2016 |  11features
“Education then, beyond all other devices of human origin, is the great 
equalizer of the conditions of men, the balance-wheel of the social 
machinery.” -Horace Mann
 A 2016 report by the Center for American Progress suggests that a 
college degree is no “great equalizer,” at least when it comes to paycheck size 
between men and women. On average, male graduates employed full-time 
were paid roughly $26,000 more than female graduates 10 years after en-
rolling at the same college. Among Middlebury alumni, the gender-pay gap 
was nearly double that national average at the same 10-year benchmark. 
 It’s hard to pinpoint why Middlebury women make so much less 
than men or even if the disparity is as large as the numbers suggest given 
the report’s limited sample size. Regardless, national research from Ford-
ham University confirms that a gender-pay gap does exist. The researchers 
explain their findings with statistics that show men are more likely to pick 
a major related to high-paying science, technology, engineering and math 
(STEM) careers.
 As a liberal arts college, this explanation might not tell the whole 
story. Nearly 80 percent of Middlebury students don’t major in science or 
math, according to a 2015 Student Profile report. Furthermore, the Col-
lege does not offer pre-professional degrees in engineering. Data from the 
College’s Center for Careers and Innovation (CCI) suggest it is finance – on 
a national level and at Middlebury, male students are more likely to pursue 
and stick with lucrative banking jobs – that is primarily responsible for this 
wage gap. 
 So as established pipelines to careers on Wall Street, what role might 
elite colleges play to address this gender imbalance in finance? Should they? 
Report’s Nuts and Bolts Show Some Rust
 In their report, the Center for American Progress tracked student 
earnings by matching tax records with federal financial aid forms. The data 
comes from a single cohort, students that enrolled in college during the 
2000-2001 academic year who received federal aid. 
 Middlebury’s gender-pay gap ranked first among NESCAC schools, 
with men making $51,373 more than women on average (see top-left 
graph). The school that came closest to Middlebury was Amherst with a 
wage difference of $49,393. Williams had a 10-year earnings difference of 
$25,835; Bowdoin’s was $19,698. Overall, the median difference in NES-
CAC earnings was $22,964. 
 But Caitlin Myers, an economics professor who studies how eco-
nomic policies affect women, warned against jumping to conclusions about 
Middlebury’s performance compared to other NESCACs.
 “That [gender-pay] gap is for people who attended Middlebury 15 
years ago. It’s not necessarily the case that it’s the experience current Mid-
dlebury students will have,” she said.
 She also noted that the report only included the earnings of students 
who received federal aid so the data might not reflect the gender-pay gap 
among the entire graduating class. 
 Another caveat, the sample sizes were likely very small. Only 24 per-
cent of the College’s students received federal aid according to the FAFSA 
website. If the average entering class is 650 students, the numbers from the 
report were calculated using just 155 students. 
 “It’s about statistical significance,” Myers said. 
 Professor Peter Matthews, head of the economics department, 
raised concerns about the sample size as well. 
 “The sample is small enough that one or two well-paid ‘outliers’ 
might explain the 2011 outcome,” he said. “It might have been more useful 
to know, for example, how median compensation for men and women from 
the NESCAC evolved over this period.” 
 The Center for American Progress only reported the mean earn-
ings of graduates in its 2016 report. Without the medians, it’s impossible to 
know whether a handful of salaries skewed the results. 
 The researchers of this report said they were unable to explain what 
was causing the national wage gap between men and women because the 
available data was not broken down by major or career path. 
 Middlebury’s gender-pay gap isn’t likely to stem from discrimina-
tion in the classroom. The economics department has actively tried to 
recruit and retain its female economics majors. Additionally, the current 
economics faculty is about 50% female. 
 “The proportion of female majors has never been higher, and we 
expect that it will continue to grow,” Professor Matthews said. 
 In 1999, only 17 percent of economics majors were women, accord-
ing to Professor Matthews. In 2016, it has nearly doubled to 35 percent.
 “This said, there are still more men than women in economics, 
and the economics major here is larger than at most, if not all, NESCAC 
schools,” Matthews said. He also noted that the College, as opposed to the 
economics department, is well-connected to alumni working on Wall Street 
and that many graduates across different majors end up in finance.
Not a Pipeline Problem
 There doesn’t appear to be a shortage in the number of women ap-
plying for or landing gigs in finance. Most big banks recruit a junior ana-
lyst class that is roughly 50/50 men and women according to CCI Director 
Peggy Burns. 
 “We have recruiters in finance and consulting industries that are 
really very committed to recruiting women and under-represented groups,” 
Burns said. The College seems to be well-connected to banking careers. Of 
the 435 respondents in a Class of 2015 post-graduation survey, nearly one 
in four took jobs in in finance.
 A 2016 international report by World Economic Forum found the 
percentage of women in junior roles within finance was 43 percent, higher 
than the average across all industries. In mid-level positions, the proportion 
of women declined to 33 percent. Among senior analysts, it dropped to 20 
percent. At the CEO-level, women held just nine percent of all positions. 
 Economics major Erin Giles ‘17 worked at a small investment bank 
in Boston last summer. 
 “I felt like I had an advantage in getting hired because I’m a woman. 
But I was at an immediate disadvantage once I stepped into the office. It 
was a very ‘bro’ culture,” she said. “I had to go outside to use the women’s 
bathroom because there wasn’t one in the building. There just weren’t that 
many women in the office.”
 The Campus reported last spring that Middlebury men were more 
likely to major in fields linked to high salary jobs, such as computer science 
and economics, than women. But the CCI survey on Class of 2015 gradu-
ates revealed the only sector that remained male-dominated six months 
after graduation was finance. Men outnumbered women more than two to 
one. The same survey of these graduates reported a median salary greater 
than $70,000, much higher than the $48,821 average salary of all respon-
dents.
 “When I look at what our women and men [Middlebury alumni] 
are being offered, I can tell you there is no difference between men and 
women in [the financial field]. If you’re a man offered a finance analyst job 
and your starting salary is for $80,000, it’ll be the same if you’re a woman,” 
Burns said. 
Difficult Working Conditions for Women in Finance
 The wage disparity appears to stem from the unique challenges 
women must endure to succeed in a competitive male-dominated work-
place. Recent New York Times op-eds paint a grim picture of Wall Street’s 
misogynist environments that “go far beyond exclusion from meetings and 
golf outings” such as public groping to settle a bet. 
 “Wall Street is a specific culture. It is a specific culture of men,” said 
business psychologist Sharon Horowitz who consults Wall Street firms in an 
interview with the Huffington Post.
 Professor Myers said work interruptions for having a family could 
also explain the wage gap in general, and not just among Middlebury 
alumni.
 “That gender-pay gap widening has been observed in the country. I 
don’t know if there’s anything unique to Middlebury. Career interruptions 
for family are disproportionately born by women,” Myers said. 
 The U.S. is the only country that doesn’t require companies to offer 
maternity leave. But those experimenting with generous family-friendly 
policies have produced impressive results. Patagonia runs an in-house day-
care center and shuttles children of employees from school to their after-
school program. The child-care program has helped the company achieve a 
100 percent retention rate for moms returning to workforce in the past five 
years; the national average is 79 percent. In addition, 50 percent of Patago-
nia’s managers and senior leaders are women. 
 If women are less likely to hold highly-paid positions on the corpo-
rate ladder because they must take time off for family, one solution to the 
wage gap might be generous child-care and maternity leave policies.
 “[Taking time off] is something women continue to pay for 
throughout their working lives. Once you step down a few rungs, there are 
other people passing you by,” Burns said. 
The College’s Role in Changing Wall Street Culture
 While higher education has no legal firepower to change national 
labor policies, could elite private schools like Middlebury, as established 
pipelines to finance careers, reform Wall Street culture to be more female-
friendly?
 If students are made more aware of the work-life balance challenges 
specific to women, the future generation of Wall Street bankers could be 
more willing to create generous parental leave policies or actively change 
the hyper-masculine office culture. 
 Fortune Magazine published an article last year citing multiple stud-
ies showing that firms could benefit from hiring and retaining more female 
investors: women are less stubborn, less impulsive and better at evaluating 
risk. 
 One possible idea that the College could implement is requiring a 
“professional ethics” class that includes a gender studies component for all 
majors. But as the College’s most popular major, that could mean hiring 
new faculty during a time when our budget is in deficit.
 Tyler Belmont ‘17, an International Politics and Economics major, 
thought a mandatory class on gender studies or banking ethics would do 
little to change Wall Street culture. 
 “I think the learning that needs to take place is outside the class-
room,” he said. “For example, stimulating social discussion by inviting 
outside faculty and making it mandatory for certain majors or classes. A lot 
of these conversations take place within a social vacuum and never bleeds 
out to the people who need to participate.”
 This gender disparity is also not limited to jobs in finance. It exists 
in other sectors like computer science (male-dominated) and education 
(female-dominated). Some students thought it should be required, or at 
least offered, to all Middlebury students.
 “I think it should be interdisciplinary because you benefit from get-
ting insights from people who are outside your major. You can get different 
perspectives,” said political science major Nicole Caci ‘17. 
 While no Middlebury course on professional ethics exists, the De-
partment of Economics offers “Economics and Gender,” taught by professor 
Tanya Byker. According to the course catalog, the class uses “the tools of 
economics to understand gender-related issues.”
Salary as a Measure of Professional Success
 A mandatory class like this could address the wage gap by creating 
a better environment for women on Wall Street. But should the College be 
encouraging more women to work in finance at all? 
 The 2016 Center for American Progress report makes a tricky as-
sumption: the success of female graduates can be measured by whether 
their income matches male peers.
  “It’s not a stereotype but it’s certainly a generalization that women 
tend to go into fields that are lower paid – like education, like nonprofit,” 
Burns said. “If women are making a choice about pursuing a career path 
that is about social justice, social impact, affecting change in the world and 
it pays less, then God bless them for doing that.”
 Moreover, getting women to pursue male-dominated careers might 
not translate to higher wages, according to Laurie Essig, associate professor 
of sociology and gender, sexuality and feminist studies. 
 “Whether something is more paid or prestigious is who’s working in 
that field, not about that field in itself,” said Essig. “The more likely the job 
is likely to be women-dominated, the less we pay.” 
 She cited computer science, bank-telling and gynecology as jobs 
varying in pay and prestige within the last fifty years. 
 “At least historically, there’s nothing innate about certain fields that 
make them higher compensated or worthwhile. We make a social decision. 
Wall Street is valuable. Teaching 4th grade is not,” Essig said. 
Middlebury’s Gender Pay Gap Linked To Wall Street
Liberal Arts Gender Wage Gap
(10-year pay gap and 10-year average earnings for men and women)
SOURCE: Center for American Progress 2016 Report
Men are represented by the color red and women by blue on this page.
The difference is indicated by the color black.
Middlebury
Amherst
Tufts
Williams
Trinity
Bates 
Bowdoin
Hamilton
Wesleyan
Collby 
Connecticut 
$51,373
$49.394
$35,437
$25,835
$23,162
$22,965
$19,698
$15,640
$15,343
$14,947
$12,967
FINANCE	  
Female	   Male	  
EDUCATION	  
Female	   Male	  
Other	  (i.e.	  Social	  
Impact,	  
Government,	  
Tourism)	  
Finance	  
Educa=on	  
Consul=ng	  
Technology	  
Healthcare	  
Media	  &	  
Entertainment	  
Arts	  &	  
Architecture	  
Energy	  &	  
Environment	  
CLASS	  OF	  2015:	  WHERE	  DO	  THEY	  WORK?	  	  
$108,092 $56,718
$111,556 $62,163
$110,566 $75,130
$94,531 $68,696
$80,673 $57,510
$72,952 $49,987
$75,823 $56,124
$78.495 $62,855
$69.675 $54,343
$72,259 $57,312
$62,658 $49,690
Written by Hye-Jin Kim
Designed by Julia Hatheway
Around 11:45 a.m. on Friday, Oct. 28, 
college students, professors, faculty and 
community members gathered at the Robert 
A. Jones ’59 House Conference Room for the 
fifth annual International Politics and Eco-
nomics (IPE) Symposium titled “The Global 
Illicit Drug Trade.”
Attendees listened to four speakers dis-
cuss topics on international drug policy re-
forms, marijuana legalization, Mexico’s war 
on drugs and drugs as a social construct. 
The discussions and lectures lasted from the 
morning to early evening, when the sympo-
sium ended and attendees and speakers alike 
had the opportunity to attend a dinner and 
post-dinner discussion.
Each speaker and lecture was intro-
duced by a student moderator from the IPE 
department who facilitated a discussion af-
terwards. After the opening remarks, Peter 
Reuter, a professor at the school of Public 
Policy in the department of criminology 
at the University of 
Maryland began with 
his talk, “The Inter-
national Drug Policy 
Reform Agenda: Why 
It Misses the Major 
Problems and Oppor-
tunities.”
The interdisci-
plinary nature of the 
International Poli-
tics and Economics 
program inspires the 
department to “pick 
symposium topics 
that lend themselves 
to interdisciplinary perspectives,” said Wil-
liam Pyle, Frederick C. Dirks professor of 
international economics and the program 
director at the Rohatyn Center for Global Af-
fairs.
“The global illicit drug trade is a massive 
industry whose impact is felt throughout the 
world, even in its remotest corners, like here 
in Vermont,” Pyle said.
For this year’s symposium, he and two 
other professors from the College’s IPE pro-
gram, Mark Williams and Sebnem Gumus-
cu, wanted to draw connections between in-
ternational, regional and local issues.
“I attended the symposium because see-
ing the real-life applications of our education 
and of my major specifically is something 
that’s really important to me,” said Georgia 
Grace Edwards ’18, an IPE major. 
“Symposiums are important because 
they take us out of our Middlebury bubble for 
a bit and remind us why we’re here — study-
ing whatever it is that we’re interested in — 
so that we can contribute our knowledge and 
skills to the world,” she said.
Evidence of the connection between 
national discussions and local worries also 
emerged in the form of audience questions. 
Beau Kilmer, a senior policy researcher at 
RAND corporation, gave a talk titled “Mari-
juana Legalization 2016: Assessing the 
International Pol-
icy Landscape and 
Implementation.” 
During the question 
and answer section, 
audience members 
asked about the 
impact marijuana 
legalization would 
have on Vermont 
and how it would af-
fect smaller regions 
and areas.
The talk that 
stood out the most 
for Edwards was 
“The Constitutional Costs of the War on 
Drugs” by Alejandro Madrazo Lajous, a se-
nior researcher in the Drug Policy Progam at 
CIDE, an internationally recognized center 
of higher education and research located in 
Mexico City. 
 “Alejandro cited data showing that the 
launching of the drug war was immediately 
followed by a significant increase in homi-
cides that the Mexican government directly 
attributes to drug confrontations between 
individuals and with the police,” Edwards 
said. “For the first time, homicide became 
the main cause of death in Mexico for an age 
group. It’s crazy to think about what the im-
plications of such a situation could be.” 
Edwards found the talk significant espe-
cially as a global health minor. She expressed 
surprise that more people die from diabetes 
each year in Mexico than from drug war in-
volvements and questioned: “Why is there 
not a war on diabetes and/or public health 
instead?”
Rebecca Tiger, associate professor of so-
ciology at the College, closed the symposium 
with the talk “(Re) Imagining Drugs and 
Addiction: The Past, Present and Possible 
Future of Drug Policy.” She challenged the 
audience to think more carefully about the 
language they used to discuss and respond to 
drugs and drug reforms. 
Tiger’s search for a new kind of con-
sciousness surrounding drug use invited a 
question from an audience member about 
how to regulate drugs and drug use without 
seeing drugs as inherently wrong despite the 
negative impact of certain drugs. Tiger’s re-
sponse was to ask the question, “what do you 
think?” In so doing, she entreated the audi-
ence to “right now, think big.” To read more 
about Tiger’s talk, see page 16.
Although the topics were politically rel-
evant and the speakers knowledgeable, Pyle 
was disappointed by the lack of attendance. 
Throughout the conference, students came 
and left at different points. According to 
Pyle, there were about 60-70 people for each 
of the presentations and about 120-150 stu-
dent were able to attend one of the lectures. 
“I had hoped that the RAJ conference 
room would be full to capacity for each of the 
presentations. But we didn’t have a full-to-
capacity crowd for any of the four,” Pyle said. 
Halloween has always been a popu-
lar holiday for Middlebury students. This 
year, the Middlebury College Activities 
Board (MCAB) decided to make a change 
of social scene for Halloween by bring-
ing a haunted house to the whole campus 
on Oct. 29. The event included a 10-min-
ute walking tour through several themed 
rooms with rewards like candy at the end 
of the tour. 
Maddy Dickinson ’18, one of the 
MCAB Social Committee executives 
and main organizers for this event, has 
thought about having a haunted house 
on campus since she was a first-year. She 
brought up the idea for the attraction to 
MCAB earlier this year, which then be-
gan planning the event in late Septem-
ber. 
 “I initially wanted to reach out to 
an outside company, in which people do 
haunted houses for a full-time job. Be-
cause lots of them were either already 
booked or interested but asked more 
more money than our budget, we decided 
to do it on our own,” Dickinson said. “It 
is definitely much easier to hire an out-
side crew, but it is also really rewarding 
to see something that you poured your 
soul and heart into, eventually come to-
gether.” 
During the one month they had to 
prepare, MCAB built the haunted house 
entirely from scratch. The project re-
quired a collaborative effort from around 
30 decorators, 16 actors, five builders 
and five make-up artists. 
“I really liked the fact that this has 
been a completely student-run produc-
tion. This has been student-built, stu-
dent-acted, and student-developed. It is 
a really nice Middlebury tradition that 
we are creating,” said Dickinson. 
Although MCAB funded the majority 
of the event, the Intercommons Council 
(ICC) provided additional funds for can-
dy while David Kloepfer, assistant direc-
tor of programming and events, assisted 
with the planning of the 
haunted house. Kloep-
fer also acted as a facili-
tator between student 
organizers and other 
administrators. 
“Usually my role 
is to help with making 
connections with other 
staff and other service 
providers on campus 
for incidents like sched-
uling spaces, tax servic-
es and other resources,” 
Kloepfer said. “But the 
student leaders are the 
big thinkers, the ones who come up with 
ideas, and I sometimes share institution-
al memory about what we have done in 
the past.” 
Though the timeline was short, 
Kloepfer said he was confident that the 
students would succeed in creating a new 
Halloween tradition at the College. 
“It was definitely ambitious consid-
ering the timeline that we had. But we 
were excited to make it happen and es-
pecially do something more homemade. 
It is really exciting because of the nice 
collaboration between all of the different 
people involved helping,” Kloepfer said.
Although there were certain guide-
lines for the actors to follow and con-
versations about not making people un-
comfortable while trying to scare them, 
actors were given a large extent of cre-
ative freedom. Moreover, the event rep-
resented a collaborative effort amongst 
student actors. Katie Mayopoulos ’18, 
one of the actors at the event, said she 
first learned about the haunted house 
though Dickinson. Dickinson was then 
able to recruit more students as a direct 
result of Mayopoulous introducing her to 
Sally Seitz ’17, this year’s Hepburn Zoo-
keeper.   
“I guess I learned a lot about con-
nections and 
n e t w o r k i n g , ” 
said Mayopou-
los. “It taught 
me a lot about 
how important 
it is to connect 
your friends 
when you have 
a resource, es-
pecially when 
the campus is 
small and ev-
eryone knows 
each other.”
B e s i d e s 
entertaining the study body, MCAB col-
lected donations at the door for the Na-
tional Breast Cancer Foundation in hon-
or of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. 
“I think it is so easy for us as students 
of Middlebury to be part of the bubble 
and just forget about big movements, 
whether in politics or activism like this, 
outside of us,” Mayopoulos said. “I think 
it is really cool that the school is tying 
them together. It is truly a privilege to 
enjoy the holiday in such a fun way, but 
at the end of the day, it is also about how 
we are going to give back.” 
Besides the haunted house event, 
MCAB also organized a Movie Night on 
Oct. 30 on Battell Beach to celebrate 
Halloween. As Dickinson said, bringing a 
haunted house to the campus was ambi-
tious and difficult – but ultimately, it was 
very rewarding to try something new. 
IPE Symposium Spotlights Global Drug Trade 
By Qian (Audrey) Li
Contributing Writer
MCAB Creates New Halloween Tradition
middlebury College newsroom
The 2016 annual International Politics and Economics Symposium titled “The Global 
Illicit Drug Trade” took place on Oct. 28 at the Rohatyn Center for Global Affairs.
By Tabitha Mueller
Contributing Writer
Student actors dressed in costumes to liven up MCAB’s haunted house on Oct. 29.
qian (audrey) li
“Symposiums can be 
important because they 
take us out of our Mid-
dlebury bubble for a bit, 
and remind us why we’re 
here.” 
Georgia Grace Edwards ’18
“It is truly a privilege 
to enjoy the holiday in 
such a fun way, but at the 
end of the day, it is also 
about how we are going 
to give back.” 
Katie Mayopoulos ‘18
12 features |november 3, 2016
november 3, 2016   13features
Jim Grimsley, an author and self-
identified “recovering racist,” spoke 
on Oct. 27 about his experience living 
through school integration in the 1960s. 
The talk was based on Grimsley’s new 
book, How I Shed My Skin: Unlearn-
ing Lessons From 
a Racist Child-
hood, in which he 
explores how the 
integration of his 
middle school in 
North Carolina 
had a profound 
impact on him as 
an 11-year-old. 
Grimsley read sev-
eral passages from 
the book and talk-
ed about his path 
towards a better 
understanding of 
racial equality. 
According to 
Grimsley, he still has not been able to 
fully escape the assumptions he grew up 
with, no matter how hard he tries. 
 “When you’re programmed at such 
a young age to think something, you 
don’t stop thinking it just because you 
want to,” Gimsley said. “That’s one of 
the places [where] we as white people 
continue to fail on this issue. We think, 
one day, that we’re not racist… [even 
though] we’ve been raised to be. We’ve 
been created in a culture that thinks of 
whiteness as the ultimate. We think of 
this as a white country. We think of our-
selves as God’s chosen. Even if we don’t 
think it consciously, that programming 
is inside us and it’s very, very difficult to 
escape it. I know that I never have. What 
I’ve learned to do 
is to short-circuit 
it – to refuse to 
allow it to act on 
me anymore.”
G r i m s l e y 
knows not every-
body will agree 
with his asser-
tion that all white 
people are racist, 
but he believes 
that this admis-
sion is a crucial step towards an impor-
tant conversation about race. 
“When I realized I was going to go 
out and start talking about this book I 
thought, ‘well I just can’t be one more 
white person going around saying I’m 
not a racist,’” he said. “First of all, I don’t 
believe it, and second that’s not going to 
help anything. So I began to talk about 
myself as a recovering racist. As a per-
son who is dealing with a problem that’s 
as pervasive as addiction and that can 
only be faced one day at a time.”
Grimsley’s talk was hosted by the 
Alliance for an 
Inclusive Middle-
bury (AIM), a 
group whose goal 
is to make the 
College a more 
inclusive space 
for all students, 
faculty and staff. 
Angie McCarthy 
’19 is a member of 
AIM and attended 
the talk. 
“I really want-
ed to hear what he 
had to say about 
fighting our in-
ner racist because 
I identify as half Asian and white,” Mc-
Carthy said. “I wanted to see if my most-
ly [Malaysian] upbringing ‘helped’ me 
be less of a racist or if it brought in a 
different sort of biases, just because Ma-
lays, and many other races, can be rac-
ist too. I also wanted to learn how I can 
better re-program my thoughts to make 
sure I am being fair.” 
McCarthy appreciated the ways in 
which Grimsley brought humor to such 
a serious topic. “I also really enjoyed his 
candor,” she said. “I can only hope that 
one day I am as honest with myself as 
he is. He has the courage to call him-
self out… and I hope I can work towards 
that.”
According to McCarthy, the College 
community can 
learn a lot from 
Grimsley’s expe-
rience. 
“M id d le bu ry 
is a [predomi-
nantly white in-
stitution], and 
carries the bag-
gage that comes 
with that term,” 
she said. “We 
have a lot of stu-
dents who do and don’t realize their mi-
cro- and macro-aggressions. As a com-
munity, we need to come together to 
actively decide how we are going to treat 
each other, and hopefully, that means 
with care, understanding and respect.”
According to Alice Wang, another 
AIM member and the Ross Commons 
residential advisor, AIM wanted to bring 
Grimsley to campus because he speaks 
so honestly about race.
 “We wanted to bring Jim Grimsley to 
campus because of his articulate honesty 
when facing racism within himself and 
within the South and the United States 
broadly,” Wang 
said. “I found 
his perspective 
on the important 
role of self-work 
in regards to un-
derstanding prej-
udice particularly 
powerful. I think 
Middlebury will 
continue to have 
many tough con-
versations – ones 
that require all 
members of our community to engage 
with each other in vulnerable ways. I be-
lieve the first step is developing a per-
sonal understanding of one’s relation-
ship with race and privilege.” 
Grimlsey agreed. “You can’t resign 
from having white privilege,” he said. 
But what you can do, according to 
Grimsley, is admit to being racist. 
“I can admit that I’m racist and I 
didn’t die when I did. And you can ad-
mit that you are and it won’t kill you, 
and maybe it will make a difference,” he 
said. “If we can move from that point to 
having some more refined language for 
talking about racism and bigotry, the 
difference between passive racism and 
active racism, that’s fine. But the start-
ing point has to be… looking in the mir-
ror and saying, ‘I see it. Now what do I 
do about it?’”
Grimsley believes the first thing peo-
ple can do is actively try to change. “In 
the south [when I give this talk] what 
I often get is an 
older white guy 
sitting up very 
early in the con-
versation and 
saying, ‘it’s going 
to take genera-
tions to get rid of 
this. It’s not go-
ing to go away.’ 
And what that 
person is usually 
saying is, ‘I don’t 
want to change.’ 
You’ve got to want to change.”
According to Wang, AIM is putting 
together several projects so that stu-
dents can help the College also start to 
make some changes. 
Wang explained that the group is or-
ganizing a photo contest called “Middle-
bury Now” that will feature photographs 
showing students’ perspectives of the 
College’s currenty level of inclusivity. In 
addition, AIM will hold conversations 
alongside Envisioning Middlebury to 
produce ideas and get feedback on how 
the College can become more inclusive.
Writer Discusses “Unlearning Racism”
By Sarah Asch
Senior Writer
Author Jim Grimsley gave a lecture titled “How I Shed My Skin: Unlearning the 
Racist Lessons of a Southern Childhood” in Dana Auditorium on October 27. 
michael o’hara
“I wanted to see if my 
mostly [Malaysian] up-
bringing ‘helped’ me be less 
of a racist or if it brought in 
a different sort of biases.”
Angie McCarthy ‘19
“You can’t resign from 
having white privilege... 
But the starting point has 
to be looking in the mir-
ror and saying, ‘I see it. 
Now what do I do about 
it?’” 
Jim Grimsley
Author, How I Shed My Skin
WANT A PIECE OF THE ACTION?
The Middlebury Campus is always seeking new voices. Writers are 
needed in the following sections:
To express interest, please send an email to campus@middlebury.edu detailing the section(s) for which 
you’d like to write.
NEWS
ONLINE  
FEATURES
SPORTS
OPINIONS
ARTS&SCIENCES
“As a community, we 
need to come together to 
actively decide how we are 
going to treat each other.”
Angie McCarthy ‘19
A new making space, which would 
provide students access to materials, 
carpentry tools, digital fabrication tech-
nology and electronic prototyping plat-
forms, remains in discussion for imple-
mentation on campus. Since the spring, 
pressure has mounted on Middlebury 
College administrators to greenlight a 
dedicated makerspace, as student-inter-
est group MiddMakers continues their 
years-long search for a headquarters. 
The College’s 
makers are draw-
ing from an unfa-
miliar playbook in 
talks with College 
officials, including 
Timothy Spears, 
vice president for 
academic develop-
ment and professor 
of american stud-
ies, and Mary Stan-
ley, space manager 
of the College’s 
facilities services 
office. The group 
aims to prove that 
such an investment 
in a making facility 
on school grounds would be positive and 
effective. 
“We are hoping to give future Mid-
dlebury students the tools to bring ideas 
into the world,” said Leo McElroy ’18, 
one of the founders of MiddMakers. “It 
has been exciting, but like any big proj-
ect, there are no guarantees of success. 
Occasionally, I feel like I can still turn 
over my shoulder and see the starting 
line.”
The College sustains many outlets 
for creative exploration, including the 
pottery studio in the Adirondack View 
woods, the animation studio in Davis 
Family Library and the Old Stone Mill 
(OSM) in the town of Middlebury. 
“You find people doing creative, ex-
pressive work because they enjoy it [in 
these spaces). This is the hallmark of a 
makerspace… The Mahaney Center [for 
the Arts] and Johnson have dedicated 
shops, but there are limitations on ac-
cessibility,” McElroy said.
This fall, the College hired McLeod 
Kredell Architects, an architecture firm 
located on Frog Hollow Alley in town, to 
conduct a feasibility study for a campus 
makerspace. John McLeod, a principal 
of the firm and a visiting assistant pro-
fessor of architecture at the College, says 
results from the study will be submitted 
in December. 
“[McElroy] is interning in our office 
this semester and assisting us with the 
preparation of the study,” McLeod wrote 
in an email. “One option we’re looking at 
is…the renovation of the Bunker space in 
the Freeman International Center. We’ve 
also been asked to study a new, light 
industrial-type building somewhere on 
campus.”
MiddMakers hopes that access to 
new technologies such as three-dimen-
sional printing capabilities and com-
puter-aided modeling in a makerspace 
would offer more richness and versatility 
to the creative work occurring on cam-
pus. 
McElroy believes the College is open 
to support student-led initiatives, but 
sometimes, there’s too much process in 
their implementation. 
“If I were to make a change,” he said, 
“it would be making it easier for people 
to try things and 
grow them. A mak-
erspace enables 
that sort of cul-
ture.”
Lena Jacobs 
’17.5, an architec-
ture studies major 
from New York 
City who sits on 
the board of the 
OSM with McEl-
roy, agrees. In her 
three years on the 
OSM board, she 
has found that the 
creative spaces 
available are not 
fully equipped to meet student demand.
“The Old Stone Mill serves as a great 
space to connect with other like-minded 
makers, but it has a limited amount of 
resources to fuel large-scale projects,” 
Jacobs said. “It would be great to have 
simple machinery accessible to all stu-
dents, like a sewing machine or a print-
making heat press ― and even more ex-
citing, to have a full woodshop setup, a 
laser cutter or a 3D printer available to 
the student body.”
For personal projects, Jacobs finds 
herself needing simple but pricey equip-
ment, tools which OSM does not pro-
vide. A making space would change this, 
Jacobs said. “(It) would create a commu-
nity of makers, collaborating and shar-
ing ideas together.” 
MiddMakers describes making spac-
es an open invitation for students to con-
vene around a so-called “anti-discipline” 
like makerspace creation.  According to 
McElroy, that the 
College blurs tra-
ditional borders 
between academic 
subjects means 
that the College 
engages the world 
most directly.
“The case for 
anti-disciplinarity 
arises from the bi-
naries and hierar-
chies in how we are 
thinking today,” 
McElroy said. “A lot of this is embedded 
in the sort of language we use. Even at a 
liberal arts college, it’s easy to find dis-
ciplines existing comfortably siloed. You 
give something a name and think you 
know what it is. There is use to this, but 
there are also pitfalls.”
The landing page for the new Mid-
dMakers website that went live last week 
calls for more integration. It borrows 
from Laurie Patton’s address in late 
2014, delivered when Al Dragone Jr. ’78, 
the Presidential 
Search Committee 
chair, announced 
her as the College’s 
17th president. 
“Integration is 
not only the abil-
ity to put things 
together,” Patton 
said, “but also to 
find new ways in 
which knowledge 
fits into the world.” 
Here at school, 
such a project is 
central to the Maker Movement, says 
MiddMakers co-founder Joey Button 
’17. Button worked for Tesla Motors last 
summer and this fall, he is interning at 
Facebook in Menlo Park, California.
“In Silicon Valley, I have been lucky 
enough to work with some of the most 
innovative people in the world,” Button 
said. “They are not the type of people 
to take you at your 
word. They make 
you prove.”
Because of this, 
Button thinks mak-
erspaces congre-
gate people around 
positive energy and 
problem-solving. 
“Makerspaces 
produce people 
with the go-getter 
lifestyles that our 
world needs ― in 
industry, academia or otherwise,” he 
said. “Middlebury is a magnet for fantas-
tic artists, builders, creators and explor-
ers, but has neither centralized nor made 
access to the resources easy. A maker-
space cuts the red tape.
“MiddMakers will become the hub of 
student innovation, the place to go when 
you have an idea but not a clue where to 
start,” Button said.
Last summer, McElroy worked at 
Maker Works, a makerspace based in 
Ann Arbor, Michi-
gan, that lends ac-
cess to tools and 
creative spaces for 
making communi-
ties. He partnered 
with design en-
gineers working 
with makerbots, 
digital fabrication 
outfits and embed-
ded systems. In a 
Middlebury mak-
erspace, similar 
technologies would 
be made available 
to students year-round. With access to 
these tools, MiddMakers believes future 
makers will pursue their ideas or ven-
tures. The group conceives of student in-
novations, whether electronic, software 
or hardware, that will straddle the lines 
between analog and digital, material and 
machine. 
The best-case scenario, McElroy ex-
plained, is to designate, through part-
nerships with McLeod Kredell and the 
College, a space on campus for students 
to harbor and act upon their curiosi-
ties. And that goes beyond the standard 
workshop for stage sets, ceramics or 
sculpture. 
“What is a makerspace?” McElroy 
said. “Almost every proposal I’ve writ-
ten in the last two years starts to answer 
this question… I’m interested in making 
something useful, and ideas become use-
ful when you share them. An important 
part of sharing your ideas is learning 
how to represent them independent of 
yourself ― that’s what making is.”
In Makerspace Bid, Student Creators 
Quest for Improved Home Ground
By Zane Anthony
Staff Writer
middbeat
Students continue to push for space that will allow creative projects to come to fruition.
“We are hoping to give 
future Middlebury stu-
dents the tools to bring 
ideas into the world ”
Leo McElroy ‘18
Co-founder of middmakers
“Makerspaces produce 
people with the go-getter 
lifestyles that our world 
needs - in industry, aca-
demia, or otherwise.”
Joey Button ‘17
co-founder of middmakers
PAID ADVERTISEMENT
“The Old Stone Mill 
serves as a great space to 
connect with other like-
minded makers, but it has 
a limited amount of re-
sources to fuel large-scale 
projects.”
Lena Jacobs ‘17.5
Co-founder of middmakers
“Between Repression and Rehabilitation: 
Reforming Political Criminals in 1930s Japan”  
by Max Ward, Assistant Professor of Japanese 
History, Middlebury College.
FRIDAY, 11/4, 12:15 p.m., RAJ  
"Eating Across Brazil: Enhancing Distinction 
through Food"
by Jane Fajans, Cornell University.
Monday, 11/7, 4:30 p.m., RAJ
 
 
Future of the Past Series: "1491-2016: 
Reinterpreting the 'Clash' and Conquest"
by James Fitzsimmons, Associate Professor of 
Anthropology, Middlebury College and  
Paul Monod, Principal, Middlebury – CMRS 
Oxford Humanities Program.
TUESDAY, 11/8, 4:30 p.m., RAJ
ROHATYN CENTER for GLOBAL AFFAIRS aka The RAJ
14 features |november 3, 2016
arts &  sciences
don’t
miss
this
Biology Seminar: Mistletoe-Infected Spruce
Barry Logan, Professor of Biology at Bowdoin College, 
will talk about Eastern dwarf mistletoe. Eastern dwarf 
mistletoe is a diminutive plant parasite that  can fell a 
mature white spruce in a matter of years. He will pro-
pose a casual chain of events leading to spruce decline.
11/4, FRIDAY, 12:15 P.M., MCCARDELL BICENTENNOAL HALL 
220
Middlebury College Choir
The choir’s repertoire spans major styles and time periods 
of the choral canon, folk music, world music, American 
music and new compositions. Sponsored by the Depart-
ment of Music. Susanne Peck will be the guest conductor. 
Free. 
11/6, SUNDAY, 3 P.M., MAHANEY CENTER FOR THE ARTS, ROBISON 
HALL
Meet the Artist and Student Curators of 
the Exhibit “Landscaped”
Join us as artist and geographer Timothy Case 
talks about the process and message of his envi-
ronmental photography. Student curators of the 
exhibition will also be present.
11/4, FRIDAY, 4:30-6 P.M., MAHANEY CENTER FOR THE 
ARTS, GALLERY
It sounds like something out of uto-
pian science fiction novel: a city that can 
use a small fraction of the energy con-
sumed by the average city today. How-
ever, Sustainability Studies Professor 
Greg Trencher of Clark University says 
that these “smart” cities are becoming a 
reality in Japan. 
During his guest lecture last Monday, 
Oct. 24, Professor Trencher outlined the 
steps that Japan is taking towards build-
ing an energy efficient society, and smart 
cities play a vital role. As Trencher points 
out, smart cities aren’t necessarily a new 
thing. There are plenty of examples of 
cities that are using new technologies to 
become more energy efficient. In Japan, 
however, Kashiwanoha is bringing smart 
cities into the next generation. 
Unlike other cities that are retrofitting 
their infrastructure with new technolo-
gies, Kashiwanoha was designed and 
built using smart technology. Because of 
this, the builders of Kashiwanoha have 
been able to incorporate green strategies 
that are impossible to use in any preex-
isting city. In fact, much of what makes 
Kashiwanoha a smart city simply lies in 
where things are built. For example, the 
train line goes directly through the mid-
dle of Kashiwanoha, placing key features 
of the city in easy walking distance from 
the train station. A shiny new shopping 
center stands right next to the station, 
and a little farther than that is a huge 
high rise apartment complex. The city 
itself is meant to be as compact as pos-
sible, making the entire place walkable 
and therefore eliminating the need for 
cars and buses that emit carbon. Addi-
tionally, every building in the city is de-
signed using the latest green technology, 
such as smarter meters, LED lighting 
and solar panels. 
While smart cities present a promis-
ing alternative to how we use energy, 
they do not account for where that en-
ergy comes from. Currently, Japan is 
powered predominantly by coal, oil and 
natural gas. Obviously none of these en-
ergy sources are favorable in terms of 
greenhouse gas emissions, but Trencher 
pointed out that renewable energy is not 
currently advanced enough to satisfy de-
mand. However, there may be an alter-
native: hydrogen.
Recently, the Japanese government 
has played a large role in subsidizing the 
development of hydrogen-powered cars. 
These cars don’t actually run on a hydro-
gen-powered engine but rather power 
a battery by using electrolysis to obtain 
energy from hydrogen gas. If hydrogen 
cars were to come into mass production, 
they would be able to solve many of the 
environmental problems that come with 
modern gas-powered cars. Most impor-
tantly, hydrogen-powered cars do not 
emit any CO2. In fact, the only by-prod-
uct of running these cars is water so pure 
it is actually drinkable. Another main 
benefit of these cars is that hydrogen is 
an inexhaustible fuel source. Many sci-
entists and environmental activists in 
Japan, including Trencher, envision a 
future where hydrogen can even be used 
to generate energy for cities, drastically 
lowering carbon output. 
However, it would be wrong to say 
that there are no flaws with the idea of 
using hydrogen for energy. One of the 
main drawbacks is the fact that pure hy-
drogen does not exist naturally on earth. 
While it is possible to extract hydrogen 
from many different compounds, the 
most effective sources are actually things 
like fossil fuels and natural gas, which 
negates some of the benefit of using hy-
drogen for energy due to the use of fossil 
fuels in its production. 
Although hydrogen energy is a prom-
ising technology, Trencher is quick to 
point out that we cannot rely on it to 
solve climate problems. 
“It’s probably not good enough,” 
Trencher said. “We need to be seeing 
even more ambitious technology if we 
want to slow global warming.” 
Despite Japan’s new focus on energy 
efficiency, their greenhouse gas emis-
sions have actually increased by 40 per-
cent in the past five years. Because of the 
Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011 and 
the resulting social resistance to nuclear 
energy, Japan has had to shift much of 
its energy reliance from nuclear energy 
to coal and natural gas. As a result of this 
shift in energy sourcing, Japan is only 
expected to return to its pre-2011 levels 
of greenhouse gas emission by 2020, 
despite successful efforts to cut energy 
usage. 
Japan illustrates an important point 
in modern environmental policy. While 
our energy technology and infrastruc-
ture is improving every year, if we con-
tinue to rely solely on efficient energy use 
rather than efficient energy sourcing, we 
will not be able to build a sustainable so-
ciety. 
Antigone Project Brings Myth to Present
Lecturer on Low-Carbon Cities in Japan
By Robert Cassidy
Contributing Writer
Chances are, when you think of the Greek 
literary figure Antigone, you do not think of 
surfers, an African village or a postmodern 
underworld. 
From Oct. 27-29, the Middlebury Col-
lege Theatre and Dance Department’s most 
recent show, The Antigone Project, chal-
lenged the audience’s preconceptions about 
Sophocles’ well-known Greek tragedy Anti-
gone. The Seeler Studio Theater at the Ma-
haney Center for the Arts was transformed 
into a storytelling space, with large monitors 
on the walls playing both pre-recorded and 
live footage to compliment the activity on 
stage. These projections were just some of 
the many contemporary elements in this re-
telling of the ancient story.
Sophocles’ story holds up surprisingly 
well in its modern renewal. The original 
story of Antigone follows the young protago-
nist Antigone, who is determined to bury her 
brother Polynices after her uncle, the King 
Creon of Thebes, condemns his corpse to be 
unburied. After sprinkling dirt on her fallen 
brother — who fought against Creon in the 
war — Antigone is condemned for her crime, 
and she and her lover commit suicide in the 
end.
It may be a difficult story for audiences to 
relate to, but these incarnations show that 
there is more than meets the eye. Each of the 
five plays in The Antigone Project touches on 
new themes and elaborates on old themes, 
modernizing the story of Antigone while 
staying true to its original subject matter. 
Each of the one-act plays were written by fe-
male playwrights, four of whom are women 
of color.
“I wanted to do plays by American wom-
en,” said Director Richard Romagnoli, a 
professor of theatre at the College. “These 
five plays also offered me a great variety of 
casting and different takes on the condition 
of women in this country as well as other 
continents. I thought that was important to 
capture without necessarily becoming po-
lemical.”
This sentiment was affirmed by Jackson 
Prince ’17, who took on a plethora of roles in 
the show.
“We don’t see enough strong women on 
stage,” said Prince. “The opportunity to tell 
five different stories in which strong and 
fiercely motivated women are the focus was 
a privilege.”
The performance energetically launched 
into action when the robed two narrators 
came onstage for a prologue. They were 
dressed in full Greek drama garb, but soon 
ditched the masks and tall platform shoes for 
more comfortable and modern attire. So be-
gan the modern rendition of Antigone, but it 
was only the tip of the iceberg on a wild and 
emotionally moving journey through time 
and space.
The first play, “Hang Ten” by Karen Hart-
man, centers on a Californian, bikini-clad 
version of Antigone and her flirtatious sister 
Ismene. They argue about their family’s in-
cestuous history and Antigone’s fixation on 
her brother’s death until an attractive surfer 
boy comes ashore and whisks Ismene away.  
It is followed by “Medallion” by Tanya 
Barfield, which is somehow both similar yet 
distinct from its precursor. Barfield’s inter-
pretation follows Antigone, now played by a 
black woman, as she desperately tries to at-
tain a Medal of Honor from the United States 
military so that she can bury her brother who 
died in battle. The frustration of Antigone as 
she appeals to the general reflects the frus-
tration of the original Antigone, who was so 
determined to give Polynices a proper burial.
“Antigone Arkhe” by Caridad Svich har-
nesses technology to tell the next story. In 
the play, an archivist gives a slideshow at 
a museum as Antigone adjacently tells of 
the thoughts going through her head as she 
hangs herself in her prison cell. 
This was followed by “A Stone’s Throw” 
by Lynn Nottage, which depicts the plight of 
a recent widow who is condemned to death 
by stoning for becoming pregnant while un-
married. This play poignantly highlights the 
wildly unjust and inhumane treatment of in-
nocent women in countries around the globe, 
and gives a new life to the story of Antigone.
The performance concludes with “Red 
Again” by Chiori Miyagawa, in which An-
tigone and her fiancé find themselves in a 
Buddhist-inspired underworld after com-
mitting suicide. Their condition is juxtaposed 
with the image of Ismene, who touches upon 
some of the world’s most significant political 
disasters such as 9/11 and the bombing of 
Hiroshima.
The Antigone Project’s depiction of the 
plight of the modern female – wherever in 
the world she may be – was not inherently 
easy to accomplish, according to actress 
Amanda Whitley ’19.
“As an actor you have to take your char-
acter’s side,” said Whitley, who played Anti-
gone in “Antigone Arkhe” and “Red Again.” 
“Even if you don’t agree with some of their 
choices or beliefs, you have to own their 
mindset for the hour and a half that you 
spend with them. Antigone is not an inher-
ently likable or accessible character for many 
modern audiences. Her ideals about death 
and ritual are hard to grasp in a society so far 
removed from the highly ritualistic world of 
ancient Greece. So what became a goal and 
a wonderful take away from The Antigone 
Project was owning those ideals and making 
them accessible through various contexts.”
Unlocking this accessibility was one of 
Romagnoli’s intentions and one of the rea-
sons he picked this show.
“I wanted to give actors who are between 
18-21 the opportunity to play characters who 
are mostly between 18-21,” Romagnoli said. 
“I thought that with this show there were op-
portunities for young actors to play charac-
ters who were very connected to them.”
This connection contributed to the reso-
nance it had with its audience. The script 
yielded a diverse and full portrait of a woman 
from ancient history, while the cast brought 
each iteration to life.
By Sabine Poux
Contributing Writer
Micheal O’hara
The Antigone Project brought the classic play through several modern interpertations
16 arts & SCIENCES   | November 3, 2016
Anyone who has ever taken a sociol-
ogy class is probably all too familiar with 
the idea of social constructs. Conversely, 
anyone enrolled in a science class has 
likely encountered their fair share of 
“objective truths” — facts so ingrained in 
the public consciousness that they do not 
even warrant questioning. These com-
peting frameworks of knowledge collide 
in discourses on drug policy, forcing us 
to reexamine the ways in which we de-
fine “drugs” and “addiction.”
Associate Professor of Sociology Re-
becca Tiger, the final speaker at the 2016 
International Politics and Economics 
Symposium on The Global Illicit Drug 
Trade, explored these ideas in her speech 
“(Re) Imagining Drugs and Addiction: 
The Past, Present and Possible Future of 
Drug Policy” on Friday, Oct. 28.
Tiger, whose research centers on pun-
ishment, social control and critical ad-
diction studies, began by asking, “What 
ideas animate drug policy?”
She challenged the audience to re-
think hegemonic concepts of drugs and 
addiction — that is, to unpack the hu-
man-made concepts that we have come 
to accept as scientific truths.
“There’s no such thing as drug in na-
ture,” Tiger stated. “Drug is created.”
Likewise, the scientific “discovery” 
of addiction can be more accurately de-
scribed as the invention of the idea of 
addiction. After all, it is no coincidence 
that the emergence of addiction theories 
coincided with growing public concerns 
over people’s problematic relationship 
with alcohol in the mid-1700s to late 
1800s. The constructed definition of a 
“chronic relapsing brain disease” was re-
peated over and over again until it was 
simply accepted as fact. Physicians and 
psychiatrists adopted the addict as their 
newest subject, determining the stan-
dards for a “healthy” and “unhealthy” 
mind.
Challenging the “scientific” claims 
that undergird modern theories of ad-
diction, Tiger pushed the audience to 
consider how “harm” is constructed. 
She highlighted the historical shift of the 
“dangers” of marijuana — a drug once 
portrayed as lethal and now widely ac-
cepted as harmless — to exemplify the 
social and temporal subjectivity of harm.
“An idea that we think of as natural is 
actually negotiated,” Tiger pointed out.
Through the pathologization of hu-
man behavior, she reasoned, the concept 
of the “addict” became a justification 
for state control. Policymakers decided 
that a regulatory regime was needed to 
reform these “fundamentally flawed” 
members of society. This demonization 
of drugs was codified into law by the 
Drug Enforcement Administration and 
the Food and Drug Administration.
Yet, as Tiger emphasized, these regu-
latory measures did not stem entirely 
from a genuine concern over individuals’ 
well-being. Rather, the criminalization 
of drug use served to disproportionately 
target communities of color, as public 
narratives linked drugs to the socially 
ostracized “other.” African-Americans 
became the face of the national crack 
epidemic, in much the same way that 
Chinese laborers in the U.S. were associ-
ated with opium in the late 19th century. 
The “junkie” — a word that conjures up 
the same, stereotyped image in most of 
our minds — spread through skewed me-
dia coverage, creating the foundation for 
the disastrous, deeply racialized War on 
Drugs.
Bringing nuance to an issue that is 
often conceptualized in black-and-white 
terms, Tiger offered a critical analysis 
of the bifurcated model of addiction, a 
framework that dominates current pub-
lic discourse on drug use. She pointed 
out the perceived distinction between 
“good” and “bad” junkies: those who 
become dependent through no fault of 
their own (such as Adderall users) ver-
sus those seen as “irredeemably deviant” 
and “dysfunctional to the core.”
This unfair and entirely constructed 
binary is perhaps best exemplified by Ti-
ger’s humorous observation that “good” 
junkies “get to write New York Times 
articles, articulate their subjectivity.” 
Meanwhile, “bad” junkies fall victim to 
the criminal justice system.
“Jail has become a treatment tool to 
remind addicts of commitment to sobri-
ety,” Tiger said. “Coercion is framed as 
enticement.”
Having broken down the ways in 
which the media, policymakers and 
the medical field create and capitulate 
ideas of drugs, addiction and appropri-
ate treatment, Tiger switched to a more 
hopeful tone. In search of “promising 
avenues of disruption” to the status quo, 
she proposed a more expansive defini-
tion of the title “expert” to include in-
dividuals with lived experience on the 
topic. The Urban Survivor’s Union — a 
coalition of drug users who advocate 
for respect, dignity and social justice for 
themselves and their peers  — is one such 
group. Noting the absence of this unique 
expertise on Friday’s panel, Tiger recog-
nized the limitations of the symposium 
itself.
Furthermore, she suggested a recon-
ceptualization of drug usage as a new 
kind of consciousness rather than as a 
mental degradation. This call for radical 
open-mindedness resonated with some 
audience members and perhaps disqui-
eted others. But the purpose of Tiger’s 
talk was likely not to indoctrinate every-
one into a new worldview; it was to spark 
discourse on a topic riddled with mis-
conceptions and stigma. This dilemma 
is best encapsulated by a poignant analy-
sis that Tiger offered in the heart of her 
speech.
“Drug is the effect, not the cause, of 
a regulatory regime,” she stated. “The 
problem of drugs is actually the failure of 
drug policy.”
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
Bala Loca Makes U.S. Premier at College
On Thursday, Oct. 20, the Chilean 
television show Bala Loca (Stray Bul-
let), created by Assistant Professor of 
Film and Media Culture David Miranda 
Hardy premiered in Dana Auditorium. 
More than 60 students, faculty and com-
munity members gathered for the series’ 
pilot, which the host Professor Jason 
Mittell called its “U.S. premier.” 
The series centers on a 50-year-old 
journalist who is a former investigative 
reporter under Chilean dictatorship. The 
10-episode series explores issues in con-
temporary Chilean society, particularly 
the relationship between money and pol-
itics as well as the distrust of businesses 
and institutions. The show debuted in 
June on CHV, a Turner-owned Chilean 
network, and attracted both local and in-
ternational audiences. 
In the discussion following the 
screening,  Hardy explained certain ele-
ments in the series and how they came 
to be. The decision to have a main char-
acter in a wheelchair, namely journalist 
Mauro Murillo, was the one thing that 
Hardy refused to negotiate. In a follow-
up interview with Hardy, the intriguing 
process of making Bala Loca was further 
elaborated.
Yvette Shi (YS): How did you de-
cide to make a TV show in Chile?
David Hardy (DH): I just came 
here a couple years ago, and that’s where 
I have my identity still. That’s where 
most of my creative ideas still are hap-
pening. That’s where I have my network, 
so I know how to go around producing. I 
hope in the mid-term to long-term, I will 
start producing stuff here. I would love 
to do something in Middlebury actually, 
I’m working on something so we can pro-
duce something super local.
YS: Do you see your experiences here 
at Middlebury influencing your decisions 
when making the show?
DH: Not really. That show is some-
thing I started while I was there, and my 
mind is thoroughly thinking of the audi-
ence there. But, one of my concerns or 
curiosities last night was to watch a group 
of American people, to see how it was re-
ceived. And in the comments I’m receiv-
ing, and also because the show was seen 
by many other Latin American people 
from different countries before, I think 
it does have an international appeal. I 
follow closely with politics here too, and 
I think there are a lot of crossovers. It’s 
talking about issues like health insur-
ance. Probably all Western countries are 
having that discussion. And then as you 
move into the show, you have the rela-
tionship between money and politics. It’s 
absolutely at the essence of the current 
political campaign here. So there are 
things that are very specific, and there 
are things that are idiosyncratic.
I wanted to make a show that has a 
strong local flavor and identity. You can 
say it’s absolutely Chilean, and that’s one 
of the reasons that it’s a success in Chile. 
People are really happy to see them-
selves reflected on the screen. And it can 
be appealing to other audiences. There is 
kind of a global audience for series; basi-
cally in the world of cable they are really 
on demand. Of course Chile has its own 
niche there, and they were very happy to 
receive the series.
YS: How do you see the Chilean dic-
tatorship play into the show?
DH: It’s so recent in Chile, it’s really 
hard not to talk about it. It’s impreg-
nated everything in Chilean society. We 
played around it, it’s not the main theme 
at all in the show, but we do play around 
it. We do acknowledge how essential is 
the power structure in Chile today.
The one thing that might be different 
is that we are not talking about dictator-
ship in a traditional Leftist way, which 
is a place of victim of human right. We 
are talking, hopefully in both ways. We 
talk about human rights, but we also talk 
about the economic and systemic influ-
ences in current Chilean society.
I think there are issues in the show 
that are at the very edge worldwide. I 
haven’t seen many series treating disabil-
ities the way we do. And it’s fascinating, 
because it is very front and center. No-
body describes a character as the guy in 
a wheelchair. I think we managed to put 
a very charismatic, compelling character 
in a wheelchair, without being the center 
of the narrative. And I think there’s not a 
lot of that. I’ve been watching a lot, you 
go from PD-centering, rehabilitation, 
medicalization of the problem, asexual 
troubled characters … But he goes in and 
out of cars, you see stairs in his house; 
he’s not problematic.
YS: What do you do to keep the series 
smart but at the same time entertaining? 
Is there a conflict?
DH: There are all these horror sto-
ries about television executives pushing 
changes in your content; we didn’t have 
much of that. That could be a challenge, 
when somebody is demanding changes 
in the narrative that are meant just to 
satisfy the audience, or increase the rat-
ings. 
I want people to be engaged. “Enter-
tainment” is a dirty word sometimes, 
because  people rate it as if it’s entertain-
ing, then it’s shallow. And I don’t see it 
as incompatible at all. I think being en-
tertained is to be engaged, and to have 
emotions with the characters, and to be 
challenged to make reflections on cur-
rent political issues. And of course we 
didn’t want to give a lecture to anybody, 
we wouldn’t be didactical, telling people 
how to feel or how to think.
YS: How did you familiarize with the 
process of investigative journalism?
DH: Reading a lot. In Chile we have 
the more traditional journalism, that is 
politically biased to the right. Recently 
there has been no print press opposing 
these, but there’s a lot of movement on-
line. And we have a Center for Investiga-
tive Journalism, which is a digital news 
media outlet, that goes on really long 
investigative projects. Then they release 
a really long article. We had extensive in-
terviews with them, both to understand 
the mechanics of their work, how they go 
around to research and investigate, and 
also in terms of what they thought is go-
ing to be the hottest topics. 
Those are really amazing journalists 
in Chile, coming back from the dictator-
ship, doing undercover work. We didn’t 
want to model our character on one of 
them, they are too nice. I want a char-
acter that is more flawed, more of an 
under-hero, while these guys are real 
heroes.
By Yvette Shi
Contributing Writer
Drug Policy Discussed at IPE Symposium
mqltv
Bala Loca, created by a Middlebury professor, centers on Chilean society and politics.
November 3, 2016 | 17arts & SCIENCES
Prodigy Plays with Philharmonic
On a late Sunday afternoon, the 
Champlain Philharmonic performed a 
selection of Russian masterworks be-
fore an enthusiastic audience in Ro-
bison Hall at the Mahaney Center for 
the Arts.  Led by Middlebury alumnus 
Dr. Matthew LaRocca ’02 and joined 
by soloist Gareth Cordery ’20, the Phil-
harmonic played with the warmth and 
energy demanded of the Romantic and 
thoroughly Russian program.  
The opening selection, “The Dance 
of the Knights” from Sergey Proko-
fiev’s Romeo and Juliet, was a rousing 
prelude strengthened by a particularly 
muscular brass section. The acoustics of 
Robison Hall challenged the balance of 
the sound at times, but generally it pro-
duced an effect well-suited to the gran-
deur of the piece.
Alexander Borodin’s “In the Steppes 
of Central Asia” was given a similarly 
affable treatment. With this piece, the 
hall played to the orchestra’s strengths, 
enriching many of the chorale-like pas-
sages and sweetening the melodies. A 
particularly spectacular moment arrived 
towards the middle of the piece, when 
the primary and secondary melodies 
were played in unison, split between the 
violins and the horns. What could have 
been chaotic was appropriately climac-
tic, thanks to the hall and the careful co-
ordination of the orchestra.
The final piece of the first half of the 
program, Pyotr Tchaikovsky’s “Capriccio 
Italien,” lightly foreshadowed the con-
certo to come in the second half.  While 
undeniably a work of Tchaikovsky, its 
interpretation of Italian culture and Ro-
man celebration distinguish the piece 
from much of his output. The Philhar-
monic rendered the bright and diverting 
scenes of Carnival.  Complex transitions 
and a wide gamut of melodies and musi-
cal forms were handled with clarity and 
precision. The closing tarantella lacked 
some of the grace that a work of Tchai-
kovsky demands, but I hoped that the 
concerto, with the addition of the soloist, 
would rectify it.   
Following a brief intermission, Cord-
ery was introduced and brought on stage 
to perform Tchaikovsky’s “Piano Concer-
to, no. 1, op. 23 in B-flat minor”. Cordery 
played with technical assurance, nuance 
and grace, always with a mind to the 
rhythmic nuance and complex architec-
ture of the piece. While deferring to the 
orchestra where appropriate and deftly 
switching between soloist and support-
ing player, Cordery nonetheless shone 
when given space to lead. The cadenzas 
of the first movement were particularly 
strong, and a rare opportunity to display 
his confidence in interpretation as well 
as his comfort with the Romantic flour-
ishes demanded of the piece.
Most importantly, Cordery’s nimble 
interpretation conferred agility and fi-
nesse on the piece that felt true to the 
character of Tchaikovsky, known as 
much for his ballets and delicate melo-
dies as he is for his bombastic embodi-
ment of Russian style. Experience and 
thoughtful interpretation shone in a deft 
and hearty performance.
I had the opportunity to speak with 
Cordery later that week on his perfor-
mance and his aspirations. While young 
by some measures, Cordery is by no 
means inexperienced, having played 
piano since the age of six, and profes-
sionally since high school. This was also 
his fourth professional performance of 
Tchaikovsky’s first piano concerto, a 
piece he has worked with for nearly three 
years. 
“I’ve spent a large part of my life with 
[this piece],” said Cordery. “It’s weird 
because this is my last performance of it, 
so it’s a bit strange to be done.”  
When asked about his interpretation 
of the piece, Cordery emphasized its Ro-
manticism and dramatic complexity. 
“It’s obviously a massive piece, a very 
intense piece, clearly full of emotion… I 
am inclined to say I improved with each 
performance, and I was quite happy with 
how this went and with how the orches-
tra and I came together in a relatively 
short amount of time.”
While accustomed to a tight rehearsal 
schedule, Cordery worked with Conduc-
tor LaRocca and the orchestra over sev-
eral weeks to develop an interpretation 
that drew from both Cordery and the or-
chestra.  
“I love to work with people, and it’s 
a very interesting dynamic of who’s in 
charge,” said Cordery.  “There are lots of 
times in that piece where I accompany 
the orchestra, and other times when they 
clearly accompany me, and there is a bal-
ance… Generally it’s a very symbiotic re-
lationship.” 
Cordery’s path to Middlebury College 
was not assured.  Before deciding to pur-
sue studies at a liberal arts college, Cord-
ery considered a number of conservato-
ries.  For him, the decision came down to 
indecision.
“I have no idea what I want to do with 
my life, and I didn’t want to limit my-
self,” he said. “I have no regrets over the 
decision, but it was tough for me.”  
The College does present certain 
strengths for a player like Cordery.  
“There’s quite a community of musi-
cians here who don’t apply stress,” he 
said.  “That’s great for me… There’s an 
impressively large and, for me, slightly 
unexpected group of musicians here.  I 
think that’s a testament to the relation-
ship between music and academics.”
While committed to being uncommit-
ted, Cordery does acknowledge that mu-
sic is still an option. 
Whether he pursues it as a career or 
not, as he said, “I have no doubt that I 
will continue to play for my whole life.”
By Luke Linden
Senior Writer 
On Thursday, Nov. 3,the Mahaney 
Center for the Arts’ Robison Hall will 
once again be graced by the talented 
Imogen Cooper. Coming back for the 
first time since her Oct. 2013 concert, 
Cooper will show the Middlebury com-
munity why she is recognized world-
wide as one of the finest performing 
pianist of classical repertoire. The 
Daily Telegraph says: “She is an out-
standing artist, one of the finest pia-
nists now playing. Go, listen and won-
der how many better pianists there are 
alive in this country, or anywhere.”
This 2016/2017 season, Cooper will 
be busy traveling all over the world 
playing in Boston, London and Syd-
ney. Cooper has an outstanding re-
sume by virtue of appearing with New 
York, Philadelphia, Boston, Cleveland, 
and Vienna Philharmonics; the Royal 
Concertgebouw, Leipzig Gewandhaus 
and Budapest Festival Orchestra. If 
that were not enough, she has been 
decorated with many honors such as 
an Honorary Membership of the Royal 
Academy of Music, made a Doctor of 
Music at Exeter University, as well as 
received a CBE (Commander of the 
Order of the British Empire) in 2007.
Cooper’s discography includes Mo-
zart concertos with the Royal North-
ern Sinfonia (Avie), a solo recital at 
the Wigmore Hall (Wigmore Live) and 
a cycle of solo works by Schubert, re-
leased under the label “Schubert Live.” 
She has also performed regularly with 
the Belcea Quartet, who performed 
here earlier this year.
Demonstrating that her commit-
ment to the music goes beyond the 
stage, Cooper founded The Imogen 
Cooper Music Trust to support prom-
ising young pianists and give them 
time in an environment of peace and 
beauty.
Cooper’s performance on Nov. 3rd, 
will be preceded by a lecture by Profes-
sor Greg Vitercik of the Music Depart-
ment on exploring the music and com-
posers in Cooper’s concert program, 
at 6:30 p.m. in Room 125 of the Ma-
haney Center for the Arts. The concert 
itself will begin promptly at 7:30p.m. 
in Robison Hall. Tickets are on sale in 
advance or at the door at $6 for Mid-
dlebury students; $20 for the College’s 
faculty/staff/alumni/emeriti; and $25 
for the general public. Get your tick-
ets at go/boxoffice or 802-443-MIDD 
(6433).
By Hiruy Ephrem
Contributing Columnist
Sussie Ahlburg
Imogen Cooper will be giving a piano recital this Thursday in MCA at 7:30 p.m.
Performing Arts Sp    TLight: Imogen Cooper
 
Champlain philharmonic
Champlain Philharmonic and Middlebury student played a series of Russian works. 
Middlebury Department of Music
Alumni Matthew LaRocca led the Cham-
plain Philharmonic performance.
The fourth-seeded Middlebury field 
hockey team continued its shutout streak 
at home on Saturday, Oct. 29 with a 2-0 
win over fifth-seeded Bowdoin College in 
the NESCAC Quarterfinals. 
The Panthers will face off against 
third-seeded Hamilton at Tufts on Satur-
day, Nov. 5 in the Semifinal contest. The 
Continentals beat Amherst 1-0 to reach 
their first NESCAC Semifinals in team 
history. A win over Hamilton would give 
Middlebury a chance to compete for the 
team’s fourth NESCAC Championship 
in five years. In the regular season, the 
Panthers lost to the Continentals 4-2, 
the game after beating Bowdoin. 
“From here on out it is do or die so 
we knew we had to win this past weekend 
against Bowdoin,” said Susanna Baker 
’19. “We came out fighting to protect our 
home turf from our biggest rival in the 
NESCAC.”
The Panthers faced Bowdoin in the 
NESCAC Championship last season, ul-
timately falling by a score of 2-1. The loss 
was avenged later in the season when 
Middlebury defeated the Polar Bears in 
a 1-0 victory to take home the national 
title. 
“The success this weekend over Bow-
doin can be attributed to a number of 
factors,” said Pam 
Schulman ’17.  
“First, our last line 
of defense played re-
ally well. Caroline 
Knapp had some great 
tackles in the circle. 
Second, we worked 
the ball up the field 
really well. We worked 
a ton on outletting this 
past week and it really 
showed.” 
Middlebury was 
first to get on the 
scoreboard when Mol-
ly Freeman ’19 scored 
the opening goal of the 
game off an impres-
sive defensive play 
by Marissa Baker ’20. 
Baker intercepted a Bowdoin pass and 
set up Freeman for the go-ahead goal.
In the 25th minute, Lauren Schweppe 
’18 scored the second goal of the game, 
and her 11th of the season, off a penalty 
corner by Audrey Quirk ’18.
Off Quirk’s penalty corner, Grace Jen-
nings ’19 fed Schweppe, who whipped 
the ball past Bowdoin’s goalie into the 
back of the net.  Middlebury took the 
2-0 lead into the 
halftime inter-
mission, while 
also leading 5-1 in 
shots and 1-0 in 
penalty corners in 
the first half.
The Polar 
Bears came out of 
the locker room 
with vengeance 
and fired three 
shots at the Pan-
ther goaltender in 
less than two min-
utes.  
Despite this 
burst of energy, 
none of their 
shots were suc-
cessful as the Pan-
ther defense and goalie, Emily Miller ’17, 
stopped every Bowdoin opportunity to 
maintain the lead. 
Eventually, the Panthers regained 
control and held on to the lead until the 
70th minute when the whistle blew giv-
ing Middlebury a 2-0 decision over the 
Polar Bears. The win counts for Middle-
bury’s sixth shutout of the season and 
third consecutive while playing at home. 
The shutout also marked Miller’s 14th of 
her career. 
Middlebury finished with a slight 7-6 
shot advantage over the Polar Bears and 
both teams finished with two penalty 
corners.  
The team will advance to face Ham-
ilton in the NESCAC Semifinals hosted 
this Saturday, Nov. 5 at Tufts. Hamilton 
sits at 7-3 in the conference and 12-4 
overall, while the Panthers have record-
ed a 7-3 NESCAC record and a 13-3 re-
cord overall. 
“To prepare for Hamilton, we are 
working on finishing in the circle,” Bak-
er said. “We are especially focused on 
cleaning up our corner plays to make 
sure that we capitalize on those advan-
tages. And we’re fired up for the rematch 
against Hamilton after losing to them 
earlier this season.” 
The winner of Middlebury-Hamilton 
matchup will advance to play the winner 
of first-seeded Tufts and seventh-seeded 
Williams on Sunday, Oct. 6 in the NES-
CAC Championship. 
On Saturday, Oct. 29, the women’s 
soccer team hosted Bowdoin for the NE-
SCAC Quarterfinals. Even though the 
day was gray and dreary, Middlebury’s 
energy shined through and earned the 
team a trip to this weekend’s conference 
semifinals.
The Panthers scored five minutes into 
the first half when Katherine Hobbs ’17 
sidestepped a Bowdoin defender with 
a quick one-touch move to create a mo-
ment of separation and fired the ball into 
the left side of the net to give the Pan-
thers a 1-0 lead.
“[Hobbs’ goal] was so exhilarating,” 
said Sara DiCenso ’19. “We always have 
trouble starting our games so scoring 
in the first five minutes was awesome. 
The goal lifted our energy level but also 
forced us to stay focused for the remain-
ing 85 minutes of play.” 
 After the Hobbs goal, the Panthers 
played lock-down defense on the Polar 
Bears for the rest of the half, allowing no 
scoring opportunities to the Polar Bears.
The Panthers came out strong in the 
second half, as Adrianna Gildner ’17 
ripped a shot from 25 yards out that went 
just wide of the net. However, the only 
blemish of the Panthers’ day quickly fol-
lowed, as Bowdoin quickly went on the 
attack and the Polar Bears’ Nikki Wilson 
drew a foul inside the box in the 53rd 
minute which led to a well-executed pen-
alty kick that brought the score to a 1-1 
tie.
Fortunately, the tie lasted less than 
two minutes as DiCenso pushed a pass 
down the middle of the field to Amy Mar-
tin ’17 who beat Bowdoin’s goalkeeper to 
the ball and knocked a shot into the open 
right side of the net.
The Polar Bears had one last chance 
to tie the game in the 75th minute, but 
the Panther defense prevailed to hold on 
and advance to the conference semifinal 
match.
“This game was huge for us,” said 
Gildner. “This was the first time we’ve 
beaten Bowdoin since freshman year. 
The win gave us momentum moving into 
the semifinals and I have no doubt we’ll 
come out even stronger against Amherst.” 
After this decisive victory, the Pan-
thers travel to Williamstown to take on 
the tournament-hosting Ephs on Satur-
day, Nov. 5. The winner of the Amherst-
Middlebury matchup will go on to play 
Williams in the finals and gain a bid to 
the NCAA Tournament.
| november 3, 2016 18 sports
Field Hockey Stays Alive With Win Over Bowdoin
NO
Last year they didn’t win the 
conference title, but they won the 
national championship. They may 
just do that again.
NO
If they get past Amherst, Williams 
is one of the best teams in the 
country right now. They’ve made 
great strides though.
NO
It’ll be close, but I say they’ll go to 
the title game and play Amherst 
close.
OKC
The Warriors will push too hard. 
OKC will play angry and have 
been waiting for this since July 4.
editors’ picks
Remo Plunkett (85-65, .567)
Field Hockey:
Will the Panthers win the 
NESCAC for the fourth time in 
five years?
NBA Revenge Game:
OKC at GSW tonight at 10:30 
p.m. EDT.
Women’s Soccer:
Will they win the NESCAC for 
the second time in four years?
Men’s Soccer:
Will Midd win the NESCAC 
for the first time in six years?
YES
You guys are right, but that’s kind 
of irrelevant to this year.
NO
We’ve got a pessimistic bunch this 
week.
YES
They’ve had some lumps this year, 
but this is still a really talented 
group that must feel the sting from 
last year still.
GOLDEN STATE
I really, really want to pick OKC,  
but I don’t think they can beat the 
Warriors on the road.
NO
They didn’t need to win it last year 
to go all the way.  
NO 
The team has put together a great 
second half of the season.
NO
A number of NESCAC teams have 
given the Panthers trouble this 
year. It’d be a stretch to come home 
with the trophy. 
GOLDEN STATE
Got a feeling. 
will case (42-30, .583)
Andrew Rigas (70-47, .598)
Women’s Soccer Bests Bowdoin, Advances to Semifinal
“From here on out it is do 
or die so we knew we had 
to win this past weekend 
against Bowdoin. We came 
out fighting to protect our 
home turf from our biggest 
rival in the NESCAC.”  
Susanna banker ’19
By Christine Urquhart
Senior Writer
By Sebastian Sanchez
Senior Writer 
Amy Martin ’17 dribbles past a Bowdoin defender in the women’s soccer team’s 
2-1 victory on Saturday, Oct. 29. The team will advance to the NESCAC Semifinal 
matchup to face second-seeded Amherst on the road at Williams. 
michael borenstein
The men’s and women’s cross-country 
teams brought home some hardware af-
ter a successful day of competition at the 
NESCAC Finals hosted by Colby College 
last Saturday, Oct. 29. The men recorded 
a total of 126 points, tying with Tufts for 
third place out of a field of 11 teams, while 
the women claimed the first individual spot 
and placed fourth as a team with a total of 
113 points.
On the women’s side, Abigail Nadler ’19 
claimed the NESCAC individual title, cross-
ing the finish line of the 6K course with a 
time of 22:33.8, 19 seconds in front of the 
next finisher. This is the second-straight 
week Nadler has taken the individual win 
after taking home first place honors at last 
week’s Conn. College Invitational. 
“NESCACs was a really tough race,” 
said Nadler. “With the rain, hills, mud and 
tough competition our team was definitely 
challenged. My race plan was to sit back 
and wait until I felt strong enough to make 
my move and break away, and I’m glad 
it worked out. Our team wanted to place 
higher, and we know we will have a bet-
ter performance at regionals. We are very 
strong right now and it is time to put it all 
together and have a good race.” 
Coming in behind Nadler was Meg Wil-
son ’20 in 17th place with a time of 23:35.79, 
Read Allen ’18 in 29th place (23:55.36), Sa-
sha Whittle ’17 close behind in 32nd with 
a time of 23:58.43 and Katherine MacCary 
’19 in 35th (24:04.57).
The men were led by Ascencion Aispu-
ro ’18, who finished the 8K course in 17th 
place with a time of 26:30.07. Immediately 
behind him in the 18th slot was Brian Rich 
’17, who completed the course in 26:30.76, 
less than a second after Aispuro. The duo 
of Aispuro and Rich have been running as 
a tight pair this season, finishing in 13th 
and 12th respectively last week at the Conn. 
College Invitational. Next to finish for the 
Panthers was Harrison Knowlton ’19 in 
24th (26:40.31), followed by Connor Evans 
’19 in 31st (26:57.65) and Brendan Wood 
’17 in 36th (27:02.32).
The Panthers return to action in West-
field, MA, on Saturday, Nov. 12, at 11 a.m. 
for the NCAA Regional Championship, 
hosted by Westfield State. 
november 3, 2016| 19SPORTS 
Football Falls to Trinity in NESCAC Undefeated Matchup
Women’s Soccer
The team’s strong second half 
of the season will be important 
for the postseason run.
football 
While no longer undefeated, 
hopefully the team will be able to 
win out the season to end 7-1.
the middlebury
great  eight
8
1
RANKING TEAM
Plunkett’s Predictions
2
men’s soccer
Can’t beat the momentum from 
an OT game-winner with three 
seconds left.
3
cross country
The women took fourth in 
NESCACs with Nadler snagging 
the individual crown.
4
5
7
6
volleyball
The squad is entering the NESCAC 
Tournament with their highest 
seed since 2013.
the election 
Absolute nightmare. 
field hockey 
A league title is in sight after a 
big win against Bowdoin in the 
quarters.
Rowing
Nightmare. 
The football team fell for the first time 
this season, losing 49-13 to Trinity on Satur-
day, Oct. 29, in Hartford, Conn. Both teams 
entered the game undefeated, and the Ban-
tams emerged as the lone undefeated team 
in the NESCAC by turning seven Middlebury 
turnovers into four touchdowns and hold-
ing the high-powered Panther offense to 13 
points.
“If you look at all of our past games, 
most of our scoring drives usually only last 
around 2 minutes and we usually have a cer-
tain play where we gain big yardage during 
that drive,” said team captain Andy Klarman 
’17. “This past Saturday, they [Trinity] were 
able to limit our passing game so as not to al-
low many big plays and they brought a lot of 
pressure on almost every down with mixes 
of blitzes and line moves or twists.”
Middlebury received the opening kickoff 
but could not move the football on its first 
drive that ended in a three-and-out. Trinity 
could not get a first down on its first drive ei-
ther, but Ian McDonald pinned the Panthers 
at their own one-yard line with a punt. 
After another Panther three-and-out, 
Maxwell Rye ’20’s punt went only 24 yards 
to give the Bantams excellent field position 
at the Middlebury 34. It paid off on the next 
play when Max Chipouras, the NESCAC 
rushing leader, ran 34 yards for a touch-
down and a 7-0 Trinity lead.
The Panther offense continued to strug-
gle, earning only one first down on each of 
its next two drives. Trinity went ahead 14-0 
when Sonny Puzzo connected with Bryan 
Vieira on a 46-yard touchdown pass as time 
wound down on the first quarter.
Behind by two scores at the beginning of 
the second quarter, the Panthers managed 
to drive into the Trinity red zone after start-
ing from their own 27, but Trinity sacked 
Jared Lebowitz ’18 for a 14-yard loss back to 
the 28-yard line and out of field goal range.
Later in the quarter, John Jackson ’18 
intercepted a Puzzo pass near midfield, but 
two plays later Lebowitz threw one right 
back to the Bantam defense. Trinity capi-
talized on the turnover by going 55 yards in 
seven plays to extend its lead to 21-0 on a 
Puzzo 11-yard touchdown pass.
On the ensuing possession Lebowitz 
fumbled for the Panthers’ second turnover 
of the day. Trinity recovered at the Panther 
28 and Chipouras scampered 25 yards for 
his second touchdown of the game three 
plays later to put Trinity ahead 28-0 going 
into halftime.
After a Trinity three-and-out on the first 
possession of the second half, Middlebury 
drove 63 yards in 3:11 to score its first touch-
down on a 14-yard pass from Lebowitz to 
James Burke ’17. Lebowitz hooked up with 
Burke three times on the drive and Jimmy 
Martinez ’19 once, while Drew Jacobs ’18 
ran four times for 20 yards.
The Middlebury defense held again on 
the ensuing possession as the Panthers tried 
to work their way back, but Lebowitz threw 
his second interception of the day on Mid-
dlebury’s next drive to set Trinity up inside 
the red zone. Puzzo capitalized immediately, 
running 16 yards for a touchdown and a 35-7 
Trinity lead.
Later in the third quarter, Trinity added 
to its lead when Chipouras broke away for 
a 62-yard touchdown rush. Middlebury re-
sponded with an 80-yard touchdown drive, 
capped off by a 2-yard Diego Meritus ’19 run.
The Bantams scored once more in the 
fourth quarter, at which point both teams 
had inserted their backups, and the game 
ended 49-13 in favor of Trinity.
The Bantams held the Panthers to 126 
passing yards, 208 below their season aver-
age, and outgained the Panthers 335-235.
Lebowitz finished the 12 of 38 passing, 
with the 126 yards, a touchdown and three 
interceptions. He was also sacked five times. 
Meritus rushed for 70 yards and a touch-
down on 14 carries, while Jacobs added 64 
yards on 15 rushes.
The Bantam rushing attack powered 
their offense, as Chipouras ran for 186 yards 
of the team total 224 yards rushing.
Defensively for the Panthers, Addison 
Pierce ’17 led the team with 11 tackles, a 
forced fumble and a fumble recovery. The 
49 points allowed were the most for the 
Panther defense since they lost 50-35 to 
Bowdoin in 2009.
Trinity moved into sole possession of 
first place in the NESCAC at 6-0, while 
Middlebury fell into a three-way tie for sec-
ond with Tufts and Wesleyan at 5-1. The sea-
son is far from over, though. The Bantams 
still play three-time defending champion 
Amherst (3-3) and Wesleyan, while the Pan-
thers still play Hamilton (2-4) and Tufts.
Middlebury will travel to Clinton, NY, 
this Saturday, Nov. 5, looking for its 21st 
straight win against Hamilton in the annual 
“Rocking Chair Classic.”
By Caroline Bartlett
Contributing Writer
Nadler Wins Individual Crown at Colby
Conrado Banky ’19 reaches for the football in Middlebury’s 49-13 loss against 
Trinity.The Panthers dropped their first game of the season as the Bantams im-
proved to 6-0 and became the only undefeated team in the NESCAC. 
Jeff Patterson
14
Seconds remaining in the second overtime 
period when Kirk Horton ’17 scored to lift 
men’s soccer past third-seeded Williams in 
the NESCAC Quarterfinals 
Career shutouts for field hockey goalie 
Emily Miller ’17, including her sixth of 
the season against Bowdoin
by the Numb3rs
126
League-leading blocks per set this 
season for the volleyball team
Passing yards in football’s 49-13 loss 
to Trinity on Saturday, 208 yards 
below the team’s season average 
3 
2.32
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor
rugby defeats unh in second win of the season 
On Saturday Oct. 29, the Middlebury 
Rugby team defeated the University of New 
Hampshire 77-12 for its second win of the 
season (2-4).
After a string of very close losses, the 
rugby team put their talents on full display 
this weekend. Key contributions came from 
Captains Jake Feury ’16.5, who finished 
the game with three trys, and Kyle Dickey 
’17, who was instrumental in the forwards 
pack and in line-out play. Jackson Yang ’17 
finished the game with four trys, adding to 
an already impressive season, and Adam 
Markun ’17 made his season debut, bring-
ing pace on the wing and scoring two trys in 
the second half.
Feury began the scoring in the early 
minutes of the game by juking a pair of de-
fenders to give Middlebury a 7-0 lead. 
Yang added another try quickly thereaf-
ter to put Middlebury up by 14 points. UNH 
fought back and cut the lead to 14-7, but that 
would be the closest they would get. On the 
next possession, Feury and Markun com-
bined to move the ball 70 yards down the 
field for a score. Scott Westvold ‘19 scored 
next to put Middlebury up 24-7, and trys 
by both Feury  and Yang gave Middlebury 
a 43-7 lead going into halftime.
The Middlebury momentum continued 
throughout the entire second half. Markun 
’17 scored both of his trys early in the sec-
ond half to give Middlebury a 57-7 lead. Lev 
Khodaverdy ’17 was next in line for a try. 
Khodaverdy intercepted a UNH pass 
and took the ball 60 yards in the opposite 
direction for his first try of the season. Am-
ani Core ’19 also scored his first try of the 
season later in the second half. Core, a reg-
ular in the forward pack, was instead play-
ing on the wing and showed off his speed as 
he sprinted 50 yards and touched the ball 
down in the try zone. Additional trys from 
Yang and Westvold pushed the Middlebury 
scoring binge to 77 points for the game. 
UNH managed another score in the second 
half to make the final score 77-12 in favor of 
Middlebury.
Middlebury is currently fourth out of 
five teams in the New England College Rug-
by Conference. However, three of its four 
losses have been by single digits. In their 
final two games, Middlebury will play the 
University of Vermont and the University 
of Rhode Island, the two teams ahead of 
them in the conference. 
If Middlebury wins out, they could end 
the season in a tie for second. Middlebury 
heads to the University of Vermont next 
Saturday, Nov. 5, and then will host its final 
game of the season against the University of 
Rhode Island the following Saturday, Nov. 
12.
By Colin Mackintosh
Contributing Writer
The Middlebury women’s vol-
leyball team wrapped up their 
regular season this past weekend, 
finishing their NESCAC schedule 
against Colby and Bates. The Pan-
thers won in the first game against 
Colby with a score of 3-0 and lost 
the second to Bates 3-1. Despite 
the loss to Bates, the team main-
tained its second-place position in 
the conference heading into this 
week’s NESCAC Tournament. 
The team closed out their regu-
lar season with a 15-8 (7-3 NE-
SCAC) record and are primed to 
make a deep run in the playoffs if 
they play the way they did earlier in 
the season during their 11-1 streak, 
the only loss of which came at the 
hands of NESCAC regular season 
champion, Tufts. 
In their first of two games in 
Maine on the weekend, the visit-
ing Panthers got out to a quick 
start against Colby. Sarah Staver 
’19 led the squad with 12 kills on 
the match, aided by some of the 27 
assists recorded by Hannah Black-
burn ’17 on the day. Gigi Alper ’20 
led the team with nine digs, help-
ing to limit the Mules to 26 total 
kills compared to Middlebury’s 38. 
The Panthers led the entire 
match and bested the home team 
in kills and errors in each set lead-
ing to their quick 3-0 sweep, good 
for their seventh NESCAC win of 
the year to cement their second 
position in the NESCAC standings.
In the second game of the week-
end against Bates, the Panthers got 
off to a slow start that would ham-
per their attempts later in the game 
to make a comeback. They kept 
the score close early on at 5-7 but 
weren’t able to bring it any closer 
as Bates would take the set 25-11, 
fighting hard to ensure that they 
secured a place in the postseason. 
In the second set, a big kill by 
Alice Roberts ’18 brought the score 
to a close 3-4 in favor of the home 
team. However, Middlebury would 
again be unable to muster a come-
back attempt and fell 25-15, finding 
themselves down 2-0 at the end of 
the second set. 
While Bates came out firing 
against the visiting Panthers, they 
would not go down easily as the 
third set took a different tone than 
the previous two. A dominant six-
straight winning serves from Alper 
brought the score from 3-3 to 9-3 
aided by two more kills from Rob-
erts. This would define the set as 
the Panthers coasted to the finish 
line to take the set with a kill from 
Staver for a final score of 25-16. 
Down by 2-1 in sets, the Pan-
thers tried to take their momentum 
from the third set into a must-win 
fourth set. After taking a quick 2-0 
lead in the fourth set off an error 
by Bates, the Bobcats came roaring 
back with seven consecutive points 
to put the Panthers on their heels. 
The score was soon 13-3 in favor of 
Bates and Middlebury was unable 
to rally back, eventually falling by a 
score of 25-17 to give Bates the 3-1 
win. Despite big games from Isa-
bel Sessions ’19 with 11 kills, Alper 
with 17 digs, and Becca Raffel ’18 
with nine kills and 17 digs, the Pan-
thers concluded the regular season 
on a low note. 
While they ended the regular 
season 1-4 in their last five games, 
the Panthers head into the NES-
CAC Tournament as the lone threat 
to Tufts after they lost a close game 
3-2 during the midst of their eight 
game winning streak. Middlebury 
will face off against Bates in the 
first round of the tournament on 
Friday, Nov. 4, looking for redemp-
tion in a rematch of last weekend’s 
loss. 
sports
FIELD HOCKEY 
BEATS RIVAL 
BOWDOIN IN NESCAC 
QUARTERFINALS  
PAGE 18
FOOTBALL SUFFERS 
FIRST LOSS OF THE 
SEASON AT TRINITY
PAGE 19
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
volleyball goes 1-1 in maine
michael borenstein
In a thrilling 1-0 road win at 
Williams (9-4-3, 6-3-1) on Sat-
urday, Oct. 29, the Middlebury 
men’s soccer team (10-3-3, 4-3-
3) extended its NESCAC playoff 
run, advancing from the quar-
terfinals to the semifinals. With 
just three seconds remaining 
in double overtime, an unbe-
lievably clutch goal from Kirk 
Horton ’17 lifted the Panthers to 
victory in a rematch following 
last week’s regular season loss 
to the same Williams team.
During a battle of a first half, 
Adam Glaser ’17 nearly netted 
the first goal of the day in the 
44th minute. After storming 
past the defensive line, Glaser 
found himself on a one-on-one 
breakaway with only Williams 
goalie Christian Alcorn to stop 
him. Alcorn’s wise decision to 
leave the net allowed him to cut 
off the angle and the dribble, 
stopping the drive and main-
taining the scoreless tie.
Middlebury’s strong defense 
held the Ephs offense as the 
Panthers continually made ex-
cellent clearances, won headers 
and blocked shots. In the 75th 
minute, the Ephs made a bid 
for the lead as Brandon Dory 
headed a throw-in to Bobby 
Fabricant, who headed the ball 
for a shot on goal. Panther goal-
tender Greg Sydor ’17 was there 
to deflect the shot and send the 
game into overtime, holding the 
score at 0-0.
In an exciting first overtime 
period, the visiting Panthers’ 
Daniel O’Grady ’19 made a nice 
pass to Drew Goulart ’20, who 
was able to settle the pass and 
fire a shot on goal. Eph defend-
er Kevin Mercadante snuck in 
to block the shot, however, as 
the overtime contest pressed 
onwards.
With time dwindling in 
the second overtime period, 
Middlebury needed to find the 
net to avoid sending the game 
to a penalty shootout. A long 
throw-in from Tim Ogle ’17 was 
knocked past the goalline by a 
Williams defender, lining up 
Middlebury for a corner kick. 
With the clock stopped due to 
a 10-yard violation on Williams 
during the corner kick, O’Grady 
was able to take his time in set-
ting up the kick. He sent the ball 
right in front of the goal, where 
it took a bounce towards the far 
post before meeting the head of 
a charging Horton, who sent the 
ball just past the head of an Eph 
defender and into the net with 
only three seconds remaining in 
overtime. Middlebury’s bench 
cleared as the squad dog-piled 
on the field in celebration of the 
goal and their extended season.
Horton commented, “The 
game was fast, tough, and each 
team had their chances. Credit 
to Williams, who fought hard 
and really brought it, both on 
Tuesday and Saturday. [After 
the goal], it was just pure insan-
ity. Everyone was running wild, 
howling like jackals, sort of 
unsure if that had actually just 
happened. But all the way up 
and down the roster every single 
member of our squad brought it 
on Saturday and I couldn’t be 
prouder of our group,” Horton 
added.
During the 110 minutes of 
play, Williams made several val-
iant attempts, logging 11 shots, 
eight of which were on target 
and saved by Middlebury’s goal-
ie Sydor. Sydor earned the win 
for Middlebury with eight saves 
on the day. The game served as 
his eighth shutout of the season 
and the 24th of his career, ty-
ing him for second on the pro-
gram’s all-time list. 
“After a tough 3-0 defeat ear-
lier in the week, we had more 
motivation than ever before to 
stick it to these guys,” said the 
Panthers’ goal-keeper. “I was 
really happy with our style of 
play and how hard every guy 
worked from the defense, to 
the studs up top, all the way 
through the guys cheering us on 
from the bench.”  
Coach Dave Saward echoed 
Horton and Sydor.
“So much of any team’s suc-
cess is based around belief,” 
said Saward after the match. 
“Having said that, Hamilton 
came off a similar overtime vic-
tory so they will be flying high 
as well. They have some very 
good players so the slate is 
clean for both teams and it will 
be a case of who can keep a clear 
head and capitalize on those op-
portunities that will come their 
way.”
The team heads to Amherst 
this Saturday, Nov. 5, to con-
tinue their NESCAC playoff 
run, where they will face fourth 
ranked Hamilton (10-5-1) in the 
conference semifinals.
Men’s Soccer Strikes in Double OT 
By Riley Plant
Contributing Writer
By Colby Morris
Senior Writer
The defending national championship field 
hockey team will advance to the NESCAC 
Semifinals after a hard-fought 2-0 victory over 
rival Bowdoin. See page 18 for full coverage. 
LOOKING TO REPEAT
