Thursday, November 3, 2011
The Middlebury Campus
Vol. 110, No. 7 Since 1905
th
is
 w
ee
k Trick or Treat   
Town comes together for 
Spooktacular Halloween fun,
page 6.
Tipi takedown 
Say goodbye to the weaved 
structures in front of the CFA, 
page 17.
Green architecture
Read about the green buildings 
on campus,
page 14-15.
Self Reliance house 
resettles at College
By Danny Zhang
Staff Writer
College sees less dorm damage
By Kyle Finck
News Editor
See SD, page 2
See Construction, page 2
SNG explores passive solar
By Emily Singer
Staff Writer
See Damage, page 3
Welcome to the annual green issue of  the 
Campus, where we take a closer look at what 
makes Middlebury green. Check out our editorial 
on page 9 and our coverage of  the continued 
“greening”  of  the College in every section, 
including, in some cases, where we still fall short.midd
lebury
campu
s.com
’07/8
$84,604
’08/9
$87,267
’09/10
$97,455
’10/11
$140,564
’06/7
11,223 ’07/8
9,302
’08/9
13,332
’09/10
8287
’10/11
8230
’06/7
$52,418
Dorm damage by year in dollars
Numbers of new dishes opened by year
*Sources: Linda Ross and Matthew Biette
DAMAGING TRENDS
College environmental organi-
zation Sunday Night Group (SNG) 
is planning to write a proposal to 
install passive solar water heaters on 
campus-owned houses. 
Passive solar is anything that 
captures the sun’s energy without 
photovoltaics, or silicon chips, and 
other mechanical or electrical de-
vices. South-facing windows are 
considered to be passive solar, as the 
greenhouse effect can maximize the 
sun’s energy and heat a home natu-
rally.
Ben Wessel ’11.5 and Jake Less-
ing ’14 are spearheading the initia-
tive. They have been working with 
the Vermont Public Interest Re-
search Group (VPIRG) on their So-
lar Addison County program, which 
seeks to make the installation of pas-
sive solar water heaters more afford-
able for county residents.
If installed, passive solar could 
After starting with a proposal 
two years ago and being on the 
road for more than 1000 miles, the 
College’s Solar Decathlon team 
brought back their prize-winning 
achievement, the Self-Reliance 
house, to the College for good on 
Oct. 7. 
The zero carbon footprint, 
self-sustaining house is now per-
manently perched near Meeker 
and Munford Houses, at the en-
trance to the parking lot of the 
Mahaney Center for the Arts.
After their fourth-place finish 
in the Department of Energy’s bi-
ennial competition, the team, led 
by Alex Jopek ’11 and Ben Brown 
’11, are now reconstructing the 
house for the final time.
Working 40 hours a week, Jo-
pek and Brown have been busy re-
pairing some road wear in the pri-
vate spaces of the house, installing 
a new geothermal system that will 
increase the house’s energy effi-
ciency and connecting the water, 
heat and electricity.
“We built the bulk of the 
house here in one day,” Jopek said. 
“The first week we were here, it 
was hard to get anything done be-
cause there were so many people 
that wanted to stop and chat.”
According to the duo, the 
iconic photovoltaic panels were 
put up early in the construction 
process, so people could recognize 
the house.
Brown and Jopek are also 
receiving help from some other 
members of the team, as well as 
the Solar Decathlon class that has 
paralleled the project from its in-
ception.
The construction crew proj-
ects that they will be completely 
finished with the house by the 
end of the semester, though there 
is no strict timeline. However, an 
open house event for the Board 
of Trustees is planned for mid-
November, by which point con-
struction and repairs in the public 
space and on the outside of the 
house will be largely wrapped up.
There will also be a “house-
warming party” once the house 
is completely done, according to 
Team Manager Melissa Segil ’11.5.
Starting in February, the 
house will also serve as a special 
interest house for students, ex-
plained Project Manager Addison 
Godine ’11.5. Three or four stu-
dents will be selected to live in 
the house through an application 
process.
“In the future, the idea is that 
the house will be an environmen-
tal outreach center,” said Segil, 
“but the house is designed to be 
a home. So we think that having 
it as a residence and an outreach 
center will be great.”
All the lead members of the 
reduce water-heating costs by 60-70 
percent annually, cutting 100 per-
cent of water-heating costs during 
the summer and 30 percent of costs 
during the winter months. The sys-
tem would cost an estimated $8,000 
to $10,000 per house and generally 
pays for itself within ten years.
“[Installing the system would 
be really simple] because there’s no 
real re-working of electricity,” Less-
ing said. “You just change some pipe-
lines and run a pipe from the hot wa-
ter tank that the house already has, 
to a passive solar panel on the roof 
and then connect it back down to the 
water tank.”
Initially approached by VPIRG 
to promote solar hot water panel 
installation across the county, Wes-
sel and Lessing saw potential for the 
water heaters to be installed at the 
College.
“We own a lot of houses,” Wessel 
said, and “the houses are [probably] 
all using [fuel oil or electric] to heat 
hot water. Why not go solar?”
The College experimented with 
passive solar water heaters several 
years ago under “Operation Boiling 
Point.” The project was a joint effort 
between Will Drucker ’08 and the 
College Facilities Services Office, and 
resulted in the installation of a solar 
water heater on 149 Shannon Street, 
though did not expand beyond that.
With support from VPIRG and 
the prospect of state or federal fund-
ing, SNG hopes that passive solar will 
be more successful this time around.
VPIRG’s interest in the College’s 
installation of passive solar water 
heaters is twofold. Most obvious is 
the fact that passive solar water heat-
ers are inherently green and environ-
mentally friendly.
Less apparent is the fact that 
installing passive solar water heaters 
would give the College a new leader-
ship role within Addison County.
“One of the biggest hurdles 
to renewable energy is the fact that 
the people who use and pay for heat 
and fuel don’t have any control over 
improvements,” said VPIRG So-
lar Community Coordinator Dan 
Conant. “Middlebury can show how 
landlords can reduce costs for their 
tenants.”
The Sunday Night Group’s goal 
is to have passive solar water heaters 
installed on College-owned homes 
that are most commonly rented out 
to faculty and staff. The roughly 100 
houses currently use fuel oil or elec-
tricity to heat their water.
The Sunday Night Group (SNG), above, meets weekly in the Chateau Grand Salon to discuss environmen-
tal issues. The student group has been at the forefront of greening the College for years.
Courtesy of  Middlebury College
After experiencing a record 
$140,564.45 of dorm damage in the 
2010-2011 academic year, the Col-
lege posted a modest drop in dam-
ages in September of this year.
The College incurred $5,384.56 
of damage in the first month of the 
2011-2012 academic year, a $480.27 
reduction from Sept. 2010. 
Despite the humble reduction 
in numbers, Assistant Director of 
Facilities Services Linda Ross said the 
improvement was significant. 
“I meet with the team leaders of 
the custodial staff regularly, and they 
have reported that it has been a much 
better year in terms of their relation-
ships with their students,” she said. 
“Regardless of what the numbers 
say, I’m hearing it straight from the 
horse’s mouth that it’s a better year.”  
Ross stressed the importance of 
communication between students 
and the custodial teams, which com-
prise over 85 full-time staff mem-
bers. 
“If you know Sally is cleaning 
your dorm and you know her by 
name, you’re going to think twice be-
fore damaging the dorm,” said Ross. 
But other administrators are 
more cautious.
“It’s great to see this improve-
ment, but it’s too soon to declare 
victory,” said Vice President for Ad-
ministration Tim Spears. “These 
numbers could shoot up and there’s 
always Winter Term to look forward 
to, which is always a busy time when 
it comes to dorm damage.” 
Director of Facilities Services 
Norm Cushman is equally wary. He 
has tracked dorm damage at the Col-
lege for over 15 years and said spikes 
and dips are common. 
“It’s an ebb and flow, and it 
doesn’t seem to follow any pattern,” 
he said. “It’s been quieter this year, 
but it’s still too early to tell.” 
Last year’s record dorm dam-
age capped a half-decade span in 
which dorm damage nearly tripled, 
from $52,418.69 in 2006-07 to over 
$140,000 five years later. 
The increase prompted a strong 
reaction from Old Chapel. President 
of the College Ronald D. Liebowitz 
along with other deans hosted an 
open student forum called “Alcohol: 
Use, Abuse, and the Disrespect for 
Community” April 26 that focused 
on alcohol’s role in causing dorm 
damage. 
But Cushman said yearly in-
creases in dorm damage are nothing 
new. 
“I wouldn’t say it’s alarming. I’ve 
seen spikes like this before,” he said. 
“It has been creeping upwards the 
last four or five years, but we [also] 
had some horrific years in the 1990s 
where the damage was remarkable.”  
Last year’s dorm damage total 
is also partly due to what Ross called 
“big-ticket items.” Ross said the 
year’s big-ticket item was the Gifford 
fire on Feb. 26. 
campusnews2 3 November 2011
TRIVIA
thursday //  9-11 p.m. // Crossroads 
Cafe // 21+ two forms of ID // Food 
provided by Crossroads Cafe
FFF: CAPTAIN AMERICA
Friday//  7 p.m. and 10 p.m. // Dana 
Auditorium
ZUMBA
Sunday  //  4 p.m. // McCullough 
Social Space
WHAT’S 
HAPPENING 
AT MIDD?
MCAB PRESENTS
by Melanie Haas
Staff Columnist 
Despite the disapproval from the Europe-
an Union, Russia and the United States, a Kiev 
courtroom sentenced Yulia V. Tymoshenko, a 
former Ukrainian prime minister famous for 
her opposition to the current administration, 
to seven years in prison Oct. 11 for “abuse of 
office.” Experts report that Tymoshenko’s ar-
rest illustrates the government’s intention to 
distance itself from Western influence, follow-
ing the Russian political model instead.  
Then-Prime Minister Tymoshenko is ac-
cused of acting against Ukrainian interests in 
a 2009 negotiation with Russia.  Prosecutors 
accused her of striking a deal with Russian 
Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin that hurt 
Ukraine’s economy when she agreed to pay 
an unreasonably high price for natural gas, 
reported The New York Times.
A $190 million fine will accompany 
Tymoshenko’s seven years of incarceration. 
Most importantly, the ruling will prevent the 
Ukrainian leader and activist from participat-
ing in the political realm for the next 10 years.
The European Union has publicly ex-
pressed outrage over the court’s ruling, in-
sisting that the heart of the issue lies, not in 
Tymoshenko’s actions, but in the current ad-
ministration’s political objectives. 
Over the past four years, the European 
Union (EU) and Ukraine have been working 
towards a free trade agreement.  The EU’s dis-
appointment over the court ruling may have 
derailed any hopes of such an agreement, re-
ported the Times.
Ukraine’s current president, Viktor Yanu-
kovych, does seem interested in collaborating 
with Europe. Soon after the verdict, he assured 
reporters that the decision made in court on 
Tuesday was not final, reminding reporters 
that the court of appeals will make a decision 
“within the bounds of the law,” which will 
have “great significance.”  
Experts believe that Yanukovych will seek 
to demonstrate his commitment to the EU by 
exerting his influence in Tymoshenko’s case, 
according to the Times.  He may even be able 
to clear her of all charges should he choose 
to decriminalize the article that the court has 
convicted her of violating. 
Obama’s administration has condemned 
Tymoshenko’s treatment and the imprison-
ment of the Ukrainian president’s other po-
litical rivals, reported the Times.  The U.S. is 
encouraging that the Ukrainian government 
allow Tymoshenko to run in the country’s pri-
maries next year. 
Along with Western condemnation, Rus-
sian officials have expressed frustration with 
Tymoshenko’s sentence. While Yanukovich’s 
administration has received criticism for pat-
terning its government’s operation off of Rus-
sian example, the Russian Foreign Ministry 
has accused this trial of representing Ukraine’s 
“anti-Russian sentiments.” Prime Minister 
Putin commented, “I don’t really understand 
what they gave her seven years for,” a state-
ment, which seems unsurprising considering 
that Tymoshenko’s deal with Putin led to her 
arrest.
The Times reported that Tymoshenko 
spoke over the judge as he read the verdict on 
Tuesday.  Facing the television cameras, she 
said, “This is an authoritarian regime. Against 
the background of European rhetoric, Yanu-
kovich is taking Ukraine farther from Europe 
by launching such political trials.” 
As Europe and Russia struggle to assert 
their influence over Ukraine, the current ad-
ministration must exercise care as Tymoshen-
ko’s case moves to the court of appeals.  While 
some citizens seek to blame Ukraine’s current 
troubled economic climate on the former 
prime minister, others insist that her arrest, 
along with the arrest of other political leaders, 
may indicate that Yanukovich wants less op-
position in the next election.
beyond
the bubble
The price of both conventional energy 
sources is rising and is expected to continue 
doing so, especially if the Vermont Yankee nu-
clear power plant shuts down. Vermont Yankee 
provides approximately one third of all power 
in Vermont, and has come under fire in recent 
years for the risk to the environment and sur-
rounding communities it may pose.
VPIRG would not be 
able to help fund the Col-
lege’s passive solar water 
heaters directly, as the 
College is nonprofit and 
VPIRG works primarily 
with private homes. 
“There are … fed-
eral and state rebates for 
nonprofits like [the Col-
lege], but those are going 
to change by December 
when the year ends,” said 
Lessing. “Anything we 
propose definitely won’t 
get built by the end of this 
year, so we just have to 
wait to see what new laws 
are coming out.”
The Sunday Night Group aims to have a 
proposal finalized by spring and anticipates 
that the College will act quickly on their proj-
ect.
“This is the kind of thing that saves the 
College money, reduces our [carbon] foot-
print in a way that we hadn’t though about 
before and it’s a great PR messaging point, so 
it seems like it’s a win-win-win,” said Wessel.
Construction to wait 
for new rebate laws
team and their faculty advisor Andrea Mur-
ray all expressed their relief that the most 
stressful and pressured component of the 
project is over.
“It’s nice to work on the home with less 
pressure,” said Jopek and Brown.
“We’re still working but not at such a 
frenzied pace as before,” Godine said, echo-
ing their thoughts.
According to Godine, there is even talk 
of publishing a book to encapsulate the 
whole project.
Although some members of the team 
have already left the College, there are still 
younger students on campus who will learn 
from this experience and continue mak-
ing an environmental impact in the school. 
That is the legacy that the team wishes to 
leave at the College.
“Midd Kids built that house. It’s not 
perfect, but we built it!” Visiting Lecturer 
in Architecture and Faculty Adviser Andrea 
Murray said. “We hope that the team has 
paved the way for students who want to put 
together a hands-on project. We hope we’ve 
shown the administration that Midd Kids 
can be responsible and thorough and really 
take the initiative to … make the world a 
better place.” 
Self Reliance has made its permanent home at the entrance to the CFA parking lot.
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
SD to carry 
on tradition 
in new
location
TEDx to come to Midd
Continued from page 1
By Adam Schaffer
News Editor
Continued from page 1
The passive solar systems would use the sun to heat water, 
without the use of photovoltaics or other electronics.
Courtesy
A series of 18-minute talks will bring 
“ideas worth spreading” to students, faculty 
and staff Nov. 5. The event — dubbed TEDx, 
an independently-organized version of the 
official TED talks, named for bridging peo-
ple from the worlds of Technology, Enter-
tainment and Design — challenges speakers 
to “give the talk of their lives” in 18 minutes 
with the goal of sparking meaningful discus-
sion and connection in a small group setting. 
Saturday’s presentations will feature 
16 speakers, including 350.org founder 
and Middlebury professor Bill McKibben 
and Emmy award-winning Senior Director 
of NBC News Washington Jeffrey Blount. 
Blount’s presentation will be complemented 
by his wife and Middlebury alumnus Jeanne 
Meserve ’74, a reporter with CNN known for 
her coverage of homeland security. Lt. Dan 
Choi of the United States Army, best known 
for his activism in repealing the controver-
sial Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell legislation banning 
gays from openly serving in the military, will 
also speak.
The event — capped at an audience size 
of 100 as per TED rules — will be in Mc-
Cardell Bicentennial Hall 216. While tickets 
to the live version sold out within hours, 
members of the College community will 
be able to view the talks via a live stream in 
McCardell Bicentennial Hall 220, which will 
also include a facilitated discussion after each 
speaker. Commons offices have also been en-
couraged to host live streams, and the event 
will be streamed live to students at the Mon-
terey Institute for International Studies.  The 
presentations will be available online to the 
public shortly after the event.
The one-day student organized con-
ference has been months in the making. 
Organizers Annie Makela ’11.5, Hudson 
Cavanagh ’14, Olivia Grugan ’12 and Janet 
Rodrigues ’12 began work on this fall’s event 
last spring.
“Many, many hours have gone into 
planning this event and it is not something 
we entered lightly,” Makela said. “Coordinat-
ing 16 speakers is no small task.  I speak on 
behalf of all organizers in saying that it has 
been an extremely worthwhile experience.”
Roughly half of the $10,500 organizers 
needed for the event came from the MCAB 
Speakers Fund, and the other half was made 
up of a variety of sources and major support 
from the College’s Project on Creativity and 
Innovation. Costs were kept low because 
speakers are not paid for their participation 
and were only reimbursed for travel and ac-
commodations.
LGBT activist Lt. Dan Choi will give one 
of the 16 presentations this Saturday.
Courtesy
According to the 2010-11 Student Dam-
age Report, the fire caused over $25,000 in 
damage, including $18,055 for elevator repairs 
and service.
High dorm damage totals have a very real 
affect on Facility Services’ ability to fix every-
day problems in student dorms, according to 
Cushman. 
Responding to dorm damage every year 
costs the equivalent of employing two full-time 
staff members. 
“That’s two people who could be doing 
other things,” he said. “Students will call and 
say ‘why isn’t my shade fixed?’ and that’s be-
cause staff members are out there fixing dorm 
damage.”
Landscaping damage
The five-year rise in dorm damage in-
cluded a rash of landscape damage to trees and 
shrubs across campus.  
“Most years, you’ll get a broken branch 
here and there, but last year it was 10 or 12 
weekends in a row that something died or got 
broken,” said College Horticulturist Tim Par-
sons. “Based on last year, I raised the red flag 
and said we’ve got to start paying attention to 
this.” 
Cushman said that landscape damage is 
a relatively new contributor to dorm damage. 
He said he first started noticing it three or four 
years ago. 
“[Landscape damage] never used to hap-
pen,” he said. “We would have students in the 
past put furniture and banners in trees, but just 
maliciously destroying the vegetation, that’s 
new.” 
Parsons said two “thick” birch trees by the 
Atwater Retention Pond that were pulled out 
of the ground stuck in his mind. 
“It struck me to go through all that work 
to rip out a tree, that’s not a game, that’s rage,” 
he said.
Parsons said landscape damage has de-
creased this year, with only three major inci-
dents of damage this year. 
Dish damage
The rise of dorm and landscape damage 
has been paralleled by a rise in dish damage. 
Students are allowed to take some food 
out of the dining halls, but Director of Din-
ing Services Matthew Biette said many of those 
dishes are not returned, prompting a dish 
shortage at the College. 
“People ask, ‘Where are the bowls?’ We 
didn’t hide them on you!” he said. “I find it ab-
surd and insulting that some people are taking 
advantage of what we have.”
Biette said that rising dish prices, infla-
tion, and a flat-lined budget keep a ceiling on 
the amount of new dishes he can buy. As a 
result, new dishes bought have not kept pace 
with dishes lost. 
The current yearly budget of $38,583 for 
all dishware has not increased in the last seven 
years. Mugs have risen from 75 cents to $1.75, 
glasses have risen 70 cents, and the round china 
plates have ballooned to $7.50 apiece. 
“Chasing inflation is hard, [but] chasing 
stupidity is even harder,” he said. “It’s not just 
theoretical thought, it’s action.” 
Many students leave plates in bathrooms 
and various other places around the College, 
but Biette said by the time they get back to the 
dining halls, many of them are unusable. 
“The plates that are filled with food and 
not returned become Petri dishes,” he said. 
The used plates are soaked in caustic solu-
tion for a couple days, and then put through 
the dishwasher before being hand washed by 
dining hall employees. 
“There are times when dishes come back 
and they are so disgusting we have to throw 
them out,” he said.  
Biette laid partial blame on the impor-
tance the current generation places on move-
ment. 
“This is a residential College with a resi-
dential dining program designed for you to eat 
at a table with your friends during the meal,” he 
said. “The table is a great place to recharge, but 
everyone is always moving, so people take the 
food and dishware with them.”
Biette, who has been at the College for 14 
years and director of dining services for nine 
years, said that while dish damage has long 
been present, it has gotten worse in recent 
years.
Community solution
Spears emphasized that no matter what 
kind of damage, the solution must be shared 
by all members of the community. 
“We place great value on community 
here,” he said. “It shouldn’t just be an adminis-
trative thing like, ‘Look what the students did, 
now you have to pay for it.’ Dorm damage re-
ally is a shared problem since everyone ends up 
paying for it somehow.”  
Biette posed the solution as a challenge to 
the student body. 
“Could our actions save money and make 
the comprehensive fee go down?” he said. “If 
we do away with: ‘I’m going to take my car and 
buzz across this lawn and do donuts, I’m going 
to yank down trees, I’m going to tip over this 
vending machine because I want a snack and 
I don’t have a buck and I’m going to leave this 
pile of trash here because I don’t have to pick it 
up,’ we could save a lot of money.”
campusnews 3 November 2011 3
overseas
briefing
by Bronwyn Oatley ’13
PARIS — After two years at Middlebury, 
I believed myself to be an ecologically-con-
scious human being. I recycled, received 
Sunday Night Group mailings (which natu-
rally made me more enviro-friendly), and 
tried to avoid buying things with excessive 
bubble-wrap. I thought that due to strenu-
ous repetition, these morals and habits had 
ingrained themselves deeply enough into my 
being that when I went beyond the borders of 
Middlebury, Vt., they would stick with me; 
that I would remain a relatively green indi-
vidual.
And then I came to France.
One of the first nights with my host fam-
ily, my host mother cooked something that 
involved a cardboard box. After the meal she 
and I were in the kitchen cleaning up, when 
I came across this lonely looking piece of 
blatantly-recyclable material. My French still 
rusty, and not wanting to ask “où se trouve” 
(where to find) the recycling bin, I danced 
around my host mom searching for a home 
for the forlorn object. 
Eventually, she asked me what it was 
I was looking for. “Uhh … la boite de recy-
clage?” I stuttered, trying to somehow mental-
ly minimize the now completely hostile piece 
of perforated board that I was holding in my 
hand. “Uhh beh, non, nous n’en avons pas,” 
(no, we don’t have one) she responded, with a 
typical French shrug. 
Not understanding, I searched through 
my Middlebury French 101 lexicon for the 
words for aluminum, cardboard and glass so 
as to better explain my predicament. Coming 
up empty, I went for the hooked-on-phonics 
comparison approach of my childhood: 
“Not for garbage, but for … ” I said, flap-
ping the cardboard emphatically. “Not for 
rotten vegetable peals (pointing wildly), but 
for wine bottles …”
My host mother, looking unamused, re-
peated that they didn’t have a separate bin. 
Quel dommage (how sad) for the cardboard. 
There was no separate recycling bin. 
Retreating to my room, embarrassed, 
I made the mental note to try and limit the 
number of questions that I posed to my host 
family members when I was unsure of the 
response. In part, I justified this practice as a 
method to try and avoid placing my own cul-
tural biases on their behavior. In reality, I was 
clearly avoiding potential opportunities for us 
to learn from one another, in favor of saving 
my dignity. 
The typical Middlebury ending to this 
article would be to chronicle how my progres-
sion with the language and the culture en-
abled me to become a new hyper-powered hy-
brid version of my former self, and to describe 
how I installed a fully functioning biomass 
treatment plant in my host family’s kitchen 
in order to make up for lost time. But study 
abroad is not typical, and personalities, habits 
and cultural biases are not changed in a day. 
This being the green issue of the Cam-
pus, I am sorry to report that I have not yet 
treated my French family to an eco-interven-
tion. We, like so many other French families, 
continue to destroy the universe one piece 
d’alumunimium, boite en carton and verre at 
a time. 
In reconnecting to the Middlebury com-
munity in order to write this article however, 
I have begun to see the amazing work that 
students are doing on campus in the fields of 
environmentalism, social justice and commu-
nity safety. 
Change is not a comfortable process, re-
gardless of language, customs, or prevailing 
attitudes. And while it is easy to allow one’s 
morals to slip when cut loose from the moth-
ership, to hell with my excuses. I will do better. 
Cardboard boxes be warned. 
Middbrief
by Charlotte O’Herron, Staff Writer
Students to head to D.C. for pipeline protest
Over fifty students will travel to Wash-
ington. D.C. this weekend to join thousands 
of protesters in a Nov. 6 rally against the Key-
stone XL pipeline, which would connect the 
tar sands in Canada to oil refineries along the 
Gulf Coast. President Obama has the power 
to reject the building of the Keystone pipeline, 
and protesters hope to remind the president 
of their strong stance on this environmental 
issue and to urge him to reject the pipeline.
Student organizers Hannah Bristol ’14, 
Caroline Santinelli ’14 and Greta Neubauer 
’14 were motivated by their concern for en-
vironmental issues as well as by Schumann 
Distinguished Scholar Bill McKibben’s prom-
inent role thus far in the Tar Sands protests. 
Transportation will be funded through dona-
tions and fundraising, and Middlebury stu-
dents who live in the D.C. area will provide 
free housing for the weekend. 
Bristol, Santinelli and Neubauer aimed 
to send one full bus — 55 people — to D.C. 
for the protest, and they seem confident that 
they will meet this goal. McKibben wrote in 
an email that “Middlebury students who 
travel down to D.C. will be playing their usual 
leadership role — it’s Midd Kids more than 
those at any other campus in America who 
have been in the forefront of the climate fight 
from the beginning.” 
They plan to congregate with other Ver-
mont college students before the protest to 
organize a network of students interested in 
environmental activism. 
“There will be no arrests this time, just 
thousands of people circling the White House 
in — depending on your mood — either a 
big o-shaped hug or a kind of symbolic house 
arrest,” said McKibben.
Santinelli echoed McKibben, emphasiz-
ing the protests’ goal of demonstrating the 
will of voters.
“In August, the point of the protests 
was to get arrested and bring attention to the 
movement,” Santinelli said. “So they purpose-
fully stood in front of the gates of the White 
House, which was hugely successful.” 
Bristol agreed with Santinelli and said, 
“Now, the point of the Nov. 6 protest is not 
to get arrested, but to show President Obama 
that these are his voters, and we need him to 
stop this pipeline from being built because 
the power lies in his hands.”
Middlebury students plan on stand-
ing far enough away from the White House 
so that they do not risk arrest. Most of the 
Tar Sands protesters supported Obama in 
2008, and their signs and banners will feature 
quotes from his 2008 campaign. 
“It [is important that Obama blocks] the 
pipeline because his environmental commit-
ment is one of the reasons why we supported 
him in 2008 and why we want to continue 
to support him,” Bristol said. “So this is just 
making him accountable to his supporters 
and to the nation.” 
Damage includes landscaping, dishes
Continued from page 1
Despite some preliminary improvements compared to last year, scenes like this from 
Coffrin hall continue to frustrate students and staff alike this year.
Courtesy of Linda Ross, Facilities Services
college
shorts
by, Camille Kenny, Staff Writer
NC State professor 
explores algae as fuel
U. Chicago hosts Jersey 
Shore conference
Dorms evacuated at 
Md. college for mold
Assistant Professor of Plant Biology 
at North Carolina State University Heike 
Winter-Sederoff has begun to research 
the bio-fuel potential of a type of algae 
and of the camelina seed, a type of mus-
tard plant.
The algae, Dunaliella salina, natu-
rally produces oils that are similar to pe-
troleum in how they burn. Using algae-
based biofuel could serve as a complete 
replacement of petroleum fuels. The 
algae being used in experimentation 
grows in seawater and therefore will not 
deplete sources of freshwater.
Camelina seed seems to be a prom-
ising fuel source as it easily grows in less 
than ideal conditions. Poor soils, lack of 
fertilizer, and dry climates are no hin-
drance to the camelina seed’s ability to 
thrive. Neither algae nor camelina com-
pete with the food supply like Ethanol.
  — UWIRE
On Friday, Oct. 28, the University of 
Chicago hosted an academic conference 
on MTV’s Jersey Shore. Chicago student 
David Showalter organized this conference, 
designed to appeal to scholars of several 
disciplines.
The conference received notable me-
dia attention, including a mention by talk 
show host Jimmy Kimmel. The event in-
cluded keynote speeches such as “You’re 
not Even Italian: Stereotype, Authenticity, 
and the Warped Reality of Jersey Shore” 
and panels on the construction of the Gui-
do identity. There were also presentations 
of several papers, such as “GTL (Gym, Tan, 
Labor): Reproducing Labor-Power on the 
Shore” and “Foucault’s Going To The Jersey 
Shore, Bitch!”
Showalter hoped to use this conference 
as a gateway to the exploration of popular 
culture and to inspire students to pursue all 
types of research interests.
 
 — The Huffington Post
Recently, several dorms at St. Mary’s 
College of Maryland have been evacuat-
ed because of mold issues. Around 250 
displaced Maryland students will take 
up residence in a cruise ship. The ship, 
The Sea Voyager, will remain docked in 
the St. Mary’s River.
During the start of the fall semes-
ter, the dorms were deemed “uninhab-
itable” by a doctor who inspected the 
spaces, and officials suspect that rain 
from Hurricane Irene greatly contrib-
uted to the mold problem. 
The school administration was 
pressed to find temporary housing, and 
the cruise ship seemed a fitting option. 
The college prides itself on a reputation 
for being a “center of scholarship and 
sailing” and renting the ship is cheaper 
than paying for hotel rooms for stu-
dents.
— The Huffington Post
4 3 November 2011 campusnews
SGAupdate by Ben Anderson, Staff Writer
The Oct. 16 SGA meeting marked the 
first with newly-elected members Vincent 
Recca ’12, president of the SGA, and First-
Year Senators Rana Ahdelhama ’15 and Dan-
ny Zhang ’15. 
The SGA discussed the progress of two 
projects that are both awaiting votes. The first 
was the Outdoor Introduction for New Kids 
(OINK) Bill that would extend the lifespan 
of the existing OINK program. The OINK 
Committee has set a date to meet with the 
administration to discuss the future of the 
program.
Next, Vice President for Administration 
Tim Spears met with the SGA. The SGA had 
asked Spears to meet with them to discuss 
Brian Foster ’13’s project, Cynirgy. At the pre-
vious meeting, the SGA met with Foster and 
now wanted to hear the administration’s view 
of the project. 
The administration has been working 
closely with Foster since last year to fine-tune 
the project to best complement existing in-
ternet services at the College. They believe 
that Cynirgy could be another piece in a step 
towards modernization on campus. Spears 
compared the project to existing social net-
working sites already online and believed 
this could be essentially a more personalized 
Facebook, exclusive to the College. While the 
administration was intrigued by the poten-
tial for student entrepreneurship, they also 
recognized the potential risk in investing in 
such a program. Because of this, they offered 
to fund half of Foster’s project while the SGA 
covered the rest. 
While there was some expressed interest 
in Foster’s project on the part of the SGA, the 
fear still remained that the potential for suc-
cess did not outweigh the large investment, 
especially considering similar projects such 
as MiddConfessional and MiddLabs that 
have yet to garner regular use.
The Oct. 30 meeting of the SGA began 
with the ratification of Recca’s new Presiden-
tial Cabinet. 
Next, Dean of Students Katy Smitth Ab-
bott gave a presentation on orientation trips 
on behalf of the administration. Old Chapel 
hopes that the SGA will fund OINK again 
next year and half of orientation trips for 
the next three years. After this, the goal is to 
make an off-campus orientation trip a part 
of orientation for all incoming students, in-
cluding athletes. However, this plan is still in 
its preliminary stages, as it would involve the 
cooperation of many different departments 
on campus.
Following the presentation, Astrid 
Schanz-Gargbassi ’12 gave a presentation on 
the Green Revolution bike room project she 
has been working on since last year. Schanz-
Gargbassi hopes to establish a room in Free-
man International Center that will house ex-
ercise bikes that will generate electricity for 
all or some of the building. The hope is that 
this project will both promote on-campus 
fitness as well as help make the College more 
environmentally friendly.
In the past weeks, Schanz-Gargbassi 
sent a poll to students asking about their 
interest in such a project. Students received 
the idea very well, she said, and the SGA 
was equally impressed by the presentation 
and the results of the poll. Schanz-Gargbassi 
will be working on a bill asking the SGA for 
funding for the project in the near future. 
Finally, the SGA discussed plans for a 
Town Hall-style meeting and forum to be 
held soon to discuss social life this semester 
at the College.
SGA discusses orientation programs and bike room
Trustees learn about student experience
By Adam Schaffer
News Editor
DATE TIME INCIDENT DESCRIPTION LOCATION DISPOSITION
10/17/11 9:32 a.m. Theft Backpack Ross Commons Dining Referred to DOC and Commons Deans
10/18/11 3:20 p.m. Vehicular Collision Hit and Run Stewart Referred to DOC and Commons Deans 
10/21/11 9:02 p.m. Fire Alarm Report General Cooking LaForce Referred to Facilities Services
10/23/11 10:48 a.m. Vandalism Exit Sign Battell Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/25/11 8:04 a.m. Fire Alarm Spray Cleaner Discharge Brackett Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/26/11 8:00 a.m. Welfare Check Student Located Safely Hepburn Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/27/11 9:15 p.m. Vandalism Window Pearsons Referred to Commons Dean
10/29/11 2:00 p.m. Theft Trinity College Flag T lot (Kenyon) Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/29/11 5:03 p.m. Vandalism Structure Window Damage Prescott Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/29/11 4:19 a.m. Disturbance Noise 107 Shannon Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/30/11 2:59 a.m. Disturbance Fight DKE Alumni House Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/30/11 2:59 a.m. Fire Illegal Burn Students igniting tennis 
balls on fire 
Kelly Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
10/31/11 5:57 a.m. Burglary Institutional Freeman Referred to DOC and Commons Dean
October  17 - 31, 2011
The Department of Public Safety reported giving 8 alcohol citations between October 17 and October 31, 2011.
public safety log
Trustees of the College came to campus 
Oct. 20-22 to discuss and vote on various de-
velopments at the College. Unique this year 
was the retreat’s focus on the “life cycle of a 
Middlebury student,” wrote President of the 
College Ronald D. Liebowitz in an all-campus 
email.
The weekend began with presentations 
from 16 students on various aspects of life at 
the College, ranging from stress to the week-
end social scene to the difficulties experienced 
by some students of color.
“[The trustees] were incredibly interested 
in what we had to say,” wrote Brittany Gendron 
’12 in email. Gendron presented on first-year 
orientation programs and fielded questions 
on the minimal sleep students receive from an 
audience she described as “sympathetic” to the 
stress inherent in a Middlebury education. 
“Their sincere curiosity and attention to 
all of the students throughout the day … was 
highly appreciated by everyone,” she added.
The trustees were equally appreciative of 
the frank conversations had throughout the 
weekend.
“Overall, the feedback from trustees was 
very positive, not only in terms of [the panel 
presentations] but also the confidence and 
honesty the student presenters displayed 
throughout the retreat,” Chairman of the 
Board of Trustees Frederick M. Fritz ’68 wrote 
in an email.
What was learned over the weekend, Fritz 
added, will continue to influence decision-
making for time to come. 
“The breadth of topics presented, from 
application, then college life and finally post-
Middlebury, provided a constructive profile 
of our challenges along with high points,” he 
wrote.
Continuing this theme of showing both 
the triumphs and struggles experienced by 
Middlebury students, Dean of Wonnacott 
Commons Matt Longman and Dean of Brain-
erd Commons Natasha Chang “talked about 
the personal challenges some students face at 
Middlebury, the issues they sometimes bring 
with them from home and how the College 
tries to address them,” Liebowitz wrote his 
email.
The rest of the weekend was dedicated to 
individual committee meetings, and conclud-
ed with a full board meeting Saturday. 
Trustees were updated on the state of the 
College’s endowment, which showed impres-
sive gains in fiscal year 2011 — July 1, 2010 
through June 30, 2011 — though a four per-
cent loss in the most recent quarter due to the 
market downturn.
Following a recommendation by the 
Graduate and Special Programs Committee, 
the trustees approved the creation of a pro-
gram to teach English as a second language at 
Salve Regina University in Rhode Island. The 
program will be called Middlebury-Monterey 
Summer Intensive College English and will 
be run by the College’s Monterey Institute for 
International Studies. The trustees also ap-
proved the committee’s recommendation to 
open a C.V. Starr-Middlebury School Abroad 
in Cameroon. The school will be the College’s 
first in francophone Africa, and will begin ac-
cepting students in 2012.
“As a professor of francophone literatures, 
I personally find it exciting that students will 
become more aware of the fact that French is 
not just spoken in France, but [also] in many 
other countries,” wrote Chair of the French 
Department and Director of the International 
Studies Africa Program Armelle Crouzières-
Ingenthron in an email.
Students will be provided a unique im-
mersion program, she added, as the “Yaoundé 
site in Cameroon [where the school will be 
located is an area where] English is rarely spo-
ken and heard, [and] Cameroon has far fewer 
study abroad programs than [neighboring] 
Senegal,” another Francophone country in 
West Africa.
The trustees also approved the construc-
tion of a new field house to replace the “Bub-
ble,” pending further funding from gifts. The 
field house would include squash and poten-
tially tennis courts.
Trustees were also provided results from 
a staff survey, which found an increase in job 
workload and stress in the past two years, con-
cerns about equity in the workplace and rea-
sonably positive job satisfaction.
“All in all, the weekend was successful, 
informative and productive for everyone in-
volved,” Liebowitz wrote in his email to the 
College community. Trustees felt the same, 
Fritz wrote, with many saying that it was the 
best retreat they had ever attended at the Col-
lege.
3 November 2011 5campusnews
Funds committed to Green Challenge
By Jeremy Kallan
Staff Writer
The Billion Dollar Green Challenge seeks to di-
rect endowment investment into green initiatives
Courtesy of 
The College has begun the planning 
process for creating a Green Revolving Fund 
(GRF), a program that will provide loans for 
energy efficiency projects on campus. This 
fund is launched in conjunction with 32 oth-
er founding institutions in the Billion Dollar 
Green Challenge, an initiative organized by the 
Sustainable Endowments Institute (SEI) with 
the goal of investing a total of $1 billion in self-
managed GRFs.
The College’s GRF is projected to be open 
for loan applications in early 2012, according 
to Jack Byrne, the director of the Office of Sus-
tainability Integration.
GRFs have seen much success in recent 
years, as documented in an SEI study called 
“Greening the Bottom Line.” The concept be-
hind GRFs is to finance projects that cut back 
on energy costs. The savings go directly back 
into the fund and, in most cases, the loans are 
fully repaid within five years, according to the 
study. Future returns go back into the fund and 
continue to provide funding for more projects.
Byrne explained that the College’s GRF 
will provide extensive funds for environmental 
projects that would otherwise be impossible.
“We have always been looking for ways to 
do projects that are difficult to do because of 
budget constraints,” he said.
The College has completed energy ef-
ficiency projects in the past and seen great 
returns, but this fund will help with tracking 
the specific savings and reinvesting them into 
future projects. In addition, the independent 
GRF will be a fund source for opportunities 
that come up inside of a budget year.
Matt Birnbaum ’12, however, expressed 
some skepticism as to the College’s definition 
of “carbon neutrality” and its reasons for un-
dertaking green initiatives.
“Would the ethical dimension of carbon 
emissions have any standing ground at all if 
it did not save the college money?” he ques-
tioned in an email. “What does the ‘green’ in 
GRF mean? Is it about monied interests of the 
corporate entity (Middlebury College), a hip-
social label that shows you are compassionate 
about ‘the environment,’ or [do the financial 
benefits] simply create an opening for [envi-
ronmentalism]?”
Among the partners in the Green Chal-
lenge, there is currently around $70 million 
invested in GRFs, with the College having 
pledged to raise a total of $1 million over the 
next four years, according to Byrne. The fund 
will start with $300,000 from an anonymous 
donation and the remaining $700,000 will 
come primarily from fundraising, and the rest 
may come from the endowment or from capi-
tal budgeting.  
This fund will provide not only the capital 
for a number of initiatives, but also the possi-
bility of educational opportunities for students 
at the College. The hope, as expressed by By-
rne, is that classes and student groups will be 
able to work with facilities staff to practically 
apply their innovative ideas for conservation.  
In addition, Byrne hopes that the GRF 
will provide “a different kind of giving oppor-
tunity” for donors to the College. As opposed 
to contributions to the endowment, contribu-
tions to this fund will have more tangible and 
immediate effects, “so maybe that would ap-
peal to someone who wouldn’t otherwise give,” 
he said.
Although the GRF will be managed by the 
College, cooperation with other institutions 
through the Green Challenge will provide 
many important resources. With 32 founding 
institutions and more joining in the future, 
“there is learning potential and people sharing 
experiences,” said Byrne.  
In addition, “SEI has partnered with the 
Vermont Energy Efficiency Utility to do a 
state-wide pilot project in Vermont … a mod-
el for how to do a state-wide revolving loan 
fund,” said Byrne. “Their expertise and assis-
tance is available to us to help us in developing 
and promoting our fund. We will have access 
not only to their staff time and their experi-
ence with this, but also all the research they are 
doing.”
Members of the College administration 
are currently creating a plan for pragmatically 
implementing this fund in the coming months. 
“We have a number of questions to re-
solve about this,” said Byrne. “The process 
for reviewing and approving loans has to be 
established, we have to decide if there will be 
an administrative fee on the loans or will there 
be low interest, what is the process for paying 
back loans … There are a lot of details to nail 
down.”
Once the process has been set in place, the 
next step involves communications and out-
reach for loan applications.
Once the funding, communication and 
documentation aspects of the project are estab-
lished, Byrne hopes that the fund will be open 
to applications by the end of Winter Term.
Midd
brief
by Kelsey Collins, Staff Writer 
Energy-producing bike 
room close to fruition 
After more than a year of plan-
ning, the energy-producing bike room 
spearheaded by Astrid Schanz-Garbas-
si ’12 is close to fruition. The room is 
planned to be in the Freeman Interna-
tional Center (FIC).
Schanz-Garbassi’s idea was in-
spired while doing an experiment in 
her first-year physics class, which in-
volved spinning a wheel to induce 
currents through a wire. She won-
dered whether the experiment could 
be replicated using bicycles to produce 
electricity. She later learned that it was 
possible — and that people were do-
ing it in universities across the country. 
After over a year of research and plan-
ning, Schanz-Garbassi formally pro-
posed her plan to the SGA on Oct. 30.
The bike room would connect stu-
dent fitness with the creation of clean 
energy on campus. The bike room 
would have 12 stationary bikes at-
tached to generators, and by spinning 
the pedals, the bikes would be capable 
of harnessing the energy generated by 
cardio activity to create an electrical 
current.
One spinning class with all 12 
bikes in use would create two to three 
kilowatt-hours of energy. As a frame of 
reference, the average American home 
uses 20,000 kilowatt-hours per year, 
but Self-Reliance, the Solar Decathlon 
house, is able to run on 6,500 kilowatt-
hours a year.
“Depending on how many spin-
ning classes we are able to offer and 
how many hours a day the room is 
open for individual use, the bike room 
would be capable of producing any-
where from 2,000 to 8,000 kilowatt 
hours in a year, which would offset a 
significant portion of the FIC’s energy 
demand,” explained Schanz-Garbassi.
Each cyclist will be able to see how 
much energy he or she is producing on 
a meter attached to the bike, and the 
room will include monitors that dis-
play how much energy has been gener-
ated per week, month and year. 
“It’s a cool educational tool be-
cause it shows you how much energy 
you’re creating and how difficult it is to 
create that energy,” said Schanz-Gar-
bassi. “For example, if you work out 
for an hour and you produce 200 watt-
hours, that’s only enough to power two 
light bulbs. It will make the difficulty 
of producing energy tangible.”
To maximize student use of the 
bike room, Schanz-Garbassi envisions 
spinning classes taught by members 
of the College’s cycling club, as well as 
making the room available to students 
as an alternative exercise space on cam-
pus. She has collected student feedback 
via a survey sent in a campus-wide 
email last Wednesday, and she reports 
that the results have been overwhelm-
ingly positive. 
“This semester has been all about 
finding funding,” she said. “Now that it 
looks like it’s going to happen, I’m ex-
panding and having more people work 
with me on the project, to have a few 
more sets of eyes and hands. I hope it 
will be up and running for the spring 
semester.”
Students interested in getting in-
volved should contact Astrid Schanz-
Garbassi aschanzg@middlebury.edu
DO YOU 
HAVE A 
TIP OR AN 
IDEA FOR 
A STORY?
GO/THECAMPUS
SEE 
SOMETHING
SAY 
SOMETHING1 2 SENDSOMETHING3
www.middleburycampus.com
hot.
A snow!ake princess scrambled over a haystack, catching up to a skeleton, as they both 
fought for "rst entrance into a cardboard tunnel, marked by long-dead faces from Middlebury’s 
past. #e skeleton emerged "rst, still in the lead, with the snow!ake princess on his heels. #ey 
raced towards the "nish line, weaving in and out of pumpkins on feet enclosed inside burlap sacks. 
#ese costumed kids were two of the “hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of kids,” that 
showed up to celebrate Middlebury’s fourth Spooktacular festival, according to Nancie Dunn, the 
event’s leader, as well as the executive secretary of the Better Middlebury Partnership which hosts 
this annual event. 
Spooktacular took place on the Town Green on Saturday, Oct. 29. It was decorated for the 
occasion with carved and painted pumpkins, ghosts hanging from trees, balloons and a haunted 
gazebo. Volunteers from the town and the College worked at di$erent fun booths, from a bouncy 
house and time capsule to a face painting stand and a scavenger hunt. 
“#e goal of Spooktacular is to provide a really fun event for local children,” said Dunn. “It’s 
all about the kids having fun.”
#ey sure did, due to the success of the event. Children wandered in every which way, dis-
guised as policemen, football players, Indians, witches, bananas, Harry Potter, chickens, gypsies 
and one very shiny, silver robot. Even the parents came dressed in colorful hats, dyed hair and 
striped goblin stockings. 
“Honey, this will give you a good idea for what to be next year,” said one woman leading along 
a disgruntled fairy.
From the gazebo came murderous melodies like “#riller” and “#e Adams Family #eme 
Song.” Inside danced King George III, looking unusually similar to the Burger King mascot. 
“Is everybody happy, happy happy?” he shouted occasionally into a megaphone, which echoed 
across the green. “Come and dance, if you are happy!”
As this year marks Middlebury’s 250th anniversary, the Spooktacular festival incorporated 
historical facts and knowledge of the town into the activities as a way to teach the youngsters in the 
crowd about their heritage. Middlebury has King George III to thank for granting their charter in 
1761. Back then the land was completely uninhabited by colonials, who began to settle and build 
up the town 15 years later. 
Old-fashioned games such as “hoops and graces” and a pumpkin seed-bag toss allow the 
children a way to connect to this older era. #e time capsule, a large white box with a slit in the 
top sitting in one corner of the green, received plenty of o$erings from children and parents alike. 
One woman approached with her daughter, holding an envelope of photos and “a drawing we 
made” to drop inside.
Although children were encouraged to bring an item from home that symbolized their life, 
most forgot. Instead they "lled out a form that asked simple questions like “What are you wearing 
today?” and “What is your favorite song?” #e parents felt just as enthusiastic about the question-
naire, "lling out their own sheets as well. 
“#e time capsule will be stored for 50 years at the Henry Sheldon Museum,” said Donna 
Donahue, the president of the Better Middlebury Partnership. “#ese kids will be in their 50s and 
60s when it’s opened, and they’ll get to hear their answers read out and remember how things have 
changed.”
In the meantime, the kids were given a small pewter coin cast by Danforth Pewter to take 
home in remembrance. One side depicted the town and falls of Middlebury, while the other cel-
ebrated its anniversary.
“It’s a nice commemorative of the day,” said Donahue. “We’ll put one in the time capsule too, 
so we remember what this was all about.”
At 3:00 p.m. the children and parents paraded up and down Main Street, trick-or-treating at 
the doors of each shop, where local business owners held giant bowls of Snickers bars, tootsie rolls 
and lollipops. 
“#is really brings out the best of a small community,” said Donahue. “All the retailers hand 
out candy on the whole street, and it’s safe.”
Besides Spooktacular, the Better Middlebury Partnership hosts three other annual events, one 
for each season. #is past summer they held the Vermont Beer, Wine and Cheese Festival for an 
older crowd. In the "rst week of December they will host Very Merry Middlebury, a Christmas 
event comprised of wagon rides, a hot chocolate stand, a wreaths exhibit, carolers and a Santa with 
a lap to sit on. #ese events, along with the infamous spring Chili Festival, provide a fun way for 
families to get together in town.
“We think it creates a sense of community,” said Donahue. “A lot of people can’t spend money 
on entertainment, and this whole event is free.”
local 3 November 2011
  The Middlebury Campus
6
Go green
Netaka White works with farms to produce biodiesel, fuel made 
from soybean, sun!ower and canola seeds, 
page 6.
French cuisine pleases taste buds
Café Provence, located in Brandon, o$ers customers 
myriad dishes, all with a French !avor, 
page 7. 
Fabulous Phantoms at 
Middlebury
by Kaylen Baker
Local News Editor
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
Children and parents alike got into the spooky spirit this weekend, playing games and 
parading through town in Halloween garb.
Netaka White has always lived holistically. Since his teen years, he 
was interested in organic gardening and sustainability. !is passion has 
extended in recent years, and White now has a professional investment 
to create a more sustainable Vermont.
He is the director of the Bioenergy Program at the Vermont Sus-
tainable Jobs Fund (SJF). !e road to his current position began in the 
1990s.
“I had developed a company that had nothing to do with bioen-
ergy,” he said. “It was a hemp products company that distributed hemp 
accessories internationally.”
An entrepreneur by profession, White has started several busi-
nesses in the non-pro"t sector. !e hemp business he started was run 
out of Middlebury, and until he sold the company in 2002, he “had 
nothing to do with the energy business.” By 2004, however, he and his 
friends began meeting with people around the state to learn about the 
biofuel business.
“I did not train as an engineer or chemist,” said White. “It came 
along as an interest and passion and a desire to meet our community 
energy needs with local crops.”
He was the executive director of the Vermont Biofuels Association 
(VBA) from 2004 to 2008. !e association paired closely with ACoRN 
to help solve the global energy crisis on a local level. VBA’s key goal was 
to integrate food and renewable fuels, thereby creating a self-su#cient 
local system. 
With the increasing challenge of running an entire business, in ad-
dition to applying and looking for grants, White merged the VBA with 
Renewable Energy Vermont in 2008. !at same year, the SJF hired him
“!e Sustainable Jobs Fund started the Vermont bioenergy ini-
tiative in 2005, which was funded through the department of energy 
through their biomass energy and e#ciency program,” he said.
!e SJF receives grants federally and uses this money for research 
and further development of bioenergy feedstocks and fuels. It o$ers 
grants to farmers, so they can produce sun%ower, soybean and canola 
seeds. A&er the oil is extracted from the seeds, the cake that is le& over 
is used as livestock feed. !is creates a self-su#cient and e#cient pro-
cess that farmers can use to both fuel their tractors and feed their live-
stock, without looking to outside sources.
Last year there were seven farms that participated in this program. 
!e farms did not solely produce oil, but allotted certain acreage to 
grow their seeds. While the program began in 2005, this was the "rst 
year that White and his associates gathered data on the actual sustain-
ability of the biodiesel process.
“We had enough data to look at a few important performance 
measurements to see if it was successful,” he said. “We examined it 
from economic, environmental and energy-output standpoints.”
!e SJF, with the help of researchers at the University of Vermont, 
calculated whether farmers were saving money with biodiesel instead 
of buying diesel. !ey also evaluated whether there was a negative 
carbon emission and if more energy was produced than put into the 
system. 
“!e answer is very positive for all three,” said White. “Right now 
we know that on average the farmers are playing $2.81 a gallon for their 
biodiesel fuel.”
Some of the farmers pay as little as $1.71, and the prices will con-
tinue to drop as more oil is produced. !e equipment, supplied to the 
farmers through SJF grants, has a lifespan of 20 to 30 years and eventu-
ally the cost of the equipment will outweigh money saved. 
Another important "nding was that the biodiesel production pro-
cess is a carbon negative process. If farmers were using regular diesel, 
their carbon debt would be positive. Using the biodiesel, however, each 
farmer uses one ton less carbon per acre. 
“!at is about 60 to 70 percent less carbon than the national mod-
el for biodiesel,” White said. “We’re pretty excited about these results. 
Contrary to economic models, we’re trying to show that small is beau-
tiful and works here in Vermont. We have small farms growing at best 
50 to 60 acre "elds. Economically it’s very feasible.”
With the positive results and the proof that a biodiesel fuel sys-
tem on farms is both feasible and bene"cial, White is now working to 
spread the good news. !e SJF is also cra&ing a series of instructional 
videos for farmers and local schools to educate all about the process 
and how to begin it. !e video library is scheduled to go online next 
spring. Each video will be less than 10 minutes and will feature farmers 
giving basic introductions on how to plant and harvest the new crops. 
!e idea to make a video came in response to the public.
“We are getting an increasing amount of questions and requests 
from people in other parts of the country,” he said, and he believes it is 
only a matter of time before this phenomenon spreads nationally. 
“Other farms in other states have already endeavored to duplicate 
this process,” he said. “Rural communities, no matter the scale, can do 
this. !e main thing is that this is a local production of crops and fuels 
for local use.” 
At this very moment, White and the SJF are looking into other 
more fuels sources to use. !e most exciting, perhaps, is algae. Al-
though a complicated process and still in its experimental phases, 
algae has the potential to be an e$ective biofuel source. It is a rapid 
reproducer and on a given acre of land, either by a green house or on a 
covered pond, algae can produce thousands of gallons of fuel per year. 
Right now, soybean, sun%ower and canola seeds are producing about 
60 to 80 gallons of oil a year. 
!e goal within the next "ve years for the existing biodiesel pro-
cess is to produce a million gallons of oil in Vermont in a growing 
season for use and sale through the state. If the algae system becomes 
operational, which could happen in the next decade, it could yield up 
to 40 million gallons a year.
“We’re feeling like the case is being made by the producers out 
there, and we can help them with the start-up costs,” said White. “!e 
economic and environmental case has been made for small scale pro-
duction of energy.”
He will continue to work towards a self-su#cient and sustainable 
Vermont, and every day he “learns at least as much as [he] teaches or 
advocates.” To get involved in the move toward biodiesel and a sus-
tainable world, White urges all to visit http://www.vsjf.org/projects/1/
3 November 2011 7
one in 8,700
 where the personalities of middlebury proper are celebrated
localnews
By Devin MacDonald
Local News Editor
Devin MacDonald
Netaka White is dedicated to making Vermont a sustainable state.
ACoRN to co-host money conference
On !ursday, Nov. 10, from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Addison 
County Relocation Network (ACoRN) will partner with the Addison 
County Economic Development Corporation and the Addison County 
Regional Planning Commission for the "rst Money Conference and 
Entrepreneurs Showcase. Titled “Financing the Working Landscape 
 — Strategies for Matching and Mobilizing Local Capital,” the confer-
ence will be held at the American Legion, located at 49 Wilson Road 
in town. 
“!is is an incredible learning opportunity for anyone interested in 
entrepreneurship and having conversations around how we "nance the 
working landscape,” said Jonathan Corcoran, the president of ACoRN. 
Several sessions across the state and countless e$orts by the Ver-
mont Council of Rural Development determined certain key values 
a$ecting the lives of Vermonters today. Local, rural lands, ideally the 
"elds and the forests, were highlighted as a top priority of the state. 
Echoing these results, a 2008-2009 survey by the Council on the Future 
of Vermont found that 97 percent of Vermonters endorsed the working 
landscape as a key to our future. 
“How do we "nance working landscape in a way that is sustainable 
and that the values we take for granted are sustained for future genera-
tions?” said Corcoran. 
Spurring conversation about how to "nance the working land-
scape is what Corcoran deems his job to be, which is why he is excited 
about the upcoming money conference. It is a chance to educate local 
entrepreneurs about di$erent types of capital. In addition to 20 pan-
elists, including Ken Perine from the National Bank of Middlebury, 
four case studies and an entrepreneur’s showcase, there will be ample 
networking opportunities. !is will allow those involved with food, 
agriculture and forestry in the Champlain Valley to talk to regional 
capital providers. 
Eight individuals were selected for the entrepreneur’s showcase 
and each has three minutes to pitch their own idea.    
“People are going to learn a lot and be exposed to a lot,” said 
Corcoran. “People "nd each other and things happen. We are creat-
ing opportunities in terms of learning and creating connections and 
relationships.” 
!e conference o$ers local entrepreneurs the opportunity to gain 
an in-depth understanding of what capital is and how they can attract 
it into their businesses. Corcoran hopes the day runs smoothly, so his 
local money model can be employed across the state. ACoRN has dealt 
with local food and energy for several years, but the organization is 
only now tacking its third leg — local money. 
“Capital mobilizes energy and change,” said Corcoran. “It has tak-
en us a few years to get here, but I’m excited. I think the timing is good. 
I think people get what we are trying to do.” 
He hopes students will attend the conference, and they can register 
online at http://www.acorn.vt.org for $20. 
“!is is real-life learning, right at your doorstep,” he said. “!is is a 
great opportunity for students to learn a lot quickly, to see the dynamic 
in action.” 
Lunch will be prepared and served by students at the Hannaford 
Career Center and Corcoran promises it will be a “robust meal.” 
He says that this conference will spark what is, according to him, 
“the future of the county,” as the number of big corporate jobs contin-
ues to dwindle and entrepreneurs lay the path for the future.  
“Look at the speakers — an amazing, diverse group of people, fed-
eral agencies and venture capitalists, collected from around the state 
and the New England area,” said Corcoran. “It is going to be fun.” 
By Charlotte Gardiner
Local News Editor
Farm Fresh
by Rachel Porter
Rachel Porter’13 is from Albany, N.Y.
Halloween has never been my favorite 
holiday, but despite past disenchantment, 
this year I was determined to embrace it. 
So I began Halloweekend 2011 with a trip 
to the Weybridge Gardens’ Haunted Corn 
Maze.
Located 15 minutes from campus, 
Weybridge Gardens is home to Addison 
County’s only corn maze and true to their 
mission statement they have success-
fully provided “seasonal outdoor family-
oriented entertainment” for the last four 
years. !e Haunted Corn Maze represents 
only one branch of the many opportuni-
ties at the gardens. Visitors can also enjoy 
hayrides and pumpkin throwing. A farm 
stand is close at hand to provide patrons 
with a wide selection of pumpkins and 
homemade treats.
Co-owner of Weybridge Gardens, 
Kris Bowdish, said that she enjoys creating 
the corn maze each year because “people 
love having something to do in Addison 
County,” and she admits that Hallow-
een has always been her favorite holiday. 
Maintaining the corn maze, though, is 
not simply for pleasure; it also reaps sub-
stantial economic bene"ts. Bowdish pur-
sues her passion for harvesting by plant-
ing a variety of pumpkins and squashes 
each year; however, vegetable sales alone 
would not be enough to keep the Gardens 
open. Bowdish said it is the corn maze that 
“makes it possible to fund the growing of 
the vegetables.”
Corn mazes are found on farms 
across the country. Many open in an ef-
fort to draw people to a farm and create 
a source of income, less dependent on the 
whim of Mother Nature. As Hurricane 
Irene showed us, crops can be destroyed in 
the blink of an eye, leaving farmers with an 
unrecoverable loss and ending the growing 
season without breaking even. According 
to an article published in Delta Farm Press, 
corn mazes are merely the latest manifes-
tation of a method farmers have been rely-
ing on for generations — re-invention.
Randy Hardin, owner of Hardin 
Farms in Grady, Ark. said “re-invention” 
has kept his family farm alive for over 100 
years. 
“We were losing money in conven-
tional farming and looking for alternatives 
in 1989 when the idea for the pumpkin 
patch was conceived,” he said. 
Pumpkin patches, corn mazes, haunt-
ed hayrides and pumpkin trebuchets all 
are e$orts to draw tourists to the farm, 
generate revenue and in turn educate peo-
ple about the ins and outs of modern day 
farming.
Simply put, it is business well-execut-
ed and a tribute to an industry that is o&en 
unrecognized for its ingenuity. 
!ere is a lesson to be had in my trip 
to the corn maze. Yes, I should have worn 
taller boots (they weren’t kidding about 
the mud!) and perhaps I should have 
screamed a little less when the 8-year-old 
dressed as Frankenstein jumped around 
the corner, but still there is something 
more important. !e corn maze represents 
a farmer’s attempt to use his resources to 
their fullest capacity. Farmers don’t give 
up when the going gets tough. Instead, 
they get creative. Farmers depend on the 
earth to make ends meet, but there is not 
one of us alive who does not depend on 
this planet equally as much. So, I challenge 
you to think like farmers. How can we use 
the resources we have to re-invent our way 
of life? How can we alter our practices to 
make them to more sustainable and cost-
e$ective? We have the tools to create the 
solution; we just need to utilize them. 
Located just 17 miles south of Middlebury in Brandon, Café 
Provence serves up a breath of southern France air. Founded by Chef 
Robert and his wife Line Barral, who hail from the Provence region of 
France, the restaurant re!ects the owners roots through their re"ned 
taste for food. #e restaurant o$ers a great variety of fare to choose from.
Since moving, the Barrals have become invested in Vermont and all 
it has to o$er culturally and gastronomically. #ey make a conscious ef-
fort to use local ingredients and products in their dishes, and participate 
as active members of the Vermont Fresh Network, a network that “devel-
ops solutions for chefs and farmers to market more locally grown food,” 
according to their website. #e network allows the Barrals to collaborate 
with local farms, who sell the restaurant products, such as cheese and 
beef. Spotted Dog Farm and Otter Creek are only a couple of examples 
of farms the restaurant works with, and many other ingredients are lo-
cally based or homemade, such as their maple syrup, Cabot cheese and 
breads. 
French culture permeates the restaurant, from posters decorating 
the walls to signs for the toilets written in le langue Française. #e res-
taurant may be in downtown Brandon, but the atmosphere provides a 
level of sophistication and culture that one does not o%en "nd in rural 
Vermont. 
#e food itself tastes simply outstanding. Signature dishes include 
the tomato pie salad full of pesto, goat cheese, tomatoes and mesclun 
greens, and the egg white frittata, a huge hit at brunch. #e award-
winning “chocolate bombe” never disappoints; its warm gooey center 
and light vanilla ice cream perfectly complement each other, while the 
chocolate and raspberry sauces surrounding it add a delectable bonus. 
Café Provence o$ers a selection of co$ee and teas, and runs a bakery 
next door, which most days sells an even greater variety of tea and co$ee 
along with a selection of pastries. A special gluten-free menu provides a 
number of options for diners who o%en cannot eat out due to the lack of 
non-allergic dishes.
Brightened by the French paintings and signs, Café Provence very 
much remains a Brandon cornerstone, where many families come to 
eat for lunch, brunch and dinner. Diners can sit inside at window tables 
looking out on to the street below, or at a lovely bar, while another room 
of booths has a quieter, more intimate feel. It’s a lovely spot to have a 
tranquil and relaxing meal with good company. 
College students, whether they are enthusiastic about eating gour-
met provincial fare, enthusiastic to support the local dinging businesses 
and by default local farmers of Vermont, hoping to impress their visiting 
parents or simply itching to get o$ campus and out of Middlebury for the 
night, should dine out at Café Provence. #e restaurant is open every day 
of the week except Monday, and it is certainly worth the trip on a beauti-
ful Saturday or Sunday morning. #e Café hopes to see many students 
in the near future.   
Although the days are getting shorter and colder and all of the 
leaves are falling o$ the trees, there is still a glimmer of hope — the 
ski season is almost here. One of the best parts about the ski season at 
Middlebury is that the College has its own ski slope at the Snow Bowl.
#is year the Snow Bowl is enacting a new policy that will make 
skiers and snowboarders alike happy. #ere is now going to be “bound-
ary to boundary access.”
“Not only will skiers and riders have access to our usual 125 acres 
of trails and designated glades,” said manager of the Snow Bowl, Peter 
Mackey. “We’re also opening up access to all the woods within our 
boundaries.”
This means that there is now going to be over 500 acres of wood-
ed terrain to shred this winter.
“As we’ve added glades to the trail map, and people used those 
areas, they ended up going o$ the trail map,” said Mackey, explaining 
the reasoning behind the change.
#e new wooded area is di$erent than the glades that people are 
used to skiing. #e Snow Bowl trims trees in the glades while these new 
wooded areas are just that — wooded with no clean up by the manag-
ers at the Bowl. 
Even though skiers and riders now have access to these previously 
excluded areas, it is important to keep safety in mind, especially since 
they are not patrolled the way the slopes are.
“Don’t go in alone or a%er 3 o’clock,” said Mackey. “And don’t go in 
if you’re a beginner.”
Fortunately there will be signs posted, warning people of the con-
ditions before they descend into these wooded areas.
Another thing to keep in mind is that access to these areas is “very 
snow dependent,” said Mackey.
Lucky for Middlebury, this winter is supposed to be another snow-
heavy one. Although not as intense as last winter, there is a projected 
above average snowfall this year.
No excuses for not going to the Bowl this year, especially during 
Winter Term when the Ski Bum races start every Friday at 1 p.m., fol-
lowed by an après ski party at the base of the mountain.
As an extra incentive to get outdoors, the Snow Bowl is carbon 
neutral and even o$sets the carbon its patrons spend traveling there.
#is is not a new stance — the Bowl has been carbon neutral for 
six years — but it is a relatively unknown fact and still impressive.
“We were the "rst area in the whole country to o$set our carbon 
output in such a serious way,” said Mackey.
Most areas do o$set their carbon output, which for ski slopes are 
inherently heavy, but are not yet carbon neutral.
#e Bowl has e&cient lighting, low-!ow toilets and special com-
pressors that conserve energy and water. To o$set the rest of the carbon 
output, the Bowl buys credits from a company in Charlotte, Vt. that 
invests in green projects, such as wind farms.
One of the best aspects is that “we’ve never factored money [for 
our carbon o$sets] in the price of the ticket,” said Mackey.
So, when the snow really begins to pile up, tune those skis or board 
and get ready for this winter. Enjoy it at the Bowl, guilt-free of carbon 
output.
 localnews 
local
lowdownBy Molly Talbert
Staff Writer
By Becca Coleman
Staff Writer
8 3 November 
!e “chocolate bombe” and egg white frittata are favorite dishes, especially for College students enjoying a Sunday brunch with friends. 
Becca Coleman
With 375 new acres of wooded terrain for skiers and boarders, Snow Bowl manger Peter Mackey is excited for the mountain to open. 
 Molly Talbert
250th birthday party 
Nov. 4, 5 p.m. – 7 p.m.
#e Town Hall #eater is hosting a party 
for Middlebury’s 250th birthday! Enter-
tainment and refreshments will be avail-
able. #e event is hosted by the National 
Bank of Middlebury President Ken Perine 
and Jan Albers, a Vermont historian and 
author. #e event will end with a "fe and 
drum parade leading to the Cross Street 
Bridge to watch "reworks. #e festivities 
are free of charge. For more information 
please visit http://www.townhalltheater.
org/THTcalendar.html.
Ripton community coffee 
house
Nov. 5, 7:30 p.m. 
Join others at the Ripton Community 
House, located on Route 125, for music 
and drinks. Phil Henry’s acoustic trio will 
perform, in addition to other featured 
performers. Open mic does begin at 
7:30 p.m., but it is best to call ahead and 
reserve a time slot. Admission is $9 for 
adults, $6 for seniors and teens and $3 for 
children. While the community house is 
wheelchair accessible, the bathrooms do 
not accommodate these chairs. For more 
information, call Andrea Chesman or 
Richard Ruane at 802-388-9782, or Beth 
Duqette at 802-453-520. 
Yoga and meditation
Nov. 6, 4 p.m. – 6 p.m.
Come down to Otter Creek Yoga in the 
Marbleworks for Middlebury’s monthly 
yoga and meditation session. A reading of 
the "ve Mindfulness Trainings of #ich 
Nhat Hanh will take place, and all levels 
are welcome. Please bring a donation, and 
call 802-388-1961 with questions.
Snow Bowl prepares for season opener
“Westward Ho” history 
talk
Nov. 8, 12 p.m. – 1 p.m..
During the time of America’s westward 
expansion, Vermont countrymen travel-
ing West wrote letters back home to their 
loved ones. Susan Peden of the Henry 
Sheldon Museum will read these long-
preserved letters aloud. Bring a lunch, $2 
entrance fee and enjoy free desserts. For 
more information call 802-388-2117.
Let Them Play 5 and 10K 
Nov. 6, 8:30 a.m. – 12 p.m.
Head to the New Haven Town Hall and 
Beeman Elementary School to go for a 
run and support a good cause. #e race 
starts at 10 a.m. and loops in and around 
New Haven. All proceeds from the event 
will help pay for repairs needed on several 
of the the town’s playing "elds. #ere will 
be prizes awarded a%er the race, so come 
out and compete! For more information 
or for entry forms please call 802-453-
7670 or email Scott Reiss at scott_reiss@
hotmail.com.
Murder mystery comedy 
dinner 
Nov. 5, 6 p.m. – 8 p.m.
Rutland’s South Station Restaurant will 
be transformed when the Brandon Town 
Players perform their "%h murder mys-
tery comedy dinner event, titled “Murder 
on the High Seas.” Dinner at 6 p.m., with 
the show following suite, will be o$ered to 
all for $35 a person. All are encouraged to 
wear “cruise wear” and call 802-345-3033 
to reserve a seat.
Brandon’s Café Provence satis!es all
This campus’ showing of solidarity with Occupy 
Wall Street, Boston, New York, Washington, D.C., 
Cleveland, Oakland and Sacramento has lifted my 
spirits in recent weeks. The potential importance of 
young people realizing the extent to which their privi-
lege is a rare by-product of an exploitative system is 
not lost on me. This frustration has immense poten-
tial to bring about change on elite campuses such as 
ours; its rightful place lies, I believe, in opposition to 
the current state of our endowment. 
Because just as the Occupy protestors have been 
duped for decades into working within a system that 
does not work for them, just as they have no idea 
where their hard-earned tax dollars have gone if not 
to their own health care, em-
ployment and retirement, we 
have not a clue where our en-
dowment is or is going. We 
hear about it constantly; we 
lamented the crushing blow it 
received in 2008 with the col-
lapse of Lehman Brothers and 
we benefit from it every day (all 
Middlebury students receive 
a scholarship on the order of 
$26,000 to compensate for costs 
uncovered by our tuition). But 
we have not a clue where or 
with whom it is invested. 
Which leads me to worry 
as to the infinite number of 
wrongful acts our endowment 
could be committing, every 
second. Cluster bombs, rare 
earth metal mining, oil drilling in war zones, Ama-
zonian clear-cutting, palm oil production, mountain 
top removal mining and sweatshop labor all come to 
mind as profitable activities that run contrary to our 
environmental commitment and community ethic. 
We can be the most educated, worldly, refined 
individuals, but we are nothing if that sophistication 
comes at the price of environmental destruction and 
human rights violations in communities that are not 
our own. We can go on to devote our lives to posi-
tive change in civil society, government and the pri-
vate sector, but that work is nothing if it is the prod-
uct of investment in corporations and governments 
committed to the opposite. We can champion ideals 
of justice, equality, and inclusion but they are empty 
gestures if every day we endorse entities for whom it 
is profitable to perpetuate injustice, inequality and 
exclusion. 
We need greater transparency. We need a com-
munity-wide conversation on what ethical and sus-
tainable investing means to us and we need to invest 
our endowment with a manager that is responsive 
to an evolving list of limitations and guidelines. But 
more than anything, we need a campus-wide move-
ment focused on the long-term issues of investing the 
endowment. 
For a long time, there has been a small, scrappy, 
invested (no pun intended) group of students work-
ing on improving our state of affairs (the Advisory 
Committee on Socially Responsible Investment). And 
it is precisely the group’s small size that has allowed 
the administration to essentially get away with inac-
tion.  
On May 18, 2010, as stu-
dents were packing up and 
heading out for the summer, 
Old Chapel, in partnership 
with the Rockefeller Brothers 
Fund and Dickinson College, 
announced the Sustainable 
Investments Initiative: “a co-
mingled fiscal vehicle seek-
ing investments that generate 
long-term social, environmen-
tal and economic value.” The 
College invested $4 million 
(approximately 0.5% of the 
endowment) alongside RBF’s 
$35 – 70 million. 
Currently, only the ACSRI 
has any information as to the 
whereabouts of money invest-
ed to-date — every month, they receive information 
regarding the top ten holdings of the already allocated 
$2.5 million. They have no authority to contest in-
vestment choices made by Investure (the manager), 
no right to share the holding information, nor are 
they privy to the details of Investure’s sustainable in-
vesting criteria or screens. 
We need a full-fledged movement so that this 
type of inaction marketed as action is no longer pos-
sible. If we’re serious about our values as individuals 
and a community; if we truly are committed to posi-
tive social change, it’s time we put our money where 
our mouth is.  
Want to find out more about the Socially Respon-
sible Investing Club? Contact bchute@middlebury.edu. 
campus policies and information
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus provide a forum for constructive and respectful dialogue on substantive issues. With 
this in mind, The Campus reserves the right to deny publication of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This includes, but is not 
limited to: the making of assertions based on hearsay; the relation of private conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable events; 
the use of vulgar language or personal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article that contains any of the aforementioned will be re-
moved before publication. Contributors will be allowed to reference prior articles published in the Opinions section or announcements 
for the public record. If a reference is made to prior articles, the submission will be considered a letter to the editor.  The Campus will 
not accept or print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, 
editorial comics and other commentary, are views of the individual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Submit works 
directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To 
be considered for publications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all submissions.
opinions 9
The Middlebury Campus
The Middlebury Campus
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the student newspaper of Middlebury 
College, is published by The Middlebury Campus Publications. Publication is 
every Thursday of the academic year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and business offices are located in Hep-
burn Hall Annex, Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is produced 
on Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by 
the Press Republican in New York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middlebury, 
Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribution con-
cerns to the Business Director. First class postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753. 
 3 November 2011
Editorial
The staff editorial represents the official opinion of 
The Middlebury Campus as decided by the editorial board.
Rhiya Trivedi ’12.5 is from 
Ontario, Canada.
The Id and the Eco: Rhiya Trivedi
Follow the money
he iddleb ry a p s
Managing Editor
Dana Walters
Editor-in-Chief
Kara Shurmantine
Business Manager
Ethan Schmertzler
  News Editors
Jess Berry
Kyle Finck
Adam Schaffer
  Local News Editors
Kaylen Baker
Charlotte Gardiner
Devin McDonald
  Opinions Editors
Kevin Carpenter
Isabel Shaw
Ian Trombulak
  
Features Editors
Cedar Attanasio
Shannon Fiedler
Allison Forrest
  Arts Editors
Santiago Azpurua-Borras
Deirdre Sackett
Emily Scarisbrick
  Sports Editors
Alex Edel
Dillon Hupp
Katie Siegner
Damon Hatheway
Photos Editors   
Anna Clements
Paul Gerard
Andrew Podrygula
Jiayi Shu
  Online Editors
Hannah Bristol
Kaireth Kim
Sarah Pfander
Ian Thomas
Design Editor   
Ian Stewart
Social Media Editor
Emily Pinto
This past Monday, the world population hit 
seven billion. Seven billion. That is an awesome 
number in every meaning of the word. It is in-
credible to contemplate the human ingenuity 
and technological advances that have allowed 
us to reach this milestone. And yet, it is even 
more terrifying to consider the consequences 
of this growth. Headlines from The New York 
Times, the BBC, Washington Post, and CNN 
throw out words like discomforting, troubling,  
 serious worry and resource watch.  
 Though it can be difficult to envision the mounting pressures of 
population in the midst of Middlebury, Vermont, conversations about the 
earth’s carrying capacity are being conducted with increasing levels of anxiety. 
And some project that within 90 years we’ll hit the 10 billion benchmark — 
that’s 50 percent more people than existed at the turn of the century compet-
ing for the same real estate.     
No matter what your beliefs are about the environment, we can all agree 
on this: the world in which we live is crowded and getting more so everyday. 
This is a reality of our generation. And it is in the spirit of this challenge that 
we have decided once again to devote our pages to the impressive green initia-
tives that are taking place across this campus. 
We understand that despite all its immense good, Middlebury’s brand of 
environmentalism can sometimes be intimidating or even overwhelming to 
the point of off-putting. What we hope to accomplish here is just to provide 
an opportunity to discuss these issues, and for those interested, to serve as a 
resource outlining what we can do as both individuals and as a student body. 
In line with Middlebury’s long-standing commitment to environmental 
study and policy, the College continues to promote and support green initia-
tives on all scales. Each year the opportunities for hands-on learning expands, 
preparing interested students for a changing global job market. In our news 
section, you’ll find articles covering a whole range of environmentally-mind-
ed projects, from the installment of the Solar Decathlon house to the College’s 
stated commitment of funds to new initiatives and future plans for the use of 
passive solar in campus buildings.  
And beyond the institutional framework of the College, there are count-
less examples of student organizations and grassroots efforts working to the 
same end — look for an article about a student’s efforts to create a new bike 
room or just show up at an SNG meeting this weekend. 
With all of this activity, we at the Campus wanted to do our part to rec-
ognize the College’s collective sustainability goals. So, beyond committing the 
majority of our content to green issues, this morning at 6:30 a.m. our staff 
delivered all copies around campus on foot. 
For those of you concerned with the somewhat inherent hypocrisy of a 
print paper devoting an issue’s content to the people working to reduce both 
individual and collective carbon footprints, let us just say: we are with you. 
Every year this dilemma is a point of serious debate. But as a college publica-
tion — one of the only forms of reporting left that has a larger print follow-
ing than online audience — we thought it would be a disservice to both our 
writers and readers to limit the discussions on such an important topic. In 
this effort, we ask for your help. When you’re finished with this copy, please 
partake in a bit of communal recycling and leave it for the next person. In do-
ing so, you’ll be a part of a larger community that believes a little bit can go a 
long way and that, when it comes to the environment, it can be as effortless as 
a simple show of respect.   
  Online Manager
Lea Calderon-Guthe
More than 
anything, we 
need a campus-
wide movement 
focused on the 
long-term issues 
of investing the 
endowment.
To the editor:
The community of Hancock wishes to thank 
Middlebury College and the many athletic teams 
and individual volunteers who came so readily to 
the aid of our townspeople in the wake of Tropical 
Storm Irene. Your energetic and cheerful help in 
cleaning up flooded and damaged homes not only 
made our lives more livable in an immediate and 
practical sense, but it also boosted morale in a way 
that is difficult to measure: you reminded us that 
help isn’t far off when there are caring neighbors 
— even those whom we have never met and who 
live a mountain pass away (with detours, no less). 
We will appreciate and remember this, both think-
ing back and going forward.
The teams who made their way over the back roads 
of Middlebury Mountain to assist in the Hancock 
recovery included field hockey, volley
ball, football and softball players, in addition to 
men’s crew and an “OINK trip” (an outdoor ori-
entation trip for new first-year students). We are 
grateful to each of you. Finally, our thanks go to 
Tiffany Nourse Sargent, Director of Civic Engage-
ment, and the student coordinators who organized 
volunteer efforts. Your teamwork was an inspira-
tion to us all.
Leslie Blair, writing on behalf of the Han-
cock Emergency Management Team, is from 
Hancock, Vt. 
Letter to the Editor: Leslie Blair
Gratitude from the town of Hancock
middl
ebury
campu
s.com
It does not bode well for Obama’s reelec-
tion in 2012 that the percentage of unemploy-
ment in America, and not his poll numbers, 
remains persistently high. The advent of the 
Tea Party and the Occupy Wall Street move-
ments, which respectively reject politics and 
capitalism as usual, reveal an absence of the 
hope and change that Obama promised in his 
presidential campaign. In an attempt to recap-
ture the “Yes We Can” mentality, Obama has 
administered a hefty dose of liberal ideology 
into his economic projects, to the detriment of 
America’s road to recovery.  
The clean-energy agenda has proven to be 
as unsuccessful of a job creator as his stimulus 
package, which failed to produce the shovel-
ready jobs that domi-
nated Obama’s rhetoric 
at the beginning of his 
term. Obama contin-
ues to waste taxpayer 
money in order to fulfill 
his grand ambition to 
create five million green 
jobs in 10 years. The 
most glaring example 
of his administration’s 
mismanagement of tax-
payer money is the on-
going Solyndra scandal. 
Obama’s Recovery Act 
included a $535 million 
loan guarantee to the 
solar panel producer. 
Just over a year after 
the loan was approved, 
Solyndra filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy pro-
tection and laid off more than 1000 employ-
ees. Despite concerns for the fiscal solvency of 
the company, the Obama administration hur-
ried the analysis of the company’s financials in 
order to provide a photo op for Obama’s green 
agenda last year. Solyndra, touted as an exam-
ple of America’s future competitive advantage 
in clean energy, has fanned the flames of Re-
publican criticism that Obama’s liberal agenda 
only jeopardizes America’s economic recovery.
In a free-market economy, private inves-
tors should be able to choose the winners and 
losers. However, the Department of Energy 
and the Obama Administration have attempt-
ed, and failed, to take on the role of venture 
capitalists. The bankruptcy of Solyndra is just 
one example of numerous green projects that 
have failed, despite hefty government hand-
outs. For instance, Evergreen Solar Inc. has also 
filed for bankruptcy and moved production to 
China after receiving $5.3 million of stimulus 
funds. This pattern of big government’s inabil-
ity to choose profitable companies indicates 
that green jobs will not be the answer for the 
millions of unemployed Americans.
During his visit to Solyndra, Obama 
boasted that the future was here and that 
America was poised to transform the way peo-
ple power their homes, cars and businesses. 
However, Obama’s attempt to innovate the 
American economy and create jobs by pro-
moting clean energy 
has exposed that a gov-
ernment-led effort to 
create green jobs only 
results in a red econo-
my. Need another ex-
ample? The Spanish ad-
ministration admitted 
that its effort to create 
green jobs substantially 
increased electricity 
prices and exacerbated 
the country’s debt be-
cause of the additional 
cost of solar and wind 
energy. A further study 
concluded that every 
green job created in 
Spain was followed by 
the loss of 2.2 private 
sector jobs. Similarly in the United States, 
Obama’s clean energy agenda has miserably 
failed in creating job growth. A staggering sta-
tistic by the Energy Department exposed that 
each permanent green job created at the now-
bankrupt Solyndra cost the American taxpay-
ers $5.5 million. In comparison, the average 
American earns less than $50,000 a year. But 
as the 2012 election approaches, Obama will 
most likely proceed with his green job mani-
festo in order to appease his liberal base, de-
spite its utter lack of success.
9 campusopinions10 3 November 2011
Obama 
continues to 
waste money 
in order to 
fulfull his 
grand ambition 
to create five 
million green 
jobs in 10 years.
Elephant in the Room: Katie Earle
The green jobs scam
Katie Earle ’12 is from 
Bedminster, N.J.
We’re all aware, sometimes painfully so, that Middlebury 
College was founded on a hillside. I’m a Southerner; where I’m 
from we live below sea-level, so I’m always intrigued by why 
people build towns and cities so high up. Middlebury has defi-
nitely been a strange change of pace for me — in ways that I’ll 
talk about another time — but, I’ve learned how to make sense 
of the College.
I interpret Middlebury as someone might a poem. To me, 
Middlebury’s values and culture are reflected in the local en-
vironment. In my experience, our Environments do greatly 
inform who we are. So, when it comes to Middlebury, finding 
these parallels between the school and the natural world makes 
certain invisible, subtle contradictions visible.
I frame the school this way to understand the Institution 
into which I’ve been initiated. With that awareness, it’s easier 
for me to subvert and navigate the College. 
Our college rests on top of beautiful, rolling hills. The hills 
suggest an immutable and stable quality; they cannot be swept 
away and change takes place slowly — often in indistinguish-
able ways. Middlebury College is in harmony with this setting. 
Reflected in “Strength of the Hills” is the school’s unwavering 
dedication to its core values of Knowledge and Virtue. Appro-
priately, the Hills’ elevation and isolation also affords us vision, 
presence, contemplation and authority. 
This is clearly a school that trains leaders. There are other 
parallels that you can find here with little effort, but the impor-
tant idea I’ve gotten from thinking about Middlebury’s envi-
ronment is this: If we are going to be effective leaders we have 
to think about how we use space; if we’re going to be an open, 
accessible and diverse college we should also think of the ways 
all environments including Middlebury’s constructs an envi-
ronment of elitism, ableism and sterility of thought.
For example, the same hills the College began on disqualify 
participation by people with mobility impairments (along with 
a slew of other ways); the bias towards “able-bodied” people, in 
this case those capable of physically walking around campus, 
while not overtly discriminatory is nonetheless one of many 
segretory cultural “norms” on our campus. Let me be clear: my 
intent is not to blame anyone, but to make people aware of this 
bias.
Now, in light of this bias, how can we as international citi-
zens and the next generation of leaders make our home more 
accessible?
Another contradiction becomes evident to me when I 
look at these hills, this time the clash between Middlebury’s 
push for Diversity and the Eurocentricity inherent to the in-
stitution. Middlebury is indeed a multi-cultural place. But the 
school remains largely segregated, academically and culturally. 
See the contradiction?
I argue that the same isolation which gives beauty to the 
school, has created cultures of isolation and silence and the 
most pressing — and wrong — question is, “Why are all (In-
sert Non-White Label) people sitting together in the cafeteria?” 
Rather than asking this question about other “non-traditional” 
students, if we look at Middlebury geographically as well as 
historically we can explain it to an extent: the school began as 
an institution for religious, European-American/White men. 
Likewise, it was constructed in part because America began as 
an institution of wealthy, patriarchal(and sometimes religious) 
White men. In the process, those who were not White men 
were disenfranchised financially and academically. Most of us 
know that story because it’s our collective history.
 Again, my intent is not to point blame, but to raise aware-
ness of hierarchies and how it causes problems on an institu-
tional level. 
Remember, hills have an immutable, changeless quality but 
that does not mean it has to apply to all aspects of the college. 
I praise (critically) Middlebury College’s attempts to become a 
place suitable to all types of bodies and minds. Nonetheless, I 
remain aware that the College was molded to the “able”-bodies 
of White Men. As the institution grows multicultural, more 
and more people will be forced to compromise between being 
forced to moving in the same way — thus respecting the status 
quo — or to leave the institution. Being forced to shift aspects 
of our personal identity in order to survive, while feasible, is 
very unhealthy. In my experience of it, it’s comparable to being 
forced through a cotton gin. 
So I ask again, how can we make our home more acces-
sible? There is a third option: we counteract within the institu-
tion.
We have the multicultural institution we do now thanks to 
constant subversion of the Patriarchal status quo by students, 
faculty, staff and town residents. But we are not a diverse insti-
tution, not yet. We have not yet asked ourselves what the goal of 
Diversity is. We have not yet asked ourselves if Diversity should 
be the goal of our actions. It surely goes beyond race and it goes 
beyond class. Furthermore, how does one achieve Diversity? 
I think that, as with most things, it comes with self-knowl-
edge and internal communication. On a communal level that 
requires much cross-identity conversation and consciousness. 
And that can only be obtained by subverting the way we use the 
space and environment around us. We have been conditioned 
to isolate spaces and people. We have been conditioned to keep 
certain conversations and acts behind closed doors. 
That is not acceptable for a Diverse institution.
A Diverse community is one where its members under-
stand and respect differences in perception. There is unity 
through difference and similarity. We have potential to achieve 
this, but only if we radically re-imagine interactions between 
academic disciplines, cultures, geographies and so on — and 
that’s actually the easy part.
I was in a writing workshop this weekend. Amy Sultan, a 
writer and one of the facilitators, said this to us: “You guys have 
to gain an understanding of one another. You have to commu-
nicate with one another.” Cross-cultural communication and 
understanding then, is an environmentally sustainable solu-
tion we can pursue because we learn how different bodies en-
gage with the environment. Thus, Communication is one of 
the most revolutionary and politically subversive acts we can 
pursue. 
Be a political dissident.
Diverse Perspectives: Dane Verret
The hills have bias
Dane Verret ’12 is from New Orleans, La.
When I applied to Middlebury, I wanted to 
be a theater major. In high school, I was one of 
those kids: in class until 3:30, then off to sports 
practice (more often than not, doing the prelim-
inary stretching and two laps around the field, 
followed by a couple hours of bench-sitting and 
gossiping), and then three hours of rehearsal for 
whatever the upcoming show was: A Midsum-
mer Night’s Dream, Michael Frayn’s Noises Off 
and cruelly, a two-man show called The Kab-
balistic Psychoanalysis of Adam R. Tzaddik. Upon 
receiving my acceptance letter to Middlebury 
and really digging into the College’s website, it 
seemed there was something happening at the 
tiny school in Vermont that excited me more 
than my forays into the theatrical. Midd Kids 
were starting a movement.
The first person I met from Middlebury 
was May Boeve ’07. The date was April 14, 2007 
and I had dragged my parents and a group of 
friends from high school down to the National 
Mall to participate in an event called Step It Up, 
a nationwide day of action to call attention to 
climate change. Started by seven Middlebury 
students (including May), Step It Up managed 
to cobble together over 1000 actions across the 
country in the largest display of support for 
climate action in the country to date. For me, I 
remember that day less for its political implica-
tions than for the advice May gave me when I 
introduced myself to her at the after-party that 
night (open bar + high school seniors not get-
ting carded = liquid courage): “When you get to 
Midd, go to SNG.”
A little research that summer taught me that 
SNG stood for Sunday Night Group, Middle-
bury’s environmental and social action group. 
So there I was, my first weekend at College, 
cramming into the Grand Salon of Le Chateau 
surrounded by other idealistic and naïve fresh-
men looking to make a difference. For the next 
90 minutes, I saw for the first time what college is 
really all about. Some people were ditching their 
homework to talk about throwing solar panels 
up on a college-owned house. Others were plan-
ning a trip to D.C. to team up with youth activ-
ists across the country to lobby Congress to pass 
a clean energy bill. A few were discussing creat-
ing a focus in the ES major dedicated to envi-
ronmental justice. Still more were talking about 
bikes. Nothing specific, just having a discussion 
about bikes. On the walk back to Battell, I talked 
to a fellow freshman about how stoked we were 
that people were committed to a cause. It didn’t 
matter to us what it was, but just the simple fact 
that they were excited got us excited. That con-
versation turned into my first freshman fling — 
it was a good night overall.
Four years later, I still get inspired every 
Sunday around 10 p.m. when I leave Le Chateau 
with a whole new crop of SNGers. In the mean-
time, I’ve somehow become “old man environ-
ment” at Middlebury. I have stood on top of a 
minivan during a Fourth of July parade scream-
ing through a bullhorn telling people to vote for 
an 11 year-old clean energy candidate for gov-
ernor. I have helped change the words to “The 
Circle of Life” to make it about coal-fired power 
plants and sung it during a flashmob in Atwater 
Dining Hall. I have even starred in a propaganda 
video for the college filmed at sunrise atop Snake 
Mountain, talking about the value of the liberal 
arts to the environmental movement. Through 
it all, I have learned one key thing at Middlebury 
(yes, I am finally getting to my point): Get in-
volved. It’s worth it.
Maybe being a super senior is finally get-
ting to me and I’m just in a sappy mood, but for 
real, take my advice on this one. Last week, Rhiya 
Trivedi wrote in this paper, “There is so much 
work to be done, and none of it is our home-
work.” Well, in my opinion, some of it is our 
homework, but more of it is the other things that 
this place uniquely offers us. I have to find a real 
person job in the next couple months — most 
likely doing something from nine to five and 
who knows if I’ll like it or not. But while you’re 
here, there’s an opportunity to delve into some 
sort of social issue that grinds your gears. For 
me, it was the environment, but don’t let Midd’s 
emphasis on green stuff limit you. Ask the tough 
questions: Why aren’t there more black profes-
sors on campus? Do we give the employees of 
the college a living wage? Why isn’t Frisbee a D1 
sport? Why does Nick Jansen not have an en-
dowed chair?
Maybe you already know this, but if you 
don’t — if you’re a lonely freshman looking 
for something that makes college feel more 
college-y — hopefully this’ll inspire you. If 
not, maybe it’ll get you laid. You never know. 
Ben Wessel ’11.5 is from 
Washington, D.C.
Op-ed: Ben Wessel
What I learned at college
I find few debates more enjoyable or 
more frustrating than the abortion debate. 
I know “enjoyable” seems a strange word to 
apply to such an acrimonious controversy, 
but talking about abortion provides the op-
portunity to intelligently discuss some of the 
most important issues in our lives today — 
whether it’s when life begins, women’s rights, 
religion or the role of morality in public life. 
Unfortunately, there is still no guarantee that 
we will take the chance to engage in mean-
ingful debate. Such tendencies were regretta-
bly on full display in last week’s two op-eds 
about abortion (“The deadly euphemisms of 
Pro-Choice” and “Thoughts concerning H.R. 
358”). I was saddened by the tenor and con-
tent of the two essays. 
In my ethics classes, my professors pound 
home the difference between arguments and 
rhetoric. Arguments are positions fleshed out 
by logical and well-thought-out justifications. 
Rhetoric can be used in the service of argu-
ments, but on its own is simply a lot of shout-
ing and name-calling. 
Both Kenneth and Joanna take issue with 
the labels that people who support and op-
pose legalized abortion employ in their argu-
ments. Kenneth is right that calling oneself 
“pro-choice” makes no sense if one accepts 
that the fetus is a human person. If the fetus 
is more than a potential person or a collection 
of cells, then one can no more choose to ter-
minate the pregnancy than one could choose 
to kill a newborn. On the other hand, Joanna 
is correct that the label “pro-life” often makes 
little sense in the context of both the abortion 
debate and America’s broader political dis-
course. She is right to point out that there is a 
glaring discrepancy between a pro-life stance 
on abortion and what one might call the “an-
ti-life” positions many social conservatives 
have on war, capital punishment, economic 
justice and health care. 
However, the rhetoric both students use 
to justify their positions does more to set back 
the debate than it does to advance it. While 
I am opposed to abortion, I find Kenneth’s 
comparison between abortion and going to 
the tanning salon to be tragically misguided 
and potentially extremely offensive. I have yet 
to meet anyone, even among the most ardent 
supporters of abortion rights, who feels that 
abortion is an easy choice. Many people (in-
cluding our past two Democratic presidents) 
characterize abortion as a tragedy, even if they 
conclude that it is better for it to be legally 
available. Implying that supporters of abor-
tion regard it as of no consequence belittles 
the often-agonizing choices some women 
confront when they face an unwanted preg-
nancy.
And while Joanna’s op-ed bristled with 
righteous indignation, her suggestion that 
men are unable to offer opinions in this de-
bate because they have “no uterine wall to 
speak of” does nothing to advance the debate. 
The implication that all people who oppose 
abortion do it because they lack empathy or 
want to oppress women is both misleading 
and demeaning. While I will not deny that 
some opponents of abortion are motivated 
in part by sexism, many (or most) opponents 
are motivated by their belief that the fetus is 
a full human person from an early point in 
development, and is thus accorded the full 
spectrum of rights given to any other human 
person, including the right not to be killed 
unjustly. Can we have a debate about whether 
the fetus should have all of these rights? Ab-
solutely, and I’d welcome the opportunity to 
have such a conversation. Screaming “Stay out 
of my cervix,” however, fails to adequately ad-
dress the question at hand.
All of this is not to say that we should 
not talk about issues like abortion, same-sex 
marriage, capital punishment and other hot-
button topics. Indeed, our campus would be 
impoverished without these conversations. 
Middlebury offers students the opportunity 
to seriously engage with people who disagree 
with them. By no means should we shy away 
from controversy; indeed, we should embrace 
it. Let us also, however, embrace the concepts 
of humility and civility. 
Always keep in mind that there are people 
who rationally disagree with you, and learn 
to treat their opinions with respect. Are we 
always going to agree? Certainly not, where 
would the fun be in that? What we must un-
derstand as a campus is that you can strongly 
disagree with someone’s opinion, and yet still 
treat them and their arguments with respect. 
The corollary to this, of course, is to offer ar-
guments that are worthy of respect. The more 
true arguments we have, as opposed to unpro-
ductive shouting matches, the better we are as 
a campus.
              campusopinions     3 November 2011  11
Sometime before the end of the year, President Obama 
should approve the Keystone XL project to extend the pipeline 
from the Canadian oil sands to refineries along the Gulf coast 
of the United States. This move will draw condemnation from 
environmental activists, The New York Times, and the protest-
ers — many of whom will come from Middlebury — who 
plan to encircle the White House this upcoming weekend. 
Such a pipeline, they say, would lead to an inevitable defeat 
in the battle against global warming, beckoning in an apoca-
lypse of scorched earth and risings seas. NASA climate scien-
tist James Hansen says that the Keystone XL pipeline will be 
“game over” for climate change.    
That’s more than a little overblown.  
Would the planet and the atmosphere be better off with-
out the additional emissions of carbon dioxide currently 
locked in the sands of Northern Canada? Absolutely — but 
that’s just not realistic; Canada has a huge pool of black gold 
within their national boundaries, and like anyone holding 
onto a valuable resource, they’re going to sell it. For better or 
for worse, the world economy is interconnected, and it runs 
on oil. If the activists and protesters succeed, and Obama does 
not approve the extension of the pipeline, Canada will simply 
load the oil into supertankers and send it across the Pacific, 
where China will happily take it off their hands. If anything, 
this will only heighten the risk of a catastrophic accident, for 
a spill would now be dispersed throughout the ocean, kill-
ing marine life and giving countless photogenic baby seals a 
new coat of oil. Meanwhile, the United States will continue 
consuming oil at ever-higher levels — we’ll just have to buy 
it from Hugo Chavez’s government in Venezuela, or our new 
friends in Libya. Rejecting the Keystone XL pipeline will not 
lower America’s demand for oil by a single barrel. It will just 
restructure the world oil market to require more trips by 
tanker ships through fragile aquatic ecosystems. Proponents 
of “buying local” should understand the appeal of getting our 
oil from Canada instead of the Middle East.  
Many of the complaints about the crude oil that we’d be 
importing from Canada through the new pipeline stem from 
the production process, where — according to analysis by the 
National Energy Technology Lab — the process of extract-
ing usable oil from the tar sands produces three times more 
carbon dioxide equivalents than traditional Canadian crude. 
This sounds bad, but when the entire life cycle — including 
production, transport, refinement and use — is taken into ac-
count, the relative increased emissions decline significantly. 
Most of the carbon emitted by oil consumption doesn’t result 
from production; it comes from the vehicle. The car I cur-
rently drive gets about 24 miles per gallon, which means that 
the total emissions of CO
2
 per gallon amount to about 11.2 
kg. With the oil that the Keystone pipeline carries, this will rise 
16 percent. But as oil becomes more costly to extract, cars will 
use less of it. This year, President Obama — the same Presi-
dent that environmental activists seem intent on labeling a 
“sellout” — announced new fuel efficiency standards that will 
push average fleet efficiency to about 54.5 miles per gallon by 
2025, leading to drops in emissions that more than cancel out 
the increase due to using “dirtier” oil. Under the new stan-
dards, a new car in just over a decade would produce a far 
lower 7.95 kg of CO
2
e per gallon, even with the dirtiest of fuel. 
The activists condemning President Obama for con-
sidering the project ignore some of the most basic realities 
of economics. The benefits to the climate will only accrue 
if nobody uses the oil; that is simply not going to happen. 
Our global addiction to oil will not end because of a devoted 
group of protesters arrested behind the White House; it will 
end when rising prices make other options economically fea-
sible. Last time that gas prices jumped the $4.25 mark, there 
was a sudden surge in interest in alternative fuel and hybrid 
cars. As oil supplies diminish, prices will eventually soar even 
higher, making clean alternatives commercially viable and ec-
onomically necessary. We’ve built a lifestyle and an economy 
that requires quick transportation and access to electricity, 
and I have unshakeable faith that the American people will 
innovate and find substitutes that allow us to maintain that 
lifestyle.  
In the meantime, instead of condemning a President who 
will do far more for the environmental movement than some 
Republican intent on shuttering the “job-killing” EPA, envi-
ronmentalists should be building a case for cap-and-trade and 
for subsidies that lower the price of clean energy substitutes, 
raise the price of carbon emissions and hasten the transition 
away from oil.  
Apply Liberally: Zach Dallmeyer-Drennen
Buy local: build the Keystone XL pipeline
Zach Dallmeyer-Drennen ’13.5 is from 
Canandaigua, N.Y. 
Our global addiction to 
oil will not end because 
of a devoted group of 
protesters arrested 
behind the White House; 
it will end when rising 
prices make other options 
economically feasible.
Op-Ed: Andy Hyatt
Abortion: argument vs. rhetoric
Andy Hyatt ’12 is from Walpole, Mass.
Letter to the Editor: Amy Prescott
Seeking clarification of rights
To the editor:
While I am compelled to commend 
Kenneth Burchfiel ’13 for the audacity to 
express a controversial view in his op-ed 
titled “The deadly euphemisms of Pro-
Choice” that appeared in the Oct. 20 edi-
tion of the Campus, I require clarification 
on one of the “absurd” references that abor-
tion advocates make in regard to a woman’s 
body, namely that “women have the right to 
do what they want with their bodies.”
Mr. Burchfiel correctly stated that 
women have the right to do what they want 
with their bodies “in a tanning booth or hair 
salon,” but I remain confused about how far 
this right extends. Am I, as a woman, al-
lowed to visit the spa for a mani-pedi fol-
lowing some UV exposure and highlights?
And if I were to extend beyond my 
natural rights in some way, could I expect 
instant divine retribution? I would be dev-
astated to ruin my weekend plans by having 
been smote straight to hell after some mis-
guided personal pampering.
I think I speak for every woman on this 
campus, and likely in the broader world, 
in saying that we’d really appreciate a set 
of specific guidelines for what we can and 
can’t do with ourselves.
Thanks very much for any additional 
advice.
Amy Prescott ’12 is from 
Arlington, Va.
In “To Hell With Excuses,” Rhiya 
makes the following statement: “For four 
years, we are immersed in the ideology 
of able-bodied, heterosexual, cisgender, 
English-speaking, white people with U.S. 
citizenship and no criminal background.” 
This assertion, more than any other in a 
piece filled with them, jumped out at me, 
because it so profoundly does not describe 
my experience at Middlebury College. For 
four years, I was immersed in the ideolo-
gies (plural) of Hobbes, Locke, Plato, Ar-
istotle, Nietzsche, Kant, Hannah Arendt, 
Machiavelli, Hegel, Audre Lorde, Carl 
Schmidt, Cornel West and many others. I 
sought to understand these writers as they 
understood themselves, and my pursuit 
of knowledge was in no way passive. The 
beauty of a liberal arts education is that we 
are given one brief, shining opportunity to 
think profoundly and actively about im-
portant ideas. We are given the freedom 
to pursue knowledge for its own sake, to 
form our own ideas about human nature 
through the study of the great ideas of 
others. We’re also given the chance to be 
humble, to recognize that there are things 
we don’t know or can’t understand except 
through reading and studying the experi-
ences of others.
Rhiya’s drive and motivation are ad-
mirable, but it would be a mistake to em-
brace her call for immediate action as the 
only good or true path. The contemplative 
life (particularly one that, for many, exists 
in its purest form for only four years) is 
not inherently inactive or worthless; in 
fact, some of my most electrifying and re-
warding moments as a student occurred 
when I reread a certain passage for the 
third time and finally got it, or figured out 
the perfect way to phrase an idea in a paper 
I was writing. And I’m not convinced that 
there’s anything wrong with that. Progress 
and change are often laudable, but it is un-
fair and, I think, unwise, to rob students 
of the opportunity to learn for the sake of 
learning, to appreciate that understanding 
how things are or how the world works 
may have a value that goes beyond prac-
tical application. So, to those of you who 
may not feel ready to take on the Board 
of Trustees, the Vermont House of Repre-
sentatives or the United States Congress: 
it’s okay. Take some time to “just” do your 
homework — it won’t be time wasted.
Op-Ed: Maggie Moslander 
“Just” do your homework
Maggie Moslander ’11 is from 
New York, N.Y.
Dear organizers of TEDxMiddlebury,
We noticed that you’ve invited Lt. Dan Choi — a West 
Point graduate discharged from the U.S. military for vio-
lation of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” and who was repeatedly 
arrested in front of the White House protesting the policy 
— to your conference this Saturday around the theme “Em-
bracing Risk.” We must confess that we find your invitation 
of Choi disappointing.
You mention on your website that after he was dis-
charged, Choi “wrote a letter to the Senate Majority Leader 
[Harry Reid], relinquishing his West Point class ring.” But 
did you know that just a few months later, in an interview 
with the Village Voice, he had a bit more to say about Reid? 
Angry that Reid had failed in shepherding DADT repeal 
through the Senate, Choi said, “Harry Reid is a p*ssy, and 
he’ll be bleeding once a month.”
Simply put, we find this statement to be disturbingly 
misogynistic. Furthermore, we do not think it is an isolated 
remark from an otherwise unproblematic individual, but 
rather emblematic of the violent, hegemonic masculin-
ity upon which the U.S. military is founded — the same 
masculinity at the heart of the the military’s pervasive ho-
mophobia, tolerance of sexual assault and transmisogynis-
tic practice of court-martialing transfeminine soldiers for 
“cross-dressing.”
After defensively arguing that he was a “pro-choice, 
pro-ERA” feminist and thus couldn’t possibly have been mi-
sogynistic, Choi eventually stated, “I apologize for using the 
slur and resolve to educate others in any capacity I’m afford-
ed in the future.” Now that you’ve provided him a venue in 
which to speak, will he use it this weekend to educate those 
in attendance on the harm caused by the military’s unre-
lenting hatred of femininity? Or the ways in which the mili-
tary benefits from institutionalized racism? Or how the war 
in Iraq has been part of an ongoing imperialist conquest for 
resources like, say, oil? No — we rather fear and expect Choi 
will instead talk about how he “embrac[ed] risk” by coming 
out while still a soldier or by engaging in civil disobedience.
After all, why would Choi critique war or the military? 
He’s in the business, and loves it: in a debate with queer 
anti-war activist Mattilda Bernstein Sycamore on Democ-
racy Now, Choi said, “... war is a force that gives us meaning. 
War is a force that teaches us lessons of humanity and al-
lows us to realize something about our society and teaches 
us the lessons that we probably should have learned before 
we went to war.” And it was at the National Equality March 
that he proclaimed, “We love our country, even when our 
country refuses to acknowledge our love. But we continue to 
defend it ... because love is worth it.” In fact, war has helped 
Choi personally, in terms of coming out: “many times I 
would spend alone in Iraq ... I would be very contemplative 
... I could have died at any moment in the area that I was, in 
the Triangle of Death. Why should I be afraid of the truth of 
who I am?” His main concern seems to have been, “If I die in 
Afghanistan or Iraq, then would my boyfriend be notified?”
To quote Bernstein Sycamore’s succinct response: 
Choi’s “rhetoric...asks us to believe that the vicious wars 
of U.S. imperialism are for ‘love’ ... How many Iraqis died 
in order for him to express the ‘truth of who I am?’ What 
about the truth of the war? ... He’s not worried about dying 
in an atrocious war, or killing innocent civilians, but about 
whether his boyfriend will be notified.”
On your website, you describe DADT as an “immor-
al policy.” Is there anything else associated with Choi and 
the military you might describe with that adjective? Or is 
it that because he is associated with the fight for ‘equality,’ 
everything else he gladly represents can go unquestioned? It 
would seem that the words of journalist Yasmin Nair hold 
true at Middlebury: “Identity — and its efflorescence under 
a neoliberal war — becomes the excuse for war and it erases 
the possibility of a critique of Choi’s ideology.”
With all this in mind, what was your reasoning be-
hind paying Choi to speak here? What are his “ideas worth 
spreading?” Or perhaps we should ask both of you and our 
larger community this broader question from Tamara Nop-
per’s essay in the new anthology “Against Equality: Don’t 
Ask to Fight Their Wars”: “Why is it that the straight pro-
gressives are more willing to have gays and lesbians serve 
in the U.S. military (or get married) than ... seriously con-
sidering the political views of LGBT folks who take radical 
political stances against the military state?”
Unfortunately, we’d argue Bernstein Sycamore has al-
ready articulated the answer to that: this is “the nightmare 
of assimilation we’re living in — add ‘gay’ to any reactionary 
goal, and the liberals will jump on the bandwagon, but the 
founding values of gay liberation — fighting police brutal-
ity, challenging U.S. imperialism, ending oppressive institu-
tions like marriage and the military and organized religion 
and creating personal autonomy for sexual merrymaking 
outside of conventional norms — nope, we rarely hear any-
thing about those queer values.”
Perhaps at next year’s TEDxMiddlebury, we could?
With appreciation for all your hard work,
Members of the People’s Gender Council of Middlebury
Last weekend I overdrank and shamefully hurt a close 
friend. Does this behavior sound familiar to anyone? At age 23 
one would think I would have learned some drinking etiquette. 
Obviously I’m still learning. The difficulty with over-consump-
tion of alcohol is that it undermines decision-making control. 
This creates a slippery slope in which party momentum can 
quickly intensify and accelerate further binge-drinking, leaving 
rationality in its distant wake. Letting go of this control can be 
both thrilling and incredibly dangerous. 
College campuses across the U.S. have identified this type 
of behavior as a primary health concern. The recent formation 
of the alcohol abuse task force at Middlebury fits the national 
trend to address why episodic binge drinking occurs in order 
to tackle its problematic consequences. I interviewed Psychol-
ogy Professor Carlos Velez-Blasini about some of the negative 
consequences of binge drinking to get a feel for what the types of 
issues the newly formed task force will likely deal with. 
I first asked Professor Velez-Blasini about how the term 
“binge drinking” would likely be defined, he remarked, “binge 
drinking measures are not subjective things, people are not just 
coming up with arbitrary values to delineate where the problem 
is.” Binge drinking is defined by the federal center for disease 
control (CDC) — five for men and four for women in two hours. 
Professor Velez-Blasini clarified how episodic binge-drinking 
definitions have been established; “They are based on previous 
evidence and aim to determine when students start drinking, at 
what point do negative consequences arise. These definitions are 
crude, but fairly good measures of where, along the spectrum 
of intoxication, serious problems initiate. They have been used 
very widely for a long time in many different places.” 
Professor Velez-Blasini pointed out that several Middlebury 
students have conducted independent research on the relation-
ship between alcohol use and decision-making in sexual be-
havior. “We have tried to understand how alcohol explains the 
decisions students make in the context of risky sex. What we 
have found, as is usually the case, your behavior is complex and 
demands a multifaceted explanation involving many different 
personality factors, many of which are social, genetic and cul-
tural. Alcohol is just one factor that is important to understand. 
Whether the relationship between sexual behavior and alcohol is 
direct or mediated by expectations and norms remains unclear.” 
To me, the formation of the task force does not intend to imply 
alcohol is the only factor that explains problematic behavior, but 
just that it is undoubtedly involved.  
Despite many efforts to curb episodic binge-drinking cul-
ture to a healthier social environment, behavior will likely con-
tinue to be problematic. Honestly, some of the most fun I have 
had at Middlebury has involved binge drinking in some fashion. 
Also, I have made enormous mistakes, some irreparable, as a 
result of this same behavior. Learning how to drink responsi-
bly takes time, and as the drinking law stands now, few students 
coming from high school to Middlebury enter with adequate 
experience with the issues of alcohol. Professor Velez-Blasini re-
minded me that roughly two-thirds of Middlebury students are 
not allowed to drink in the first place. 
One may wonder how colleges truly expect 18-year old 
students to make responsible decisions about a substance that, 
by law, they should have never encountered before. The college 
has tried to address this problem by requiring an online alco-
hol awareness class as a prerequisite to live in residence halls. 
The problem with this is that many people cannot learn lessons 
about alcohol online or by lecture — it takes time and experi-
ence. For some of us, myself included, it can be a tough learning 
curve, while others either abstain or can easily enjoy healthily.  
I have repeatedly heard general observations describing a 
pervasive attitude among students that “if I work hard I deserve 
to relax and enjoy a drink.” If you agree with this logic, does 
it also make sense that if I work excessively hard I should de-
serve more relaxation and thus students can rationalize exces-
sive drinking? Perhaps this assumption should be questioned. 
Some students have argued that stress has been associated with 
binge drinking, and as long as Middlebury continues to be an 
academically or socially stressful environment, binge drink-
ing will continue and so will its destructive consequences. This 
opinion is contentious. One could counter that there is in fact 
less stress now among college students than in the past, despite 
an increasing trend of episodic alcohol abuse. Others students 
have suggested that admissions selects for “type A,” students 
who are naturally susceptible to binge-drinking at Middlebury 
in what has been termed a “work hard, play hard” environment. 
This too is debatable. Opponents to this belief point out that 
binge-drinking behavior is not exclusive to elite colleges, but 
that it is ubiquitous throughout nearly all undergraduate college 
cultures in the U.S.    
The real dilemma surrounding this debate is whether the 
benefits of alcohol use on campus are worth the consequences. 
Students, faculty and the administration will naturally have dif-
ferent answers to this question. I’ll be the first to say that drink-
ing can be highly enjoyable; however, the destructive conse-
quences of its abuse are overwhelming. 
In the past few years at Middlebury, binge drinking has re-
sulted in extreme dorm damage, torn friendships, harassment, 
fighting, suspension, sexual assault, hospitalization and even 
death. Clearly the issue demands attention, and forming a task 
force to facilitate discussion is a welcome step in the right direc-
tion. 
campusopinions            12 3 November 2011
Op-Ed: Joey Radu
An open letter to the organizers of TEDxMiddlebury
Op-Ed: Daniel J. F. Powers
The dilemma of episodic binge drinking
Daniel J. F. Powers ’11.5 is from Fairbanks, Alaska.
Submitted in solidarity with members of Af-
rican American Alliance, Feminist Action at 
Middlebury, Middlebury Open Queer Alliance, 
Queer Studies House, Social Justice Coalition, 
Women of Color and faculty members: Tara Af-
folter, Maggie Clinton, Laurie Essig, Roman Graf, 
Sujata Moorti, Mike Olinick, Willian Poulin-Del-
tour, Yumna Siddiqi and Catherine Wright.
The real dilemma 
surrounding this debate 
is whether the benefits 
of alcohol use on 
campus are worth the 
consequences.
The Middlebury Campus
we spent the last 105 years preparing 
for this one.
Since 1905
              advertisements     3 November 2011  13
260 Court Street
Middlebury 
802-388-5400
M-F 9-7 | Sat 9-6 | Sun 9-5
GET IN  
GET CONFIDENT
1-800-SUPERCUTS | www.supercuts.com 
WELCOME MIDDLEBURY
COLLEGE STUDENTS
OPEN NIGHTS & WEEKENDS
SEVEN DAYS A WEEK 
ASK ABOUT OUR COLOR SPECIALS!
 
The Bryant MBA One-Year program is
specifically designed for those with little or no
professional experience.  Graduates in all areas –
arts, sciences, business, engineering and
healthcare – will benefit from earning a Master
of Business Administration (MBA) early on.  
By enrolling in the Bryant One-Year MBA
program you will:
• Gain valuable professional experience
through the Business Practicum.
• Distinguish yourself in a competitive 
job market.
• Build the strategic business and practical
know-how necessary for success in any field.
December Graduates — Apply
Now for Spring 2012 Start
VISIT
www.bryant.edu/MBAone
CALL:
(401) 232-6230
E-MAIL:  
gradprog@bryant.edu
Graduate School of Business
1150 Douglas Pike 
Smithfield, Rhode Island 
www.bryant.edu
TAKE YOUR NEXT
BIG STEP TO
LONG TERM SUCCESS
• •
SWITCH TODAY
We’ll make it easy!
www.Switch2NBM.com
Watching your back.
We’re here for you 24/7. Anytime, anywhere. 
Spend less time waiting in line and more  
time doing what’s real to you. 
Bank Real. Live Real.
real
life
1-877-508-8455
BRA S SB B S
T
he College’s green mentality extends beyond 
the environmental studies classrooms, 
beyond the energetic meetings, protests, 
lectures and conversations that take place on 
campus every day surrounding environmental 
issues. Environmentalism is rooted in the very 
physical structures of this institution: our buildings 
are just about as green as it gets on college campuses.
Facilities Services is the department responsible 
for the planning, construction and maintenance of 
all campus buildings, from the biomass plant to 
the McCullough Student Center to each and every 
student dorm. Director of Facilities Services Norm 
Cushman stressed the importance of environmental 
issues to his department.
“The green mentality is present in everything we 
do,” he said. “There are just so many opportunities 
to save a little here and there and do the right thing 
for the environment, whether it’s stormwater runoff 
or green cleaning or the no-mow zones.”
When constructing a building, the College 
looks to the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) 
as an international leader in green building 
based on a wide range of criteria. The USGBC 
sustainability of the building. Currently, the College 
building on campus, the Franklin 
Environmental Center at Hillcrest.
But Hillcrest is not the only green 
building on campus. According to 
Director of Sustainability Integration Jack Byrne, 
Middlebury adopted its own set of sustainable 
it is today. The guidelines Middlebury developed 
were applied to the construction of new buildings 
such as McCardell Bicentennial Hall, Davis Family 
square feet of new construction. 
“I think its fair to say that all of those buildings 
said Byrne.
More recently, in 2008, Middlebury enacted a 
new set of similar guidelines that are equivalent to 
these guidelines comprise a core set of requirements 
that all new constructions must abide by, as well as 
additional options that are not necessarily required, 
Center was renovated in 2009 under these newest 
internal guidelines. It received additional insulation 
Forest Hall received additional insulation and 
double-paned windows.
With so many green buildings, why aren’t all of 
the application, which is about the size of a Webster 
dictionary, is expensive.
Next on Middlebury’s master plan for green 
replace the current “Bubble,” which Byrne says 
its kind in this climate. The time to develop ideas 
and acquire permits will take anywhere from nine 
months to a year; the funding was only recently 
approved by the board of trustees on Oct. 22.
about how we can do the latest and greatest in 
Administration Tim Spears, who oversees Facilities 
Services. “Whether we can actually do the latest 
and greatest remains to be seen, since the most 
or cost-effective. Still it’s a good opportunity to take 
a look.”
Cushman pointed out how the College’s use of 
cutting-edge green technologies such as the biomass 
plant attracts innovators with ideas for ways in 
which the College could use green technology.
“The more of this experimental technology we 
try — such as biomass, the green roof at Atwater, 
alternative ways to cool at Atwater Hall A and B — 
the more of that you do, the more you become a sort 
of magnet for people who have a better mousetrap,” 
he said. “We have folks who are continually 
contacting us with ideas — people come to us with 
ideas about generating liquid energy from biomass, 
converting residue from meat processors into diesel 
fuel. We’re constantly at the forefront of people 
trying to sell those mousetraps to us.”
for Middlebury include constructing wider, more 
attractive pathways to encourage the pedestrian 
presence on campus and blocking some roads at 
certain times for the same purpose.
It’s not easy being green, but the College been 
building with an environmental conscience for 
it won’t stop any time soon.
the building to your right with the melted rainbow 
and Environmental Design, is an internationally 
Though it is not easy being green, in 2008, Hillcrest 
building in the United States at the time. 
 Originally, it was only an historic 1875 Vermont 
farmhouse. The College renovated and used it 
Then it was remodeled in 2007 as the Franklin 
Environmental Center at Hillcrest. The building 
the Dean of Environmental Affairs and many other 
environmental groups.
Hillcrest looks like any other building on 
However, as I toured around the entire building and 
learned more about it, I was astonished by the work 
that was put into the remodeling. 
Hillcrest has a “Building Dashboard,” a 
touchscreen, interactive real-time database for 
energy use and solar production in the Franklin 
Environmental Center. The program allows people 
the building’s total water consumption, steam 
consumption, electricity consumption and even the 
weekend weather forecast. You can go online and 
see it, but I suggest actually going into the building 
screen. 
     Jeannie Bartlett ’15, a prospective environment 
studies major says, “I feel better about spending 
time here than any other building because 
everything about the building is very eco-friendly. 
a refrigerator full than empty.” 
If you need to use the refrigerator, all 
you have to do is take out the jug(s) of 
water and put whatever you want in it.  
“The ceiling is low so it feels more like a house 
than a lecture building when I spend time in it so 
less energy needed to heat the building. I would 
love for more buildings to share some of the ‘green’ 
characteristics of Hillcrest.” 
Almost everything about Hillcrest is eco-friendly. 
Some features of the building include ground-
on the roof, wood from sustainably managed forests 
waterless urinals. The building was made with 
were made with 100 percent recycled paper and 
cashew resin. As a result of all the sustainability 
features, Hillcrest uses 47 percent less energy and 
saves over 30 percent in water use than a standard 
building of the same size. 
building but it is also a concrete example of 
our school’s commitment and dedication to the 
environment. But what are those “melted rainbow 
State Change by Deborah Fisher. 
Though these rainbows are only made out of 
... That connection to the building might be that 
you are strongly interested in environmental issues, 
or you just really want to use the waterless urinal. 
Whatever it may be, make sure to step inside Midd’s 
appreciate its green beauty.
THE COLLEGE HAS MADE SUSTAINABLE —NOT JUST PERMANENT—BUILDING A PRIORITY
WHAT LEED LOOKS FOR
GREENEST OF THE GREEN
MASTERING THE GUIDELINES
BY JACKIE PARK, STAFF WRITER
BY ALEX STROTT, STAFF WRITER
DAYLIGHTING (PLACING WINDOWS WHERE 
THEY WILL CAPTURE NATURAL SUNLIGHT)
SUSTAINABLE SITES: Minimal impacts on surrounding 
ecosystems
WATER EFFICIENCY
ENERGY & ATMOSPHERE
MATERIALS & RESOURCES: Waste reduction, recycling, 
sustainable products
INDOOR ENVRIONMENTAL QUALITY: Improved air 
quality
LOCATIONS & LINKAGES: Access to open, functional 
outdoor space and building on previously devel-
oped land
AWARENESS & EDUCATION
INNOVATION IN DESIGN
SOLAR PANELS
85% OF OLD STRUCTURE WAS REUSED
GRASS PATCH THAT ABSORBS RAINWATER TO 
PREVENT RUN-OFF
TREES PLANTED
LOW FLOW FIXTURES AND RECYCLED SUN-
FLOWER SEEDS USED IN DESKS
BIG FOUNDATIONS, SMALL FOOTPRINTS
14 3 November 2011 15features
16 3 November 2011 campusfeatures
I just spent an 
extended Fall Break 
in the lovely San 
Francisco, Calif., 
the !rst time I’d 
ever been to the Bay 
Area, and I have re-
turned with several 
observations.
One, everyone has an iPhone. Literally. 
Even some of the Google employees. 
Two, wherever you are in the city, you are 
probably only a few blocks from an organic 
grocer. If you are not, you can surely hail a 
hybrid taxi to get you to one.
"ree, no one bats an eye when you make 
out in public, no matter your assumed gender 
or your make-out partner’s, no matter what 
you’re wearing, no matter if it’s daytime and 
there are kids around. 
"e !rst observation struck me as funny, 
and made me stick out like the tourist I was 
with my not-even-smart-phone. "e other 
two contributed to my long held theory: a 
population concerned with environmental 
responsibility will also be sexually permissive. 
It’s not an original, or even nuanced, 
theory, as environmentalism and sexual 
freedom are both usually part of the liberal po-
litical agenda, but I think they are connected 
beyond their capacity to ru#e more conserva-
tive feathers. 
It’s hard for me to imagine a compassion-
ate person infringing on either their neighbors’ 
or future generations’ right to live ful!lling 
lives. Preserving the planet for future genera-
tions is certainly an anthropocentric take on 
environmentalism, and it is only one of many 
reasons to care about the environment, but it’s 
a reason that clearly connects to sexual liberty, 
freedom to love (and make love, consensually) 
whomever and however we please. If two (or 
more!) people with the capacity to consent 
want to do fun things with each other in the 
privacy of their own homes or local BDSM 
club, who’s to say no?
"e environment and sex connect all of 
us — we are all part of and dependent on the 
environment, and sex is a literal connection. 
More than that, it’s a nearly universal preoccu-
pation: we’re either physically connecting with 
other people, we’re thinking about it when we 
aren’t, or we’ve had to consciously decide not 
to. Sexual relations and the state of our planet 
are unavoidable aspects of our existence. It’s a 
grand statement, but I don’t think it’s untrue.
So back in San Francisco, when I found 
myself listening to two men openly discussing 
their polyamorous relationship on an electric 
bus, I shouldn’t have been as surprised com-
ing from such an environmentally conscious 
atmosphere as the one here at Middlebury 
College. But I was.
I realize that sex isn’t usually related to en-
vironmentalism as plainly as I have put it here. 
Being an environmentalist is less personally 
revealing than declaring yourself sex-positive, 
even if you only mean that you support others’ 
right to do whatever ‘do’ they do. (Not neces-
sarily that you frequent swingers’ parties or 
anything.) But I am also committed to !ghting 
this shyness we have around sex. At one point 
I’m sure it was uncouth to discuss what you 
did with your trash, but in the name of saving 
our shared home planet, we now have com-
munity workshops on how to compost and 
municipal services devoted to helping us re-
cycle and reuse. Why haven’t we gotten around 
to openly advertised clinics on masturbation? 
If we’re really thinking liberally, and we’re 
all committed to happy, healthy people on a 
happy, healthy planet, a masturbation clinic 
does as much good as a guided nature walk. 
Middlebury is not shy about promoting 
sustainability, and I don’t think it should be shy 
about promoting dialogue around sex. I’m not 
saying the College should hand out vibrators 
along with the $uorescent light bulbs during 
orientation — it is one thing to ask students to 
consider changing their lives for the common 
good and quite another for personal bene!t. 
However, we should have more opportunities 
to critically consider ourselves as sexual beings 
than the occasional visiting sex toy salesperson 
or barely publicized !lm screening.
Early last Sunday, when the grass was 
still glossy with dew, like something brand 
new wrapped in plastic, I came across an 
empty bag of chips at the base of a tree. I 
didn’t like to see it there, re$ecting the slant-
ed morning light. "e metallic sheen upset 
the grace of falling yellow and red leaves 
onto the evenly mowed lawns. I walked to 
the nearest trashcan, and threw the empty 
bag away. A%er breakfast later that morn-
ing, I put a banana peel on the rotating dish 
trays in the dining hall and a napkin the 
garbage as I le%.   
"ese simple acts of throwing things 
away made me wonder, what happens to 
garbage beyond the trashcan? "e trashcan, 
like a gateway, shields me from the fate of 
chip bags and banana peels in ways that I 
have yet to understand. Following that cu-
riosity, I have endeavored to !nd out where 
my trash goes. 
Every Monday morning, a crew of Re-
cycling Center employees makes rounds of 
campus. "ey pick up bags of trash from 
dorms, empty the sidewalk trashcans and 
swing by the dining halls. "e crew brings 
the bags back to the Recycling Center, a tall 
building west of campus, where each bag of 
trash from campus is sorted. 
“We rip open the bag … and take out 
the compost and recycling,” said Judd 
Larocque, a Recycling Center employee 
and Middlebury town local. Each recyclable 
material goes into a speci!c bin: “Here we 
put the paper, here the number ones, twos 
and three through sixes, here the redeem-
able cans, here the tin cans [and] here the 
glass bottles,” said Laroque, as he pointed to 
receptacles placed around the sorting table. 
“We pick out the reusable objects 
too.  People throw out the oddest things,” 
Laroque said.  "e student sorter had set 
aside a lamp, a plastic pumpkin for trick-or-
treating, a binder and a stack of bowls with 
that familiar blue $oral dining hall pattern. 
"ere were two more crates with crusted 
glasses and pastel plates on the $oor at her 
feet. “We take about 500 pounds of dishware 
back to the dining hall over the course of 
the year,” Laroque said.
“"e students who come down and 
work for us say that they are much more 
aware of what gets tossed into the trash […] 
a%er working here, even I pay attention to 
what I throw out. I look at it and ask ‘Does 
this really need to be trash?’”  About 20 stu-
dents work at the recycling center part-time.
 A%er being sorted, materials go 
through further processing. Balers, large 
mechanical !sts, compress the recyclable 
materials. “"e bottles all want to expand 
back to their shape so we have to keep 
the weight on them,” Judd explained as he 
opened the baler and let the bottles expand. 
Ragged cardboard and shredded paper is 
stored in a large semi-truck trailer until the 
trailer is full and ready for transport.  Ca-
sella, one of two hauling companies in the 
county, then drives the trailer to a recycling 
center in Rutland, also owned by Casella.
Composting is also an important part 
of the recycling center’s job. Judd opened 
the compost bin to reveal a sour smell and 
busy $ies above banana peels, uneaten veg-
etable sauté and paper to-go containers. As 
he was showing the compost bin, he picked 
out a plastic fork, saying, “"at’s actually 
not compostable.” "is organic material will 
decompose in heaps of dark dirt at the Col-
lege’s composting facility beyond the golf 
course.  “It’s mixed with horse manure from 
Morgan Horse Farm by a front loader.  It 
can get up to 170 degrees in the middle of 
the pile,” he said.  "e compost produced 
over 400 cubic yards last year, which is used 
to fertilize sports !elds on campus.
"is laborious process of sorting by 
hand enables the College to divert over 60 
percent of its waste away from the land!ll. 
Casella hauls the land!ll-bound waste to 
the Addison County Solid Waste Transfer 
Station once the 12-ton trailer is full, which 
occurs about every two weeks. "e Trans-
fer Station, located o& Route-7 just south of 
Middlebury, processes the waste from all 19 
towns of Addison County. 
I drove to the Transfer Station, where 
Don Maglienti, the program coordinator for 
Addison County Solid Waste Management 
District, gave me a tour. He came out of his 
o'ce in a neon vest and clean Carhartts, 
where he handed me a vest of my own. 
When Maglienti, who grew up in 
Plattsburgh, N.Y. and worked for the En-
vironmental Protection Agency previously, 
!rst began working here 10 years ago, the 
station only had one building for processing 
trash. Now, there are several collection areas 
where trash is subdivided for proper dispos-
al.  "e expansion of the facility, Maglienti 
explains, was designed to improve safety 
and e'ciency, while enabling diversion 
of more waste from the land!ll. "e State 
goal was to divert 50 percent of the waste 
produced in our District.  Last year we sur-
passed that goal.”
“It’s kind of an odd business model. 
Since our funding comes from the waste 
that’s generated, and our mission is to re-
duce waste, we’re on track to put ourselves 
out of business,” he said.
Ripping open each bag of trash would 
be impossible to do at the scale of waste the 
Transfer Station sees daily —  between 60 
and 90 tons of trash, not including diverted 
materials.  Instead, the facility depends on 
the consumer to sort their own waste. "e 
state gives incentives for proper sorting by 
o&ering !ve dollars for each mercury-con-
taining thermostat and providing free dis-
posal of all electronic waste. 
Hazardous waste consumes much of 
the e&orts of the Transfer Station, as to keep 
unwanted materials out of the land!ll.  Jars 
the size of saltshakers lined the shelves of 
the trailer like a chemist’s potluck.  Magli-
enti picked up a small glass jar half full of 
clumpy yellow powder. “People bring this 
kind of stu& in and we have to !gure out 
what it is,“ he puts it back down on the shelf, 
“and how to dispose of it safely.
“If someone were to call with a ques-
tion about how to dispose of dynamite, I 
wouldn’t have an easy answer.  "ere are so 
few alternatives for some high-hazard ma-
terials, especially explosives,” he continued.
"ough the Transfer Station diverts 
over half of its incoming waste to recycling, 
the largest category of waste exported can-
not be recycled. "e process of removing 
trash from the Transfer Station includes 
multiple steps. A hauling truck carrying 
trash dumps its contents into a giant bin. 
Next, a front loader scoops the trash into an 
open top semi-truck parked below.  Once 
the front loader has compacted 30 tons of 
trash into the semi-truck, a hauler trans-
ports it to a land!ll three hours away. Two 
or three trailers leave Addison County for 
the land!ll each day, carrying between 60 
and 90 tons of waste in total.
“"e same company that hauls most of 
the trash in Addison County, Casella, owns 
the land!ll. We are just a middle man.”  
"e trash used to be hauled to a land!ll 
in Clinton County, New York, where Don 
grew up. “My parents still live there and 
from their kitchen window you can see the 
land!ll,” Don said. “You couldn’t see it be-
fore, but now it’s grown so much that it now 
reaches above the tree line. I think they look 
at their garbage di&erently now.”
In Addison County, most towns use 
Casella’s land!ll. However, there are two ex-
ceptions to the countywide waste disposal 
system — the towns of Salisbury and Bristol. 
Both of these towns have their own small 
land!lls.  "ese town land!lls probably see 
less than ten tons of trash a week whereas 
Casella’s land!ll, where campus trash ends 
up, sees hundreds of tons of trash daily. As 
it is only 30 minutes away and happened to 
be the destination of an a%ernoon geology 
class willing to adopt me, I visited the Bris-
tol Town Land!ll to get the complete trash 
experience.  
Since the mid-twentieth century, the 
town of Bristol has stored all of its trash at 
this site. Twice a week the land!ll is open to 
town residents to bring their trash to add to 
the pile.  It costs about three dollars per bag. 
"e Bristol Town Land!ll is not lined 
with plastic, as most are, and the ground in 
Bristol is particularly permeable due to its 
geologic formation.  Water table contami-
nation is a serious risk due to accumulating 
trash there.
One of trash mounds has already been 
capped, having reached its capacity.  It was a 
smoothly spherical form, colonized by grass 
and milkweed. "e land!ll has a vent at the 
top, “from which methane and other gases 
are released,” explained Assistant Professor 
of Geology Will Amidon. As a greenhouse 
gas, this is dangerous for the environment.
“From the land!ll also come chemi-
cals in liquid form, said Amidon. “"ere is 
a kind of sludge oozing from the downhill 
slope.  It is most likely not toxic.  Let’s go 
take a look.” We walked around the grassy 
knoll to a marsh area with rainbow mud. 
"e ground was green and orange — like 
rusted scrap metal.  Water drooled over the 
dyed earth in re$ective sheets. 
Because of the high porosity of the land 
surrounding the land!ll, if the water be-
comes contaminated, it will wreak havoc on 
Bristol. Amidon discussed this possibility 
with his class. “"e town has set up a fund 
in the event that there is a contamination 
problem,” he said.
"e land!ll is expected to reach capac-
ity in 30 years.  Presumably then they will 
cease to be one of the exceptions in Addison 
County and send their trash to the Transfer 
Station.  But that still leaves half a century’s 
worth of trash in the ground to morph and 
decompose, resulting in risk of water con-
tamination.  “"e trouble with trash is that 
you don’t really know what you’re going to 
get,” said Amidon.
With a better understanding of how 
trash is processed here at the College and 
in Addison County, I now am more aware 
of what happens beyond the trashcan. Now, 
when I throw away that array chip bag, or 
the remnants of my breakfast, I know who 
to thank.
Tracing trails of trash on campus 
By Ali Andrews
Staff Writer
&
Beer cans everywhere.losers
Green
“I’m green, [...] I think it’s what 
I want to be.” -Kermit the Frog
Salty and delectable.
“And I don’t want to be blue.”
-Dana Valery
Tailgates 
Homecoming! Old friends!
My shirt
It’s just a little messy.
Atwater’s pulled pork
Tailgate area Blue
winners
The L-Word
Lea Calderon-Guthe, 
Senior Sta! Writer
3 November 201117
!e grass is always green at Middlebury. 
But it doesn’t stay that way on its own: a lot of 
time, resources and energy go into maintain-
ing the campus’s lawns and "elds, and it’s not 
always environmentally friendly. Although 
the College has taken steps to minimize the 
environmental impact of caring for its lawns 
and "elds, o#en other factors have had to be 
prioritized over the environment. 
Maintaining the campus lawns
!e 76.5 acres of mowed lawn on Mid-
dlebury’s 161-acre main campus are fairly 
low maintenance for the 12-person campus 
landscape crew that takes care of it, led by 
Landscape Horticulturalist Tim Parsons. Be-
cause of the Champlain Valley’s heavy rainfall 
and clayey, water-absorbing ground, and the 
drought-resistant blend of grass seed that has 
been especially tailored to Middlebury’s soil, 
other than mowing the lawns every week, not 
much has to be done to keep the grass green 
and healthy.  
But continuously mowing the lawn from 
spring through fall in itself has an impact on 
the environment. “If you are a campus that 
prides itself on its sustainability, spewing car-
bon into the atmosphere just to keep the grass 
really short is insane,” said Professor of Biol-
ogy Helen Young.  
In 2008, this problem was considered by 
the Master Plan Implementation Committee 
(MPIC), a group of faculty, sta$ and admin-
istrators headed by Jennifer Bleich, currently 
Associate Director of the O%ce of Corporate 
and  Foundation Relations, but formerly Fa-
cilities Services Project Manager, that came 
together to create guidelines for the sustain-
able and economically e%cient growth of 
Middlebury’s campus in the next "#y years 
in the form of a Master Plan. “Excessive ex-
pense and e$ort are dedicated to maintaining 
the campus’s extensive grass lawns, contribut-
ing to the campus’s carbon footprint,” says the 
Master Plan in the sustainability section.  
“No-Mow Zones”
One step the MPIC took to reduce lawn 
maintenance was the institution of “no-mow” 
zones. “Our landscape department has cho-
sen about 20 acres we are actively ignoring,” 
said Parsons on his blog in 2009. 
!e twenty acres Parsons referred 
to, which remain “ignored,” include large 
swathes of land in between of Ross and Bat-
tell Beach and in front of Co$rin. Parsons 
has also delineated many smaller no-mow 
areas around campus, for example between 
the Mahaney Center for the Arts and Mun-
ford House. !e landscape team strategically 
chose areas that had little or no student use. 
!ey also considered aesthetics, and avoided 
areas where high grass could have a physical-
ly negative e$ect, such as near student dorms, 
where tall grass can house mice populations.
!e “no-mow” plan has many advan-
tages. 
“!e reduction in fuel use and labor 
costs … was the driving force behind intro-
ducing the no-mow areas, but we also have 
the bene"t of the visual interest they bring to 
a formerly highly manicured campus,” said 
Bleich. 
Parsons estimates not mowing those 
roughly 20 acres of lawn saves 1,000 hours of 
labor and about 670 gallons of fuel annually.  
“!e no-mow zones have generally de-
creased our mowing on campus by one day a 
week … If you consider that we mow weekly 
from April through October, that roughly 
calculates to a savings of $45,000 annually,” 
said Assistant Director of Facilities Services 
Luther Tenny in an email.  
!e Master Plan also states that decreas-
ing the amount of mowed lawn “will reduce 
its contribution to global warming by reduc-
ing the greenhouse gas emissions associated 
with maintenance.” 
In addition to saving costs and lower-
ing the carbon footprint, not mowing the 
grass has ecological bene"ts as well. “While 
at Middlebury we pride ourselves in having 
beautiful grounds, ecologically it’s a desert. 
Large shade trees and lawn give next to no 
habitat for pollinators, migrating songbirds, 
insects, amphibians … worms, fungi and oth-
er organisms,” said Parsons on his blog.  
Since their institution three years ago, 
the no-mow zones seem to be an ecological 
success.  Young, who in years past has com-
piled a census of plant species growing in the 
no-mow zones with her “Plant Biology” class, 
has noticed the advancement of this habitat.
 “!ere is a tremendous diversity of 
plants and animals where previously there 
was only one species.  It’s replacing a mono-
culture with a policulture, and it requires 
no work.  It’s a no brainer.” Plants found 
in the no-mow zones include milkweed, 
queen lace, red clover, Kentucky blue grass, 
vetch, astor, sweet clover, chicory, knap weed 
and alfalfa, many of which produce vibrant 
wild&owers.  
In addition to the profusion of plants, 
new critters have found homes in the no-
mow zones as well. “!e rich diversity of 
&owers brings a rich diversity of pollinators,” 
Young said.  She listed bees, butter&ies, hum-
mingbirds, &ies and beetles as just some of 
the species that come to pollinate. For Young, 
who specializes in pollination biology, this is 
exciting news.  
Parsons and his landscape team have tak-
en other steps to reduce the environmental 
impact of maintaining the grass as well.  For 
example, the landscape crew has stopped rak-
ing leaves in the fall, instead chopping them 
up where they are in order to make them into 
compost that can reenter the ground as nu-
trients. !ey also use recycled paper mulch 
in the green, goopy “hydroseeding” mixture 
they use to plant new grass.  
 “!e single best thing that students can 
do [to maintain grass on campus] is to respect 
where we put in new seed down, and stay o$ 
of it as long as possible. Until [the grass] gets 
good and established, it’s surprisingly fragile.” 
Every time new grass is trampled or driven 
on, they have to replant it, which includes us-
ing more seed, fertilizer and mulch: a waste 
of time and resources. 
Maintaining the athletic !elds
Maintaining Middlebury’s 89 acres of 
athletic "elds, however, requires much more 
e$ort and resources. !e four-person athletic 
"elds crew cannot prioritize the environment 
as much as the campus landscaping crew. 
“Facilities make the experience. If you 
are playing on a beautiful "eld you are able 
to make things happen that you can’t if you 
are playing in sub-standard conditions,” said 
women’s varsity soccer coach Peter Kim.  
Kim’s opinion was echoed by one of his 
players, Amy Pickens ’15, who said, “[!e 
maintenance of a "eld] makes a big di$er-
ence.  If it rains [poorly maintained "elds] get 
muddy and the ball sticks and won’t go as far 
and it’s harder to plant your feet.”
In fact, the National College Athletics 
Association (NCAA) regulates the length of 
the grass of athletic "elds.  For example, the 
grass blades on a soccer "eld have to be kept 
at exactly two inches.  But the NCAA doesn’t 
just institute these types of regulations for 
aesthetics, they also have the athletes’ safety 
in mind.  Divots or mud could mean a broken 
ankle or a torn ACL.  
!e better maintained the "eld, the more 
it will hold up through inclement weather 
and the tireless assault of athlete’s cleats. 
“Sports teams tear those "elds right up,” said 
Athletic Fields Crew Chief Justin Quennev-
ille. 
!e maintenance crew works nearly year-
round on the "elds. Even during the summer 
when no one uses the "elds, they mow the 
"eld three times a week. If they were to let 
the grass grow too high at any time of year, it 
would smother the grass below, and the blade 
shape would be thrown o$. Frequent mowing 
also trains the grass to spread laterally instead 
grow up, making for a thicker, lusher lawn.  
 “We focus on the grass like the whole 
time,” said Quenneville about the job of his 
crew of three people, which also includes the 
maintenance of the indoor courts and hockey 
rink.  
!e bulk of the maintenance comes in 
June and July during the o$-season. During 
this time, the athletic "eld crew tries to make 
the Kentucky Bluegrass blades as sturdy as 
possible for fall sports in September.  If the 
grass stays healthy, it will survive the winter 
and pop back up in the spring just in time for 
the lacrosse, baseball and so#ball seasons to 
start.  
But all of this maintenance includes prac-
tices that are not environmentally friendly. 
“To maintain the "elds strictly organically, we 
would need more space,” said Parsons.  With-
out using inorganic fertilizers the grass won’t 
recover quickly enough for the sports teams 
to play on the same "elds over and over.  
!e athletic "elds crew does use compost 
made with food waste from the dining halls, 
reducing the impact on the environment. You 
can see (and smell) the compost mound on 
the cross country trail by the golf course. 
Another environmentally friendly and 
economically e%cient option is to replace 
grass with turf.  In the past "ve years, both the 
men’s soccer "eld and the football "eld were 
replaced by turf, which cut the maintenance 
for the "elds in half, according to Quennev-
ille.  
But changing the "eld from grass to turf 
profoundly a$ects the game. According to 
Kim, in soccer, the ball rolls and bounces dif-
ferently, and the turf changes when it is wet 
and when it is hot.  “!e game is meant to be 
played on grass,” he said.  Another downside 
to installing turf is the large initial invest-
ment, even though the reduction in mainte-
nance will make it less costly in the long run. 
For now, the athletic "eld and campus 
landscape crews will continue working hard 
to keep our lawns verdant and our athletic 
"elds in good condition.  As for inorganic in-
puts, “we try to keep them to a minimum […] 
we would never intentionally harm our envi-
ronment — this is where we live and work, 
a#er all,” said Quenneville.  Continuing the 
no-mow zones is one way Parsons and his 
team plan to do that. “We don’t have any im-
mediate plans to expand more no-mow areas, 
but are always thinking, and looking for ways 
to increase e%ciency,” said Parsons.
Wild green grass saves College time, money, carbon
By Luke Whelan
Staff Writer
Milkweed
N
C
o l l e g e  S t r e e t
Athletic Fields
Davis Family Library
Campus No-Mow Zones
caption
Red clover Goldenrod
Daisy !eabane
For color pictures of Middlebury’s luscious 
grass, scan this QR code or visit go/grass.
Smartweed Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
S o u t h  M a i n  S t r e e t
Data: Tim Parsons. 
Technical assistance: Ben  Meader       
(Geography department).
Credits: Ian Stewart (Design editor), 
Allison Forrest (Features editor).
campusfeatures
18  3 November 2011
From elegant Atwater to cozy Proctor to 
spacious Ross, there is quite a range of dining 
options to choose from here at Middlebury 
College. Everyone has their favorite breakfast 
destination and their preferred dinner spot. 
Students pick where they go to eat based on 
the content of daily online menus, proximity 
to dorms or where their friends happen to be 
going. But one thing people don’t consider as 
much is the question of how green each of the 
dining halls are here on campus. It’s not easy 
being green, but the Middlebury dining halls 
pull it o! pretty well. 
Anyone who has ever eaten a meal at the 
College has seen the numerous bins for com-
post, trash, and di!erent types of recycling, all 
of which has become pretty much second na-
ture to students. 
“We recycle just about anything you could 
possibly recycle,” notes Director of Dining Ser-
vices, Matthew Biette. 
Food service is given a $2.1 million an-
nual food budget and serves over 7,000 meals a 
day to students and sta!. Roughly twenty per-
cent of the total food dollars go to local sellers. 
Contrary to popular belief, all three din-
ing halls get roughly all of their food from the 
same vendors and operate by the same proce-
dures. But, according to Atwater Dining Chef 
Ian Martin, Atwater does purchase more from 
the organic garden than all the other halls do 
combined. While there are many similarities, 
there are also some di!erences between the 
halls. 
Atwater serves lunch and breakfast during 
the weekdays.  Its food selection is considered 
the most gourmet of our three dining halls. It’s 
a fairly new building, built with sustainably 
harvested wood, much of which came from 
the forests of Vermont. Characterized by its tall 
windows and light atmosphere, it is a favorite 
among students. In addition to being a great 
source for natural light, the  large double pane 
windows also help contain heat within the 
building. One unique characteristic of Atwater 
is the open hearth oven visible from the main 
serving area. 
“It’s e"cient because the rocks heat up and 
have residual heat,” says Biette. “If you put in 
a roast or something that needs a long braise, 
you could put it in the oven at night, turn it 
o!, and the residual heat would keep it cooking 
until the morning.” 
One aspect of Atwater dining hall that you 
should be  very grateful for as winter approach-
es is the insulation provided by the green roof. 
“It’s this remarkable membrane that’s su-
per thick,” comments Martin.  As you can see 
on your way into the building, the roof is cov-
ered in dirt, gravel and plants. #is feature not 
only works to maintain temperatures inside, 
but also contributes to the durability and water 
resistance of the building and the plants help to 
$lter the rainfall.”
Ross is known for its pizza dinners, the 
quintessential “college cafeteria.” Like Atwater, 
it also has very large windows but even better, 
they’re triple pane. 
“I really like Ross,” says Naila Jahan ’15. “I 
would say it is the greenest because they had 
that candlelit dinner the other night.” 
Ross is the second newest dining hall and 
was also constructed from locally harvested 
wood. One sustainable feature    is that it has 
fans over the stoves to e"ciently control the 
rate of the hood exhaust, thereby conserving 
electricity use. 
Proctor, known for its extensive salad bar, 
panini machines and its homey atmosphere, is 
the oldest of dining halls but it has just received 
some renovations, giving it a leg up in the eco-
friendliness department. 
“Part of the renovations was brand new 
equipment upstairs — all that stu! is high-e"-
ciency,” says Biette. “What we have is stu! that 
is e"cient for the power that we need.” 
What most people don’t know is that 
Proctor just got a new dishwasher, greatly 
contributing to its ability to conserve water. 
According to Biette, “#at machine, in terms 
of energy conservation and chemical use, and 
heat load onto building, will pay itself back in 
less than three years.” 
One of Proctor’s sustainability weakness-
es is its older windows. “We did not replace the 
windows in Proctor — windows are a major 
expense. #ey’re still somewhat leaky,” says 
Biette. 
For the most part, the dining halls are 
very similar; they all compost, recycle and get 
their food from the same places. However, in 
terms of water conservation, Proctor comes 
out ahead due to the brand new state-of-the-
art dishwasher. Ross minimizes electricity use 
and Atwater is the winner of the heat and en-
ergy conservation prize given its green roof, 
hearth oven and large windows. Now we know 
that wherever we dine — whether we want a 
gourmet meal, a slice of pizza or an opportu-
nity to make our own recipes— we’re lucky to 
always have good food from green kitchens. 
Green food prepared in green kitchens 
By Isabella Stallworthy 
Staff Writer
Life, Do-
main, Kingdom, 
Phylum, Class, 
Order, Family, 
Genus, Species. 
When I write pa-
pers for my envi-
ronmental studies 
classes, I can’t help 
but try to summa-
rize the “general 
rules” behind my 
observations. And 
o%en, the feed-
back I get from my professors is “to be more 
speci$c.” I tend to talk about “Life,” the gen-
eral level, when I’m looking into an environ-
mental issue, but people here talk more about 
“Species,” the detailed level. 
Consider the di!erence between east-
ern and western Medicine. Consider the 
Human body as a universe. To cure one’s 
pain, western medicine will target right on 
that spot, solving the problem that is there. 
Painkillers kill pain, antibiotic medicines 
massacre bacteria If it’s still not working, like 
cancer, then just cut it o!. In Chinese, there is 
a saying for this kind of method, ,
(tou tong yi tou, jiao tong yi jiao), 
which means you only cure the place that 
hurts. #is is not considered smart in Chi-
nese medicine, because we believe there must 
be a reason for the pain. For example, acne 
may be caused by the malfunction of your 
liver. Instead of applying acne treatment on 
the face, Chinese medicine will treat your liv-
er, to avoid the problem from its origin. Chi-
nese medicine methods are about $nding the 
balance of the universe in the human body.
And Chinese people are also interested 
in $nding the balance of the natural. Instead 
of the western style weather forecast for ev-
ery single day, we have a system called 24 
solar terms. A year is divided into 24 parts, 
and each part has its own character. It is 
calculated based on observations of genera-
tions and generations of farmers.  #us it is 
a convenient and precise system for famers 
to know when is the right time to grow and 
harvest. It is more e"cient to learn about the 
general pattern of a period than to keep up 
with detailed daily weather forecast in avoid-
ing the risks of agricultural failure. 
Regrettably, China now no longer uses 
traditional Chinese methods to understand 
and deal with the environment, because it 
has tasted the sweetness of the illusion of 
development based on sacri$cing  nature. 
Actually the people in Vermont have learned 
lessons about meddling with nature. Under-
standing the history (Vermont has been de-
forested twice in the last 200 years), they are 
more learned and admiring of nature. A%er I 
really hope we can all learn that we are part 
of the nature, not the creator of nature, and 
we are not standing to the opposite of nature 
before it’s too late. We will never become the 
victims of natural disasters if we don’t make 
the nature our victim.
Before the industrial revolution, hu-
mankind didn’t have that much control over 
the natural world. We couldn’t travel except 
by horse or on foot, we needed to go to bed 
early because there was nothing else to do 
in the dim candle light, and pouring rain or 
lightening scared us because the house you 
lived in was not that strong. But now, we 
can go around the world in a day, distance is 
never a problem; we can stay up late to party 
regardless of the time; we build up high le-
vees to stop the &ooding, only to create more 
serious natural disasters. When we are ac-
quiring more modern technology, modifying 
the genes of the crops we eat, it’s easy to trick 
ourselves into thinking that we have control 
over the nature. We cure the problems like 
&ooding and earthquake using western med-
icine methods, believing that they are just ex-
ceptional phenomenon, but not the warning 
from the core of the system. We are lacking 
the respect for nature and the knowledge that 
we are never capable of controlling her. 
Tas t e   Cheese 
W it h Chops t icks
Jiayi Zhu ’14 is an environmental studies major.
&
Always carry an umbrella  
—  those storms don’t always 
give warning!
losers
Friendly neighbors
Nothing beckons a study break 
like an open door.
#e lunch rush, with your 
cute lab partner, has invaded 
Your suitemate just decided to 
teach himself guitar ...
Fall foliage
Now we all remember why we 
chose Vermont.
Proctor crush
With three dining halls, it’s 
harder to plan your stalking ... 
ahem, admiring, at the panini 
machine.
Atwater amor
Fall rain Loud neighbors
winners
As our favorite froggy friend once la-
mented, “it’s not easy being green.” Fortu-
nately for Middlebury students, however, it is 
easy $nding green — that is, $nding funding 
for environmental initiatives. 
Udall Scholarship in Environmental Studies
#is is a rock star among environmental 
scholarships. O!ered by the Udall Founda-
tion, the scholarship is awarded annually, as 
the Environmental Studies website notes, to 
“approximately 80 students from across the 
United States.” Since the scholarship’s incep-
tion in 1997, nine Middlebury students have 
received it, most recently Ben Wessel ’12.
A deeply involved member of the youth 
climate movement, Wessel became interested 
in the scholarship a%er hearing about what 
an amazing experience it was from other en-
vironmental policy activists. He was thrilled 
about the opportunity that it o!ered to meet 
“similarly passionate and motivated youth 
who were working on the same issues in their 
own communities, facing similar challenges 
and having a kick-ass time working out how 
to best change the world.” #is close-knit 
community emerges from the structure of the 
Udall; in addition to the scholarship, all Udall 
scholars, both past and present, are required 
to attend a four-day orientation in Tuscon, 
Ariz. each August.
#e Udall scholarship is available to any 
student “majoring in a $eld related to the en-
vironment,” notes the ES website. To apply, 
students must $rst receive a nomination from 
Middlebury; the College can nominate up to 
six students a year. While the steps involved 
may seem lengthy, the rewards are pretty 
sweet. In addition to the great community — 
which Wessel alludes to as “Udall couches all 
over the country waiting for me to crash on 
them” — Udall scholars receive $5000.
Sustainable Study Abroad
At the other end of the pay scale sit the 
Sustainable Study Abroad grants, which of-
fer students up to $500 to pursue projects re-
lated to sustainability while studying abroad. 
Duna Tatour ’12 encourages students not to 
be turned o! by the size of the grant. She puts 
it neatly: “It’s a small grant, but it’s good.” #e 
grant, she goes on to explain, can go decep-
tively far, noting how much more the amount 
can do overseas and out of major cities. With 
her grant, Tatour travelled from her study 
abroad school in England to Holland and 
$lmed a documentary about students living 
as squatters in an empty apartment building. 
#e grant is available, as Stacy #edobo, 
Assistant Director with International Pro-
grams and O!-Campus Study, explains, to 
“students who study abroad at Middlebury 
Schools Abroad (which includes Middlebury 
students as well as students from other col-
leges and universities), as well as Middlebury 
students who study abroad at externally-
sponsored … programs.”
Although Sustainable Study Abroad 
grants are necessarily used for proj-
ects abroad, their impacts are still felt in 
Middlebury. Tatour explained that it’s im-
possible not to “draw parallels between the 
community here and the one that I [saw] in 
Holland.” #ese surface parallels — a small 
community, the liberal arts — led Tatour to 
question whether some of the practices she 
witnessed in Holland could be applied to our 
campus as well. One day, for example, she 
accompanied students to the grocery store, 
where they collected food at the edge of its 
expiration date. In an hour, they found ap-
proximately $110 in food that would have 
otherwise gone to waste. #is led Tatour to 
wonder, “If they’re doing this there, why are 
we not thinking about it? In giving students 
the means to explore the many ways in which 
the nebulous idea of sustainability manifests 
itself, Sustainable Study Abroad grants give 
students the ability to turn the idea of “think 
global, act local” into something more than a 
hackneyed cliché. 
Environmental Council Grants
Of course, some would argue that the 
global inspiration isn’t always necessary. Tod 
Murphy, former owner of the Farmer’s Diner, 
pro!ered as a replacement the slogan “think 
locally, act neighborly,” an idea that comes to 
life in the grants o!ered by the Environmen-
tal Council. #ese grants must “have a dem-
onstrated e!ect on people on campus,” as En-
vironmental Council Co-Chair and Professor 
of Biology Helen Young explains. 
One of the most exciting things about 
the Environmental Council grants is that they 
are, as Young describes, “all over the map” 
and “all over the board” in terms of scope 
and the applicants they attract. #ey are also 
“out-of-the-box,” as Wessel notes, lauding the 
college for its “commitment to funding crazy 
environmental initiatives.” 
#is diversity is perhaps the most unify-
ing characteristic of Environmental Council 
grants. Young explains that in selecting proj-
ects to fund, the council looks for ideas that 
o!er “a new approach to an old problem, [or] 
a problem that people didn’t even realize was 
a problem.” #is focus on creativity is evident 
in the Environmental Council’s past projects; 
they have included sending students to Wash-
ington D.C. for PowerShi%, starting an on-
campus thri% store, organizing a bike rental 
program, bringing an NFL player to campus 
to discuss the role of sustainability in athletics 
and more.
As Wessel enthuses, “Midd does a pretty 
great job getting the word out about all the 
di!erent ways students can get money to pay 
for environmental initiatives.” Perhaps this is 
because sustainability is, “the kind of dream 
that gets better the more people you share it 
with.”
Students take advantage of eco-grants
By Anna Flinchbaugh
Staff Writer
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
Atwater buys from the organic garden.
campusfeatures
3 November 2011  19advertisements
news.
local news.
opinions.
features.
arts&science.
sports.
The Middlebury Campus
seeks staff writers
for all sections. 
email campus@middlebury.edu
for more information.
arts&science20
The Middlebury Campus
3 November 2011
 
05
!e Oscar-nominated documentary 
tells the story of how an amateur 
"lmmaker attempted to locate and 
befriend the enigmatic gra#ti artist 
Banksy, only to have him turn the 
camera back on its owner. 
editors’ 04
!e College’s talented private music 
teachers show their musical prow-
ess in this lighthearted, collabora-
tive concert, featuring harmonicas, 
banjos, bagpipes, clarinet, voice and 
more. Free. 
!is exhibit of work by students in  
Professor of Studio Art Johnson Hud-
dleston’s course, “Black and White Pho-
tography,” demonstrates the use of this 
unique technique. Sponsored by the 
Program in Studio Art. Free.
05picks
Exit Through 
the Gift Shop
Dana 
Auditorium
3 p.m., 8 p.m. 
Affiliate Artists 
Collaborative 
Concert
MCFA Concert 
Hall
8 p.m
04
A#liate artist Davye Huckett plays 
a broad range of music, including 
his own original music on classical, 
steel string and electric guitars, mix-
ing "ngerstyle, rock, classical and jazz 
styles. Free. 
Dayve Huckett 
and Friends
MCFA Concert 
Hall
8 p.m.
Pinhole 
Photography
Johnson 
Memorial 
Building
Through Nov. 12
by Kate Miley
Staff Writer
 So Inclined
Saying farewell to
!is past Friday, Oct. 28, Patrick Dough-
erty, creator of the “So Inclined” tree sculp-
tures outside the Mahaney Center for the 
Arts, gave a talk to students, faculty and 
townspeople that marked the beginning of 
the end for his one-of-a-kind installation. 
!e teepee-esque sculptures are sched-
uled to be disassembled sometime this week. 
Dougherty explained to the gathered crowd 
that due to the organic nature of his work — 
he uses no wires or structural supports when 
creating pieces such as “So Inclined” — his in-
stallations are typically dismantled a$er two 
years because the e%ects of bad weather on his 
outdoor sculptures inevitably result in distor-
tion and deterioration of the original designs. 
With the aid of a slideshow, Dougherty 
walked the audience through the dismantling 
process, which is sometimes accomplished by 
burning the stick sculptures or dismantling 
them by hand. 
“So Inclined” will not be burned, contrary 
to rumors circulating on campus, and will be 
taken down by facilities sta% and chipped, ac-
cording to Richard Saunders, director of the 
Middlebury College Museum of Art. 
Once dismantled, the College plans to use the chipped saplings 
and branches that comprise “So Inclined” as mulch around campus, 
which will allow the sculpture to be reused in an environmentally-
friendly manner that meshes with both the College’s and Dougherty’s 
concern for the planet. Dougherty, who began his career as a sculp-
tor in 1985, has created 225 large stick structures worldwide, all of 
which are “site-speci"c.” Dougherty elaborated, saying that he gar-
ners materials, workers, and even inspiration once he has arrived at 
the planned site and does very little preparative work concerning his 
stick sculptures. Additionally, he always asks for permission before 
cutting the local saplings and branches he uses in his pieces, and the 
volunteers he enlists to help him are always locals, though not neces-
sarily experienced in sculpture or working with sticks. Dougherty’s 
concern for the environment was evident in the detailed description 
of his creative process, and even some of his "nal designs visibly re-
&ect this passion. 
“So Inclined” was raised in September 2007 in accordance with 
Dougherty’s “site-speci"c” method: Dougherty "rst procured local 
silver maple saplings and then secured the help of 230 volunteers 
from around the town and College to raise “So Inclined” in a pro-
cess that took three weeks, which Dougherty claims is the time frame 
in which he completes all his projects. Although Dougherty did not 
know what precise form he wanted when he started “So Inclined,” he 
had a clear idea that his stick sculpture should be plainly visible from 
the street and impose itself on the College’s students (hence its loca-
tion near two intersecting sidewalks). 
Originally scheduled to be taken down a$er two years, it is im-
pressive that the sculpture has lasted thus far. CAPP (Committee for 
Art in Public Places) currently has no plans to "ll the space once oc-
cupied by “So Inclined,” though the committee will discuss the issue 
at its next meeting in February 2012. !e chance that the College 
will commission Dougherty again is slim, however, as the world-
renowned artist is currently booked with projects for the next two 
years. 
Famed sculptor Patrick Dougherty spoke to an audience about his work “So Inclined” on Friday, Oct.28. in light of its coming disassembly. 
Courtesy
Patrick Dougherty created “So Inclined” in 2007 with an enviromental mindset, using local silver maple saplings 
and enlisting help from Middlebury volunteers.
Courtesy
campusarts&science
Hugo Wolf Quartett entrances audience
Hugo Wolf Quartett, a critically and 
internationally acclaimed Austrian string 
quartet, performed at the Kevin P. Mahaney 
’84 Center for the Arts concert hall on Fri-
day, Oct. 28 as part of the Performing Arts 
Series in memory of F. W. Sunderman Jr. and 
Carolyn R. Sunderman. 
Comprising violinists Sebastian Gürtler 
and Régis Bringolf, violist Gertrud Wein-
meiste and cellist Florian Berner, the quar-
tet performed a truly 
captivating program 
of quartet pieces by 
Mozart, Webern and 
Schubert.
!e night’s pro-
gram opened with 
Mozart’s String Quar-
tet No. 16 in E-"at 
Major, one of the six 
“Haydn” quartets 
composed by Mozart 
in response to Haydn’s 
own set of six quartets, 
Opus 33. As the four 
players slowly raised 
their bows, the audi-
ence — tumultuous 
before but now deaf-
eningly quiet — held 
its collective breath. 
!en, the Hugo Wolf 
Quartett broke the 
suspenseful silence 
with a passage of semi-
tones that immediately 
explicated the quartet’s 
17-year prominence on the international 
chamber music scene.
!e di#erent passages of crescendos 
and decrescendos, the accented notes and 
the phrases in legato were simply impec-
cable and the four instruments sounded not 
harshly distinct but combined and richly 
layered. A$er easily entrancing the audience 
with the %rst movement in allegro, the tanta-
lizing bright, airy notes of the violins contin-
ued into the second movement against the 
deep, harmonized texture of both the viola 
and the cello. In the last two movements, 
the signature Mozart phrasings appeared 
vibrantly in intermittent bursts particularly 
in the closing movement of the perfectly ex-
ecuted quartet. 
!e next piece, String Quartet of 1905, 
was by Austrian composer Webern, whose 
compositions are reminiscent of the Roman-
tic Era and of his contemporary composer 
Schoenberg. !e quartet somberly led the 
audience through the eerie tonal melody of 
three-note cells in the muted opening pas-
sages of the piece that contrasted sharply 
with the “bright” phrasings of Mozart. With 
its multitude of emotions — ranging from 
anguish and turmoil to serenity, Webern’s 
piece highlighted not only the superb tech-
nicality of the Hugo Wolf Quartett but also 
their moving musicality. From the opening 
note to the climatic moments, the violinists 
Gürtler and Bringolf masterfully controlled 
Webern’s passionate piece; however, it was 
the violist Weinmeister and cellist Berner 
who truly brought the piece to life with their 
reverberating, emotional and incredibly rich 
sound. 
!e concert ended with Schubert’s 
String Quartet No. 15 in G Major. As another 
complex composition, the piece emphasized 
various facets of the Hugo Wolf Quartett; 
di#erences in passages showed a quartet that 
was gentle, violent and passionate all at once. 
!e violinists conveyed the forceful tone 
of the %rst movement well (with Bringolf 
breaking his bow hair in a particularly em-
phatic passage of notes) but as the piece pro-
gressed into rolling phrases of warm, consol-
ing notes by the violist and the cellist, some 
in the audience were lulled to sleep, only to 
be awoken by outbursts of violins. It was a 
masterly blend of harmony, weaved singular-
ly with occasional distinct voiced melodies 
of the four instruments.  Each kept the other 
in check as page a$er page, Schubert’s narra-
tive composed conversation of four instru-
ments allowed the individuals of the quartet 
to express his and 
her own artistic 
personality, un-
like the two previ-
ous pieces. 
As the quar-
tet held the last 
note of silence, the 
equally soundless 
audience beheld 
a quartet on stage 
that was di#erent 
from the ensem-
ble that had just 
performed Mo-
zart and Webern: 
this ensemble 
couldn’t be de-
%ned with a mere 
adjective. !en, 
lost for words, the 
audience gave a 
standing ovation 
as the Viennese 
virtuosos bowed in 
unison. 
With the exception of the regrettably 
small number who attended, most students 
missed out on this breath-taking perfor-
mance, made free with the support from the 
Institute for Clinical Science and Art. Re-
"ective of the works by the quartet’s name-
sake, composer Hugo Wolf, the quartet’s 
performance was intensely expressive. With 
the subtle traces of brimming individual ex-
pressions hidden underneath the indivisible 
fabric of harmony and unity, the Austrian 
ensemble’s two-hour performance felt too 
short, and a$er applauding the quartet back 
one last time, the audience unwillingly %led 
out of the concert hall. 
by Jamie Lee
Staff Writer
3 November 2011 21
THE REEL 
CRITIC
Vincere
by Chris Johnson
Power. No matter how dark its nature, 
mankind cannot resist its seductive lure. 
Combine this with a fascination for the 
monstrous, and one understands why a 
man like Adolf Hitler has regularly been a 
focus in the cinema (as a side note, I would 
highly recommend Der Untergang, Oliver 
Hirschbiegel’s 2004 %lm about Hitler’s %nal 
days). Joseph Stalin has also received a fair 
amount of attention. But what of Benito 
Mussolini? !e only feature %lm I can 
think of that depicts Il Duce in any fashion 
is Charlie Chaplin’s 'e Great Dictator — 
and that was in 1940.
My point in all this is that, for an 
American audience, Mussolini is still very 
much an unknown %gure. !is both helps 
and hurts Vincere, the 2009 Italian %lm 
from Marco Bellochio. Vincere is actually 
about Ida Dalser, the lover (and possibly 
%rst wife, as the %lm proposes) of Musso-
lini. !e attraction to seeing this %lm is not 
so much to learn about her, but to learn 
more about him, which is why Bellochio 
opens and closes the %lm with a riveting 
sequence in which a young, pre-Il Duce 
Mussolini makes an argument to a small, 
crowded room. Filippo Timi, who plays 
Mussolini, is mesmerizing. When he steps 
forward, you immediately understand why 
this is a man who will one day rule Italy. 
!at being said, you do not compre-
hend why Ida Dalser so deeply falls for 
him. It is not that Giovanna Mezzogiorno, 
the actress who portrays Dalser, is untal-
ented. It is more that the screenplay does 
not build up their relationship properly. 
She basically sees him give the aforemen-
tioned argument, runs into him in the 
street one night, and bam — she loves 
him. !ere are some fairly preposterous 
openings to romances in cinema (see: the 
Hollywood rom-com), but this still leaves 
something to be desired. Timi’s Mussolini, 
however, is so captivating that you put that 
thought aside. !e %rst portion of the %lm 
is about their time together, aligned with 
Mussolini’s rise to power. !is is thorough-
ly enthralling, and undoubtedly the best 
part of Vincere. And not just due to the 
acting, either; Bellochio cleverly uses a mix 
of titles and documentary footage in the 
course of portraying the birth of Il Duce. 
!is footage is, at times, more interesting 
than the %lm itself, to the point that one 
almost wishes Bellochio had just made a 
documentary about Mussolini.
!e real problem with the %lm hap-
pens about one-third of the way in, when 
Mussolini disappears from the show. 
Besides the occasional clip of the real Il 
Duce, the audience never sees him again. 
Timi’s performance, and the story of the 
character he portrays, is so engaging that 
you miss it once it leaves. Dalser is just not 
as interesting. !is is not to say the %lm is 
bad. !ere was nothing particularly wrong 
with Dalser’s acting, the screenplay or the 
cinematography. But the viewer was never 
convinced of Dalser’s obsessive passion 
for Mussolini, and since that is the driving 
point of the %lm, all of her actions seem 
almost unwarranted since he is no longer 
on screen to remind us of his power. And 
so this is what happened when the credits 
rolled for Vincere: I sat up, yawned and 
wished that someone would make a good 
%lm solely about Il Duce.
!e Hugo Wolf Quartett, an Austrian string quartet, performed last Friday, Oct. 28. !e 
world-famous group played works by Mozart and Schubert as part of Homecoming Weekend.
Courtesy
91.1
FM
WRMCTHIS WEEK ON
ANNUAL FALL 
CONCERT 
8:30 p.m.
Friday
McCullough 
Social Space
 
Don’t miss WRMC’s annual fall concert 
featuring indie sensation Cymbals Eat Gui-
tars and Gira#es? Gira#es! Tickets $3 at go/
boxo&ce.
Morning DSH
8 a.m. 
Sunday
Bringing It All 
Back Home
8 a.m. 
Wednesday
!is show exposes College students and 
the residents of Champlain Valley area to 
southern music in all of its various shapes, 
sizes and forms. Each week we pick a di#er-
ent area of southern music to expose to our 
northern brethren. We’d love to have all of 
y’all tune in, and feel free to call in at any time. 
We gladly take any and all requests even if 
your request breaks genre rules because it is 
likely that we will be able to connect your re-
quest with some facet of southern music. 
Be sure to listen in to these stellar shows on 91.1 
FM or online at 
http://wrmc.middlebury.edu
Just had a rough break-up? We feel you. 
Tune in for the Morning DSH to indulge in 
some self pity. We’ll be playing all the classic 
break up tunes and some new ones to add to 
your playlist for the next time you %nally leave 
that jerk from Ross.
campusarts&science
Have an awesome 
research project? 
      
Know a professor 
doing something cool?  
 
Want to share your 
opinion on science at 
Midd? 
Is your masterpiece 
coming to completion?
Let us know! 
campus@middlebury.
edu
         22 3 November 2011
Like !lms, video games have a tenden-
cy to adapt other works to their medium. 
Most commonly, movies undergo such a 
metamorphosis, not always for the best. 
Graphic novels are usually a close second, 
and from an outside point of view this 
seems to make a lot of sense. "ese stories 
contain a well-established protagonist with 
a clear objective and a gallery of rogues to 
provide plenty of obstacles for said protag-
onist. It makes perfect sense to adapt these 
stories into video games; however, the truth 
is that superhero games tend to be rushed, 
poorly developed and shortsighted. Game 
developer Rocksteady sought to change 
that and created what was considered to be 
the best superhero game of all time, Bat-
man Arkham Asylum, in 2006. Five years 
later Rocksteady invites players to yet again 
step into the large black boots of the Caped 
Crusader himself in Batman Arkham City.
Arkham City takes place six months 
a#er the events of the !rst game. James 
Quincy, the warden of the asylum where 
the !rst game took place, is now mayor of 
Gotham City and has walled o$ the slums 
and tossed in every prison inmate, asylum 
patient, Batman villain and political pris-
oner (whose only crime was the investiga-
tion of the new prison) and dubbed this 
new social-monstrosity Arkham City. Not 
only is the city a tragically beautiful envi-
ronment to explore, housed with secrets 
and clever Batman references, but also it 
sets up a fantastic plot throughout. 
"e main plot !nds Batman within the 
city investigating a man named Dr. Hugo 
Strange, a terrifying new antagonist who 
holds the greatest anti-Batman weapon 
ever known — his secret identity. Along 
the way, Batman reunites with some of his 
villains both old and new, all of which are 
an incredible delight to see in full %uid 
movement. While the plot is very strong 
throughout the beginning and middle, it 
loses a lot of horsepower in the resolution 
but saves itself with a shocking and an I’m-
not-crying-there’s-something-in-my-eye 
ending. "is is only supplemented by the 
mind-blowing voice acting of the cast. Mr. 
Freeze is a tragic and sympathetic character 
(no Schwarzenegger ice puns here) while 
Mark Hamill and Kevin Conroy return as 
the Joker and Batman, respectively. 
"ese villains aren’t all talk either; 
unlike its predecessor, Arkham City’s boss 
!ghts are incredibly enjoyable and accu-
rately re%ect the abilities and personality of 
the villain you are facing. Mr. Freeze’s !ght 
is a prime example of this and is one of the 
most enjoyable (albeit a tad stressful) boss 
!ghts I have had in a long time. 
If you bought a new copy of the game, 
the player will be treated to four missions 
where one plays as Catwoman, Batman’s 
hypersexual counterpart. Her four missions 
are about her trying to loot Arkham City 
vaults for all their wealth, and she has her 
own Riddler trophies and move set. Instead 
of a cape, Catwoman uses a whip and is 
generally more agile than the Dark Knight. 
While a fun distraction at !rst, I found my-
self growing impatient with this character 
and wanting to return to the main story. 
"e plot is moved along by completing 
main objectives that can be found through-
out the city. Meeting these objectives, beat-
ing up bad guys and !nding collectibles all 
net Batman experience. Batman can then 
use these points to buy upgrades for his 
armor and various gadgets. "is is great, as 
most upgrades change combat/gameplay to 
always keep things fresh, though some are 
just %at-out stupid. 
Alongside the main story, there are 
nine major side quests to complete. What 
I enjoyed about these quests is that some 
of them really force the player to actively 
search these out, such as the Enigma Co-
nundrum, which has Batman playing mind 
games with the Riddler. Riddler has hidden 
over 400 collectibles around Arkham City 
including trophies, solutions to his various 
riddles and ultimately, a Saw-style hostage 
situation where one must use quick wit 
and even quicker button presses to save a 
civilian. 
One of these missions, while incred-
ibly short, was my personal favorite. I don’t 
want to spoil anything but I do recom-
mend that the player should always listen 
to Alfred. 
Between the main plot, side quests and 
Riddler collectibles, this game will give you 
plenty to do. However, I do feel the game 
does sometime isolate non-Batman fans as 
the game’s mythos pulls exponentially more 
content from the comics than it does the 
!lms, which I feel is how the majority of 
people get their Bat-!x. "is becomes bla-
tant on some of the Riddler questions that 
require speci!c knowledge of the Batman 
universe to make sense. (Do you know the 
name of the island Bane grew up on? When 
I say the name “Scarface,” do you think of 
a famous drug lord or a wooden puppet? 
Do you know who characters like Calendar 
Man or Solomon Grundy are?)
"is isn’t even a complaint. I’m glad a 
game isn’t afraid to cater to its smaller, core 
audience and doesn’t feel a need to go a#er 
the “Call of Duty crowd.” 
Arkham City is not only the best 
Batman game, best super-hero game and 
best-licensed game but it is also an easy 
contender for game of the year. With its 
engrossing plot, immersive environments 
and an innate ability to make the player see 
what’s around the next corner, Arkham City 
has earned my top praise. 
Batman Arkham City gets a 10/10.
One Life 
Left
Game | Batman Arkham City 
Console | XBox 360, PS3, PC
Rating | Teen
by Santiago Azpurua-Borras
"is year’s faculty show, Big Love, played in Wright Memorial "eatre over 
Homecoming Weekend. "e funny and touching event featured 17 Middlebury 
actors and was directed by Assistant Professor of "eatre Claudio Medieros 
’90. Based loosely on Aeschylus’ !e Suppliants, Big Love took the audience on 
a wild ride from Greece to Italy, following the fates of 50 Greek brides who are 
betrothed against their will to their American cousins.
Lucy Van Atta ’12 crawls in desperation in this weekend’s production of “Big Love.”
Aubrey Dube ’12 gesticuled before the disgruntled  Lucy Van Atta ’12 at the faculty show.
Courtesy
Courtesy
FACULTY SHOW EXPLORES 
   ROMANCE, COMEDY
3 November 2011 23campusarts&science
Getting through Moby Dick didn’t 
seem intimidating at !rst. I’d taken a class 
with Charles A. Dana Professor of Political 
Science Murray Dry last semester, a"er all, 
so I felt up to the heavy reading load. It 
is also one of the most famous American 
novels of all time. If countless generations 
had done it before me, I felt up to the 
task. I was in the Moby Dick musical in 
high school (yes, there is a musical) and 
the story had seemed passé at the time, 
but the passion with which my professor 
spoke of the book made me more excited 
than nervous for the challenge. She did 
warn us that some of us would hate the 
book, but she also said that for some 
people, Moby Dick is the kind of book you 
wait a lifetime to !nd, and that stumbling 
across it can change your life. I don’t know 
if I am quite at this stage of adoration, but 
there is something about the book that 
grips me in a way I never expected. 
It’s easy to get lost in the seemingly 
monotonous odes to whale anatomy 
and whaling techniques, but behind the 
tedium there is something beautiful oc-
curring. #e readers’ journey through the 
book becomes akin to the maniacal quest 
that Ahab and his crew have embarked on. 
Moby Dick begins to symbolize that which 
all humans long for but can never have, 
something that I think college students 
— constantly hounded by elusive dreams 
and unattainable ambitions — can relate 
to. Ahab says something to this e$ect 
midway through his journey when he tries 
to articulate why it is he must relentlessly 
pursue the whale. He says, “How can the 
prisoner reach outside except by thrusting 
through the wall? To me, the white whale 
is that wall, shoved near to me. Sometimes 
I think there’s naught beyond.” 
Now, I wouldn’t pretend to know 
exactly what it is that the white whale 
himself symbolizes. Critics have argued 
about it for more than a century, and I am 
certainly no Melville scholar. But to me 
the above passage is key. #e white whale 
on some level is the barrier that keeps us 
humans from reaching our full potential 
and attaining in!nite knowledge; this 
barrier keeps us so far away and yet so 
close that we even wonder if it is possible 
to achieve this. At the College, we push 
ourselves so hard, never relenting until we 
have outdone ourselves, and that is why 
this book resonates particularly with me. 
Captain Ahab’s obsessive quest to elimi-
nate that which holds him back is a time-
less allegory, and is at the heart of why 
Moby Dick is the classic that it is. 
Even if I sometimes !nd myself 
turning pages that my eyes have read and 
my brain has not registered, every line is 
worth it. Deep inside the pages is a rich 
and layered text that brings me closer to 
the heart of what we will be like once we 
learn to break down those barriers — to 
slay our own white whales. 
Author | Herman Melville
Book | Moby Dick
by Amelia Furlong
Booking It
Comedian Judah Friedlander le" the crowd roaring on Friday, 
Oct. 28, in the McCullough Social Space. #e standup comedian was 
brought to the College as part of the Homecoming weekend festivities, 
and from the energy of the audience at the Friday night performance, 
it was evident that this was one of the highlight events of the weekend. 
Before Friedlander even made his appearance, students were shouting 
his name, hoping that the comedian would peek out from behind the 
curtain onstage. 
Friedlander eventually did appear to take the microphone. He 
sported his trademark sloppy appearance, wearing jeans and a denim 
jacket emblazoned with the title “World Champion.” Underneath the 
jacket, he wore a yellow shirt that proclaimed the title once more. Early 
on in the performance, Friedlander was quick to explain that he was, 
in fact, the “World Champion” — yet of what, he never deigned to ex-
plain. He continued onward with his snarky diatribe, elaborating on his 
stunning karate skills, beyond-Chuck-Norris super-strength and sexual 
prowess that could fuel a car. #is was all part of Friedlander’s trade-
mark comedy “schtick” in which he claims to be amazing at nearly ev-
erything possible and doing things that normally would be impossible. 
Beyond his usual song-and-dance, the highlights of Friedlander’s 
performance were his improvised deadpan deliveries and playful ha-
rassment of audience members. Girls wearing scarves indoors, unde-
clared !rst-years, loud laughers and students in costume were all tar-
gets of Friedlander’s scrutiny. Heaven forbid you got up to go to the 
bathroom — Friedlander would make your exit known to the entire 
audience. 
In addition to standup comedy, Friedlander has appeared in several 
comedies including Meet the Parents and Zoolander. He has also made 
appearances on VH1’s Best Week Ever and currently plays Frank Ros-
sitano on 30 Rock. 
artsbrief Comedian and aCtor Judah Friedlander perForms as part oF 
homeComing Weekend Festivitiesby Deirdre Sackett
Arts & Science Editor
On Friday, Oct. 28, three bands 
from three di$erent states converged in 
the Hepburn Zoo for a rollicking night of 
exuberant sounds.  WRMC and the Gamut 
Room arranged the show with support from 
Atwater Commons, featuring Alpenglow, #e 
Milkman’s Union and Caroline Smith and 
the Good Night Sleeps.  Alpenglow is a local 
project of three Middlebury students and a 
UVM student.  #e Milkman’s Union hails 
from Maine and Caroline Smith and the Good 
Night Sleeps are touring the East Coast all the 
way from Minnesota.  #e individual who was 
truly instrumental in bringing Caroline Smith 
to Middlebury, however, was Minnesota 
native and Alpenglow member Elori Kramer 
’13.5.
“I got to know Caroline Smith and the 
Good Night Sleeps the winter before starting 
Middlebury, during my Febmester,” says 
Kramer.  “Since then, we’ve played a bunch of 
shows together.”  Kramer pushed to bring the 
band to Middlebury, scrape together enough 
money from di$erent sources, and organize a 
successful event.  #e Milkman’s Union had 
been playing a couple shows in the area with 
Caroline Smith and agreed to join the concert 
as well.  #e three bands complemented each 
other well and each played substantial yet 
succinct sets.  Transitions between the bands 
did not drag on too long and on the whole the 
show kept up an engaging pace.    
In its previous and current manifestations, 
Alpenglow’s repertoire has garnered enough 
exposure on campus that audience members 
can sing along, a clear credit to their song-
cra"ing abilities and consistent performances. 
#e band has developed from a simple 
phenomenon of collaborative talent into the 
darling of the local music scene.  For this 
concert, they reworked their songs in electric, 
which, while equally stirring, generated a 
very di$erent quality than their all-acoustic 
renditions in the earlier September “Woods” 
show.  #ere was slightly less dancing than 
during Alpenglow’s Munford House show, 
but the audience was extremely enthusiastic 
throughout the opening and following 
acts.  #e Milkman’s Union has played at 
Middlebury twice before and !t well in 
between Alpenglow’s and Caroline’s sets.
Rarely are there anything but smaller 
scale theater performances presented in the 
Hepburn Zoo, so it was a new and perfect 
venue for a concert.  It had the intimate feel 
of a dark music club or bar and wasn’t too 
crowded or too hard to !ll.  #ere were a few 
sound blips typical of a college concert but for 
the most part the acoustics worked well in the 
space.
Caroline Smith and the Good Night 
Sleeps generally falls in a folk pop category, 
but they self-describe their music as 
“storybook folk” or “post folk.”  Smith, 22, has 
a lovely pixie voice that details boy troubles 
with a freshness and poignancy that is much 
appreciated amidst today’s lackluster slurry 
of indie music.  By the middle of her set, the 
entire audience was dancing.  Her incredible 
vocal range was fully revealed in her encore 
song and le" everyone marveling long a"er 
the show.  
“I thought the atmosphere was lively and 
relaxed and friendly and it was so great that 
it was free,” said audience member Rebekah 
Wilson ’14.  “I wish there were shows that nice 
coming more frequently to this campus.”
Collaborative concert showcases 
Hepburn Zoo as concert venue 
by Eliza Wallace
Staff Writer
#e most dedicated party 
animal would be put to shame by 
the schedule of !ve !lm-making 
students this weekend. From ear-
ly in evening on Friday, Oct. 28, 
to late on Sunday, Oct. 30, their 
action was nonstop and their 
pace was furious as they com-
peted in Sleepless in Burlington.
#ese !ve students — Adam 
Benay ’13, Hannah Epstein ’12, 
Mike Gadomski ’13, Hunter 
Nolan ’13 and Andrew Powers 
’12 — were participating in the 
Sleepless in Burlington 24-Hour 
Film Competition. As the name 
suggests, the team had only 24 
hours in which to put together 
a cohesive short !lm integrat-
ing a set of proscribed elements. 
#is year, as a nod to both the 
Vermont !lm festival that the 
competition was a part of and 
the timing of the festival, the 
set consisted of candy corn, an 
iconic Burlington location, a lo-
cal actor portraying the charac-
ter “Canada Guy” and two lines 
from a list taken from classic 
horror !lms.  
#e Sleepless in Burlington 
competition is an o$shoot of the 
Sleepless in Lake Placid 24-hour 
!lm competition, established in 
2006. A team from the College 
entered the competition in 2009. 
Although the competition was 
closed to schools outside of New 
York in 2010, Middlebury was 
still represented, with D. E. Ax-
inn Professor of English & Cre-
ative Writing Jay Parini appear-
ing as a special guest. #is year, 
Murphy’s rapport with compe-
tition organizer Barry Snyder 
helped Middlebury secure a 
spot at the inaugural Burlington 
event. 
As the only team from 
outside of Burlington, the 
Middlebury team was heading 
into the competition with even 
more restrictions than those al-
ready in place. 
Gadomski explained that, 
“they put us up in a hotel … [be-
cause] they felt bad that we were 
the only team not from Burling-
ton.” 
However, rather than being 
overwhelmed by such restric-
tions, the team decided to em-
brace them.  #ey seized upon 
their hotel for both their pri-
mary !lming location and for 
the mood that unites the !lm. 
Gadomski noted that “hotels 
have…this eerie sparseness.” 
#is sparseness married well 
with both the limits of 24-hour 
format and the Hitchcockian 
in%uences that Nolan brought 
to the competition, leading the 
team to cra" a vision for their 
!lm in which everything was, as 
Gadomski puts it, “a little o$.”
In the !nal !lm, titled “Op-
erator 676,” this vision carries 
through to every element. #e 
storyline is vaguely surreal. #e 
dialogue is spare and cryptic. 
#e soundscapes are warped and 
slightly jarring. #e cinematog-
raphy utilizes usual angles and 
variable lighting. #e editing is 
abrupt. #e direction lends a sin-
ister bent to even the most banal 
lines.
#e clarity with which these 
elements can be distilled is a re-
%ection of perhaps the team’s 
greatest strength. As Epstein 
noted heading into the compe-
tition, “everyone was brought 
onto this team because they are 
especially talented in one area.” 
#is allowed for what Gadomski 
referred to as, “very clear delin-
eations of roles.” Such delinea-
tion was crucial for success in 
the 24-hour format. As Nolan 
explains, “the key to a short !lm 
is e&ciency.” 
#is e&ciency allowed the 
team to, in 24 short and sleepless 
hours, put their !lm together 
without, as Nolan recalled, “cut-
ting any corners.” In the end, he 
said, the team, “made exactly 
what [they] wanted to make.” 
While the team’s !lm did not 
win at the competition, Nolan 
says that the judging ultimately 
felt like a “completely exter-
nal force.” “We’re walking away 
empty handed,” he continues, 
“but could not have asked for a 
greater success.”
Nolan and Gadomski would 
like, on behalf of their team, 
to emphasize that this success 
would not have been possible 
without the fantastic support of 
their mentor. As Nolan reiterates, 
they would like to give a “HUGE 
thank you to Ethan Murphy.” 
“Operator 676” can be found 
online on the Film and Media 
Culture’s Vimeo page (http://
vimeo.com/31380567). 
Students scramble in 24-hour !lm competition 
by Anna Flinchbaugh
Staff Writer
campussports24 3 November 2011
!e MCRC’s wild ride through its "rst 
Division I regular season came to a close last 
weekend with a 10-15 loss to Boston College. 
!e last time these two teams met was back 
in fall of 2009 when BC bested Middlebury 
24-13 in a preseason tune-up. Only one score 
separated the two teams this time around, but 
at the end of the day, Middlebury had to settle 
for a .500 record to end the season.
Boston took advantage of an early op-
portunity to establish good "eld position by 
kicking into the wind, pinning Middlebury 
back in its own half. !e elements le# their 
mark on this game as strong winds, freezing 
weather and rain combined to make it tough 
going for both sides throughout the game. 
However, it was Boston College that 
managed to take advantage in the "rst half, 
with two tries resulting from some missed 
tackles by the Middlebury side. Middlebury 
attempted to rebound with some great run-
ning on o$ense by Zach Withers ’11.5 and 
forwards captain Rowan Kelner ’12, but came 
up just short. Backs Captain Brian Sirkia’s 
’12.5 only kick was o$ the mark, and the 
MCRC headed into the second half staring 
down a 10-0 de"cit.
!ings soon got even worse as BC opened 
the second half with another try to make it 
15-0, then missing the conversion attempt. 
!at would be the last opportunity for BC, 
however, as Middlebury shu%ed their lineup 
and came roaring back, putting the Boston 
defense on its heels for the rest of the half.
!e Middlebury forwards continued 
their dominance in the lineouts and it payed 
o$ midway through the second half. First-
year Laird Silsby ’15 made his presence felt in 
his return from an injury, driving hard in the 
maul a#er a lineout and allowing John Haw-
ley ’14 to tear into the end zone for Middle-
bury’s "rst try of the day.
Sirkia missed the conversion but refused 
to be kept out of the end zone himself, as he 
pressed the attack, breaking ankles and freez-
ing defenders all day on his way to Middle-
bury’s second try. Unfortunately he missed 
the conversion, bringing the two teams to a 
combined 0-6 kicking, and preserving the 
"ve-point de"cit. !e comeback proved to 
be too little too late, however, as the clock 
wound down on the game and Middlebury 
was forced to break even on the season.
!e "rst chapter in the MCRC’s Divi-
sion I saga had a bittersweet ending. !e 
loss and the departure of Danny Powers and 
Zach Withers, who both provided stead-
fast leadership and ferocious energy, will be 
tough to swallow as the team heads into the 
o$season. Otherwise, the future looks bright. 
With many young players able to get playing 
time this season, and so many &ashes of bril-
liance therein, it is hard not to like the look 
of a squad that proved it belongs in Division 
I rugby.
By Sam Hathaway
Staff Writer
MCRC falls to BC in 
last regular season game
Panthers defeat Colby 
to advance in NESCACs
Panthers will face Lord Je!s 
in NESCAC semi"nal match
into the second period. Middlebury kept 
the pressure on for the duration of the sec-
ond half, and it took some timely goalten-
ding and stand-out defensive 
plays on the part of the Mules 
to keep themselves in the game. 
However, with time winding 
down and Colby’s chances of 
advancement looking increas-
ingly slim, Kirk drove the pro-
verbial dagger into the Mules’ 
heart, scoring her second goal 
of the contest with just four 
minutes remaining. !is goal, 
her 13th of the season, all but 
sealed the deal for the Panthers, 
who advanced to the NESCAC 
"nals for the sixth consecutive 
year.
“Winning the "rst-round 
NESCAC game on Senior Day 
was really special,” said Wag-
ner. “It was a great way to cel-
ebrate our seniors Katie, Kait 
and Devin, who have truly been 
rockstars this season.”
Middlebury will play Wil-
liams this weekend for the sec-
ond time in as many weeks. !e 
"nal rounds of this year’s NES-
CAC tournament will be played at Amherst, 
the conference’s number one overall seed. 
If the Panthers are able to defeat the Ephs 
again, they will play the winner of the Am-
herst-Wesleyan game for the NESCAC title 
on Sunday, Nov. 6.  
Continued from page 28
Julie Favorito ’14 assisted both Madding’s goal vs. Williams 
and Kirk’s tally vs. Colby.
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
previously held by Heidi Howard ’98 who 
scored 66 goals over her Middlebury career. 
Greer added another "rst half goal with 
just over two minutes le# before the break, 
again o$ a penalty corner. Middlebury took 
a 2-0 lead into hal#ime.
!at would be plenty for the Panthers, 
who added another insurance goal in the 
second half. Jackson tallied her second assist 
of the day, feeding Margaret Souther ’14 o$ 
yet another penalty corner, and that would 
be all she wrote. Becca Shaw ’12 was solid 
in goal for the Panthers, who have not lost 
since September 24th when they fell to 3-2 in 
overtime to undefeated Bowdoin — the top-
ranked team in the country.
Middlebury advances to the NESCAC 
semi"nals where they will play Amherst, who 
handed the Panthers their only other loss 
of the season.  !e Lord Je$s won the "rst 
meeting 3-1 at home. !e sem"nal game will 
be played at tournament host Bowdoin. !e 
ninth-ranked Panthers (13-2) have an eleven 
game winning streak on the line while the 
11th-ranked Lord Je$s have won nine of their 
last 10 games. 
Continued from page 28
Mind Over Time
(Keep It Simple, Do It Well)
Personalized coaching to create balance, 
calmness, efficiency, productivity, and 
quality in your life and work
Ron Rubin
Middlebury, Vermont
rlrubin@myfairpoint.net
ronrubin.wordpress.com
Otter Creek 
Used Books
has moved down 
creek from Main 
. to Marble Works.      
 Check it out. Windows!  Books!             
      Look for the blue awnings.
Always buying used textbooks.
99 Maple Street, Marble Works
802-388-3241
www.middleburycampus.com
3 November 2011 25campussports 
21 Number of RBIs World Series MVP David Freese totaled in 18 playo! games, setting a new postseason record.
1 Number of strikes the Rangers needed to clinch their "rst ever World Series in game six  — twice!
68
Number of goals Lauren Greer ’13 has scored in her amazing 
career at Middlebury. She passed Heidi Howard ’98 as 
Middlebury’s all time leading goal-scorer.
300
Number of wins men’s head soccer coach David Saward 
has accumulated in his 27 years coaching the Panthers. His 
overall record is a sparkling 300-97-47.
2.8
Number of yards per carry for Tennessee Titans “star” 
running back Chris Jonson. CJ2K signed a contract this 
season that guaranteed him at least $30 million. 
Date Sport Vs. Results Comments
10/29 Men’s Soccer Wesleyan 3-2 W #e Panthers upset the second-ranked Wesleyan to advance to the semi"nals. 
10/29 Women’s Soccer Colby 2-0 W
Scarlet Kirk ’14 scores both goals for 
Middlebury in their quater"nal shut out 
against Colby. 
10/29 Field Hockey Williams 3-0 W
Lauren Greer ’13 became the Panthers 
all-time leading scorer with two goals 
Saturday.
10/28
10/29 Volleyball
Hamilton
Williams
3-0 W
3-0 W
#e Panthers won their seventh game in 
eight tries, blanking Williams for a two-game 
sweep in the NESCAC Quad at Amherst.
10/29 Football Trinity 42-7 L
In his "rst start, Andy Dittrich ’13 led 
the Panthers to the "rst touchdown the 
Bantams have allowed in the "rst quarter. 
!ere is no such thing as an easy 
year when you’re transitioning up a 
division in college athletics. !at being 
said, the Middlebury women’s rugby team 
performed admirably if not perfectly in 
their "rst year as a member of Division 
II. Middlebury "nished with a record of 
three wins and three losses, though one 
of those losses came in the quarter"nals 
of the playo#s against the University of 
Rhode Island. Middlebury played "ve 
regular season games, all against NESCAC 
opponents, "nishing with a record of 3-2.
!e Panthers opened the 2011 season 
with a tough loss at Tu$s, falling 31-0. !at 
loss would mark the end of an impressive 
string of consecutive regular-season 
victories for Middlebury, dating back to 
their previous seasons playing Division III 
rugby. However, the girls bounced back, 
taking their home opener against Amherst 
the following week by a score of 22-0. !e 
Middlebury backline especially impressed 
in the Amherst game, with the Panthers’ 
four tries coming from center Julianna 
Gardner ’13, scrum-half Jessica Berry ’13, 
wing Kayla Bien ’13 and fullback Sarah 
“Mini” Minahan ’14. !e Panthers would 
make the trek to Bowdoin the following 
week, but unfortunately found that their 
long bus ride would precede an even longer 
game, as Middlebury fell by the lopsided 
score of 62-10. However, the game ended 
on a high note, as the Panthers scored two 
of the last three tries, including the game’s 
"nal tally.
A$er the loss to Bowdoin, the Panthers 
kept their playo# hopes alive with a clutch 
win in their most thrilling contest of the 
year. 
Playing Colby at home, Middlebury 
jumped out to an early 7-0 lead a$er 
putting on a kick-blocking clinic and Sarah 
Pfander ’13 recovered the ball in the try 
zone. A$er a quick Colby response, Berry 
put a penalty kick through the uprights, 
and the score was 10-7 Middlebury at the 
half. But the Mules came out punching in 
the second half, and put two converted tries 
on the board to stake themselves to a 21-10 
lead with little time remaining. With a new-
found intensity, the Panthers willed the ball 
down the "eld and Berry scored a try from 
short distance. She also converted it to 
make the score 21-17. !en, with less than 
"ve minutes le$, Gardner took a pass on the 
wing a$er a nice quick phase through the 
Middlebury back line. Rushing down the 
sideline, Gardner outran the Colby defense 
and touched down the score just inside the 
try zone for the winning tally. A$er a few 
more moments of tense play, Middlebury 
claimed the dramatic victory, 22-21.
!e Panthers played their "nal regular-
season game against rival Williams, and 
the game was not as close as the "nal 
score might have indicated. !e Panthers 
returned %y-half Evan Pagano ’12 from 
injury and she made an immediate impact, 
running in the "rst try of the game. A$er 
tries by Berry and Marissa Shaw ’14 and a 
penalty kick from Berry, Middlebury led 
18-0 going into hal$ime. Williams added 
a consolation try in the second half, but 
that would be all they could muster as 
the Panthers won by a "nal score of 18-7. 
!e win would be the last of Middlebury’s 
season before their discouraging loss 
to URI in the quarter"nals of the New 
England playo#s, but it added an overall 
feeling of con"dence for a team "nishing 
their "rst season in Division II.
“I think it was a fairly tough season 
due to the number of injuries that occurred 
in the late summer and the beginning of 
the year,” said prop Bee Ndlovu ’12. “But I 
was really impressed by how people rallied 
and stepped up to the challenge of changing 
divisions. I think the fact that we made it 
to the playo#s is proof that we belong in 
Division II.”
Captain Melissa Hayes ’12 echoed 
Ndlovu’s sentiments about last season, and 
remained upbeat about the club’s prospects 
for future success in Division II. 
“!e future is looking very promising 
for the club, especially with the greater 
challenge that we are o#ered by the move 
up in divisions,” she said. “We have a great 
group with some amazing coaches and 
experienced players, but would love to have 
more players join. If anyone is interested in 
playing rugby, they are welcome to come 
out in the spring!” 
Middlebury women’s rugby will 
continue to practice in the spring semester 
while gearing up for their next season in 
Division II next fall. 
!e women’s rugby team should look 
forward to increased success in their sec-
ond season in Division II rugby and re-
gain their form that took them to two un-
defeated seasons in Division III.
By Dillon Hupp
Sports Editor
Women’s rugby "nishes strong season 3-3
Questions Katie Siegner Damon Hatheway Dillon Hupp Alex Edel
Will the football team 
score more or less than 30 
points this weekend?
MORE
It’s time.
MORE
Mac Foote will return to action 
and lead the Panthers to victory.
LESS
 We won’t need to score a bunch. 
Hamilton is averaging like negative 
six points per game.
LESS 
Mac Foote is a star but it is 
unknown weather he will play or 
not. 
Who will win the “game of 
the century” between #1 
LSU and #2 Alabama?
LSU
Just because Dillon’s record is good 
doesn’t mean his team will win.
ALABAMA
Haven’t you seen how good the 
ESPN ads are? And they’ve got the 
best player in Trent Richardson. 
Two words: Roll Tide.
LSU
My team is Arkansas, Katie. So 
ideally, both teams would lose.
ALABAMA
Tail gates always get the home team 
riled up. 
What will be the score 
of the women’s soccer 
NESCAC semi"nal game 
against Williams?
2-1 PANTHERS
And how “sweep” it will be.
2-1 PANTHERS
#e women are feeling it. #ey 
have so much momentum Katie 
might even get her picks right this 
week.
1-0 PANTHERS
If it ain’t broke, don’t "x it. Just like 
last time.
2-1 PANTHERS
Damon knows sports and Katie 
plays soccer ...
Will the "eld hockey team 
avenge their early season 
loss to Amherst this 
weekend?
YES
#ey’re goin’ all the way this time.
OH YES
#ey haven’t lost since September 
24th #winning.
YES
Damon stole that particular bit 
of information from me. But 
seriously. Since September.
YES
Lauren Greer ’13 is on "re and the 
team has a massive winning streak 
behind them!
Can the men’s soccer team 
advance past Amherst to 
the NESCAC "nals?
YES
#ey make their living o! of 
playo! season.
NO
#e win over Wesleyan was a 
major upset and I don’t see them 
shocking the Lord Je!s.
NO
#ey lost 3-0 earlier this year. 
I don’t see us being three goals 
better this time around.
NO
Although last weekend showed 
their true colors, I am going to have 
to go with their record on this one.
Career Record 62-78 (.443) 15-15 (.500) 77-65 (.542) 37-42 (.468)
Editors’
Picks
campussports26 3 November 2011
Michael Schmidt ’12 wins NESCAC title race on one shoe
Panthers drop to 2-4, 
lose 42-7 to Bantams 
On Oct. 29 the Middlebury cross coun-
try team travelled to Amherst College to 
compete in the NESCAC Championships, 
in what was the !rst meet of the Pan-
thers’ championship portion of the season. 
Middlebury entered the race with high ex-
pectations, as they hoped to repeat their 
historic sweep of the race from last season. 
However, while both the men and women 
displayed strong performances, the pieces 
needed for victory did not come together; 
the women placed second and the men !n-
ished in fourth. 
Addie Tousley ’13 and co-captain Margo 
Cramer ’12 led the women’s team, !nishing 
in third place and fourth place, respectively, 
out of 123 competitors. "ey completed the 
six-kilometer course in 22:44 and 22:56, 
or 5:59 and 6:02 per mile, and only lost to 
Chiara Del Piccolo from Williams, and Keri 
Lambert from Amherst. 
Co-captain Chelsea Ward-Waller ’12 
and Emily Singer ’14 crossed the line next 
for the Panthers, !nishing side by side in 
10th and 11th place, respectively, with a 
time of 23:10. Emily Attwood ’14 rounded 
out Middlebury’s pack, placing 14th in a 
time of 23:19. 
"e Panthers scored an impressive 42 
total points, but fell to Williams College, 
whose total was a mere 34 points. Amherst, 
the third place college, trailed substantially, 
with 105 points.
While third-ranked Middlebury was 
disappointed not to top !rst-ranked Wil-
liams College, the Panthers remain optimis-
tic about their performance. 
 “"e middle two miles of the course 
were incredibly muddy,” said Cramer. “"is 
played to our strength, but when we le# the 
mud and hit the trails, the team lost a few 
crucial places to Williams. All in all, though, 
the women had a great race. Hopefully mov-
ing forward our top !ve will be able to make 
up the 4-5 seconds that Williams had on 
many of our scorers and [we will be able to] 
claim the regional title.”
   On the men’s side, co-captain Michael 
Schmidt ’12 led the Panthers in impres-
sive fashion. A#er placing second last year, 
Schmidt beat out 128 competitors to become 
the second Panther in Middlebury history 
to win a men’s NESCAC title. Schmidt com-
pleted the eight-kilometer course in 25:51 
or 5:11 per mile, and also ran most of the 
race in a single shoe a#er losing the other 
one in the third mile of the mud-covered 
course. 
Jack Davies ’13, Greg Krathwohl ’14, 
Nate Sans ’14 and Kevin Wood ’15 rounded 
out the rest of the Panthers scoring pack, 
placing 12th, 23rd, 26th and 33rd respec-
tively. With 94 points, the Panthers fell 
to Williams, Bowdoin and Bates. Like the 
women, however, the men remain optimis-
tic and composed for their more important 
races to come.
“I don’t think we were as prepared as we 
could have been to tackle a sloppy course,” 
said Schmidt. “Some guys had really im-
pressive days but our men as a whole had 
the worst race of the season. It’s dis-
appointing because we won last year, 
but our training is focused on the 
very end of the season so in some 
ways it is good to have a rough race 
now and be more level headed going 
into ECACs and Regionals.”
"e Panthers will compete in the 
ECAC Championships on Nov. 5 at 
Williams College and will then travel 
to Bowdoin on Nov. 12 to vie for a 
spot at the National Championships 
in Oshkosh, Wis.
“It is nice to have a bit of a wake-
up call that keeps us hungry and 
makes us realize how much we have 
to be on the top of our game in the 
next few weeks,” said Schmidt. “I 
know that everyone will do what they 
need to do and we have two weeks to 
get ready. Nervous, but excited.”
2010 was the !rst year in school 
history that Middlebury College sent 
not only the perennially dominant 
women’s team to the National Cham-
pionship but the men’s team as well. 
"is season, with Nicole Wilkerson at the 
helm as head coach for the !rst time, the 
Panthers have taken strides towards an im-
pressive transition from the Terry Aldrich 
era, and are now poised to make the pro-
gram’s presence on the national level a re-
curring one.   
Apparently Trinity did not get the mes-
sage that Saturday was Homecoming. "e 
NESCAC-leading Bantams, who now sup-
port a 6-0 record, returned two !rst quarter 
interceptions for touchdowns en route to a 
42-7 victory over the Panthers (2-4). 
While the Bantams defense demon-
strated why it holds teams to an astounding 
!ve points per game, the Panthers — who 
were playing without starting quarterback 
Mac Foote ’13.5 — were able to move the 
ball early against the vaunted Bantams de-
fense. Andy Dittrich ’13, in his !rst start as a 
Panther, recovered from a opening-posses-
sion interception to lead the Panthers to a 
!rst quarter touchdown — the !rst points 
Trinity has given up to any team in the 
!rst quarter of a game this season. A#er an 
eight-yard run from Dittrich put the Pan-
thers inside the one-yard line, Remi Ashkar 
’13 tied the game at seven with a one-yard 
touchdown run with 9:18 remaining in the 
!rst quarter. 
A#er the defense forced Trinity to punt, 
the Panthers’ next possession resulted in an-
other touchdown — once again for the Ban-
tams. On third and six Dittrich appeared to 
have Nick Resor ’12 open for a !rst down, 
but Bantams safety Rae Haynes stepped in 
front of the pass and took it 29 yards for a 
touchdown. 
“He made a couple mistakes early,” 
head coach Bob Ritter said about Dittrich’s 
performance. “It’s really hard to simulate 
game speed [in practice] and  particular-
ly  against the best team in the league. As 
the game went on he adjusted nicely. By and 
large other than the two mistakes he threw 
to the right guys and made the right reads. 
Small mistakes against really good teams 
lead to big plays. But once he got up to game 
speed he did a nice job.”
Dittrich started in place of Foote who 
was injured leading a game-winning drive 
against Bates the week before. "e Panthers 
survived a wild game against the Bobcats 
that featured a blocked punt from Phil Cut-
ler ’12 to give the Panthers a lead late in the 
fourth quarter. 
"e Panthers rallied back from a twelve 
point de!cit in the third quarter a#er Foote 
By Brandt Silver-Korn
Staff Writer
By Damon Hatheway
Sports Editor
Michael Schmidt ’12 took the victory in the men’s race.
Courtesy
threw an interception that was returned for 
a touchdown. "e sophomore quarterbak 
out of Nobles High School attoned for his 
earlier pick with a last minute touchdown 
pass to Nick Resor with 12 seconds lef in the 
game. 
Foote led the Panthers with 412 yards 
passing and !ve touchdowns, completing 39 
of 53 passes. Foote was not only named NE-
SCAC O%ensive Player of the Week for his 
performance but he also received the Gold 
Helmet Award from the New England Foot-
ball Writers’ Gridiron Club.
In his place Dittrich completed 18 of 41 
passes for 144 yards and two interceptions. 
"e junior from Woodbury, Minn. played 
better than his stats would suggest, success-
fully moving the ball against one of the best 
defenses in Division III football, let alone 
the NESCAC.
While the Panthers found intermit-
tent success through the air, they continued 
to struggle to kick-start the running game 
as Ashkar totaled just 40 yards on 17 car-
ries before leaving the game with an injury 
in the second quarter. Running against the 
top run defense in the NESCAC, very few 
rushing lanes materialized for the Panthers 
leading carrier.
On the defensive side of the game the 
Panthers held the dangerous Trinity back-
!eld to less than !ve yards per carry. Ben 
Crick and Evan Bunker were held to just 56 
and 33 yards respectively. 
“I thought our defense handled the run 
game pretty well,” said Ritter. “But when you 
do that you get exposed to the deep ball and 
that’s what hurt us.”
A#er the Bantam defense spotted its 
o%ense 14 points o% of two !rst quarter 
interception returns, Trinity !nally found 
a rhythm on o%ense in the second quarter 
when AJ Jones made his !rst of two long 
catches behind the Panthers secondary. 
Midway through the second quarter, on 
third and 11 from the Bantams 25 yard-line, 
Jones took advantage of a slip in the Pan-
thers’ secondary for a 67-yard reception that 
brought Trinity to the Panthers’ eight-yard 
line, setting up the Bantams !rst o%ensive 
touchdown. Jones struck again on the ensu-
ing drive, hauling in a 32-yard touchdown 
pass from Headley Jennings for a 28-7 Ban-
tams lead. With two big plays on o%ense and 
two on defense the Bantams took advantage 
of a Panthers error in special teams, recov-
ering a mu%ed punt at the Middlebury 21-
yard line for the !nal score.
"e Panthers played well, but once again 
fell victim to recurring mistakes as big plays 
and crucial turnovers cost the Panthers any 
chance of a Homecoming upset. On the sea-
son the Panthers rank last in the NESCAC 
with a negative 10-turnover margin. 
“I think that’s been the story of our loss-
es unfortunately,” Ritter said. “We’ve played 
well in spots and we can compete with ev-
erybody, but we’ve given up big plays that 
have put us in holes.”
"e Panthers host Hamilton (2-4) Sat-
urday in the !nal home game of the season. 
Foote and Ashkar are questionable to play.Remi Ashkar ’13 rushes up the middle on one of his 17 carries Saturday. 
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
!e Panthers dropped their homecoming game 42-7 to Trinity on Saturday.
Andrew Podrygula, Photos Editor
campussports 3 November 2011 27
As a sports fan at this school — and I 
tend to think of myself as one of the few true 
sports fans — it o!en feels as if you’re part of 
a scattered and uncoordinated fraternity that 
lacks the necessary communication skills to 
mobilize itself into congregation. If you’ve 
ever walked into the grille hoping to watch 
an important playo" game, only to #nd the 
television room #lled with people watching 
!e Real World you’ll know what I mean. 
To assure myself, and the rest of you 
who form this disparate subculture at 
Middlebury, that passionate sports fans do 
exist at this school, I will be spotlighting 
some of the more unique sports fans on 
campus — student, faculty and sta". Indeed, 
our #rst fanatic is a member of faculty, Politi-
cal Science Professor Matt Dickinson. 
Professor Dickinson is perhaps best 
known by his students for three things: his 
dry sense of humor, his overzealous coverage 
of Herman Cain’s presidential bid and above 
all, his unapologetic, diehard love of the Bos-
ton Red Sox.
“In the classroom I try and put a little 
edge into discussion by wearing my sporting 
allegiances on my sleeves,” Dickinson said. 
“Based on the reaction to my injection of 
sports into my lectures, I’d say there’s intense 
interest in a certain segment of the students 
about professional sports. Most of my refer-
ences are to the Boston sports teams so the 
biggest feedback I get is from the New York 
sports fans.”
Which is of no particular surprise. 
Middlebury draws disproportionately from 
the Northeast. Dickinson is well aware of 
the demographics of the college and cites 
the success of both cities’ sports teams as one 
reason why there are so many fans of each. 
“We’re in New England and New Eng-
land sports teams have done so well lately,” 
he said. “So you can’t help but at least pay at-
tention to it because it’s all around you.”
Sure, if you’re the average sports fan. 
But Dickinson’s  fan loyalties run deeper. 
“My job here is to encourage Red Sox 
fans and discourage Yankees fans from tak-
ing my course,” he said. “And then of course 
there’s an ethical dimension to this, which 
is, ‘how can you live with yourself as a New 
York fan?’ I try to improve the ethics of my 
students by pointing out all the problems 
with New York sports. $at’s my professional 
duty on this campus. It’s not just about edu-
cation — it’s about saving these fans’ lives.”
Professor Dickinson, whose father is a 
Yankees fan, dates his love for baseball back 
to 1967. 
“I was in second grade in 1967, which 
was the ‘Impossible Dream’ year for the Red 
Sox,” he recalled. “$e Red Sox had sucked 
for years, but ’67 was what turned it all 
around. $ey really were horrible. $ey were 
a country club team, attendance was spotty; 
they really had Ted Williams and nothing 
else. And then ’67 came out of nowhere and 
Carl Yazstremski became my hero.”
$e Red Sox clinched one of the great-
est pennant races ever and went on to play 
the St Louis Cardinals in the World Series.
“Because World Series games were 
played during the day — there were no night 
games then — our elementary teacher let us 
listen to the games on the radio. Rico Pet-
rocelli, the Red Sox shortstop, hit two home 
runs and forced a game seven and that’s real-
ly when I got turned on to baseball and that’s 
what stamped me as a life-long Red Sox fan.”
Ultimately the Red Sox would drop the 
deciding game seven to the Cardinals, ex-
tending a World Series drought that #nally 
ended in 2004 — the pinnacle of Dickinson’s 
life as a Red Sox fan.
And while great Red Sox players like 
Dickinson’s “sports icon” Carl Yazstremski 
never won a World Series, Dickinson o"ers 
some reprieve. 
“It’s not about winning the race but how 
you run the race,” Dickinson said. “You have 
to #nd the virtues in the things around you.”
Spoken like a true Red Sox fan and po-
litical scientist.
Damon Hatheway is a sports editor from 
London, England.
Sports SpotlightAthletics Department does its part
Rank Team10/20 Katie’s Comments
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
8
3
6
7
—
1
—
5
Cross country
Women’s soccer
Volleyball
Women’s rugby
Men’s soccer
Football
Men’s rugby
Finally broke the curse of the NESCAC 
quarter!nals! "is team deserves to go far.
Even though the teams didn’t take NESCACs, Michael 
Schmidt ’12 did, continuing his domination of every-
thing running on two legs.
Beating Williams for the !rst time in six years = win-
ning in the Great Eight.
Time for these NESCAC defending champs to protect 
their crown.
Despite a tough loss in the quarter!nals of the play-
o#s, they had a successful season playing in D-II for 
the !rst time.
Proving that the playo#s are a whole new season, this 
team has turned it up several notches.
"ey played an excellent game against Bates — too 
bad that was the away game.
Field hockey
A 3-3 !nish to the season isn’t bad for their D-I debut.
!e women’s soccer team 
shut out the Ephs 1-0 
before taking their NE-
SCAC quarter"nal game 
vs. Colby 2-0.
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
The Middlebury Great Eight
In their last NESCAC regular season 
games, the volleyball team traveled to the 
NESCAC Quad tournament at Amherst 
where they came out 2-0 against Hamilton and 
Williams. With these victories, Middlebury 
advances to third place in NESCAC, tailing 
only Bowdoin and Tu!s. 
$e Panthers started out the weekend 
with a 3-0 win over Hamilton Friday, Oct. 28. 
$e team pulled ahead with a 10-4 run in the 
#rst set a!er a tied 9-9 stalemate and held the 
lead by at least six for the rest of the game. 
With two aces served up by Amy Hart ’14, the 
team was able to take the #rst game 25-16. 
$e second game was again a 9-9 tie 
when Hamilton broke away to take an 18-14 
lead over Middlebury. Middlebury did not let 
this discourage them and were able to tie up 
the score at 22 points. $e teams then battled 
it out before Megan Jarchow ’14 hit a game-
changing kill, tying the score 25-25 to start 
the Panther 3-0 run to win the second set. 
With the con#dence of a two set lead, 
the Panthers got o" to an early lead 10-0 and 
were able to sweep the Continentals 25-9 
in the third set. Jarchow led the Panthers 
with 17 kills while Hart and Jane Handel ’12 
combined for 15 kills. Libero Caitlin Barrett 
’13 was instrumental on defense again with 
16 digs. 
Saturday, the Panthers came ready to 
play and swept Williams 3-0. $e Ephs took 
an early lead in the #rst set, but a!er a timeout 
the Panthers were able to surge forward and 
a!er an ace from Meg Anderson ’14 they tied 
it up at 13-13. $ey continued on to win in a 
close 25-22 set with a kill from Jarchow. A!er 
winning the #rst set, the Panthers advanced 
to a 9-0 lead early in the second set. $e Ephs 
fought back, but Middlebury proved too 
strong and won the set 25-13. 
Hoping to come away with another 3-0 
sweep, the third game proved to be much 
closer. However, Middlebury did not let this 
stop them and were able to pull away with a 
3-0 win. Handle led the team in kills and was 
closely followed by Hart with 12 and 11 kills 
respectively. 
“We really started to %ow as a team 
this weekend and if we keep playing at this 
level we will do very well in the NESCAC 
tournament this weekend,” said Anderson. 
$ese two wins come a!er the team went 
2-1 at the Hall of Fame tournament over fall 
break. $e Panthers opened the weekend 
with a 3-1 win over Wellesley, followed by 
3-0 win over MIT. In their #nale game, team 
fell 3-1 to Spring#eld. Handel was named to 
the all-tournament team a!er 12 kills against 
Wellesley, 10 against MIT and 14 in the 
Spring#eld matchup. 
“We really started to %ow as a team 
this weekend and if we keep playing at this 
level we will do very well in the NESCAC 
tournament this weekend,” said Anderson. 
$e team will travel to Bowdoin this 
coming weekend to play in the NESCAC 
Championship tournament. $ey are set to 
start o" the weekend against Conn. College. 
If they advance, they will play the winner of 
the Tu!s/Williams match.
“$is was just the type of momentum we 
need with one more regular season game le! 
and the anticipation of NESCACs coming up 
this weekend,” Hart said. 
Last year the team came away with a 
NESCAC championship and advanced to 
the second round of the NCAA tournament. 
Volleyball boasts two-win weekend
By Alex Edel
Sports Editor
At Middlebury, sustainability is not an 
event; it is a process. It does not just occur; it is 
incorporated. $e Athletics Department may 
not be the traditional standard-bearer for green 
living at the College, yet it is undeniable that the 
in%uence of sustainability has permeated the 
walls (and #elds) of the athletics complex. From 
the presence of a sustainability liaison in ski team 
coach Andrew Gardner to the incorporation of 
sustainability in future building plans, the word 
has become an ethos in the Panthers athletics 
program. While the presence of green practices 
in athletics might not be as visible as the touch-
screen environmental monitor in the Franklin 
Environmental Centerat Hillcrest, members 
of the Athletics Department are consistently 
incorporating new and sustainable actions into 
their operating model.
“$ere are formal systemic mechanisms 
to make sure these issues stay in front of us,” 
said Director of Athletics Erin Quinn. $e 
ongoing lines of communication established 
with Sustainability Director Jack Byrne and 
Dean of Environmental A"airs Nan Jenks-
Jay, for example, have helped to put the lens 
of sustainability on many of the department’s 
activities. By working through these already-
established sustainability channels, the Athletics 
Department ensures that ideas for green 
initiatives are continuously being generated. 
One of the most signi#cant ways that 
sustainability has played a role in the Athletics 
Department is through the incorporation of 
green building practices in recent renovation 
projects. $e re-tur#ng of Kohn #eld, for 
example, recycled 95% of the old surface and 
created a sprinkler system that recycles the water 
used. Furthermore, in the plans developing 
for the department’s newest renovation, the 
project to replace the Bubble, sustainability has 
been incorporated throughout every step of the 
design process.
“$at was front and center for this building 
project,” said Quinn. From the start the 
architecture #rms interviewing for the project 
were met by a panel that included, in addition 
to Facilities Project Manager Mark Gleason and 
Vice President for Administration Tim Spears, 
two voices for sustainability: Byrne and Jenks-
Jay. “$e conversation is a lot di"erent with or 
without the Sustainability Director and the Dean 
of Environmental A"airs at the table,” remarked 
Quinn.
$e contending #rms thus had to come 
prepared to address green issues, and the #rm 
that was chosen, Sasaki Associates, demonstrated 
a sustainability ethos that aligned well with 
the College’s vision for the project. In addition, 
earlier this year the Athletics Department held 
a two-day meeting with the architects in which 
at least half a day was dedicated to addressing 
sustainability concerns for the project, with 
an entire workshop on the topic. $is upfront 
e"ort to ensure that the renovation is as green 
as possible clearly demonstrates the systemic 
nature of sustainability in athletics.
“$e new construction of the #eld house 
will provide another amazing opportunity to 
embed sustainability into our athletes, events 
and supporters,” said Andrew Gardner. 
Quinn echoed this notion of a deeper 
commitment to sustainability, adding, “We don’t 
take a cynical, PR-type approach to being green. 
It’s embedded in what we do.”
Given these recent strides promoting the 
growth of sustainability within the College’s 
athletic culture, both Quinn and Gardner are 
optimistic about the future, and eager to see 
students assume a greater role in fostering new 
green initiatives. 
“In a few years, what I see is a really active 
cohort of students bringing ideas to the table,” said 
Quinn, alluding to the “Green Liaison” program 
led by Gardner in which student-athletes meet 
to discuss ways to incorporate green practices on 
sports teams. One of Gardner’s main initiatives 
is the on-going e"ort to reduce vehicular tra&c 
around the athletics center, that is, encouraging 
students to make the daily practice commute on 
foot or by bike. Despite mixed results with this 
campaign, Gardner remains optimistic about 
the culture of sustainability among athletes and 
students in general.
“Watching these committed young people 
drive the conversation and empower change in 
support of sustainable practices is truly exciting,” 
he concluded.
By Katie Siegner
Sports Editor
!e varsity women’s soccer 
team roared into the NESCAC 
semi"nals last weekend, down-
ing the Mules of Colby 2-0 in a 
home quarter"nal match on Oct. 
29. Scarlett Kirk ’14 scored both 
goals in the victory, the Panthers’ 
"#h in a row. All "ve of those vic-
tories have come without a single 
goal allowed by the Middlebury 
defense.
!e Panthers’ run into the 
NESCAC tournament began two 
weekends ago, when they defeat-
ed Bates 1-0 on the road on Oct. 
22. In that game, Ali Omsberg 
’15 scored her "rst career goal 
in the 68th minute to secure the 
Middlebury victory. !e Panthers 
followed up that e$ort by defeat-
ing Williams by the same score 
at home on Oct. 26.  !at vic-
tory earned Middlebury the sec-
ond overall seed in the NESCAC 
tournament, and also broke a 
six-game losing slide to the Ephs 
— the Panthers had previously 
not defeated their Williamstown 
rivals since 2005. Rachel Madding 
’14 was the lone scorer in that 
game, taking an assist from Julia 
Favorito ’14 in the 18th minute 
and "nding the back of the net. 
Following the win over Williams, 
the Panthers were guaranteed at 
least one home playo$ match.
“We came out so strong 
against Williams,” said outside 
back Lucy Wagner ’13, part of a 
Middlebury back line that has not 
given up a goal since Oct. 8. “It 
was awesome to see the high level 
of play that we’re capable of show-
ing. Every single player has been 
giving 100 percent in practice and 
on the "eld, and that’s really en-
couraging going into NESCACs.”
!e Panthers hosted the NE-
SCAC quarter"nal match against 
Colby on Homecoming Saturday, 
Oct. 29. !e Panthers had previ-
ously trounced the Mules 4-0 back 
on Sept. 17 and came into the 
game with a bevy of con"dence. 
!ose feelings would not be ill- 
placed, as Kirk put a goal in dur-
ing each half and the Middlebury 
defense and goaltending played 
their usual solid game, keeping 
Colby o$ the board for the second 
time this season.
!e Panthers opened the 
scoring in the 21st minute, when 
Kirk took a Favorito pass and beat 
her defender, blasting the winner 
into the top right corner of the 
net. !e Mules had a few decent 
chances in the "rst half, including 
a corner kick in the 35th minute, 
but were unable to convert, and 
went into hal#ime down 1-0.
Middlebury changed goalies 
going into the second half, switch-
ing out starter Jocelyn Remmert 
’13 in favor of Elizabeth Foody 
’14. Foody would have an imme-
diate impact on the game, sliding 
into an attacking Colby player and 
neutralizing an excellent chance 
for the Mules just four minutes 
this week in sports
games to watch
Football vs. Hamilton
Saturday, Nov. 5, 12:30 p.m.
NESCAC tournament games
Volleyball
The squad goes 2-0 on the 
weekend, page 27.
Homecoming 2011
Turn inside for coverage of the 
football game and other festivities 
from the weekend.
sports28 3 November 2011
The Middlebury Campus
HO
ME
CO
MI
NG
HI
GH
LI
GH
TS
Men’s soccer upsets 2nd-ranked 
Wesleyan in NESCAC quarters
The Middlebury men’s soc-
cer team geared up for the NES-
CAC tournament with their final 
in season game against Williams 
last Wednesday, Oct. 26. Fol-
lowing a 1-0 win at Bates the 
previous weekend, Oct. 22, the 
Panthers were showing signs of 
heating up as the regular season 
wound down and playoff time ap-
proached. In the Williams game, 
the team continued its trend of 
out-shooting opponents, with a 
19-6 advantage in shots on goal.
Middlebury’s first attempt 
came four minutes into the first 
half when Tyler Macnee ’12 
missed a header off a cross from 
Martin Drolet ’12. 
A similar attempt came just 
four minutes later off a free kick 
from Jack Freeman ’12, with 
Alex Colucci ’12 missing another 
header just wide. Ephs goalkeeper 
Than Finan thwarted a final first 
half attempt by Graham Knisely 
’14 with a diving save.
The Panthers continued to 
push the Ephs defense into the 
second half but Finan was able 
to block another attempt by Jon 
Portman ’13.
Scoreless after regulation, the 
game was pushed into overtime 
where neither team managed to 
score. Defender Tyler Smith ’14 
and goalkeeper Tim Cahill ’12 
stopped an early attempt by User 
Kushaina. Cahill made seven 
saves and, with a final score of 
0-0, earned his ninth scoreless 
match of the season.
After Wednesday’s hard-
fought tie, championship season 
began on Saturday as the seventh-
ranked Panthers took on the sec-
ond-ranked Wesleyan Cardinals 
in an attempt to defend their NE-
SCAC title. 
The two teams tied 0-0 in 
their regular season matchup. Be-
fore the game, Wesleyan had been 
ranked ninth in the nation and 
had dropped just one game on the 
season — a 2-0 loss to Trinity in 
the final game of the season. 
Despite being the underdogs, 
the Panthers took control of the 
game in the middle of the first 
half and never turned back. 
The Cardinals looked good 
initially, with an early goal in the 
10h minute by Zach Dixon. The 
Panthers, however, were quick to 
answer. 
In the 29th minute, Wesleyan 
goalkeeper Adam Purdy stopped 
a shot from Noah Goss-Woliner 
’15. Knisely, however, grabbed 
the rebound and scored to tie 
the game at 1-1. Just two minutes 
later, the Panthers took the lead. 
Mark Martin ’13 scored off a pass 
from Robbie Redmond ’12 to take 
the lead for good.
The Panthers scored a third 
goal in the 84th minute with 
Drolet out-maneuvering Purdy 
for his sixth goal of the season. 
Wesleyan’s Dixon managed to 
score 29 seconds later, but ulti-
mately it was not enough. 
With a final score of 3-2, 
Middlebury upset Wesleyan to 
and advanced to the quarterfinals 
where they will face the sixth-
ranked Lord Jeffs..
This game marked coach 
David Saward’s 300th win. Dur-
ing his 27-year run with the Pan-
thers, he has earned a 300-97-47 
record and has led the Panthers to 
at least the semifinals of the NES-
CAC tournament since its incep-
tion.
The Panthers will continue 
their pursuit of the NESCAC title 
this weekend away at Amherst. 
They hope to use their momen-
tum from Saturday’s game to grab 
their second consecutive NES-
CAC title. The Panthers fell 3-0 
to Amherst in their only other 
meeting against the Lord Jeffs on 
Sep. 18.
Women’s soccer prepares for 
semi"nal rematch with Ephs
By Dillon Hupp
Sports Editor
Field hockey beats 
Williams in quarters
Field hockey sensation Lauren 
Greer ’13 set the all-time school 
mark for scoring last weekend, as 
Middlebury rolled over Williams 
for the second consecutive game 
to advance to the semi"nals of the 
NESCAC tournament.
A#er "nishing their regular 
season with a 6-3 victory over 
Williams on Oct. 26, the Panthers 
took the "eld against their familiar 
foe in the quarter"nals of the 
NESCAC tournament. On their 
home turf, Middlebury executed 
perfectly, shutting out the Ephs, 
leaving no doubt about who the 
team to beat in the conference is.
Greer made her mark early in 
the quarter"nal, scoring her "rst 
goal of the contest just under 11 
minutes in. 
O$ of a penalty corner feed 
from Lucy Jackson ’13, Greer 
scored the record setting goal, 
the 67th of her career. !e junior 
superstar broke the record 
By Dillon Hupp
Sports Editor
By Mike Oster
Staff Writer
Middlebury advances to the NESCAC semi!nals where the Panthers will 
play rivals Amherst. "e Panthers fell 3-0 to Amherst earlier this season.
File Photo
Matt Martin ’12.5 scored the Panthers’ game-tying goal at Wesleyan.
Courtesy of Je$ Patterson
See NCAA, page 23
"e Panthers used tenacious defense to shut out the rival Ephs.
Paul Gerard, Photos Editor
See Panthers, page 24
This week, as part of  the green issue of  the Campus 
our own Katie Siegner takes a closer look at how the 
Athletic Department has done its part to reduce its 
carbon footprint, particularly with the recent renovation 
of  Kohn Field. She interviewed Athletic Director Erin 
Quinn  and ski coach Andrew Gardner who weighed in 
on the issue. See page 27 for the full article.
middl
ebury
c-
ampu
s.com
