November 7, 2013 | Vol. 112 no. 8 | middleburycampus.com
RESIDENTS 
DEBATE FUTURE 
OF TOWN HALL
PAGE 5
BEHIND THE VEST: 
WHERE DO ALL THE 
LEAVES GO?
PAGES 12
VINEGAR 
TOM SHOCKS 
AUDIENCES
PAGE 18
in
sid
e
Chance the Rapper’s performance on Nov. 2 sparked debate about race, misogyny and homopho-
bia on campus. For more comprehensive coverage, see Arts, page 16 and Opinions, page 18. 
Anthea  Viragh
By Nate Sans
Paul gerard
TEAM USA TAKES THE ICE
Chance Fuels 
Larger Forum
Teams Cramped by Construction
By Aleck Silva-Pinto
By Kelsey Collins
-
ity on Nov. 4, as students, fac-
-
-
-
-
discussion that continued after 
-
spoke. 
-
rity for minority groups on cam-
pus to the censorship of art. 
-
-
these important discussions in-
-
ate a community where students 
-
-
students there were thought-
to be a part of a community that 
-
-
-
Center for the Comparative 
-
-
to speak.
-
-
ties. Nobody wants to have those 
-
Despite differing opinions 
-
Fouhey said that the key is to 
continue the discussion in the 
future.
-
night are not just about Chance, 
hope that this was the first of 
urged students to attend the 
-
tunities in the Arts programs on 
in June, has caused unprec-
edented disruption to many of 
the teams and coaches who 
-
tice space for sports teams this 
winter.
-
program’s five home courts. 
construction, but the economic 
-
partment is faced with the task 
of finding an interim space for 
Quinn is working with coaches 
on a sport-to-sport basis.
-
-
rived at the point of construc-
-
weather during the winter. Due 
-
the most time outdoors, and 
when weather is severe, those 
-
ation Area.
a tougher issue because the 
risk of arm injuries that are 
SEE HANDBOOK, PAGE 2
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 4
Watch our exclusive 
coverage of the squash 
court’s opening online at 
middleburycampus.com.
-
prehensive report of student 
-
-
marks a new commitment to 
-
-
in the past, the new reporting 
-
-
ary actions.
-
other form of academic dishon-
-
duct, three of which were met 
-
-
number of incidents that re-
Mayor Rob Ford of Toronto, the larg-
est city in Canada and fourth-largest in 
his political life last week after the Toron-
to Police recovered a video that allegedly 
showed the mayor smoking crack cocaine.
 Ford was elected mayor of Toronto in 
October 2010 on a populist conservative 
platform to “stop the gravy train” at City 
Hall and keep taxes low. He draws his sup-
port primarily from suburban homeown-
ers. Since his appointment, Ford has been 
caught up in a litany of scandals including 
almost cost him the mayor’s seat, several 
instances of public intoxication and read-
ing documents while driving on a freeway.
Back in May, the Toronto Star, Canada’s 
largest daily newspaper, and U.S. website 
Gawker simultaneously reported on the 
existence of a video in which Mayor Ford 
appears to be smoking crack cocaine and 
using racist and homophobic language. 
Reporters from the two media sources 
viewed the video from a man’s cellphone 
in a parking lot. The video was reportedly 
taken at a house on Windsor Road in the 
city’s west-end. Also published was a pho-
tograph of the mayor with several young 
men taken in front of the Windsor Road 
house. One of the men in the photo had 
been gunned down outside a downtown 
nightclub in late March.
In a press conference held one week 
after the story broke, Ford vehemently de-
nied any allegations of wrongdoing. 
“I do not use crack cocaine, nor am I 
an addict of crack cocaine,” he said at the 
press conference.
Ford resisted calls for his resignation 
and blamed the left-leaning Toronto Star 
for “questionable reporting” and trying to 
sabotage his conservative agenda.
Mark Towhey after the story initially 
broke. Towhey supposedly advised Ford 
to take a leave of absence to deal with 
his personal issues. A string of high-level 
staffers, including the mayor’s press sec-
retary, special assistant for communica-
tions, policy advisor and executive assis-
tant, followed Towhey’s trail out the door
In June, the Toronto Police conducted 
several drug raids, including one at the 
house on Windsor Road where the photo 
of the mayor was taken. The raids resulted 
in arrests of a man who tried to sell the 
crack video to reporters for $200,000 and 
two other men who appeared with Ford in 
the photograph on Windsor Road.
Last Thursday, the Ontario Superior 
Court released a heavily censored 474-
page police report of the surveillance op-
eration. The report contained details of a 
massive police surveillance operation over 
the summer on Ford and a close associate, 
Alexandro Lisi. Using helicopters, camer-
as and unmarked police cars, the Toronto 
Police captured many meetings between 
Ford and Lisi, including one in which they 
exchanged an unknown package at a gas 
of cellphone conversations between Ford 
and Lisi after the crack story broke in May 
and between Lisi and several of the men 
arrested in the June drug raids. Lisi was 
arrested on charges of extortion in rela-
tion to the video last Thursday.
On the day of the release of the police 
report, Toronto Police Chief Bill Blair an-
nounced in a press conference that police 
were able to retrieve the deleted video off 
the contents of the video were “consis-
tent” with media reports. Ford remained 
down, despite calls for his resignation 
from several city councilors and all four 
Toronto daily newspapers, including two 
that usually support the mayor’s policies.
BY DANNY ZHANG
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| November 7, 20132 NEWS
TEDx Lineup Adds Faculty Speaker
By Viviana Altamirano
TEDxMiddlebury event takes the mic 
this weekend on Saturday, Nov. 9, fea-
turing 11 speakers presenting ideas and 
stories on the subject of “Research, Re-
think, Rebuild.” The annual event will 
again feature a student speaker, and will 
be introducing a new tradition of a faculty 
speaker.
Amanda Wiggans ’14.5, one of seven 
student organizers of TEDxMiddlebury, 
said that choosing speakers is the most 
challenging element of the event.
“We try to bring a wide variety from lo-
cal Vermonters to people who might not 
be brought to campus otherwise, from 
year’s lineup is the most diverse lineup 
that we’ve had. We had complaints in the 
past so this year we made a diligent effort 
to get people from the food industry, a 
slam poet, scientists, social entrepreneurs. 
It’s diverse and very awesome.”
Professor of Environmental and Bio-
sphere Studies Steve Trombulak will be 
-
Middlebury.
“We wanted to make an effort to bring 
community members into the event,” Wig-
gans said. “Trombulak is a biology profes-
sor, and I’m not in any way involved with 
the biology department, but I would love 
to hear him speak. It’s a great way to not 
only get faculty engaged with the program, 
but to also give students the idea that you 
don’t have to bring speakers from halfway 
across the country to give good talks.”
Trombulak cited TED talks as a ma-
jor pathway for the exchange of ideas on 
a wide array of topics. He plans to speak 
about standards of higher education in his 
own TED talk.
“Everyone needs to see education as 
being about much more than prepar-
ing for a job market or becoming a well-
rounded citizen,” he said. “Education is 
the platform on which people learn how 
to become effect agents for positive social 
transformation, but that won’t happen un-
less everyone involved in the educational 
enterprise — student, teacher, family and 
institution — recognizes the importance 
of nurturing in each person the skills for 
leadership and creativity.”
A student at the College will also be 
speaking at the event, a tradition which 
began last year. Applicants pitched their 
talk to a panel of judges that included 
former Vermont Governor Jim Douglas, 
Dean of Faculty Andi Lloyd and Director 
of the Project on Innovation in the Liberal 
Arts Elizabeth Robinson. 
Alec MacMillen ’14 was chosen as this 
year’s student speaker.
“It was all on a whim,” he said. “I read 
the book ‘Quiet’ by Susan Cain this past 
summer, a book about introversion, extro-
version, science of personality and social 
norms and how to interact with each oth-
er. I never had the words to describe the 
way that I am, but watching Susan Cain’s 
TED talk on introversion and how intro-
verts draw energy from having a very rich 
internal life and spending time on their 
own really resonated with me. I started to 
think of this TED talk because I felt like I 
could add on her ideas by applying them 
to the setting of college.”
introverts and extroverts because “people 
throw those words around without know-
ing what they really mean.”
“The basic distinctions are that intro-
verts generate energy by turning inwards 
— spending time alone, thinking, process-
ing, reading, writing — all solitary activi-
ties where introverts tend to feel more 
alive, whereas extroverts generate energy 
from being outwardly focused engaged 
with the world around them, so engaged 
with other people, new experiences, new 
places, new things, where they feel most 
alive,” MacMillen said.
MacMillen will also be talking about 
the extrovert ideal.
“I’ll be particularly applying it to un-
dergraduate colleges, [which] celebrates 
the value of extroversion while undervalu-
ing introversion,” he explained. “If you ask 
people if they would rather be an extrovert 
or an introvert, most people would say 
extrovert because we have this idea that 
having lots of friends and always being 
busy and engaged is what will make you 
happy.”
MacMillen will touch upon the ways 
in which college life, such as class discus-
sions, parties, job hunting and athletic 
events, cater toward extroverts.
“Living in that place makes introverts 
feel that there’s something wrong with 
them or that they have to change them-
it’s a shame, because a lot of time people 
MacMillen said. “I just hope it makes 
people aware of forces at work around us 
on a daily basis, and help be more under-
standing of people who are different from 
them.”
TEDxMiddlebury will be held on Nov. 
9 in the Concert Hall of the Mahaney Cen-
ter for the Arts from 9-11 a.m. Tickets are 
discussion will take place at the conclu-
sion of the event.
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Handbook Violations Posted Online
“[National] statistics indicate that 
one in 36 college women are sexually as-
saulted within any seven month period,” 
Ian Thomas ’13.5, student co-chair of the 
Academic Judicial Board, said. “Applying 
that math to Middlebury, that works out 
to be approximately 34 sexual assaults 
per one academic year. Looking at last 
year’s numbers, there were five reported 
instances of sexual misconduct. I do be-
lieve that sexual misconduct is under-
reported on our campus, and everything 
must be done to counteract that. If survi-
vors see that their school has an effective 
judicial process for them, then perhaps 
they would be more likely to report what 
happened.”
Dean of the College Shirley Collado 
said in an all-school email on Nov. 4 that 
it is dishertening to not live up to com-
munity expectations.
“Only by being honest with ourselves 
about where we struggle, as individuals 
and as a community, can we chart an ef-
fective course for progress,” she said.
The report found that alcohol played 
a key role in the majority of policy viola-
tions resulting in sanctions. While many 
alcohol citations 
are met with a 
warning, alcohol 
played a key role in 
more severe cases 
of policy violations 
and discipline: 67 
percent of viola-
tions that resulted 
in expulsion in-
volved alcohol. 
“I don’t think it would surprise any-
body in the country familiar with alco-
hol use on college campuses to find that 
policy violations are often, though not 
always, tied to alcohol use,” said Katy 
Smith Abbott, dean of students and co-
chair of the Task Force on Alcohol and 
Social Life. “But I think the thing that’s 
hard about alcohol, to be honest, and one 
of the things that’s so discouraging, is 
that when you are working with students 
who have violated college policy at a level 
such that they are looking at a CJB [Com-
munity Judicial Board] hearing, or are 
staring down the possibility of official col-
lege discipline, or suspension, or expul-
sion — most of 
the time, had 
the student 
been sober, 
they never 
would have 
acted in such 
a way that 
would leave 
them facing 
that kind of 
d i s c i p l i n a r y 
action.”
Smith added that the students who 
receive such disciplinary action rarely 
think that they would have been the ones 
to be in their positions.
“They think they have control over 
their drinking, but they actually don’t al-
ways have the ability to determine what 
their actions are or control their impuls-
es,” she said. “And that’s part of what is 
difficult to address about this problem.”
Associate Dean for Judicial Affairs 
and Student Life Karen Guttentag said 
that the increased transparency was 
meant to educate students on all parts of 
the judicial affairs system. 
“Our goal is not only to educate the 
community about conduct outcomes, 
but about the disciplinary system itself,” 
she said. “It’s important for students to 
understand the guiding philosophy we 
bring to conduct concerns, the various 
systems we have that address them and 
the range of outcomes that can result.” 
Thomas said that the release of the 
data is an important step forward. 
“I am very pleased to see these re-
ports,” he said. “The previous method of 
posting judicial outcomes left much to 
be desired. These reports are an impor-
tant part of the judicial process’s trans-
parency, and they reinforce the Judicial 
Board’s accountability to the commu-
nity.”
Data from “College Disciplinary Actions: 2012-13”, graphic by ben hawthorne
“I don’t think it would sur-
prise anybody in the country 
familiar with alcohol use on col-
violations are often, though not 
always, tied to alcohol use,”
Katy Smith
Dean of Students, co-chair of Task 
Force for Alcohol and Social Life
Disciplinary  
violations by cause
2012-2013
November 7, 2013 |  3        News
Dorm Damage Declines in First Quarter
By Allie Cohen
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
one  
It’s About (Face) Time 
Each month, The Campus will host 
Dean of the College Shirley Collado’s 
blog. The goal of this column is to 
provide thoughtful and provocative 
topics regarding student life and to 
promote discussion about the issues 
that are important to you. We want to 
attract different voices and recognize 
that many issues are not addressed as 
“one dean’s view”.  In the future, Dean 
Collado will be live on The Campus 
Voice the Friday after publication to 
answer questions and continue the 
discussion. So read, discuss and sub-
mit questions online or email us at 
themiddleburycampus@gmail.com
View
Dean’s
Graphic by Erin Gallagher
FRIDAY, 9pm-12AM
SWING NOIRE
Swing Noire invokes the en-
ergy of a swingin’ jazz club 
while transporting audiences 
back to the early days of jazz. 
All ages welcome! Beer and 
wine available for 21+ w/2 
forms of ID.
CAILEY AND THE 
LOOK ALIKES
Come out to hear Cailey Cron 
and Shivs Kamalanathan 
perform acoustic covers and 
originals. Rumor has it Miley 
Cyrus will be making an ap-
pearance. All ages welcome! 
Beer and wine available for 
21+ w/2 forms of ID.
THURSDAY 7-10pm
ANDRIC 
SEVERANCE 
QUARTET
The Andric Severance Quartet 
performs a sizzling stew of 
Latin, Afro-Cuban and 
Brazilian jazz.
FRIDAY 8-11pm
GUMBO YAYA
Gumbo YaYa is a Vermont band 
playing soul, world, and funk 
for dancing fun.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 9
CLOSED FOR 
PRIVATE EVENT
SATURDAY, 9-11pm
SUNDAY  NIGHT FOOTBALL @ CROSSROADS
COWBOYS V. SAINTS
On the big screen with FREE popcorn. Come cheer on your
 favorite team w/ your favorite snack. 
SUNDAY, 8-11pm
4 NEWS | November 7, 2013
Baseball Bears Brunt Without Bubble 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
said. 
To accommodate the baseball team 
in Nelson, Quinn has researched special 
baseballs and softballs that would not 
damage the surface of Nelson, and has 
also considered two temporary batting 
cages at one end of the building. 
The only varsity winter sport to be 
homeless this winter is Track and Field. 
Tri-captain Bryan Holtzman ’14 has 
helped lead planning for practice since 
last winter season drew to a close. 
“We will have to settle with a make-
shift track surrounding the perimeter of 
Nelson,” Holtzman said. “Otherwise we 
will just have to push our limits on the 
outdoor track.”
Holtzman likened this upcoming 
season to high school indoor track pro-
grams that commonly make due without 
any formal facilities except on race day. 
Along with the temporary track, field 
athletes will use jumping and pole-vault 
pits, and throwers will practice with net 
dividers, that will be installed in Nelson.
“In the end, the pros of the new field 
house outweigh the cons of this season,” 
Holtzman said. “Having a top tier indoor 
track that could possibly host Nationals 
in the future represents a phenomenal 
opportunity for the program.”  
While Track and Field will share ac-
cess to Nelson with the Tennis teams, 
club sports such as Ultimate Frisbee are 
left out in the cold and will have to fight 
for any remaining time slots.
“Due to the extra traffic, we will have 
to struggle for any time when we can 
practice,” captain Jeff Hetzel ’14 said. 
“We will most likely have to show up 
very late on weeknights, and both the 
men’s and women’s team will have to 
split the space.”
The Frisbee teams also considered 
paying for practice in a Shelburne field 
house, but without official support from 
the college, fundraising for such an en-
deavor would pose an issue.
Despite the issues at hand, when com-
pleted, the new field house and squash 
courts will add tremendously to the ca-
pacity of the College’s facilities. The new 
facilities will hold double the number of 
squash courts and will house a new track 
while also including an indoor turf facili-
ty for a variety of varsity and club sports. 
The College’s new indoor athletic complex is slated for completion in Fall 2014.
Paul gerard
Don Roy King
SNL’s Don Roy King speaks in Mc-
Cullough Social Space. Opening act by 
Otter Nonsense!
THURSDAY AT 7 P.M.
Free Friday Film 
The minions are back! Catch Dispicable 
Me 2 at Dana Auditorium.
FRIDAY AT 7 & 10 P.M.
Zumba 
Take a study break and dancercise!
SUNDAY AT 4 P.M.
Thank God for Mississippi and Iron 
Eyes Cody  
Live at the Gamut Room 
FRIDAY AT 9 P.M.
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
On Tuesday, Nov. 5, Community Council 
met to discuss hard alcohol policies, party 
registration and party monitors. In the pre-
vious meeting, Dean of Students Katy Smith 
Abbott and Coach Bob Ritter, co-chairs of 
the 2011-2012 Task Force on Alcohol and 
Social Life, spoke about Task Force’s report, 
the role of hard liquor on campus as well as 
changing the College’s culture around alco-
hol.
This week’s meeting focused on continu-
ing last week’s discussion where members 
of the Council unanimously agreed that a 
ban on hard alcohol would not be effective 
in changing student behavior.
“Rules surrounding alcohol often just 
push alcohol use and abuse behind doors 
…,” said Student Government Association 
President Rachel Liddell ’15. “I just don’t 
see in my time here a hard alcohol ban ever 
Dean of the College and Community 
Council Co-Chair Shirley Collado agreed.
“I don’t think anyone was coming easily 
to the conclusion that we should ban hard 
alcohol,” Collado said, but also pointed out 
that the data regarding hard alcohol on 
campus is very concerning and that hard 
liquor is the root of the many problems hap-
pening on campus, including alcohol trans-
port, dorm damage and other college policy 
violations.
A couple members applauded the work 
of the commons deans and other staff and 
faculty members around alcohol use. Deans 
use their personal discretion when they 
meet with students who have violated alco-
hol related policies.
“[The deans] are very good at what they 
do [and it would be a good idea to] even em-
power them more,” said  Horticulturalist 
Tim Parsons from Facilities Services.
“The problems that come with alcohol 
abuse are on a case by case basis and to allow 
discretion for commons deans […] sounded 
like a very helpful idea,” said Community 
Council Co-Chair Luke Carroll Brown ’14.
Collado further described the amount 
of work that staff and faculty members put 
into noticing and dealing with problems 
before something severe happens and a stu-
dent meets with a dean.
“There is a lot of triaging work that hap-
pens,” Collado said. “It might come from a 
custodial worker who’s noticing something 
and is really concerned [or] a public safety 
though he or she] might not have necessar-
ily cited a student. It is important not to di-
lute [their work].”
The issue concerning party registration 
was also discussed at the meeting. Dean 
of Students Doug Adams pointed out that 
while there are many responsible students 
who participate in registered parties, unreg-
istered parties are the true source of prob-
lems involving alcohol.
-
lies to encourage more registered parties by 
discouraging unregistered parties,” Adams 
said, arguing for tougher sanctions against 
unregistered parties that are “more mean-
ingful and lasting.”
Collado’s email from October, which 
contained policy changes with regards to 
party registration, was also mentioned.
“If you read the bulk of the email,” Col-
news for the students.” 
However, even though the policy chang-
es made the party registering process easier, 
a few members of the Council still expressed 
hope for an easier process.
The discussion then turned to the pos-
sibility of a party monitor system. Models 
from other schools were discussed, such 
as Haverford and Dartmouth which both 
have students groups to regulate alcohol 
consumption at parties. But the Council 
emphasized the importance of considering 
the differences between the College and the 
other schools in terms of campus culture, lo-
cation and size, changes in order to create a 
system that works.
After a short discussion of creating alter-
native social events for students to attend, 
the Council was adjourned.
By David Yang
community 
council update
Alcohol Policies Under the Microscope
HAVE AN OPINION? 
WEIGH IN TODAY
VOICE YOUR OPINION @ MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM
OR SEND AN OP-ED OR LETTER TO THE EDITOR TO 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
JOIN 
US
WRITE 
FOR 
THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, 
NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS 
AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE  
INTERESTED, EMAIL 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
At first the decision looks simple — 
Middlebury’s town offices are outdated 
and something needs to be done. Reno-
vation? Relocation? As it turns out, the 
problem is not so simple, nor is the solu-
tion.
The town offices are currently located 
across the street from Alexander Twilight 
Hall and are, essentially, the burned-out 
remains of the old high school, which 
raises many complications. 
One problem is that the building is 
drafty and drains money in the winter as 
the heat seeps through the windows and 
walls and into the icy Vermont air. A sec-
ond problem is that the building isn’t en-
tirely wheelchair accessible. There is an 
elevator but it is faulty and unreliable.
In 2011, the town of Middlebury hired 
Vermont Integrated Architecture (VIA) to 
conduct a study estimating how much it 
would cost to replace the current Town 
Hall structures. VIA came back with es-
timates and proposals that ranged in cost 
from $6 million to $10 million — a high 
price to pay, especially because it would 
require the support of a bond and an in-
crease in local property taxes.
Even though the proposed projects 
were expensive and the funds were not 
there, leaving the town offices as they are 
isn’t viewed as a feasible option because 
of their serious disrepair. Therefore, the 
town of Middlebury started talking to the 
College to find a mutually beneficial plan.
After discussing the situation, the 
current plan stands as such: the town and 
the College would do a land swap. The 
new municipal buildings, which would 
include offices and a recreation center, 
would be built on a piece of land currently 
owned by the College, near Mary Hogan 
Elementary School. 
The College would then be given own-
ership of the strip of land on which the 
town offices are currently located, demol-
ish the building and create a park — in-
cidentally opening up a sweeping vista of 
the College that is otherwise obstructed 
by the current buildings.
Chairman of the Town Center Steer-
ing Committee Selectman Victor Nuovo 
along with Selectboard Chairman Dean 
George initially requested funding from 
the College. A press release issued this 
past June on behalf of the College an-
nounced the College’s intent to fund the 
request. 
“We are committed to the view that 
what is good for the town is good for the 
college and vice versa,” President of the 
College Ronald D. Liebowitz said. 
While the College agreed to assist 
in this project should it be approved by 
the steering committee, not all involved 
share in this exclusively positive re-
sponse. Some concerns were raised at 
a public hearing in Middlebury in July, 
during which more than a dozen local 
residents introduced worries about hand-
ing more land over to the College, as well 
as the lack of parking that would exist at 
the new town center.
The most specific-to-date plans, with 
a totaled budget of $6.5 million, were 
presented at an ID-4 school board meet-
ing on Oct. 16, as well as at a public gath-
ering on Oct. 17 at the municipal gym.   
Attendees expressed many concerns, 
several of which related to parking space 
issues. Jason Duquette-Hoffman, an ID-4 
board member, spoke out against some 
reassurance from organizers that there 
are around 30 spaces available when the 
recreation center is being used as it cur-
rently stands. 
“Thirty spaces is your traffic manage-
ment plan? I’m sorry, I don’t find that 
convincing, and I don’t think that’s a very 
thoughtful approach to this plan,” said 
Duquette-Hoffman.
Others expressed similar concerns, 
many of which shared the common thread 
that the plans were not fleshed out well 
enough. As a result of the many concerns 
raised with the proposed plan, the steer-
ing committee strongly recommended 
that the town postpone voting on the pro-
posal from December to March. 
Their justification was that further 
time is needed for the projects to be more 
clearly explained and delivered to com-
munity members. Such a delay, however, 
has the potential to raise expenditures by 
$350,000.
The Middlebury select board met on 
Tuesday, Nov. 5 and revisited the pro-
posed project. Look for follow-up cover-
age in next week’s issue of The Campus.
local
The town of Middlebury’s current Town Offices are located in the old high school.
courtesy 
Meaghan O’Herron ’16, Lucy Scott ’16 and Caroline Walters ’16.5 completed 
the 43rd annual New York City Marathon last Sunday. Between the three of them, 
they raised almost $15,000 in under one month, which will go towards leukemia 
and lymphoma research. They finished the 26.2 miles in around four hours and 23 
minutes.
Over 48,000 runners participated in the event, which was cancelled last year 
due to Hurricane Sandy, and 2 million spectators cheered on the runners. Geof-
frey Mutai, from Kenya, won the men’s division in two hours and eight minutes 
while Priscah Jeptoo, also from Kenya, won the women’s division in two hours 
and 25 minutes.
3 in 48,000: Middlebury Students Compete and 
Finish New York City Marathon, Raising $1,500 
There have been several ideas as to what to do regarding the town offices. One 
proposal for new offices and a new recreational center is shown above.
COURTESY
courtesy of caroline Walters
07
By Olivia Jurkowitz
“Tosca” Live in HD in Middlebury
Take a post-lunch break, head over to 
Town Hall Theater and watch the live 
screening of the Met’s production of “To-
sca.” The dramatic opera has an Italian li-
bretto and is one of Puccini’s most famous 
pieces. Don’t worry if you’re not an opera 
buff — the music in this one is beautiful 
and the story compelling.
NOV. 9, 12:55 – 3:55 PM 
Local 
lowdown
Local 6
Wood-Fired Pizza Sale in Ripton
After a chilly hike up in the woods by the 
Snow Bowl, stop by Ripton Elementary 
-
the harvest special (roasted beets, winter 
squash, onion, Vermont chevre and 
Ripton School. Pre-order by 3 PM the day 
org.
NOV. 8, 5 – 7:30 PM
“Shrek” the Musical
Do you love Shrek, the most lovable ogre, 
but have seen the movie so many times 
you can’t bear to watch it once more? 
Then go see the musical at Town Hall 
-
ers, it will be a fun night out on the town 
-
townhalltheater.org.
NOV. 7-17, 7:30 – 9:30 PM
Empty Bowl Dinner in Middlebury
Head to the Middlebury United Methodist 
Church on Saturday night to help combat 
hunger in the local area. At the twenty-
second annual fundraiser, attendees will 
receive a meal and a handmade bowl, 
both of which were donated by local pot-
ters, farms, orchards and bakeries. Tick-
ets can be purchased at the Middlebury 
NOV. 9, 6 – 8 PM
From Baghdad to Main Street: Meet Nancy 
Weber-Curth of Sparkles Champagne Bar
Big Spike Bluegrass Concert in Lincoln 
There’s no better way to wind down after 
a busy week than to enjoy some live music 
and relax alone or with some friends. If 
to miss the Spike Bluegrass concert at 
-
NOV. 9, 7:30 – 9:00 
Holiday Decoration Demonstration in 
Middlebury
If you think you might be missing home 
during the upcoming holiday season, 
why not decorate your dorm room this 
year to add some holiday cheer to your 
Middlebury life? If you’re not a decora-
tion expert, do not fear! Attend the former 
president of the Middlebury Garden 
Club’s presentation at the Henry Sheldon 
teach you how to create a Thanksgiving 
table decoration, topiary and  wreath uti-
NOV. 10, 2:00 – 4:00
Olivia Jurkowitz
 | november 07, 2013
In the middle of the town of 
Middlebury, along Main Street, sits a 
row of restaurants and bars all within 50 
yards of each other: Two Brothers Tav-
ern, Otter Creek Bakery, Samas Café and 
the Champagne and Sparkling Wine Bar. 
The Champagne and Sparkling Wine Bar 
catches the eye, and not just because it 
advertises alcohol in its title. Who would 
have thought to place a sophisticated yet 
peaceful bar in the center of a college 
town in rural Vermont?
When asked about her unique bar, 
the first thing owner Nancy Weber-
Curth said is, “It’s not the same feel as 
Two Brothers. It’s another option.”
Options have been a valuable com-
modity to Weber-Curth throughout her 
entire life. She has never been afraid to 
diverge off the mainstream path. Her 
willingness to explore different options 
has led her to places as exotic as Bagh-
dad, and yet here she is now, in familiar 
Middlebury, Vt. 
Weber-Curth grew up in Detroit, 
Michigan in a family of four kids. Her 
parents strongly encouraged travel in 
high school, so Weber-Curth elected to 
spend a summer in France the year be-
fore her senior year of high school. That 
summer ignited an interest in travel that 
has persisted throughout her entire life.
“That summer made me realize how 
important it is to go out of the country 
in high school or college because it gives 
you a different perspective on life,” she 
said. 
Being immersed in another culture 
contributed to Weber-Curth’s belief that 
there is more than just one way of doing 
things.
After graduating from high school, 
Weber-Curth went on to St. Mary’s Col-
lege in Indiana, where, despite a warning 
from her dad, she majored in chemistry. 
“I wanted a challenge, and I knew 
chemistry was going to be difficult. I 
loved it though and it wasn’t boring,” 
Weber-Curth said.
She put her chemist degree to good 
use after college and got a job working 
in chemical sales at Sony in Japan. Very 
few women worked in chemical sales, 
but once again Weber-Curth embraced 
the challenge.
While working for Sony, Weber-
Curth decided to move from chemical 
sales to business consulting. She found 
that business consulting suited her well 
and allowed her to travel the world. She 
spent four years on and off in Moscow, 
training American companies. She then 
moved to the Middle East where she 
spent eight years as a business consul-
tant and as Iraq’s country director for a 
non-governmental organization (NFO).
In Iraq, Weber-Curth lived outside 
of the green (American) zone because 
she wanted to immerse herself in the 
culture.
“There was no air conditioning or 
heating,” she said. “Twice the windows 
of my apartment shattered because of 
car bombs, but I loved learning about 
how the Iraqi people lived.”
After four years of serving as coun-
try director of a NFO in Iraq she stepped 
down because the NFO wanted the Iraqi 
to do things the same way as Americans 
did, and Weber-Curth believes there is 
more than one way to do something.
“Part of living in the Middle East and 
training people in the Middle East is that 
they do things differently than us and 
they want to do things differently than 
us,” she said.
Weber-Curth decided to take a break 
from her job in Iraq and planned on re-
turning, but could not get a return Visa. 
At this point in her life, she and her 
husband had moved to Middlebury, Vt. 
However, she still traveled and spent so 
much of her time outside of the country 
that the staff at Burlington airport would 
call her by her first name. Never one to 
dwell on the uncontrollable factors, We-
ber-Curth accepted that she would not 
be going back to Iraq and began ponder-
ing what her next venture would be.
The idea for The Champagne and 
Sparkling Wine Bar came to her while 
she was drinking espresso in Vergennes 
Laundry, a French bakery north of 
Middlebury in Vergennes. The French 
bakery reminded her of days in France 
and the sparkling wine that she used to 
drink there. Weber-Curth realized that 
there were no specific restaurants focus-
ing on sparkling wine and champagne in 
the U.S. because these drinks were saved 
for special occasions, not used as the 
main product of a restaurant.
To Weber-Curth, every day is an oc-
casion and therefore a Sparkling Wine 
and Champagne Bar was the perfect idea 
for her new business. Weber-Curth cre-
ated a menu that offers wines from all 
around the world. She also offers cheese 
and chocolate from many local markets. 
The mix of international and local as-
pects creates a menu that offers a variety 
of options for all customers.
As you enter the main vessel of the 
restaurant there is a quote by Eleanor 
Roosevelt on the wall that says, “Do one 
thing every day that scares you.”
Running a storefront has kept We-
ber-Curth in the U.S. for over a year, 
which is the longest amount of time that 
she has been in the country since col-
lege. However, from the wall decorations 
to the menu, The Champagne and Spar-
kling Wine Bar embodies and shares We-
ber-Curth’s admirable, adventurous and 
enthusiastic way of life.
Get Paid in Cold Hard Moral Cash. As 
Much As You Want. Join Our Team.
Sparkles Champagne and Sparkling Wine Bar, eminates a warm glow at night. 
The establishment has an extensive drink list as well as cheese and chocolate.
 7AdvertisementsNovember 7, 2013| 
opinions
In a classroom packed with people 
sitting on the windowsills, students, faculty 
and administrators gathered on Monday 
to engage in an honest dialogue unpacking 
the controversy 
surrounding Chance the 
Rapper’s performance 
Saturday night.
This discussion, 
which has dominated 
campus debate for 
the past few weeks, 
provided a space to 
voice many issues we 
face here, from racism 
and homophobia to censorship and the 
administration’s role. These concerns 
were broader than just the presence of 
frustration on a myriad of events that 
have occurred since the beginning of the 
school year and throughout people’s time 
at Middlebury. 
For the dozen Campus editors 
who attended the forum provided an 
spoke of their experiences and concerns 
that proved invaluable in broadening our 
understanding of the different social issues 
at play. Nevertheless, many of the people 
in the room were the usual crowd, the 
people who have these conversations time 
and time again. This trend in such spaces 
leads students to feel like they are trapped 
in a silo. Their opinions circle around, but 
A good turnout to this forum still left 
the majority of voices unheard and ears 
untouched. This absence shows a need on 
campus for deeper listening. Part of the 
value of the liberal arts education, and a 
point emphasized heavily on Monday, is the 
need to confront discomfort. Discussions 
of privilege are particularly challenging, 
and we must push ourselves to embrace 
that discomfort and think deeply about 
what our fellow classmates are saying. 
Even within the dialogue, people 
sometimes failed to truly listen, constantly 
focusing on their own feelings on the issue 
without responding to the points of others. 
Because the tension on these issues has 
been building for so long, people rushed 
to assert their ideas without full critical 
engagement with others. Provocative 
questions were posed only to be greeted by, 
“this is unrelated to that point, but…” 
A truly productive dialogue 
necessitates thought and weighted 
response. We must hear out the opinions 
of others, for they are deeply routed in 
their experiences and identities. This is 
the responsibility not only of the students 
present at the forum, but also the students 
who were not able to attend. Though we are 
unable to do full justice to the diverse range 
of opinions expressed, some key questions 
arose that could help open the silo:
students of marginalized identities without 
placing undue burden on them to represent 
positions of privilege support marginalized 
students without tokenizing them?
where students of all identities feel safe? 
with multiple marginalized identities who 
forum?
intersection of different identities to build 
a cohesive and inclusive campus?
community standards and our standards 
as individuals?
when a black male rapper came to campus, 
while we stay quiet when other speakers 
or performers whose words threaten 
members of our community come? Why 
do we use racially loaded language when 
describing the debate about Chance and 
how can we acknowledge and combat this?
censorship, even when it includes offensive 
material, while rap sparks outrage? What 
role does the social acceptability of certain 
art forms play in this?
to controversy on campus? Why was the 
9/11 incident so strongly condemned by 
President Liebowitz while the threatening 
homophobic note saw delayed action? 
What is the administration’s role in 
fostering the proactive dialogue necessary 
to move the campus forward?
If you don’t know that these questions 
are being asked, then you are out of touch 
with the issues that are relevant to our 
college at the moment. If you don’t care 
about any of these questions, you don’t care 
about Middlebury. It is your responsibility 
as a member of this community to listen 
deeply and think critically to the voices of 
others on this campus. It is easy to hear but 
in one ear and out the other as you think of 
what to say next. Actively listening to what 
someone says is hard takes practice.
step towards building a safe community 
where people are not afraid to be fully and 
unabashedly who they are. And while this 
listening is critical, just listening is not 
enough. We cannot just pat ourselves on 
the back for having attended a forum and 
for planning to attend the next one. We 
must spur this engagement into action. It 
is easy to push responsibility for such tasks 
onto groups like Queers and Allies (Q&A) 
or the African-American Alliance (AAA), 
but the majority identities have a duty 
to respect and protect other members of 
this community. Do away with the phrase 
“that’s not my issue” and realize that none 
of us are truly safe until every marginalized 
group feels their views are listened to and 
respected.
We as an editorial board have tried 
vigorously to make our editorials this 
year solution-based. Complaining about 
an issue is no use to our community if 
we can’t provide viable alternatives or 
recommendations for change. But there 
marginalized groups feel safe here. Chance 
did not create these issues, and they didn’t 
leave on his tour bus. It’s time to push back 
the comforts of privilege and actively listen 
to the concerns of our peers.
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifi-
able events; the use of vulgar language or per-
sonal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article 
that contains any of the aforementioned will be 
removed before publication. Contributors will 
be allowed to reference prior articles published 
in the Opinions section or announcements for 
the public record. If a reference is made to prior 
articles, the submission will be considered a let-
ter to the editor.  The Campus will not accept or 
print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed 
by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as 
reviews, columns, editorial comics and other com-
mentary, are views of the individual contributors 
and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submis-
sions at 800 words or less. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at 
www.middleburycampus.com. To be considered 
for publications, submissions must be received by 
5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic 
year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and busi-
Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is 
produced on Apple Macintosh computers using 
Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press 
Republican in New York. The advertising deadline 
for all display and classified advertising is 5 p.m. 
Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Mid-
dlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business 
phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribu-
tion concerns to the Business Director. First class 
postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
Stop Hearing, Start Listening
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kyle Finck
MANAGING EDITOR
Alex Edel 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Emily Singer, Kelsey Collins, Claire Abbadi, 
Nate Sans
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Zach Drennen,  
Jack Dolan
SPORTS EDITORS 
Damon Hatheway,
Owen Teach, Alex Morris, Joe MacDonald
LOCAL EDITORS 
Molly Talbert, Ilana Gratch
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Isabelle Stillman, 
Joe Flaherty
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Ben Anderson,
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anthea Viragh, Paul Gerard,  
Jessica Munyon
DESIGN EDITOR
Olivia Allen
ONLINE EDITORS
Greg Woolston, Stephanie Roush, Maggie 
Cochrane
COPY EDITOR
Dan Bateyko
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Ian Stewart, Greta Neubauer
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
decided by the 
editorial board.
Editor’s Note: The following text 
contains vulgarity.
There are certain things we cannot dis-
cuss openly at Middlebury. Given that we 
are a small, close-knit community, there is 
a sweeping obli-
gation to main-
tain an atmo-
sphere of civility 
in order to allow 
the members of 
our community 
a sense of secu-
rity. And, while 
we do pride ourselves on being an open and 
progressive campus, there still remain mat-
while we cannot have student and faculty-
led discussions with snacks and beverages 
this does not mean students’ interest in 
having these discussions will evaporate be-
cause there is no school-proffered venue for 
them. These questions burn in the minds 
of many students. And when you have a 
group of kids with enough smarts and time 
on their hands like we have here, there will 
always be a way found for a will so strong. 
Enter, Middlebury Confessional. 
Though the College does not own the web-
site, to what degree are they separate? 
Certainly, it is a public domain that any 
the wild, wild web — like Barstool or Red-
dit — wherein the vast majority of partici-
pants are speaking to matters of national, if 
not global, import, and a personal connec-
tion between the persons of interest being 
discussed and the pseudonymous, faceless 
accounts discussing them is highly unlike-
ly; Middlebury Confessional is a beast of 
our own creation. It could not exist without 
the College because the College is its sum 
and substance. In theory, MiddFesh is a fo-
rum designed by the members of our small 
community to (ideally) discuss important 
matters that we are otherwise incapable of 
discussing in public, whether due to social 
ineptitude or a general feeling that the par-
ties interested in these conversations would 
be unable to conduct them safely in open 
discourse. This, unfortunately, is not the re-
ality. Instead of the haven for tough issues 
and the soapbox for voices left otherwise 
unheard that I perhaps foolishly presume 
the website was intended to be, it has be-
come a gossip forum in which students are 
or groups for defamation or propositioning 
each other for sex — hardly the bastion of 
important dialogue it could be. 
The claim that the website, which is 
entirely dependent upon the College com-
munity for its vitality and in which most 
disconnected from campus is dubious. It 
feels more in form and in purpose like an 
extension of the College, though in the web-
site’s summary of its Privacy and Terms of 
Use agreement, it laughably asserts that the 
-
ions of Middlebury College.” Of course, 
they meant the College as an institution but 
the irony does not go unnoticed.
But, if the website is indeed an append-
age of campus discourse, why do we treat 
the content posted as though it were on the 
other side of the globe? These comments 
are being written by students here and are 
being directed at other students here. Fur-
during the summer months indicates that 
most postings are occurring while students 
are on campus: in their dorm rooms, in the 
library, perhaps even on computers that the 
school owns. 
There was a recent incident in which 
a number of students wrote a message on 
another student’s whiteboard that included 
the message, “you say you’re gay but we 
know you’ve never fucked a guy … so we’re 
gonna fuck you till you’re straight.” Clearly, 
The school responded, later and with less 
gusto than some would have hoped. Nev-
ertheless, the administration launched an 
investigation into the matter and sought 
Yet, when somebody last year posted to 
MiddFesh on a forum on which a certain 
student’s sexuality was being speculated 
that if said student were gay, the com-
menter would “hatefuck him for being a 
conservative in liberal’s clothing,” nobody 
batted an eyelash. The student to whom the 
commented was referring did not take up 
any complaint. But, the question deserves 
to be asked: if he or she were offended by 
this content, could the student do anything 
about it? Or, on another note, if the same 
message posted online were written on an-
Middlebury students, like in the middle of 
College Street, would we still be quiet about 
it?
The crux of this rant is not to condemn 
the people who use Middlebury Confes-
sional or even to discourage its usage — the 
website has important social value, wheth-
er used to discuss “Most precious take-
aways from Middlebury” to “Where can 
I get LSD?” Rather, it is by acquiescing to 
the violent hate speech on MiddFesh while 
simultaneously making it a campus-wide 
news event on other occasions, that we cre-
ate a double standard and thereby fail our 
fellow Middlebury men and women. 
Privacy is unrealistic on the internet 
nowadays, just look at the front page of 
any newspaper for the past month. That 
which transpires on the web is inextricably 
linked to the welfare of our school, as evi-
denced by the outpouring of hate from the 
the dialogue on campus regarding to ho-
mophobic content of Chance the Rapper’s 
lyrics on a much more intimate scale (with 
a large portion of this dialogue taking place 
on MiddFesh). Though this is primarily the 
responsibility of the Middlebury Confes-
sional’s administrators as comments like 
these violate their Terms of Use agreement, 
if the school is as interested in preserving 
the air of respect and civility as it claims 
to be, it would be in its best interest to be 
consistent with the precedent it has set 
regarding hate speech and at least inves-
tigate students who publically threaten to 
“hatefuck” other students. But, at the same 
time, we cannot and should not rely on the 
administration to identify and solve these 
community problems for us. So, therefore, 
the more important question becomes: why 
are we silent?
Notes from 
the desk 
Jack Dolan ’15 is from 
Chagrin Falls, O.H.
Don’t Ignore MiddFesh
|November 7, 2013 9opinions
Part of our fascination with innova-
tive people is the almost palpable buzz 
of potential that surrounds them. Every 
insight that slips out is valuable in and of 
itself, but each nugget of wisdom’s true 
value is as a clue to the thought process 
that shaped it. 
These bright people have diverse 
identities, experiences, and intentions, 
by their abil-
ity to perceive 
where and 
how society 
is malleable. 
Many are re-
lentless in pursuit of their goal. Many are 
also outsiders in one way or another.
One’s vision of a better world should 
not be misinterpreted as a rejection of the 
society around them, but instead a rejec-
tion of passive indifference. Visionaries 
disrupt the silent acquiescence of the ma-
jority, whether it be through a disruptive 
innovation, an incremental remedy for 
structural global injustice, or a new way of 
perceiving some element of the world.
Imagining a better world leaves one, 
do so. Unwillingness to accept the status 
quo as static may be irritating to those 
striving for blissful ignorance, but is a vital 
driver behind the development of society 
and its gradual arc towards justice.
Truly great entrepreneurs and social 
entrepreneurs, policy makers and doctors, 
teachers and writers all rise above both 
expectations and conventional knowledge 
to reimagine a small piece of the world 
around them.
Research, when thoughtfully con-
conventional notions wide enough for in-
Rethinking our own assumptions, bi-
ases and preconceived notions can make 
us more aware of the non-obvious, but 
opportunities for positive change.
Rebuilding society requires embrac-
ing risk, diligent commitment to execu-
tion, the convergence of imagination and a 
nuanced understanding of constraints and 
tradeoffs. 
Our collective future is uncertain but 
malleable. If we are to achieve a world 
that is connected, cohesive and fair, the 
of us. Whether through social enterprise, 
something else entirely, creative solutions 
of all kinds drive societal progress. 
That’s what TEDxMiddlebury is 
about: it’s a forum for the exchange of 
ideas worth sharing. Our board has cu-
rated an event that touches on all aspects 
of the creative process, from investigating 
the topic, formulating an idea, to executing 
that idea. From urban farming to vertical 
-
ter understanding of how empathy works, 
it’s our ability to Research, Rethink, and 
Rebuild small aspects of our world that 
For future attendees, this Saturday, 
Nov. 9, eleven insightful speakers will 
challenge our assumptions, offer perspec-
tives of how our world works, and offer 
visions of change in condensed 18-minute 
talks. Tickets are still on sale. The TEDx-
Middlebury board looks forward to shar-
ing it with you. 
Warmly,
The TEDxMiddlebury Board
Our Vision for TEDXMiddlebury: 
Reader op-ed
On Behalf of the 
TedxMiddlebury 
Board
Maddie Dai ’14
Like many other students on this campus, I 
went to the Chance the Rapper over the weekend. 
I danced and yelled and had a great time. I even 
listened to him perform the controversial lyric 
in his performance of “Fa-
vorite Song.” And so, now 
that Chance has come and 
gone, let us assess: what has 
changed? Are we now a dis-
tinctly more homophobic 
and misogynistic communi-
ty because we listened to his performance? Is the 
world doomed to act in accordance with whatever 
hip-hop artists write in their songs? 
While it is very true that we would not allow 
a professor that advocates violence against wom-
en to teach on our campus, why is it also true that 
there is a need to censor an artist that comes to our 
campus to perform? Unlike the classroom, a con-
cert setting does not necessarily reflect the views 
of the Middlebury community, and in my opinion, 
the more conflicting the artist is with our commu-
nity ideals, the more we can 
potentially learn from the 
experience. Being able to not 
only understand but also to 
make a judgment about oth-
er people’s opinions is a cru-
cial skill that we do not see 
enough of in this world. 
The opinion that rap-
pers should be held more ac-
countable for their lyrics is, 
conceptually, very fine and 
dandy. But, realistically, the 
blame for hip-hop’s socially 
irresponsible lyrics may not 
only rest on the shoulders of the artists. Hip-hop 
music is not the sole influence of our culture, and 
our culture is not the only thing that drives rap lyr-
ics. It is a complicated stream of influences. When 
a song uses a homophobic or racial slur, we cannot 
always simply chalk it up to “oh, this rapper is ig-
norant.” The issue of rights for same-sex partner-
ships, however, is one that is quite prevalent in our 
society, so it makes sense that we are hypersensi-
tive to any reference to it. 
 But why, for example, do we make such a fuss 
over a single word in one of Chance’s songs when in 
another one of his songs he raps “Killin in the hood 
like Trayvon?” To the average listener it may seem 
like Chance is trivializing the random murder of 
an innocent teenage boy. How come this lyric was 
not the angle of attack in the anti-Chance assault? 
This selective activism against social injustice does 
not comply with the good-hearted motives of Mid-
dlebury’s accepting community. Usually, music 
does not matter, until it does, and when it does, it 
somehow becomes the most important thing in the 
world. We should pay attention to what our music 
is saying because it may be what everyone else is 
thinking. The next time we have the privilege of 
having any artist come to our campus, we should 
hold our tongues and understand what he or she 
is saying before we condemn him or her. Learn-
ing to understand the cultural differences between 
our bubble in Addison County and any place out-
side this bubble is crucial in adjusting to “the real 
world” once we all leave here.
Who is Responsible for Rap?
Reader Op-ed
Lucas Avidan ’15 is 
from Harrison, N.Y.
     Samantha  wood ’15
     Samantha  wood ’15
opinions10 November 7, 2013 | 
A friend of mine once described “fun” as look-
ing forward to an event and reminiscing about that 
event. Anticipation and nostalgia, he thought, were 
more important to explaining our experience of 
fun that the actual experience. Daniel Kahnman’s 
research, including his most recent book Thinking 
Fast and Slow, gives some credibility to this claim. 
Through this lens, nostalgia is pleasure, de-
rived from looking back at a memory that once in-
spired a positive feeling. The danger, however, is 
intellectual inertia. In a sense, nostalgia leads us 
to hold rigid ideas of how things should be, leav-
ing us biased by the conventionality of how they 
could be. 
Being aware of, and correcting for, irrational 
tendencies like nostalgia makes us smarter. 
For example, there is nothing better than the 
feeling of taking off cold, wet socks and plopping 
yourself down next to a crackling, glowing fire. It 
is viscerally refreshing, plus it connects our expe-
rience, however indirectly, with pre-historic hu-
mans. Wood fires feel innate to humanity. 
Problem is, some studies suggest that being 
around such fires is likely worse for you than ciga-
rettes. Because household wood fires release tiny 
particles that we cannot smell, we are ignorant to 
the damage it does to our pulmonary and cardio-
vascular systems. It releases carbon sequestered 
in the wood, which exacerbates climate change 
when scaled to a national level (although electric 
and gas “fireplaces” may be worse still). 
Worst of all, it is not just hurting the person 
enjoying the fire: recreational fires in modern fire-
places create an substantial “second hand smoke” 
effect in suburbs and medium population den-
sity zones. One study estimated that 70 percent 
of smoke released from household fires re-enters 
other nearby chimneys, with deleterious health 
impacts. While there is uncertainty about the true 
health impacts, the possibility of such disastrous 
side effects should make us critically investigate 
the status quo. 
Our irrational love of wood fires illustrates the 
flaw of emotionally driven, non-rational decision-
making that characterizes most human choices. All 
of our decisions are determined in large part by 
emotion, familiarity, and aesthetics. This is often 
a great way to simplify decision making to save in-
tellectual bandwidth for other activities; however, 
it also means that when one argues that fireplaces 
should be illegal except in timber-rich, population 
sparse zones, people immediately and instinctually 
defend fireplaces. In fact, you — the reader — likely 
feel nostalgic about an experience you had near a 
fireplace and are therefore resistant to embrace my 
point. 
Yes, there are valid arguments against banning 
fireplaces, like asking, “If there are greater evils out 
there, why fire places?” Fair, perhaps it should not 
be the top priority in D.C., but I do not believe that 
is the primary reason people instinctually defend 
fireplaces. There is a legitimate health benefit to 
the policy which, weighed against the mild infringe-
ment of liberty, seems comparable to the polarizing 
soda ban in New York City. In both cases, the small 
infringement of liberty is a means to correct a mar-
ket imperfection — the neg-
ative externality of fireplac-
es or of sugar-fueled obesity 
and diabetes — that could 
lead to saving vast amounts 
of lives and health expendi-
tures. The EPA agrees, and 
has quietly improved fireplace standards across the 
U.S. this year. 
So why are we resistant to banning fireplaces 
all together? Because we have pre-established po-
sitions on fireplaces rooted in nostalgia. The real 
reason fireplaces still exist in semi-urban zones is 
that being against fireplaces is like being against 
hot chocolate and Christmas. Fireplaces symbol-
ize family, togetherness, and relief from the cold. 
Thus, the archaic technology persists long past its 
usefulness.
We irrationally associate a secondary element 
of our memories - in this case, fireplaces - with the 
relief and togetherness that really made us happy. 
What makes fireplace memories special is how we 
got wet and cold and whom you were with when you 
warmed up, not the fireplaces themselves. Banning 
fireplaces would just allow for more moments about 
which to be nostalgic, by lengthening people’s lives. 
Even if the benefits are imperceivable on the indi-
vidual scale, society as a whole will benefit.
My argument is not really about fireplaces, 
but around our willingness to embrace new ideas 
that challenge conventions and address problems. 
It is entirely possible that future evidence declares 
fireplaces safe, and that the new EPA policies are 
erroneous. But that is not the point: if we are to 
achieve a world that is connected, cohesive, and 
provides the fundamentals of human happiness - 
shelter, food, health, education and hope – it may 
require embracing non-conventional solutions. It is 
our responsibility to be open to arguments rooted 
in evidence, rather than emotion. 
Warm Glow
Hudson Cavanaugh ’14 
is from New York, N.Y.
The Burn of Fireside Nostalgia
       Maddie Dai ’14
We know that preservation of the 
South American rain forests is a nec-
essary step in ensuring our future a 
stable climate. Why, then, is illegal 
logging in the Amazon still so preva-
lent?
Two weeks ago, the New York 
Times published a story explaining 
a recent chapter of Peru’s struggle to 
combat the black market timber in-
dustry ravaging its forests. The glob-
al demand for mahogany and other 
valuable hardwood types – more 
abundant in the Amazonian rain 
forests than anywhere else on Earth 
— has helped fuel illegal timber har-
vesting in some of the world’s most 
important forests. Like a similar sto-
ry in National Geographic from April 
of this year, the Times articulates 
that many of the last big mahogany 
stands exist only within the boundar-
ies of Indian lands. These areas prove 
difficult to patrol, and the indigenous 
communities that inhabit them are 
often as sympathetic to loggers’ cash 
as they are towards law enforcement. 
What efforts are made to try and 
curtail illicit harvesting in protected 
areas and carry out conservation 
plans in managed lands are under-
mined by political corruption and a 
lack of other sources of income for 
the areas’ inhabitants. Military per-
sonnel, stationed to patrol locales 
and check that loggers have the ap-
propriate documentation necessary 
to harvest trees, can only be so effec-
tive, and judges who are supposed to 
prosecute those caught in violation of 
policies, more often than not, take a 
bribe over the rule of law. Such con-
ditions, together with the reluctance 
of distributors and businesses in the 
developed world to take precautions 
necessary for keeping “poached” tim-
ber out of their supply chains, might 
seem to draw a picture of a relative-
ly bleak future for forests the Earth 
needs to breathe.
How might we go about trying to 
ensure that these forests — the im-
portance of which links not only to 
climate change, but also biodiversity 
and human ecology — do not go dam-
aged beyond repair? The problem 
will not be solved unless we tackle 
the conditions on the ground that 
perpetuates cutting as well as remedy 
the upstream demand that facilitates 
it. 
Governance does not work in a 
given area unless it has the resourc-
es necessary for it to run. While I 
am not about to propose a solution 
for the lack of effective civil society 
in the Amazon, I do not think real 
progress can be made towards con-
servation goals without an effective 
means of enforcement. Military per-
sonnel can be paid off – the kind of 
social pressure capable of dissuad-
ing a judge from taking a bribe can 
only be instantiated through genuine 
community building. Getting people 
to take ownership over their politi-
cal lives does not, and cannot hap-
pen overnight. However, if means 
are taken to lessen the influence that 
extra-governmental forces have on 
law enforcement and the justice sys-
tem, then interests other than those 
of the governed might have a harder 
time interfering with regulation. Get 
the people involved in the way their 
government works — if we can set the 
scene for civic development, where 
livelihoods interact positively with 
an active role in the political process, 
conflicts like these will be easier to 
avoid and to mitigate. 
At the same time, we in the North 
have our own part to play. If it is our 
demand for fine wood products that 
drives the illegal cutting taking place 
down south, then we should pre-
sumably do our best to make sure 
the wood we’re getting is ethically 
sourced. Sus-
tainable forestry 
protocols can 
help, but as the 
examples at hand 
show, we have 
relatively little control what happens 
on the other end of the supply chain. 
I think we would do better to sim-
ply reevaluate what might be able to 
meet our material needs as conscious 
consumers. While we might not be 
able to control what emerging mar-
kets for rare hardwoods (read: China 
and India) demand, we might have a 
chance at trying to talk international 
markets into opting for more sustain-
able alternatives. 
The story of the persistence of 
Amazonian logging only serves to 
bring our attention towards a central 
tension in our contemporary age — 
while economic development can ap-
pear to provide solutions for environ-
mental problems, it invariably comes 
at a cost. Bringing commerce and 
nation-building to the global south 
might provide opportunities for de-
velopment beyond natural resource 
exploitation, but questions regard-
ing to the compatibility of capital-
ism and indigenous ways of life still 
fail to provide clear answers. Politi-
cal liberalism, the panacea in vogue, 
may strengthen civil society to a cer-
tain extent. Problems arise, however, 
when liberal economics beat political 
liberalism out of the blocks. 
Cutting Down on Political Anemia
green piece 
Julian Macrone ’15 is 
from Clifton, N.J.
Tamir Wood ’16
All across America, Conservative 
commentators are jumping up and 
down, waving their hands in the air, 
pointing at glitches in the month-old 
roll-out of Obamacare and yelling “I 
told you so!” Republicans are so ea-
ger to turn attention away from their 
d e s t r u c t i v e 
shenanigans 
in the budget 
and debt ceil-
ing debate 
that more col-
umn inches 
have been devoted to the launch of a 
website than at any other time in hu-
man history. None of them, of course, 
go so far as to suggest an alternative 
-
lion uninsured Americans who could 
major illness.
One such offender was fellow col-
last week contained a number of 
the troubling factual errors that 
have characterized the entire 
debate. First was the assertion 
that he lost faith in the work-
ability of the Af-
fordable Care Act 
while watching 
Kathleen Sebelius 
on The Daily Show 
with Jon Stewart 
just weeks ago. I 
understand as well as 
anyone the temptation to 
use a recent statement to jump 
into a column (case in point) 
but I suspect that Kinney be-
-
publicans rooting against the program 
— and doing their best to sabotage its 
success — from its inception. 
More troubling was Kinney’s claim 
that “The Obama Administration has 
already spent half-a-billion dollars 
creating an unusable website…how 
can we trust it to effectively manage 
would be a reasonable criticism, if it 
were in any way correct. Kinney over-
estimated the number of Americans by 
83 million and the cost of the website 
the fact-checking website Media Mat-
ters. To be fair, he was not alone in this 
through a gleeful conservative media 
looking for any shred of evidence to pin 
spend liberal.
    Kinney’s later claims are less 
defective in their veracity than decep-
insurance premiums under Obamacare 
premiums. This ignores the vast major-
ity of owners of health insurance plans, 
who get their coverage through their 
employers, Medicaid, or Medicare. 
Those who will see their rates increase 
purchase their insurance as individuals 
-
viously had no health insurance. Some 
of those people were young, healthy 
and had previously opted not to pur-
chase insurance. Unsurprisingly, buy-
ing health insurance instead of playing 
a literal game of Russian roulette with 
fatal illness represents a rate increase 
for those individuals. A quarter of peo-
ple who previously did not buy health 
insurance were unable to do so due to 
-
erage they will gain from the law repre-
sents the difference between 
a nonzero monthly cost 
and complete medical 
bankruptcy, or death.
Many of the cheap-
er plans pur-
chased by con-
sumers in this 
individual mar-
ketplace prior 
to the law cost 
less for a rea-
son — they were 
the insurance equivalent of a 
shot of whisky and a prayer. 
They wouldn’t cover the cost 
of an ambulance or a night in 
the hospital, and they could 
be cancelled during treatment due to 
costs. Obamacare will subsidize the 
increased cost of health insurance for 
above the poverty line, but that cannot 
get around the fact that owning usable 
health insurance will always cost more 
than useless or absent insurance — un-
til disaster strikes. 
-
ple, saves lives. When Conservatives 
point to website glitches and the states 
across the nation who have refused to 
the uninsured and call Obamacare a 
failure, they’re ignoring the greater 
tragedy. The website will eventually 
coverage have done so out of ideologi-
cal spite. And in the richest nation in 
the world, Americans continue to die 
because they cannot afford to buy 
health insurance. Instead of pointing at 
these failings as a sign that the twice-
elected President isn’t so great after all, 
Moral Criteria for Investment 
apply 
liberally
Zach Drennen ’13.5 is 
from Canandaigua, N.Y.
The More Beautiful World
|November 7, 2013 11opinions
Emily cox ’17
the Sky Falling is a Bad Thing
college, I did what every self-respecting 
for every and any club I thought I might 
-
though I naturally cut most of the clubs 
off my list, one standout was Socially 
Responsible Investing Club.
The club looks to invest Middle-
bury’s endowment in more sustain-
able companies — not just for idealistic 
reasons but because the SRI argues it 
-
cially responsible. One subgroup of the 
club concerns itself with ESG criteria, 
that is, the Environmental, Social, and 
Governance criteria that would classify 
a company as sustainable. Since Mid-
dlebury College has recently pledged to 
substantially increase the part of its en-
dowment that is invested sustainably, 
the dominant question at SRI meetings 
company to be sustainable and whom 
At Middlebury, it seems everyone 
wants to see our investments line up 
with our values. But, judging on how 
to be for the administration, it is un-
likely that Middlebury, a business itself 
out industry by industry according to 
what we deem in-line with our values. 
ESG criteria can be a practical tool for 
our investors to use as they assess fu-
ture investments not only their sustain-
SRI will be conducting a survey this 
week to ask students which of the ESG 
criteria they value most highly in Mid-
dlebury’s investments so that future 
investments can be more in-line with 
community values.
-
tal. Many people think that while being 
environmentally conscious is a posi-
tive, it does not actually affect a busi-
ness directly. Often, however, environ-
mentally conscious companies employ 
business strategies that will be more 
effective in a long-term perspective. 
In order to understand how envi-
ronmental factors affect businesses, I 
have used two principles we have been 
studying in my Intro to Macroeconom-
-
that it damages the environment thus 
spoiling resources), it may not affect 
the company directly so the company 
has no reason to factor it in to their op-
erations. Governments, however, can 
internalize pollution by implementing 
-
As governments begin to employ these 
tactics, environmental sustainability 
The second principle is that mar-
-
tions and opinions.  With more public 
awareness of 
global warm-
ing in social 
media, and 
j o u r n a l i s t s 
calling out 
c o m p a n i e s 
left and right for negative environmen-
tal impacts, businesses’ environmental 
performance is already directly affect-
Dinah Koehler in the Deloitte Review, 
she asserts that negative environmen-
tal news concerning any given company 
has resulted in an average of a 1.12 per-
cent decline in stock returns over the 
past decade, whereas positive environ-
mental news has resulted in an average 
Because they are easier to quan-
tify, environmental factors are often 
-
cial and Governance issues also have 
profound impacts. The social element 
consists of equal rights employment 
and human rights issues. In her article, 
Koehler also claims that human rights 
issues in the form of boycotts, protests, 
or simply a bad public reputation “have 
triggered an average $892 million drop 
in market value.” While non-publicized 
social practices cannot be directly 
-
poses it is still important. Middlebury 
markets itself as a forward-thinking, 
environmentally aware, international 
school; for it to invest without consid-
eration of the effect its money is having 
on the world would be hypocritical. 
Governance has also proven to be 
Treating workers well with preventa-
tive safety measures and quality man-
agement can lead to better crisis control 
and publicity, both of which leading to 
company is less likely to go under after 
a crisis, making it a safer investment.
Middlebury cannot just leave its 
money sitting around. It is a business, 
and, like any business, it must invest its 
endowment so that it can earn money 
and continue to operate. That is why 
ESG is such an ideal tool for Middle-
bury investors to use. It provides the 
opportunity to assess sustainable and 
line with our community values. The 
survey will play the critical role of let-
ting the administration know where 
students stand. It can be found at the 
go/ESGsurvey.
reader op-ed
Edward O’Brien ’17 is 
from Lincoln, M.A.
with Adeline Cleveland ’13.5 & Alan 
Sanders ’13.5
Middlebury Campus: How did you form?
addy: Both of us came together at the 
beginning of this semester. We’ve been 
friends for a while and we’ve each had 
different shows all four years. We’re 
in our last semester, and our former 
partners graduated last year, so we 
were just chatting one day and decided 
to do a story together. 
Middlebury Campus: How did you come up 
with the name?
Alan: I came over to Addy’s house one 
day, and her friend from high school 
was there, and he works in a reptile 
house.
addy: He makes snakes, like he alters 
different parts of their DNA. 
Alan: It was a wild experience. And the 
next day we were supposed to fill out 
the application. So we came up with 
SnakePit. 
Middlebury Campus: How would you de-
scribe the sound of your show?
Alan: We are a hip-hop show, but we 
also play a lot of new electronic and 
electronic-pop acts.
addy: It’s not really a theme every show, 
but sometimes a common thread will 
appear as the show goes on and we 
kind of just go from there, depending 
on the flow of the show.
Alan: We try to play new music as much 
as possible – we play what came out 
each week.
Middlebury Campus: Three adjectives.
Alan: Slithery
addy: Dangerous
Alan: Venomous
Middlebury Campus: Why should listeners 
tune in?
addy: We generally play songs that 
flow well into each other so it’s nice 
to listen not only for one song, but the 
show is pretty coherent as a whole, 
and our banter is pretty on point. It’s 
intentional and informative. Alan is 
pretty knowledgeable and up-to-date 
on the artists and albums we’re play-
ing, and I don’t know that stuff. So 
we’re not both talking at people, we’re 
both conversing.
Alan: It’s a good way for listeners to get 
to know new music and new artists. 
Also, our show is on a Thursday night, 
so people can listen when they’re in 
the library studying or in their dorm 
rooms, not studying. Eighty percent 
of our listeners are from town, not on 
campus. Our listeners vary between lots 
of different age groups.
Middlebury Campus: How do you broadcast 
to listeners across different age groups?
addy: Making a conscious effort to 
not just have our conversation center 
around stuff that happens at the Col-
lege. We definitely bring things that 
are happening on campus, but I think 
by keeping our conversation centered 
around current pop events and music, 
that’s easier to relate to than two 
students talking about Proctor dining 
hall.
with jebb norton ‘13.5 & 
eric benepe ‘13.5
Middlebury Campus: How did you form?
Jebb:  Destiny. 
Erik: We went to the first meeting our 
second semester, and we had known 
each other before. We had very similar 
musical taste and decided to do a show 
together. 
Middlebury Campus: How would you 
describe your musical style?
Erik: We do a different genre every 
week, we have different themes. Some-
times we’ll pick a genre, sometimes 
we’ll pick a period in musical history, 
sometimes we’ll play instrumental 
beats with different speeches we’ve got-
ten by famous people.
Jebb: We did a show for Shel Silver-
stein a month ago. We played a bunch 
of his poetry and songs that he wrote 
and stuff by his friends. We have fun 
with it.
Erik: Basically, we both listen to a lot of 
music and on our show we try to play 
things that we’re interested in and use 
it as a way to find out more about the 
music we like.
Middlebury Campus: Three adjectives
Jebb: I’d say funky. More than most 
people would think of, I think funk 
music is about doing what you want to 
do, and we definitely bring the funk.
Erik: Goofy. We get kind of ridiculous 
sometimes. We’ve got a solid core of 
fans, but sometimes we get callers and 
we have no idea who they are. 
Jebb: I like it because every week, we 
have a two hour period where we never 
do work. It’s just a period where we can 
listen to music and talk, or just think. 
It’s just a separate mind space from 
normal time at Middlebury. 
Middlebury Campus: Do you think that 
vibe is communicated to your listeners?
Jebb: Yeah totally, I hope so. If we were 
doing homework, I think they would 
know. It would change, we wouldn’t be 
as engaged. 
Middlebury Campus: Do you plan ahead?
Erik: We’ve gotten to a point where we 
don’t know how to plan that much. 
We know each other’s music style well 
enough and we have good chemistry. 
We sort of improvise what sounds 
good. 
Middlebury Campus: Why should listeners 
tune in to your show?
Erik: Because we emphasize playing 
good music, and we don’t talk too 
much. When we do talk, we try to 
contribute things to teach people about 
the music.
Jebb: We don’t ask each other what we 
had for lunch, and then talk about 
it for fifteen minutes. People should 
listen to us because everyone needs an 
escape. And that’s what we give. 
with fabiana benediini ‘15 & 
jess parker ‘16
Middlebury Campus: What is Rock and 
Rio?
benedini  So Rock in Rio is actually 
not a world show, it’s Brazilian music 
– Brazilian country and rock.  Brazil-
ian rock says a lot about Brazilian 
history so most of the bands complain 
about the government and how corrupt 
it is. There are a lot of songs about dis-
illusionment and anger and those are 
really good.  And Brazilian country 
is about Brazilian daily culture, so 
heartbreak, drinking a lot and women.  
Middlebury Campus: How did the show 
start?
benedini  Jess and I were having 
dinner at Proctor. She wants to learn 
Portuguese so I said okay, let’s have a 
show so you can practice by listening to 
music and you can talk in Portuguese.  
Her mom’s Brazilian and she wants to 
learn Portuguese so she knows a little 
bit and she’s taking Portuguese for 
Spanish speakers right now.  
Middlebury Campus: Do you speak Portu-
guese on the air?
benedini  We do speak in Portuguese 
to each other when she asks about the 
lyrics.
Middlebury Campus: Are the songs from 
growing up in Brazil or are they more 
modern?
benedini  It’s hard to find modern songs 
but I can usually message my friends 
in Brazil and they can tell me what 
good music is going on right now.  So I 
get input from Brazilians.  
Middlebury Campus: When does the show 
air?
benedini  It airs Wednesdays from 7 
AM to 8 AM. It’s super early.  It feels 
like it’s super early.  It’s so fun to see 
Jess there and hang out with her.  And 
it’s a good way to start our morning, 
especially because it’s music about 
heartbreak or anger – it’s hilarious.  
Middlebury Campus: What you might hear: 
Capital Inicial.  “It is usually about 
corruption or disillusionment and it 
is rock.”
Ivete Sangalo: “It’s pump up music.  It’s 
a style that is very typical of Brazil.”  
Middlebury Campus: Any callers?
benedini  Jess’s mom called once. 
 
with ben goldberg ’14 & maddie dai ’14
Middlebury Campus: As the General Man-
ger, what is your role at WRMC?
goldberg: I kind of do a little bit of 
everything. I am learning as I go. The 
official description of my position is 
I’m the student president [of WRMC], 
I’m responsible for budget and the 
money side of things. We have a busi-
ness director for that as well but I’m 
very much involved. I’m also a link 
between us and the administration, 
student activities and probably most 
significantly, the FCC (Federal Com-
munications Commission).  On a day-
to-day basis, making sure everyone else 
is doing what they need to be doing.  
So, it’s a full time job.
Middlebury Campus: What would be your 
pitch to listen to WRMC? 
goldberg: It’s nothing like anything else 
you have on the air in Addison County 
– commercial free radio, tastefully 
picked music. We’re not catering to a 
certain audience, we’re not playing just 
top 40 hits.
dai: There’s a lot of banter, there’s a 
joke a minute.
goldberg: It’s nice to hear a range of 
student voices giving input.  It’s a sur-
prisingly personal experience to listen 
to someone’s show and what they’re up 
to and what they’re listening to.
dai: If you’re driving a car, what else 
are you going to do?
goldberg: All the shows are pretty dif-
ferent. We are predominately music, 
alternative music (whatever that 
means), but it’s at least diverse to some 
degree. We try to make it as diverse 
as possible but the fact that you’re 
listening to peers or even to someone 
you don’t know playing music they care 
about, have something to say about 
and want to share that with you, that’s 
a way to connect with other people.  
It’s so much more fulfilling than just 
putting on your iPod or putting on a 
CD when you have someone crafting a 
playlist for you.
Middlebury Campus: Almost Famous’ 
description says, “From boy bands to 
mental breakdowns.” What does that 
mean?
dai: We go through all those iterations. 
One day we’ll be a boy band and the 
next we’ll have a mental breakdown.  
It’s actually our third show together 
and it’s been the evolution of us. We 
started in Oxford, we went abroad 
there.
goldberg: Oxcide student radio.  
dai: There’s not many things Middle-
bury does better than Oxford but radio 
would be one of them. They have more 
Nobel prize winners in general but we 
have a good radio station.  So we went 
there and then we had a show last 
semester called Zig-a-Zig-Ah which 
was a Nineties tribute show and now 
we do pop.
goldberg: It was sort of a natural evolu-
tion. On our first show, Back to the 
Boombox, we would pick a different 
era of music but focusing on some sort 
of pop era, more or less.
dai: We relive a lot of our childhood 
memories. But at a time when we were 
extremely awkward probably and it’s 
not necessarily overly sentimental, 
at an exciting time of middle school 
dances.  
goldberg: Maddie and I come from 
wildly different places but strangely 
enough we are able to connect through 
Nineties pop culture.  That was the 
foundation of Zig-a-Zig-Ah and we 
didn’t want to have to be stuck playing 
just nineties music and the nineties 
music we were listening to for the most 
part was pop or some variation thereof. 
So now on Almost Famous we’ll do 
each week a different phenomenon in 
pop music.
dai: Not to intellectualize it but it is 
interesting to look at pop as industrial-
ized, very attuned to different cultural 
fads and movements and the movement 
from boy bands to girl bands.
goldberg: We’re taking a stab at sociol-
ogy. 
dai: Via Wikipedia.
goldberg: Neither of us are trained 
sociologists.  I still haven’t taken a 
sociology class but we can speak at 
length about Britney Spears or Justin 
Timberlake or Beyoncé and it’s nice 
because everyone who’s listening knows 
what we’re talking about.
Middlebury Campus: What are some typi-
cal songs or artists on Almost Famous?
goldberg: Lately there’s been a lot of 
Lorde.
dai: And also because I’m a New Zea-
lander so I’m shamelessly promoting 
her.
goldberg: And also her album is just 
objectively pretty good.
dai: Britney is often the epicenter from 
which we like to compare other art-
ists, in terms of her career that’s gone 
through so many evolutions, rising and 
falling, so there is some Britney but we 
talk about her more than we play her.
goldberg: I don’t feel like there is a 
pattern in the artists we play but I 
guess as far as pop goes we play a lot 
of Beyoncé, Rihanna here and there, 
Justin Timberlake.  Music we respect, 
whether as individuals we respect them 
or we respect their music.
with josh swartz ’14.5 & Alia Khalil 
’14.5 
Middlebury Campus: Tell me about the 
formation of Soul Food.
swartz: I spent part of the summer in 
new Orleans and inspired by the music 
culture down there and going to see 
live music down there and pretty much 
everyday thing that people do. That’s 
something that I loved. It’s also just 
the time of our show from 11 a.m. to 
12:30 p.m. when ppl are just finishing 
up classes, getting a burger at Proctor 
and getting ready for the weekend. It’s 
easy to listen to, puts you in a good 
mood, old and new. This is the first 
semester that SF has been in existence. 
Alia and I have a good rapport. We 
have a good time.
Middlebury Campus:  Explain what Soul 
Food is.
khalil: It’s two friends sharing their 
music with all their other friends. In 
every set, there’s definitely one song 
you can fit your taste to. We play a lot 
of different types of music, but even 
within the soul genre, there are older 
and recent songs.
swartz: A big part of the show is us 
bantering about Halloween costumes 
and favorite animals, community 
events, and things that happen at 
Middlebury. Our last guest has a 
particularly good Norah Jones impres-
sion. Our conversation focuses on 
light-hearted fun things, like talking 
about Halloween or movies. The tone 
of our conversation is very upbeat and 
easy to listen to. It is something we’re 
conscious of: everything we do is geared 
toward a universal audience. 
khalil: Regardless of if you’re in 
Middlebury or not, you’re able to 
understand our conversations. A lot of 
radio shows have inside jokes, but that 
is not us. 
Middlebury Campus: What does the music 
do to you?
khalil: It energizes you. We always say 
it is music that feeds your soul so it’s 
not limited. Our generation doesn’t 
realize how versatile soul music can be 
which can include lyrical ballads or 
some songs with strong beats.
swartz: One tradition is that we always 
end every show with the same song: 
“September” by Earth Wind and Fire. 
That song really legitimizes what our 
show is about. Everyone recognizes it; 
it’s a happy song. It used to make more 
sense because it used to be September. 
Now we just use it to feed people’s 
souls. 
Middlebury Campus: What is the best 
show moment to go down in Soul Food 
history?
swartz: We got a call from Vergennes, 
who I think calls in to WRMC a lot — 
so this might not have been that special 
— but he said, “Wow, I really loved 
the show” and was super supportive. I 
actually think that he is someone who 
calls in pretty frequently, but I like to 
pretend that he just called in our show. 
khalil: My favorite moment was when 
we introduced “September” for the first 
time and we were just kind of joking 
about autumn activities and announced 
that we were going to. Closes the show.
swartz: From that moment, we could 
both feel it was the start of a very pow-
erful tradition. It happened in our very 
first show; it happened so organically. 
Middlebury Campus:  What can you guar-
antee that your listener will hear when 
they tune into the show?
khalil: You will hear Josh’s awesome 
radio voice, which a is a bit of an alter 
ego from his normal voice. He sounds 
like a radio DJ who plays soul music.
swartz: We always talk about a concert 
that is happening or happened at Mid-
dlebury. We do talk about local music 
scenes. In our last show, we played 
Apenglow to promote that concert on 
Higher Ground on Sunday. There’s a 
local consciousness to our show. That’s 
being part of the Middlebury com-
munity and the Vermont community 
— that’s an important part of being a 
radio show.
khalil:We both have different taste in 
music and we both complement each 
other in new bands we’ve heard of and 
introduce each other. Even in my own 
radio show, I’m always finding new 
songs.
with greta neubauer ’14.5 & ian 
stewart ’14
Middlebury Campus: Explain to a 5th 
grader what the Campus Voice is.
neubauer: The Campus Voice is a way 
to bring the work of the Middlebury 
Campus and its writers into broader 
dialogue with the members of the 
community who are commenters on 
the story written in the Campus. They 
relate to those issues and we make that 
vocal and in a dialogue, where people 
can interact beyond the pages.
Middlebury Campus: What is the differ-
ence between the dialogue on the Cam-
pus Voice and one with your friends?
stewart: It seems in most conversa-
tions with your friends, you kind of 
try to get to an agreement on an issue. 
Whereas with the show, no one has to 
leave agreeing. Part of what we do is to 
try to tease out the distinct arguments 
that are being made at different sides 
of the issue. When you’re with your 
friends you’re less likely to push your 
friends that we can be with our host 
hats on. 
neubauer: The differences among people 
who go on the show are greater dif-
ferences than those in our groups of 
friends. A lot of the friends that I have 
these conversations with — we all sort 
of have the same opinions about this 
issue. The Campus Voice brings the 
dialogue out of niches on campus.
Middlebury Campus: Why should someone 
who reads the newspaper want to tune 
into the show 4 days later?
stewart: Issues are changing constantly 
on the campus. The dialogue is chang-
ing, new events are coming out, absurd 
emails are being sent out and are not 
being sent out and so the story, as with 
any story, evolves. This is a nice chance 
to check in a few days later. There’s not 
that pressure of the 500 or 600 words 
[in print]. Just tell the straight facts. 
Get your three quotes in. Tell it in 
this neat, closed story. Another thing 
is that it’s different to hear someone’s 
voice and to hear their pauses and 
their inflections and their emotions, 
their excitement. That’s something that 
no amount of adjectives and adverbs 
on print will be able to recreate. You’re 
taking out a layer and so you’re closer 
to the people and story than you might 
be with a story on the page.
neubauer: I also think that we’re taking 
an issue that’s come up on campus and 
bringing it back to the broader conver-
sation. Whether it’s homophobia on 
this campus or the topic of dialogue.
Kyle Finck (Middlebury Campus edi-
tor-in-chief jumped in mid-interview): 
Also, moving forward the point is not 
only to read the news but to interact 
with the news, so in terms of submit-
ting questions, getting them answered, 
whether it’s having Dean Collado on 
or a student provoked by Collado’s 
blog. This is about interacting with the 
news.
Middlebury Campus: What is the best mo-
ment captured on your show?
stewart: The one I keep thinking about 
is when we did a show on spoken word 
artists and hip-hop rap artists on 
campus. To see their art on campus and 
the way they talked about it was almost 
seamless. I was so blown away by their 
articulateness in the Q&A part of the 
interview that I felt like it was an 
extension of the rhymes and language 
in their art. 
neubauer: That too was my favorite mo-
ment of the show. There was some-
thing really special about seeing the 
performance and the question. I always 
love when I go to an art museum and 
I want to hear the whole description 
of the painting on an audio guide or 
docent and so I really like to hear 
interpretation. That was cool to hear 
them in spoken terms give us that 
description. Similarly, talking about 
the interpretation of Chance’s lyrics. I 
come to a different place on the issue 
having engaged with people who talk-
ing about it a lot. 
stewart: The idea that you can change 
our opinion in a conversation in the 
same way it had naturally is unique to 
the radio. You’re just selecting snap-
shots in newspaper — that’s what is 
going to represent what you felt at that 
moment and that’s valuable, but we 
have the chance to change someone’s 
mind over the course of the show and 
see the evolution the same way it hap-
pens to us sitting there and listening. 
Middlebury Campus: What’s one thing you 
can promise listener in every show?
stewart: Almost everytime when 
someone says something, they were 
sincere about it. You will hear a true 
sincere moment that is not a sound 
byte. It’s something they thought about 
or believed. 
neubauer: You think you understand 
Middlebury, you talk in classes but 
it’s not the same as hearing people’s 
perspectives. It’s surprising. I have this 
idea that I understand Middlebury and 
its student body, and it’s not true. 
snakepit
Alan sanders
Adeline cleveland
Almost fAmous
maddie daiben goldberg
jebb norton
second hand
groove machine
erik benepe
josh swartz
soul food
Alia khalil
cAmpus voice
greta neubauer ian stewart
rock in rio
sound waves
12 features 13november 7, 2013   
snake pit
second hand
groove machine
rock in rio
almost famous
soul food
campus voice
by joe flaherty isabelle stillman
fabiana benedini
jess parker
design by olivia Allen
14 features | November 7, 2013
By Joe Flaherty
13 miles of sidewalk. Over 300 acres. 
Even for a 14-year Landscape Services vet-
eran like John Quelch, these numbers are 
daunting. Nevertheless, Quelch has an eye 
for detail when mowing and holds his team 
to a high standard.
“Maybe it would surprise [students] if 
they saw what we didn’t do or if they saw 
someone who didn’t care how it looked,” 
said Quelch. “For me in particular, no matter 
what it is, I look for the end result – what it 
looks like when you’re done. When you start 
off, it’s not pretty, but you chug away and get 
it done.”   
Landscape Services Supervisor Clinton 
Snyder pulls out a map of campus full of 
little Sharpie markings that divide the cam-
-
have an average of 12 to 18 guys working in 
landscaping and it’s broken up into three 
groups,” said Snyder. 
North, Central and Athletic are the three 
zones in which Landscaping operates.North 
encompasses everything from College Street 
toward Bicentennial Hall, Central covers the 
areas around Old Chapel and Athletic demar-
the crew chief in charge of Central and is re-
sponsible for 5 or 6 
staff members who 
run the landscaping 
from Old Chapel to 
the CFA. 
“He makes 
sure everything is 
looking good,” Sny-
der said. “This is a 
the College and he 
works with his guys 
making sure every-
thing is mowed and 
it looks primo.”
The mowing happens on a schedule. 
“The North crew mows on Monday and Tues-
day, and we mow Central on Wednesday and 
Thursday,” said Quelch. “Usually it takes us a 
little over a day and a half to mow our section 
and then we have to string trim it, all around 
the trees and any objects that you can’t get to 
with a mower. That’s quite a bit of work just 
doing that. In the summer it’s pretty much 
mowing and weed whacking.” 
The team has a Toro lawnmower with 
wings on it that drop down and can mow 
10 to 12 feet on either side which they use 
weather turns colder, Landscaping has been 
keeping the exits of buildings free from snow.
“We were working on it yesterday.  We 
have to distribute shovels to every building 
and the custodians,” said Quelch. “The cus-
todians will sometimes take care of the front 
and they’ll just shovel 6 or 7 feet out for us 
just to help out because we’re sometimes 
short-handed in that department.”
Landscaping also has to work with the 
Facilities auto shop to prepare the tractors 
and trucks for moving snow. 
“We have plow trucks that we are re-
sponsible for maintaining and guys out in 
plow trucks. Then we have tractors to do 
all the sidewalks and the larger equipment 
(the backhoe and the payloader) doing the 
parking lots and removing the snow,” said 
Snyder. “They just started doing it now, 
right into Thanksgiving, getting every piece 
of equipment ready so when the snow falls, 
we’re ready with the trucks, the tractors and 
the snow blowers. This is the rotation we 
start now – taking out winter stuff and put-
ting away the summer stuff.” 
Once heavy snow begins falling, the real 
work begins.
“Bicentennial Hall has to be shoveled on 
the roof – the entire top,” continued Snyder. 
“We have 200 plus buildings and over 300 
acres that we’re taking care of, so every build-
ing has an entrance and an exit, everything 
has to be shoveled, usually six feet wide out 
to a walk or out to a drive.” The wear and tear 
on machines and tools is evident after only a 
few years. “Brand new shovels get worn right 
down,” added Snyder.
Quelch also has his share of snowstorm 
horror stories.  
“We had a really big storm on Valen-
tine’s day 7 or 8 years ago,” said Quelch. “It 
up here and told people if they didn’t have 
to travel not to do it,” said Quelch.  “People 
stayed here that night and the College paid 
for however many hours you worked in that 
storm, they gave you double your hours. 
They had cots out for people to stay in.”  
On the Gator, Quelch does hesitate to do 
some clean up at a moment’s notice. 
“I’m going 
to pick up this 
branch while 
I’m here,” said 
Quelch, stop-
ping the ve-
hicle to grab a 
large branch 
that had fallen 
down in from 
of the Emma 
Willard House. 
Right now, 
however, the 
main target is 
fallen leaves.
“We have a lot of leaves and a lot of them 
are still on the trees now. Oaks always hold 
them,” Quelch said. “We are constantly after 
leaves, as long as we can do it before the snow 
hits.”
All the leaves are collected via vacuum 
devices that are attached to either a box on a 
Gator or a separate truck.  
“We have a leaf vacuum – a vacuum that 
goes in a straight shot and sucks them up,” 
Quelch said. “And then we have another one 
that we are experimenting with this year. 
The auto shop people built a box on the back 
of it. It has an engine on it and it has knives 
and it chops the leaves up and blows them 
into the box on the back of a Gator.”
“They also like to mulch as much as they 
can with the mowers,” said Snyder, a tactic 
used to get as much organic matter as possi-
ble back into the ground. “But at some point 
they have to stop doing it because you get so 
many leaves you’re basically just plowing be-
cause there are so many leaves so they need 
to start picking it up.”
-
ties services building but eventually they go 
to a site off of the TAM which Landscaping 
calls the ‘stump dump’. Quelch pointed out 
this site while on the Gator, where Landscap-
ing keeps gravel, brush, woodchips, and ma-
nure from the Morgan Horse Farm. Leaves 
are piled next to the manure and food com-
post from the dining halls is mixed in.  “We 
turn that into topsoil so we have fresh top-
soil,” said Snyder. 
A little-known part of Landscaping’s du-
ties are R-25 forms, a variation of a work or-
der which lists events all over the College that 
require the department’s attention. 
“It’s our responsibility to read that and 
see what is go-
ing on each 
day,” said Sny-
der.  “It says in 
each event to 
see if it’s some-
thing we need 
to do.  It could 
be as little as 
getting gar-
bage cans out 
there or roping 
something off.”
Landscap-
ing also takes 
care of the 
brunt of Mon-
day morning’s 
trash pickup.
“I get sick 
of that but to keep it looking nice it’s got to 
be done because there’s always beer cans, 
broken glass, napkins. We start our day out 
Monday morning with campus pickup,” said 
Quelch. “Usually it takes about 2 hours with 
4 people. “
“We’ll get a call like, ‘At FIC there’s bro-
ken glass across the whole parking lot.’ You 
have to stop what you’re doing and take care 
of it,” said Snyder. “They stood by that park-
ing lot and drank and every time they drank 
a bottle they threw it. By the end of the night 
there was broken glass across the whole park-
ing lot.”
The ridgeline houses and the mods are 
reportedly the worst spots for garbage in the 
campus. Despite incidents like this, Quelch is 
nonplussed.
“It is our job, but sometimes it’s frustrat-
ing if you go down there three or four times, 
but it’s in our job description,” said Quelch. 
“Most of them are very respectful like when 
we are cleaning off a sidewalk. A lot of stu-
dents come by and say thank you. That’s pret-
ty nice to hear that they appreciate what you 
are doing for them.”
The importance of being alert is obvi-
ous on a Gator. While driving the Gator 
around campus on Friday, Quelch made a 
point to veer off whenever pedestrians were 
near, an unspoken rule of landscaping.
“When we are mowing and students 
come by we idle down, shut our blades off, 
and let them come by,” said Quelch. Quelch 
also said his crew is mindful of keeping the 
noise down around lecture halls and other 
classrooms. 
Quelch grew up in Vermont and start-
ed work at 12 years old as a butcher and 
meat cutter.  “That’s pretty much what I’ve 
done for most of my life until I cam here,” 
said Quelch. “You learn a lot about blood 
and guts, that’s for sure.  But I can do the 
whole job.”  
Quelch pulls up at 468 McKinley, a 
College house near the athletics center and 
points to a group of three facilities crew 
members.  The three all wear the backpack-
style leafblowers and use them to drive 
couldn’t really suck the leaves up today be-
cause they don’t suck up when they’re wet 
and it clogs a lot,” said Quelch, referencing 
a rainy morning. 
Despite the monotony of mowing, 
Quelch says he enjoys his work.
“Mowing up the leaves and chopping 
them up with the smell of the fresh air is 
awesome,” said Quelch. 
Fall Foliage Is No Match for Landscaping
Landscape Services Crew Chief John Quelch harnesses a 12-foot lawnmowing beast.
Joe Flaherty
BEHIND
THE     VEST
As I walked uphill after a movie screen-
ing in Dana Auditorium, I caught a glimpse 
of the smokestack, unimpeded by trees, 
-
tance. From its narrow neck it churned out 
a billowing cloud of smoke, which was torn 
sideways by the wind and grew organically 
like a furtive amoeba, lonely in the silent 
evening. 
I found something about that image 
strangely poignant. The last time I saw a 
smokestack was on a winter afternoon in 
Tsinghua Universiy, Beijing, two years ago. 
I think it was the monumental madness of 
having something so huge tower over me 
and awe that I felt at the time. And yet 
smokestacks, since Mao’s Great Leap For-
ward, have ceased to be at the center of hu-
man activity.
In the ISO packet that I received for my 
host family reception, I laughed when I saw 
1984 on a reccomended list of books, claim-
ing to represent China. The Cultural Revo-
lution was considered a time of oppression 
and paranoia. Yet was it really such a bad 
time? 
Putting aside surveillance and depriva-
tion of personal freedom, the spirit of the 
age was what my father (he was among the 
ones who were condemned) felt nostalgic 
for. People felt like they were working for 
a cause. The absence of economic forces 
created a space where people were free to 
think. An abundance of literature at that 
time depicted the sentiments of innocence 
and idealism. Jiangwen’s In the Heat of the 
Sun portrays the bucolic lives of teenagers 
who lived during the period. Love stories, 
like Under the Hawthorn Tree, Shanghai 
Dreams and Naked Earth, portray relation-
ships unadulterated by considerations of 
wealth and social position.
-
ically. Yet, ironically, all sorts of problems 
have arisen in China — migrant workers 
suffer from economic inequality, corrup-
tion is rife and greed incites crime. In the 
past, people worked for a greater cause, 
the urge to simply survive, drives the econ-
omy. 
In modern China, the proliferation of 
materialism hasn’t actually brought any 
meaning into life, apart from an increasing 
existential dilemma. Some people long for 
the days of Mao’s era. The chaos brought 
on by the unbridled free market forces has 
led to a revival of leftist politics in China. 
The past seems better than the present.
What I dislike most about our present 
economic structure is that it generalizes 
everyone into the same, animalistic being 
that thrives on attaining unlimited wants, 
erasing cultural boundaries. But why can’t 
we battle the proliferation of materialism? 
Because we live by it. It is the capital with 
which we build our lives. By battling it we 
are trying to oppose a part of human na-
ture. It is the way we have to live our lives, 
whether we want to or not.
The smokestack evokes not only a 
sense of nostalgia for the past and the 
simplicity it embodies, but also a feeling 
of the loneliness that one experiences in 
this vacuum of meaning. Our lives are ul-
timately divided by the inherent inequality 
of economic standing. While the Commu-
nist Era would be too radical a recourse, 
society should adopt a new set of beliefs 
gains. While that might be restrictive to 
our freedom, it would force us to rethink 
the positions in which we stand. 
And yet the question arises: is this 
retreat a regression? It seems that we are 
enchained by freedom, seeking to impose 
constrictions on ourselves that force us to 
be free. America experiences an ideologi-
cal cycle — liberals and conservatives take 
turns in government. It’s ironic that all of 
to live if we don’t play it.
By Joy Zhu
¡AMurica!
300
200
Number of acres on campus Landscape 
Services is responsible for. The campus 
is split into 3 zones of mowing: North, 
Athletic, and Central.  
Number of buildings Landscape Services 
has to shovel out every morning after a 
snowstorm.
Miles of sidewalk Landscape Services 
has to mow.  Often, mowing sidewalks 
requires mowing one side of the path 
Average number of hours Landscaping 
crew members spend picking up 
garbage on Monday mornings.
Required width of paths of exit, 
in feet, from buildings when 
shoveling snow. 
behind the
Numb3rs 6
13
2
15featuresnovember 7, 2013   
With millions of users logging on every-
communicate in the Internet age. At an event 
The moderator took to the stage and an-
for Individuals and Society?” Audience mem-
bers voted on the question before and after 
-
es by stating that Facebook is a means to 
a modern and timely solution to bring a dis-
connected community together in a virtual 
-
friends and family at a distance. Hutchinson 
rebutted by saying that the usage of Facebook 
-
-
-
-
-
that Facebook is merely a tool to communi-
that Facebook, as a decentralized online 
method to communicate, is hard to control 
revolution started on Facebook.” The fact 
that Facebook can foster democracy is also 
-
ian regimes such as China. Haight reminded 
Aicher that he should not equal correlation 
Facebook.
In addition, Facebook makes it easier for 
Facebook launched an organ donor status 
times the average rate. 
of content. The default setting makes most of 
-
information on Facebook to government, 
accounts, and the government has many oth-
than Facebook. 
The moderator and audience then asked 
questions to both sides, mainly focusing on 
-
cast, and the side in favor of Facebook as 
-
lost contact. 
-
Most of the audience described this de-
Hutchinson came to Middlebury College 
-
-
-
facilitated any of those.” 
-
-
Hutchison said debaters are mostly 
-
-
ment is overzealous.
Debate Tackles Pros and Cons of Facebook
By Jiayi Zhu
-
-
-
-
In her lecture, Eurich told the story of 
-
ning and trial and error to land a career 
-
along.”
-
-
-
-
diences outside the business realm, such 
-
-
-
day.  
-
us, a lucky break.” 
-
enough in abundance.
graduate school in the area you intend to 
-
-
connections should be taken,” said Rose 
-
-
nections.”
Finding the right grad school in the 
right location, building and maintaining a 
-
the lecture. 
-
couragement of college students to con-
-
-
A n d 
of course, 
theater. The 
craft of get-
front of a 
straight, not 
be nervous, 
and talk in 
can hear you, 
-
-
she had at the time, she considered taking 
-
starting. To think of yourself as an active 
-
monition to dream big but dream realis-
-
-
thesis, attended. 
In an email, she 
-
gaging and had a very 
-
clear, funny, direct, and informed by the 
-
edgeable about the research literature on 
-
alumNa eurich explains how to score a career you love
By Anastasia Capatina
“You can write up or call 
anyone and ask them to pick 
you might want to go into. 
Try it.”
Dr. tasha Eurich ’02
Organizational  psychologist, speaker, and new york times 
best-selling author
OVERHEARD 
@MIDD
“You guys know about 
hashtags, right?”
“You are so wrong on this and 
you’ll never be right. Can’t you 
just admit that Proctor has the 
best breakfast on campus.”
“She snores, but only a lot.”
“Have you started the reading 
yet?”
“Yeah, I’ve read the cover.”
“She snores, but only a lot.”
“My grandpa loves thirft stores. 
He’s taken the same adult Eng-
lish class six times, he keeps 
getting a B and comes back for 
more. He used to play frisbee 
with college kids, and this is 
when he was like 79. And he’s 
so into vitamin supplements, 
like that’s his thing.”
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Raise the Volume- Aer
This year Wonnacott Commons is bringing Aer to help 
raise money for The Trevor Project, a national organi-
zation dedicated to raising money and bringing aware-
ness to crisis intervention and suicide prevention to 
LGBTQ youth. 
11/9, 9:30 P.M., MCCULLOUGH SOCIAL SPACE
Singer Pur
At Middlebury, this internationally acclaimed a cappel-
la ensemble performs a program called “Fields of Gold: 
Vocal Music through the Centuries,” featuring works 
from Hildegard von Bingen to Palestrina and Orlando 
di Lasso; then on to Brahms and Schumann, and later 
to Irving Berlin and Sting, among others.
10/10, 3 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
Cock the Play
This play by Mike Bartlett is ‘A playful, candid 
that arise when you realize you have a choice.’ 
Directed by Jordan DuBeau ’16, featuring Arnav 
Adhikari ’16, Alexander Burnett ’16, Dylan Gil-
bert ’16, and Juliette Gobin ’16.
11/7-11/9, 8 P.M., HEPBURN ZOO THEATRE
It is Saturday night, roughly 11:50 p.m., 
and the crowd facing the Chicago-born 
Chance the Rapper in Nelson Stadium is 
getting antsy. The show thus far has been 
nothing if not a tad bizarre, and Chance is 
venue’s echoey crevices. “Smoke Again” and 
“Juice” have somewhat revived the audience 
from the lull of slow jams dominating 
the last twenty minutes, but a sense of 
restlessness is lingering. Naturally, after a 
week of intense scrutiny and campus-wide 
discourse, the question remains: will he play 
it? The insidious lyric in “Favorite Song” 
resting neatly within the lush garden that 
is Chance’s acclaimed LP Acid Rap? Will he 
defy pleas of the administration and many 
students on campus?
And then it happened. Chance ran 
through “Favorite Song” without the hint of 
censoring.
“I’mma give you all one last test, I’mma 
play one last song … I want everybody, when 
I drop this next song, to start jumping; I’m 
not even gonna say the name of the next 
song, I’mma just countdown.”
Five notes — a revitalized sample of the 
famous opening of Betty Wright’s “Clean 
Up Woman” — pulsed through the haze 
and erased all doubt, igniting an uproar of 
cheers, invigorating the crowd and saving 
the concert. 
Well, sort of.
Chance the Rapper is no stranger to 
#10Day is the direct product of a 10 day sus-
with teachers and life’s daily occurrences. In 
between cheap laughs and grim landscapes, 
Chance spits clever quips about love, drugs, 
sex and everything else 20-year-olds think 
about. Amongst modern rappers he is highly 
respected yet considerably mild; in context 
of the broader world, however, as well as the 
community of the College, Chance’s lyrics 
are reason for concern. The exact brand of 
anticipation held by students was therefore 
mixed: some were ecstatic, others frustrat-
ed; many were indifferent, the majority at 
least vaguely curious. 
At around 10:45 p.m., the admittedly 
modest crowd began to thicken as ticket 
holders who had gotten wind of the late pro-
jected start time began to trickle in. Whispers 
of uncertainty. Personally I was thrilled to 
see Chance; having read numerous reports 
commending his stage presence over the 
a shortened set this past summer, I had high 
hopes for an energetic concert bolstered by 
a lively student body. The growing swarm of 
students was promising. “This is gonna kick 
ass,” I heard someone slur in passing. 
The time crept past 11:00 p.m. and the 
anticipation was morphing into impatience. 
Some tried to accelerate the process with 
cheers and a brief chant to little avail. The 
collective buzz showed signs of waning. 
And then the lights went out. “Good 
Ass Intro” began to pour out of the speakers. 
Chance ran across stage, stopping with his 
trademark stagger, strutted up to the micro-
phone, started the song’s opening chant, and 
… something immediately felt off.
A breathy rasp coated Chance’s high 
pitched, nasally delivery. The speakers 
fuzzed and instead of the rich, orchestral 
track listeners expected, out came a tinny, 
with a slowed step — some eight months of 
to him. 
picked up the tempo and got into a little 
groove, but then began an unfortunate trend 
of cutting lines short that would come to per-
meate the remainder of the show. Granted 
his rhymes are jam packed and some breath-
with as much gusto as Chance, but it seemed 
to break up the rhythm of his songs. 
stick out his microphone at the ends of bars, 
Not many knew the right answers; and with 
each repeated effort came another gap mar-
ring his tracks. The effect was disheartening, 
but not entirely damaging.
Four songs in, the concert abruptly 
shifted in direction. Chance took a brief 
break backstage as the screen lit up with a 
dizzying mash-up of sex scenes, puppies 
-
utes passed and Chance stormed the stage 
with his backing band, recharged and rein-
vigorated, and belted a silky smooth rendi-
tion of “Everybody’s Something.” The effect 
in combination with the video was above all 
bemusing; students were not sure whether 
to feel offended or inspired, instead left 
merely confused.
Yet as it came to a close and Chance 
drifted into “Paranoia,” a slowed-down 
standout from Acid Rap, a certain discon-
nect wedged itself between the stage and the 
audience and absolutely deadened the latter. 
A wholly out-of-place, out-of-nowhere ren-
dition of Coldplay’s “Fix You” further alien-
ated the crowd. Regardless of the energy 
Chance unleashed on stage, they indulged 
him only in sporadic waves. 
It was not until Chance kicked off “Fa-
vorite Song,” the closer of the main set list 
— the unstable, volatile crux of contentious 
student debate — that any sense of enthusi-
asm or passion grew out of the crowd. The 
implications of this are plentiful and divi-
sive, and reactions were just as varied.
“Though I’m not sure how I feel about 
the lyrics, I think [the lack of censorship] 
may have been a good thing,” said Audrey 
Goettl ’16. “I believe musicians need artistic 
liberty to an extent to express their message 
without the fear of offending others when in-
terpreted without context.”
Others, like Nathan Weil ’15, were less 
forgiving. 
“Before the show I thought the [free 
speech] argument in favor of Chance carried 
at least some weight,” Weil said. “[But] from 
the bizarre misogyny of the pornographic 
projections above the stage to playing only 
enough of ‘Favorite Song’ to shout the word 
‘f*****’ to a cheering crowd, Chance was a 
shock artist and nothing more.”
-
ened the spirits of the room for the remain-
der of the night. Chance unexpectedly played 
as he had throughout the show. Closing out 
the night, he graciously thanked the crowd, 
despite its lukewarm support. 
Exiting the arena, I couldn’t reconcile 
my unmet expectations. Chance no doubt 
put up a dynamic performance, but the con-
cert in its entirety felt a bit cheap and gim-
to assuage the disappointment. One cannot 
really fault the Middlebury College Activities 
Board (MCAB) Concerts Committee — they 
had no control over the odd features of the 
show or the blundered venue change — but 
nevertheless I still feel wary over the upcom-
ing spring show. I doubt an act as nationally 
revered as Chance will be easy to come by. 
At the very least, we can be certain that the 
student body will have far more vested inter-
est in both the content and the execution of 
future concerts. Hopefully that will be worth 
something.
Chance Brings Energy, Controversy
By Chad Clemens
Chance the Rapper gives the crowd a taste of his impressive, energetic dance moves.
anthea viragh
Chance the Rapper gets up close and personal with the concertgoers in Kenyon 
Arena. Despite the College requesting that he not perform homophobic lyrics, Chance 
anthea viragh
Review
The Department of Theatre and Dance 
celebrated Halloween with a presentation of 
Caryl Churchill’s Vinegar Tom, a subversive 
tale of witchcraft and female power running 
from Thursday, Oct. 31 through Saturday, 
Nov. 2. 
Audience members entered the Seeler 
Studio Theatre in the Kevin P. Mahaney Cen-
“in the round,” a wooden circle in the center 
of the stage with seating on all sides. Quota-
tions projected onto two walls of the theatre 
history about the weaknesses of the female 
sex, thought to be naturally wicked simply 
because of differences in biology. Though 
the play follows behaviors that lead to accu-
sations of witchcraft in one rural town, show 
director and Professor of Theatre and Gen-
der, Sexuality and Feminine Studies Cheryl 
Faraone noted that the play grapples with a 
much larger issue.
“It’s a play about the control of an as-
sault on women,” Faraone said. “I think that 
unfortunately this is an issue that has come to 
the forefront today.” 
 “History has not moved on; the removal 
of the gibbet is merely cosmetic,” she added 
in the show’s program.
Churchill’s play follows the loose young 
woman Alice, played by Christina Fox ’13.5, 
and her mother Joan, acted by Erica Furgi-
uele ’15, two unfortunate victims of the times, 
falsely accused of witchcraft by a middle class 
couple after things start to go wrong on the 
couple’s farm. Though there are only four 
minor male characters, they hold the power 
over the women they encounter. Margery, 
portrayed by Meghan Leathers ’13.5, thinks 
she is driven mad by the women she knows, 
not acknowledging that her abusive husband 
may be the one pushing her over the emo-
tional ledge. Susan, a friend of Alice played by 
Chelsea Melone ’15, is wracked with guilt and 
eventually also accused of witchcraft after she 
aborts her baby with a potion, impregnated 
by a man and forced to explore the extent 
of her control over her body. Betty, acted by 
Shannon Fiedler ’14, runs from the possibility 
of marrying a wealthy man she does not love, 
only to be convinced and brainwashed that 
she will only be safe from accusations if she 
submits to the life she so despises. 
Faraone was also enthused about her 
dedicated ensemble.
“This is a very strong group. Some are 
seniors, some are brand new to me,” Fara-
one said. “I’ve been incredibly fortunate with 
these students. Their commitment to the play 
and its ideas has been absolute, and they take 
what Churchill has to say seriously. There is a 
lot of talent and a lot of smarts on that stage.”
Interspersed throughout the show were 
six songs composed by musical director and 
in three part harmony by singers Caitlin Rose 
Duffy ’15.5, Joelle Mendoza-Etchart ’15 and 
Dana Tripp ’14. The singers offered a stark 
visual and audial juxtaposition to the 17th 
century dress and speech of the play’s pri-
stage in modern day black cocktail dresses 
and colored tights and presenting intricately 
arranged, upbeat jazzy tunes. Despite this 
contrast, the lyrics of the songs soon proved 
to correlate with the themes of the main plot, 
discussing everything from the struggles of 
being a wife supporting a family to aging to a 
woman’s medical control over her body.  Far-
aone, who has previously collaborated with 
Christensen, was extremely pleased with the 
musical director’s vision.
“She absolutely gets the juxtaposition of 
music and lyrics that shows the narrow lens-
es through which women are viewed,” Fara-
one said. “The songs are entertaining and a 
big contrast to the rest of the show.
Fielder worked as an actor, choreogra-
pher and dramaturge for Vinegar Tom for 
her senior work, drawing on previous dance 
experience to bring the harmonies alive.
“I think my favorite aspect of Vinegar 
Tom might actually be the singers,” Fiedler 
said. “The music is absolutely beautiful, and 
the stark contrast between the upbeat melody 
and the dark lyrics forces the audience to re-
ally confront the issues at hand. Because the 
singers are contemporary, it also makes the 
audience acknowledge that the issues raised 
in the show are not just problems they had 
back then, but, unfortunately, issues that we 
are still dealing with today.”
Near the end of the play, in a particularly 
uncomfortable scene, Matt Ball ’14 entered 
the stage as Packer, an accomplished witch 
hunter known for his ruthless treatment of 
witches.  As Packer laid each suspected witch 
on an elevated platform and viciously prod-
ded them for a sign of the devil, the inten-
sity of the piece heightened to an extremely 
uncomfortable level, many in the audience 
forced to look away as the women’s legs were 
opened. Indeed, the scene should be unset-
tling, showing the subordination of Packer’s 
and raises him to the level of a saint.
Faraone’s decision to stage the produc-
tion in the round was brilliant, allowing for 
a range and depth of motion impossible 
to achieve with a typical 180-degree view. 
Characters emerged from all four corners of 
the stage, cleverly moving around the circle 
to give each audience member a unique view 
of the action.  Actors and singers communi-
cated directly to the psyche of the audience, 
hugging the edge of the circle and making eye 
contact with spectators. A ladder leading to 
the balcony seating area of the theatre maxi-
mized the spatial possibilities of the show, 
allowing the actors to move horizontally and 
vertically to present the tale.
Fielder, besides acting as Betty and 
Kramer in the play, performed all necessary 
research about the time period, treatment 
of women and witchcraft, communicating 
to the cast how each of their characters may 
have actually behaved or felt at the time. 
In the end, it is not the actual hang-
ing of the witches or the emotional torment 
coursing through the women’s minds that is 
females appear as Kramer and Sprenger, 
two real men who wrote The Malleus Ma-
in 1486. This text, one of the most famous 
treatises on witches, challenges arguments 
against witchcraft’s existence and instructs 
magistrates on how to identify, question and 
convict suspected witches. The statements 
in this text came to be widely recognized 
as truth at the time. Fielder read the text in 
preparation for the play.
“It was a crazy experience to read it and 
back then – their fear and the circular logic of 
“For example, if a woman has a spot on her 
she is a witch, but if she doesn’t have a spot 
she can still be a witch.  They basically made 
up the rules so that anyone accused of witch-
craft could be hung for a witch.”
The actors, wearing tails and top hats, 
boldly asserted the reasons why women 
were more likely to be witches, listing the 
the wrongs in the world. They insisted that 
“cunning women are worst of all,” capable of 
greater wrongs. 
This scene, coupled with the projected 
quotes from the beginning of the play, drove 
home the notion that prejudice against wom-
en has been all too real throughout history.  
are the witches?” before tauntingly answer-
ing, “Here we are, here we are.” Many char-
acteristics of witchcraft in the play, such as 
heightened sensitivities, independence from 
men or individual intelligence, are very much 
present in women today, forcing women in 
the audience to ask if they would have been 
considered a witch just a few centuries ago. 
Faraone points out that women accused of 
witchcraft were generally those on the edges 
of society, displaying some fatal sign of dif-
ference. 
“These were mostly single women strug-
gling with poverty and age who found a 
scapegoat through witchcraft,” Faraone said.
Many left the theater having enjoyed the 
production, but feeling deeply unsettled by 
the theme. The entire ensemble did an excel-
Churchill’s work, each actor sporting a British 
accent and a clear determination to make the 
play all it could be. In the end, they presented 
a cleverly designed, well-acted spectacle that 
left the audience with as many questions as 
answers, and oftentimes, those are the best 
plays of all.
By Leah Lavigne
Vinegar Tom Disturbs, Bewitches
stan barouh
november 7, 2013 | 17arts SCIENCES
“So, are you a boy or a girl?” Moments af-
ter being asked this question by a suave man 
in a lab coat, I was tossed out into Kalos to be-
gin my adventure in Pokémon X. I picked my 
starter, a Froakie (obviously), and soon found 
myself giggling like a kid again as I tromped 
through the world, capturing and battling 
If you are a fan of the series you should 
stop reading and keep playing because you 
already have these games. If you are an old 
fan who has fallen off the bandwagon, or 
time, these games have a lot to offer. 
If the Pokémon series has ever been con-
sistently criticized for one thing, it is stagna-
tion. “They’re just the same games over and 
over again!” cry some. In a way, they are right. 
Pokémon games all follow a tried and true 
formula. You will be presented with the same 
starter types, introduced to a rival or two, and 
face off against gym leaders and some sort of 
Elite Four and becoming the Champion. 
Each game offers some new wrinkles 
and updates, but the basic formula remains 
the same. If this formula does not appeal to 
you, I cannot honestly recommend X and Y. 
which make the experience both on and of-
tasked with the same goals and challenged by 
similar obstacles. 
make the Pokémon formula feel fresh. Ear-
lier games in the series had notoriously slow 
starts, requiring a good hour or two of play 
before the real game began. X and Y start at 
a breakneck pace, handing you a starter and 
some Pokéballs and releasing you into the 
world pretty much from the get go. 
From there, you will notice that Kalos is 
home to an almost ridiculous array of Poké-
mon. Every route is packed full of monsters 
from every generation of games, allowing you 
chunk of the game is quite spread out, giving 
you time to adventure and enjoy the world. 
As you progress, the game’s pacing speeds up 
by reducing time between gyms as your char-
acter hardens their resolve to face off against 
the Elite Four. The pace of the story allowed 
me to enjoy my wanderings at the beginning 
of the game, and by the time I felt ready to be 
done with the story and move on to creating 
a competitive team, the pace had accelerated 
enough for me to do so quickly.
Pokémon X and Y’s most noticeable 
change is their move to fully 3D graphics. 
Making the most out of the more power-
ful 3DS hardware, Game Freak created fully 
animated models of every Pokémon which 
replace the old two dimensional sprites. The 
battles and world look phenomenal. My fa-
vorite Pokémon designs came to life through 
the new graphics, and I found a new appreci-
ation for some Pokémon I was previously not 
so fond of. The battle scenes also make use of 
new attack animations, and the whole thing 
feels snappy and fast paced. 
The new graphical style is accompanied 
by greater freedom of movement using the 
3DS’ circle pad and your character’s roller 
skates. Moving around the world feels intui-
tive, for the most part. Kalos’ capital city of 
due to its behind the back perspective, and I 
often found myself wandering through alleys 
and shop doors that I had not meant to en-
ter. Aside from the awkwardness of Lumiose, 
Pokémon X and Y have made the jump to 3D 
graphics quite masterfully.
For those of you looking to get into 
Pokémon’s more complicated meta-game, X 
and Y are by far the best places to start. The 
breeding and training cycle of old games has 
been accelerated through a number of new 
Training system and the ability to breed good 
Pokémon more quickly, I actually found my-
self having fun with making my team, as op-
posed to accepting it as a necessary chore. 
Pokémon X and Y are great games for 
getting into this series. The whole experience 
feels streamlined and fresh, giving players old 
and new plenty of reason to start out on their 
own journeys. There is no better time to play 
Pokémon, just make sure to put down the 
games long enough to attend classes.
Pokemon x
one life left
BY CHAPIN BOYER
Captain Phillips is at its core a story 
about leadership – the weight that any 
captain or leader must bear to do their 
Phillips (Tom Hanks) and his responsibil-
ities on an American cargo ship: breaking 
in a new crew and then getting them to 
follow his lead in a time of crisis.  Paral-
leling Phillips’ story is that of the Somali 
captain Muse (Barkhad Abdi), who must 
likewise get his pirate crewmembers to 
follow his instructions in chaos, and then 
who must execute his own job. Muse’s job 
so happens to include stealing Phillips 
ship and taking Phillips hostage aboard a 
claustrophobic lifeboat. 
The director, Paul Greengrass, 
spends a fair chunk of the movie giving 
us backstories for each captain directly 
of the movie are Phillips with his wife 
driving to the airport, and Muse on a So-
malian beach evaluating potential crew 
members. The story is obviously very 
much about comparison – to some ex-
tent it must be a story of comparison by 
virtue of these different starting points. 
But Captain Phillips does not turn into a 
third world. Whatever comparison that 
does occur on this level is included fore-
most to narratively engage the audience, 
not to make grand statements about what 
One of the four pirates cuts his foot on 
glass because he has no shoes, which dra-
matically shifts the strategy of the pirates. 
This is a less cumbersome way of telling 
us how circumstance shapes the Somali 
pirates, as opposed to having Hanks step 
away from the story to give us a politi-
cized speech. 
Instead, the focus remains on Muse 
and Phillips, 
both to some 
extent trapped 
by circum-
stance. Piracy 
is Muse’s trade; this is what he does and 
he is not going to stop. The crew on board 
of Phillips’ ship argue that they didn’t sign 
up to be hijacked, but Phillips tells them 
that of course they did – it also comes 
included as part of their vocation. The 
parallels are clear. The dynamic between 
Muse and Phillips is made markedly more 
interesting by playing the novice actor 
Abdi against the well-established Hanks. 
The dynamic works; it feels appro-
priate for Hanks’ and Abdi’s respective 
characters. As the movie builds, Muse 
and Phillips increasingly share the screen 
says to Muse in a grim tone: “we all have 
bosses”, which is more or less the guiding 
theme of the movie
Greengrass restricts his scale to the 
ship and its immediate vicinity – there 
are almost no wide shots at all, just the 
crewmen, the ships and the sea. Like in 
Greengrass’s United 93, we are given the 
immediate action foremost, which el-
evates and gives power to that action. The 
director understands that there is a great 
satisfaction in simply watching someone 
do their job 
well; in follow-
ing the minu-
tiae of any job 
that leads to 
that job’s success. Phillips is nothing if 
not a respectable captain who follows pro-
cedure when in doubt, and who remains 
cool while everyone else panics. Hanks is 
great at giving this kind of performance 
– he really should be too, after 30 years 
of giving exactly this performance. For 
most of the movie, Tom Hanks is Tom 
Hanks – the likeable, empathetic every-
man, whose primary dramatic delivery is 
a stoic monotone. 
the last 10 minutes of the movie, where 
Hanks strips off every convention we 
are accustomed to from him, and when 
Hanks gives us a rare moment of decided 
vulnerability. This is a true story. It is not 
a surprise that Hanks is saved from his 
hostage situation. What is more surpris-
ing is Hanks’s response as a man who is 
completely disoriented, basically unable 
to process information, and totally unable 
to communicate his experience. 
Hanks’ performance is a microcosm 
for the entire movie: Captain Phillips’ 
only dramatic mood is a building, yet re-
strained tension. The stakes are always 
impossibly high, every little movement 
is a matter of life and death, and Cap-
tain Phillips is engrossing throughout. 
But somehow the movie builds so long 
and intently that it fails to introduce new 
dramatic action on which to build. Dur-
of that tension is snapped and the mov-
ie moves from restraint to a necessary 
crazed emotion. It becomes something 
special when it reaches this place. The ob-
vious problem is that the movie is 2 hours 
long, and its redeeming pinnacle lasts 
for 10 minutes. Still, it’s hard to be too 
hard on Captain Phillips. Paul Greengrass 
has painted his usual, measured portrait 
about a moment of terror, uniquely mar-
rying chaos and patience, resulting in a 
and emotionally honest. 
november 7, 2013 | 18 arts SCIENCES
Captain Phillips
The fact that each chemical equation 
scribbled on a blackboard often translates 
into a spectacular, real life occurrence is 
easily underappreciated. For instance, 
eyes may glaze over when they see the 
equation 2H2O2 -> 2H2O + O2, and one 
would not expect to be amazed to witness 
the reaction. But when chemistry student 
Cece Burkey ’15 demonstrated the experi-
-
drogen peroxide and a catalyst, the chemi-
cals expanded rapidly into hissing colored 
foam called elephant toothpaste, which 
burst out from the eyes and mouth of the 
pumpkin. 
On Wednesday, Nov. 13, Burkey, 
along with students Alex Scibetta ’14, Pe-
ter Hetzler ’14, Shannon Reinhart ’15, Da-
vid Stillman ’14, and Associate Professor 
of Chemistry & Biochemistry Roger Sand-
wick are holding an event called Alchemis-
try pHun to bring this chemical reaction 
and many others alive for local kids and 
College students. 
-
ent famous scientists, don a costume, and 
perform a variety of interesting chemistry 
experiments, such as the above elephant 
toothpaste experiment.
and handling everything, which is a bit 
different from previous years,” Sandwick 
said.
Each of the students is selecting two 
or three chemistry reactions to perform, 
which they are going to weave into a story. 
Sandwick ex-
plains that they 
are choosing “ex-
periments and re-
actions we know 
happen and we’ve 
always wanted to 
do but we’ve nev-
er had a chance 
to do. A few are 
things past pro-
fessors have done 
for us.” 
The students 
-
ing the reactions, and a few are trade se-
crets, but the ones they revealed promise 
to be exciting. One student joked that “we 
sent out a brainstorming email and next 
to my name was just the word explosives.” 
The group mentioned using liquid nitro-
gen, creating a methane canon, exploding 
a piñata and lighting a hydrogen balloon 
middle school kids interested, show them 
how cool chemistry can be, and get them 
to question what is happening,” Sandwick 
said.
 This year’s Alchemistry pHun event is 
the latest in a se-
ries of chemistry 
outreach events 
held by the Col-
lege’s chemistry 
department. 
“In my gen-
eral chemistry 
class we went out 
to the elementary 
schools and split 
up and went into 
different class-
rooms,” Burkey 
said. “So if you 
been a lot of them.” 
The group believes chemistry dem-
onstrations are important in encouraging 
kids’ interest in science. 
“A lot of these little kids have no idea 
about the science behind what is happen-
ing,” said Reinhart. “But if you just ask 
them what they think is happening, they 
will start thinking about it, and asking 
questions. I think that this is one of the 
most important things in terms of getting 
kids excited about learning.”
In the past the chemistry demonstra-
tions in McCardell Bicentennial Hall have 
attracted a large amount of interest from 
the community. 
People were mostly from the community 
and there weren’t many college kids. But I 
think these guys will attract more.” 
The event targets local kids and the 
community, but this year the team also 
hopes to draw more students from the Col-
lege.
“We’ve advertised in the Addison 
papers, and we’ve contacted all sorts of 
schools. But the advertisement is also fo-
cused more on campus than the previous 
times,” Sandwick said.
so on Nov. 13 at 6:30 p.m. come early to 
Lecture Hall 216 in McCardell Bicenten-
nial Hall to enjoy the ingenuity of these 
students as they demonstrate chemistry at 
its most interesting. 
By Toby Aicher
“If you just ask [the kids] 
what they think is happen-
ing, they will start thinking 
about it, and asking ques-
tions.”
-Shannon reinhart ’15
go/obo
Mountain club film
sunday
11/10
free for students
TEDx Middlebury
Saturday
11/09
$8 for students
boston marriage
thursday-saturday
11/14-11/16
$4
By Oakley Haight
the 
reel critic
science sp   tlight: Alchemistry phun
WRMC Presents grooveyard
Friday
11/15
$3 in advance
 19AdvertisementsNovember 7, 2013| 
WHAT JUSTALKS IS
SURPRISING 
People on the inside can be a lot 
different than you expect.
POWERFUL AND ENLIGHTENING 
The safe space JusTalks creates makes 
people comfortable enough to speak 
openly and  allows us to empathize 
with our community members more 
deeply.
MEMORABLE 
Feedback we’ve received consistently 
talked about how stories, insights and 
questions from the day have stuck with 
last year’s participants.
 
WHAT JUSTALKS ISN’T
EXCLUSIVE
 Any and all !rst-years are encouraged 
to sign up.
PREACHY
Much of the day’s discussion is 
directed by participants.
BORING
During the day, we’ll move frequently 
between different activities, group 
sizes and topics. We’re focusing on 
ensuring people are being engaged, 
rather than lectured at.
JusTalks is about serious listening, 
honest sharing, deep re"ection, and 
leaning into discomfort.
 
Created and organized by students, 
it’s a chance for all !rst-years in their 
!rst J-Term to think about their own 
identities and the identities of the 
2,500 other Middlebury students we 
walk past every day.
 
JusTalks starts with a public keynote 
speech in Mead Chapel on Thursday, 
January 9 that ends several days of 
(optional) campus-wide screenings, 
discussions, and panels that will bring 
students, faculty, staff, and Middlebury 
residents into conversation about 
community and the people in it.
 
At the core of JusTalks is the full day 
(participants choose either Saturday 
or Sunday) of large and small group 
activities that are part of high-energy, 
powerful discussions about who goes 
to this school and what happens 
here; about the places we’re from and 
the place we want Middlebury to be. 
JusTalks gives you the chance to meet 
new people, talk to others you never 
thought you’d talk to, and share what’s 
important to you in a non-judgemental 
and af!rming safe space.
REGISTRATION 
IS NOW LIVE. 
JUSTALKS 
IS OPEN TO 
ALL FIRST-
YEARS AND 
SOPHOMORE 
FEBS.
GO/JUSTALKS
THIS WON’T TAKE 
YOU MORE THAN 
30 SECONDS
it’s time
 
 to sign
 up!
touchdown passes and just four 
touchdown receptions mark to nine, and 
career.
on each of its next six possessions. 
off our offense and how to run routes is 
career.
touchdown in quick succession.
 
later, Foote found Sadik-
lead less than three minutes 
into the second quarter. 
The defense forced three-
and-outs on each of the next 
which the offense turned 
into two more touchdowns and a 34-0 
end hauled in three more receptions for 
on the same route concept the pair dialed 
catch that was awarded to Sadik-Khan for 
the touchdown.
“That route is an option route, so if 
his hands were around the 
 
career interception in the fourth quarter, 
40-13 W
3-0 W
3-1 W 
3-2 L
Football  vs. Hamilton  
field hockey vs. Colby 
volleyball vs. Bates
Men’s Soccer vs. Williams
panther sc0reboard
Women’s Soccer vs. Colby 3-1 W 
| November 7, 201320 sports
By Damon Hatheway
“Coming into the 
game, I told Billy 
[Sadik-Khan] it 
should be a pretty 
good day for him.”
Mccallum Foote’14
Quarterback
H A V E  A N  A W E S O M E  R E S E A R C H  P R O J E C T ? 
K N O W  A  P R O F E S S O R  D O I N G  S O M E T H I N G  C O O L ?
WANT TO SHARE YOUR OPINION ON SCIENCE AT MIDD? 
LET US KNOW! CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
The Middlebury volleyball team ended 
the regular season on a positive note, 
winning both of its last home games to 
finish with a solid record of 18-6. On 
Friday, Nov. 1 they bested Bowdoin 3-1, 
then followed up by beating Bates by 
the same score on Saturday, Nov. 2. The 
Panthers improved to 5-5 in NESCAC 
play to tie for 6th place along with Trinity. 
Friday’s win against Bowdoin was 
an especially important victory, as it 
demonstrated Middlebury could keep 
up with the best of NESCAC volleyball. 
Before facing off against the Panthers, the 
Polar Bears were 8-1 in conference play, 
losing only to powerhouse Williams in a 
close game. 
The first set was disheartening for 
Middlebury, as they couldn’t keep up 
with a close 17-25 loss. Despite only 
committing five errors, Middlebury 
seemed listless on offense through the 
first set, mustering up only five kills on 
33 touch attempts.  However, Middlebury 
was able to turn it around in the second, 
notching 13 kills to win 25-18.  Despite 
a close third set (25-23), Bowdoin was 
unable to keep up the fight. Middlebury 
punctuated its proud performance with 
a final set score of 25-17, including a 
7-0 run, mirroring Bowdoin’s first set 
dominance. Lizzy Reed ’15 came up with 
21 digs on the game, committing zero 
errors. 
Saturday’s matchup against Bates 
provided an opportunity for the Panthers 
to consolidate their place in the NESCAC 
tournament. Bates has suffered within 
conference play this season, and came 
into the game sitting at a lowly 2-7 record. 
Middlebury commanded the first set 
with a 25-13 win, letting the Bobcats know 
who was in charge early on. However, 
Bates wasn’t ready to concede keeping up 
in the second set, only losing 25-21. In the 
third set, Bates escaped with a 25-23 win, 
capitalizing on eight Middlebury errors. 
However, the Panthers weren’t going to 
allow a comeback on their own court, and 
put the game away with a 25-19 victory in 
the fourth and final set. 
Captains Megan Jarchow ’14 and Amy 
Hart ’14 both put up 18 kills, ending their 
impressive offensive seasons without 
skipping a beat. Olivia Kolodka ’15 
matched their offensive output with a 
defensive outing of 18 digs. 
With positive end to the season, the 
Panthers are optimistic of their chances 
in the NESCAC tournament.
“Doing so successfully during the last 
weekend of the regular season gives us a lot 
of confidence going into the tournament,” 
Gabi Rosenfeld ’17 said. “Hopefully we 
can carry our success against Amherst. 
I think our offense will be able to match 
any others in the NESCAC.” 
Middlebury looks ahead to its first 
match of the NESCAC tournament and 
postseason on Friday, Nov. 8. They face 
Amherst, who they lost to on their first 
meeting of the season, but defeated the 
second time around.
november 7, 2013| SPORTS 21
USA Women’s Hockey Ices 
Finland at Kenyon Arena
 12 hours after the witching hour on 
Halloween, the U.S. Women’s National 
Hockey team flew past Finland by a score 
of 5-1 in Middlebury’s Kenyon Arena.  If 
any of the trick-or-treaters in the crowd 
stayed up late eating candy, the rush of 
seeing Olympic stars spray up ice before 
their eyes proved enough to rile them 
from their seats. The United Way raised 
over $1,800 on the day from voluntary 
donations in lieu of entrance fees, and in 
turn the fans reveled in the world-class 
abilities of the touring USA women.
Finland scored a quick powerplay 
goal less than two minutes into the game 
that wound up the game’s energy as the 
American silver medal winners from 
the 2010 Winter Olympics sought to 
reestablish the natural order.  However, 
Finland stood its ground and maintained 
a one-goal lead into an anxious first 
intermission.
Some sort of Halloween beast stirred 
awake while the Zamboni cleaned the 
ice, and the second period became an 
offensive field day for team USA, who 
punched nineteen shots on the Finnish 
cage while allowing only one. Megan 
Bozek sprung a wrist shot past the 
blocker of the Finnish goaltender to tie 
the game at one.  Then, two minutes 
later, Annie Pankowski broke down the 
right wing and fired a bullet just inside 
the left post.  USA would light the lamp a 
third time, when Hilary Knight curled at 
the top of the faceoff circle and tucked a 
fully corked wrist shot with tremendous 
accuracy into the top-right corner.   
“We had a lot of momentum and we 
really came at them full speed, we didn’t 
let them do anything they wanted to do,” 
Pankowski told Channel 5 reporters. 
The American dominance continued 
in the third period, as Knight deflected 
a shin-high shot past the shielded goalie. 
In the final minute, Jocelyn Lamoreaux 
stuffed home the fifth and final goal off a 
firm centering pass from behind the goal 
line that created the opportunity.
Beneath the unified attack, Team 
USA played with the intensity of a 
squad whose individual players are still 
competing for a limited number of plane 
tickets to Sochi, Russia for the upcoming 
Olympic games.  One player vying for a 
spot is prodigious sixteen-year-old Jincy 
Dunne, who would be the second-ever 
sixteen year old to skate with the U.S. 
Womens Olympic team. The final roster 
of only twenty-one players culled from 
the current forty-one will be decided 
in December, according to the official 
Team USA Olympic website.
Amazingly, Dunne could even overlap 
at college with some of the tittering youth 
hockey players who flocked to Kenyon to 
watch the game.  By chance, the town of 
Middlebury scheduled parent/teacher 
conferences on Friday, freeing up the 
youngest segment of Panther faithful for 
the international affair.  
Another corner of the rink brimmed 
with about thirty baggy red jerseys on 
pretzel-munching, nacho-selecting 
kids playing hooky for hockey.  The 
Chittenden South Burlington Youth 
Hockey club transported a whole troupe 
of youth hockey players, mostly girls, 
from the ages eight to twelve to see their 
idols play. 
Middlebury’s Athletic Director Erin 
Quinn marveled at the impact of the 
game on the many pint-sized hockey 
players in attendance.  
“If you’re a kid that age, wearing 
your jersey, watching the women of this 
caliber play right there on the other side 
of the glass — that’s pretty cool,” Quinn 
said. “If you’re someone my age watching 
these women play — it’s pretty cool too.”
The Sochi Olympics begin this 
February, and Middlebury can cheer 
proudly for the familiar faces of U.S. 
Womens Hockey as they perform their 
quadrennial metamorphosis from hard 
working hockey players into American 
heroes on the world’s icy oval stage.
By John Wyman
paul gerard
USA Women’s hockey and Meghan Duggan wowed the Vermont locals and College 
students with a decisive 5-1 victory over Finland at Kenyon Arena on Friday, Nov. 1
Volleyball Mashes Maine Schools in Prep for 
NESCAC Tournament; Secure Sixth Seed
By Ben Buckles
The mark of a powerful moment is how it 
we cannot predict the effect something 
will have down the road. Other times we 
know immediately that we have witnessed 
something great.
The night of Wednesday, Oct. 30 was one 
of the latter. Standing on my charming tiny 
wooden seat with the obstructed view, I held 
my breath as Red Sox’ closer Koji Uehara 
fanned the NL regular season leader in hits, 
Matt Carpenter, on a low and away split-
eruption of noise was deafening as Boston 
celebrated the end of the most up-and-down 
three-year cycle that any sports franchise has 
ever known. However, for me, the park was 
silent. I threw my hands in the air and tilted 
my head back and shouted like every other 
jubilant die-hard, but I heard nothing and felt 
nothing as I fell into a numb state of disbelief 
that lasted for a few moments.
That victory meant a great deal to New 
England, the city of Boston, Red Sox fans 
and me. The championship is Boston’s eighth 
in the past 11 years among the four major 
sports, beginning with the Patriots in 2002, 
the Celtics, 39 years for the Bruins and a 
staggering 86 for the Sox, indisputably giving 
Boston claim to the moniker Titletown. Yet 
this one was different for Boston and for me.
Firstly, look at this team. How different 
from the preseason favorites to win it all that 
under the chicken and beer scandal and 
turned away many fans with their careless 
and pompous attitudes. 
The following calendar year was a comedy 
of errors. Terry Francona was jettisoned 
for lame duck Bobby Valentine, who let his 
formerly critical superstars were shipped 
off, and the players completely alienated 
themselves from the fans.
By spring training of 2013, most fans had 
like a ragged bunch of outcasts, but from 
inside Ft. Myers the mood was different. 
On March 27, days before the season 
opener, captain Dustin Pedroia tweeted, 
“Only thing I ask is u believe now! Don’t jump 
on later. It’s going to be special.”
Pedey was right. We fell in love with this 
squad of bearded miscreants that had the 
same balls-to-the-wall passion for the game 
that the ’04 Idiots showed en route to a 
championship.
Then, on April 15, the season took on 
the Boston Marathon killed three innocent 
people: Krystle Campbell, 29; Lu Lingzi, 23; 
and Martin Richard, eight. Days later the 
bombers attacked and shot dead a fourth 
Initially, I failed to grasp the magnitude of 
the explosion. Then I began to realize all of 
the people I knew who were in the city and at 
the marathon. A friend’s mom who had left 
the site of the bombing 20 minutes before. A 
high school friend who attends Northeastern. 
Another that was running in the race.
Perhaps it was not fair to project our fear 
and uncertainty onto the boys of summer. 
But nevertheless we did. And when Big Papi 
declared that “This is our f****** city,” every 
New Englander and Sox fan knew that to be 
true. We looked to a group of ballplayers to 
become heroes, not to forget the victims or 
the heroes of the Boston police force or men 
like Carlos Arredondo, the man in the cowboy 
hat who saved lives by quickly jumping to the 
aid of the wounded, but rather so that every 
day we could watch this team and collectively 
put away that tragedy for a few hours.
This is what makes sports great. The 
displays of athletic achievement are mind-
blowing, but it is how the games and the 
players affect our personal lives that make it 
something more.
Upon coming out of my state of paralysis 
I sent my dad a text message with a picture 
of the celebration and a caption that read, “I 
love you.” We have had our problems recently 
but I knew he was watching at that moment 
and wishing I had been with him. That night 
reminded me why I love and need my father.
For that I will always be thankful to the 
beards. I will always love the Red Sox. I will 
always love that dirty water.
Boston, you’re my home.
-Joe MacDonald ’16 is a sports editor 
from Pepperell, Mass.
Anthea Viragh
Middlebury’s Megan Jarchow ’14 helps 
dispose of the Polar Bears with a spike.
dirty water
Middlebury crawled over the Colby 
Mules on Saturday, Nov. 2 by a score 
of 3-0 to win the quarterfinal round 
of NESCAC tournament play.  With 
their season hanging on the Kohn field 
scoreboard, Lauren Berestecky ’17, 
Bridget Instrum ’16 and Katie Theiss ’14 
hustled to hammer home the difference-
making goals. The Panthers now prepare 
for next weekend’s trip to Amherst, 
where they will battle the Lord Jeffs on 
Saturday, Nov. 9 for an opportunity to 
play the NESCAC title game the following 
day. 
Before the ball even started rolling, 
a scratch on the traditional national 
anthem CD turned a predictable pregame 
ritual into a razzling performance.  In 
a tremendous sports moment, Mary 
Claire Ecclesine ’16 and Cassie Coash 
’15 warmed the cool November air with 
their silky rendition of The Star Spangled 
Banner.  Theiss proclaimed the surprise 
anthem the best vocal performance ever 
heard, while fans and players alike hope 
the live anthem becomes a Middlebury 
mainstay.
The harsh percussion of wooden 
sticks knocking together and the quieter 
sliding of skin on cold turf signified the 
new intensity level that comes with the 
NESCAC playoffs. Citing numerous early 
lunges from Berestecky in particular, 
Catherine Fowler ’15 attested to the new 
ferocity on the pitch.
“You see a lot more players diving for 
balls than in the regular season,” she said. 
The persistence paid off for the 
Panthers. After 15 minutes, Berestecky 
intercepted a clear attempt and snapped it 
back through traffic for the all-important 
first goal.  When the first half concluded, 
Middlebury held an 11-0 shots advantage 
but still led by just one uneasy goal.
Only two minutes into the second 
half, Instrum received a pass from Jillian 
Green ’16 and chipped a swift backhand 
past the Colby goalie’s nearside shoulder. 
The exceptionally athletic Instrum 
alongside the lanky speedsters Hanna 
Deoul ’14 and Chrissy Ritter ’16 have been 
weapons off the sideline for the offensive 
unit, complicating defensive assignments 
for opponents.  Forwards Theiss and 
Ritter orchestrated the third goal on a 
play where Ritter hid behind the defense 
and came backwards to make a quick 
layoff to Theiss for the score.
“It’s difficult to play defense when the 
player you are guarding switches a lot and 
you need to keep adjusting for different 
types of players,” midfielder Ellie O’Brien 
’14 said.   
That is one reason why Middlebury 
eagerly anticipates a rematch with the 
rival Amherst team, who Middlebury 
defeated in overtime 4-3 while being 
shorthanded all nine freshman during 
the Middview orientation in the first 
weekend of the semester. Middlebury 
expects another rough and physical 
game on the pellet-ridden Amherst turf, 
so the team wants a competitive week of 
practice to prepare.  
Middlebury could seal a bid for the 
NCAA tournament by winning two 
games this coming weekend, although 
the strength of its record and schedule 
could already qualify for an at-large 
bid.  If the fourth-ranked Panthers move 
on, Middlebury will be a likely host for 
a round of the NCAA playoffs, snow or 
shine.
| november 7, 201322 sports
Middlebury saw its season end in a 
the third-seeded Ephs bested the sixth-
seeded Panthers 3-2 on Saturday, Nov. 2.
After Harper Williams ’15 blasted a 
penalty into the lower left-hand corner 
of the net in the 84th minute to bring 
Middlebury within one goal, both teams 
scrambled to gain possession with 
Middlebury ultimately failing to equalize.
The match pitted two veteran head 
coaches against one another. Middlebury’s 
David Saward, in his 29th year at the 
helm, appears a novice when compared to 
William’s head coach Mike Russo, who led 
the Ephs’ to their 31st consecutive winning 
season this year in his 35th year as head 
coach. Combined the two men have secured 
over 700 victories.
Saward said he admires Russo’s track 
record.
“There are very few coaches who 
compare to Mike Russo,” he said. “His 
second to none.”
No one told the Panthers that they 
were supposed to lie down for Russo and 
his higher-seeded squad, as just over two 
minutes into the contest Greg Conrad ’17 
gave Middlebury the lead. Adam Glaser ’17 
on the right side who beautifully crossed 
goal of the season.
Middlebury outplayed the Ephs for the 
disorganized early. Captain Dan Lima was 
playing out of position on Saturday, which 
may have caused some initial confusion, 
but would soon pay off for Williams.
Middlebury kept the pressure on 
and played strong defense early, forcing 
Williams to try some long passes and 
take ambitious shots. Peisch continued to 
wreak havoc on the offensive side of the 
ball, and the defense locked down on the 
Ephs forwards, particularly 2012 NESCAC 
Rookie of the Year Mohammed Rashid. 
Despite Rashid’s brilliant footwork and 
impressive speed, the defense refused to 
let him take over early. Tyler Smith ’14 
and Deklan Robinson ’16 both used their 
physicality to frustrate Rashid, sending 
him to the turf more than once on loose 
balls and headers.
In the 29th minute it appeared that 
Middlebury might extend the lead. Glaser, 
Middlebury’s top scorer, did as he has done 
all year and created a scoring opportunity 
with his speed, sending a cross into the 
As Peisch chased down the loose ball, 
Williams keeper Peter Morrell ambitiously 
pursued the Middlebury forward. Morrell’s 
dive prevented Peisch from getting to the 
no call was made, to Peisch’s dismay.
Peisch said. “The referee unfortunately 
didn’t make the call, but at the end of the 
day teams win games, not referees.”
Saward’s take was slightly more 
diplomatic.
“The decision did not surprise me,” 
Saward said. “What I thought the referee 
might have called is a foul just outside the 
penalty area, however, in his eyes I suspect 
he felt that Peisch went down too easily.”
Minutes later Williams nearly earned 
showed off the jets and caused problems for 
the Panthers. Off of a long outlet pass from 
Morrell along the left side, Rashid took the 
box where he was muscled to the ground on 
a clean but physical tackle that rightly was 
not whistled.
After Rashid’s attack, momentum 
seemed to swing to the Williams side. In 
the 26th minute Malcolm Moutenot found 
Rashid on a two on one off of a change of 
possession and Rashid easily buried the 
equalizer past a diving Ethan Collins ’14.
“Quality players like [Rashid] only need 
a half yard and they make you pay,” Saward 
said. “That is exactly what happened on the 
The Panthers had a few chances to pull 
ahead again before halftime, but a long 
shot from Andres Rodlauer ’16 was tipped 
just high and a cross from Glaser who was 
a friendly boot.
The second half began at a frenzied 
pace, which favored the Ephs. In the 50th 
minute, Lima, usually at the back for the 
Ephs, curved a ball into the left side of the 
net well out of the reach of Collins for his 
Less than a minute after the goal, Glaser 
found Peisch in the middle of the box on 
a low cross that Peisch sent just high of 
the net. Moments later Peisch redeemed 
himself by earning a free kick from just 
outside the box. The kick was knocked out 
of bounds for a Middlebury corner, but the 
effort was gobbled up by the keeper. 
The Panthers’ outlook would only get 
bleaker in the 57th minute when Rashid 
again got the better of the Panthers’ 
usually unbreakable back line. Using his 
speed, Rashid surpassed the Middlebury 
defenders and beat Collins in the left side 
of the net, giving the Ephs a 3-1 lead.
The Ephs looked for the dagger as the 
Panthers were beaten and bruised. Conrad 
suffered a lower body injury and was forced 
to leave the game, and Graham Knisley ’14 
appeared to be suffering from leg cramps. 
But the Panthers gamely pushed on, 
playing a freelance game and moving the 
Williams milked the clock with every 
possession and packed the box with 
defenders. Unfortunately for the Ephs, one 
such defender got a hand in the way of a 
shot from Noah Goss-Wolliner ’15 in the 
84th minute. Morrell guessed correctly, 
diving to the right in an attempt to stop 
Williams’ penalty blast, but the ball found 
The last few minutes were predictably 
chaotic, as Williams sent long ball after 
long ball into Middlebury territory and 
the Panthers tried to put shots on net. 
However, Middlebury was unable to create 
any clear scoring opportunities, and the 
buzzer sounded, sending the Ephs into the 
This game was the last for seven Panther 
seniors, who should be credited with vastly 
improving upon last year’s sub-.500 record, 
whom Saward lauded for their efforts.
“This senior class has done a remarkable 
job,” he said. “They have left a legacy of 
hard work and dedication that I think will 
be continued by the underclassmen.”
“This group is a truly a special one,” 
Peisch said. “I believe I speak for all the 
seniors in saying it has been an honor and a 
privilege to be a member of this team.”  
8
owen
Nice Halloween costume. 
Harry Potter? Please.
1
RANKING TEAM
Mac’s Mindset
2
women’s and men’s cross 
country
Field Hockey
3
Women’s Soccer
Tufts this week. Panthers will 
4 
football 
from Trinity.
5
volleyball
beat Amherst last time they met 
this year.
7
USA WOMEN’S HOCKEY
They beat Finland. Less 
Hamilton. But more than...
6
men’s soccer
their season end when it did.
the middlebury
great  eight
Field Hockey Returns to NESCAC Semis
paul gerard
By Joe MacDonald
Williams Downs Men’s Soccer With Second Half Surge 
By John Wyman
november 7, 2013| 23SPORTS
On Saturday, Nov. 2, the cross country 
teams traveled to Harkness Memorial 
State Park in Waterford, Conn., to run in 
the NESCAC Championships hosted by 
Connecticut College. The women’s team 
time since 2010, winning the meet by 
a mere 29 points while the men put in a 
strong performance to take second place 
with 61 points, only nine points behind 
Williams.
Erzsie Nagy ’17 led the women’s 
American Kaleigh Kenny of Williams. 
in 21 minutes and 28 seconds, just eight 
seconds behind Kenny. Following Nagy 
was Alison Maxwell ’15, who captured a 
Panthers’ signature “blob” placed their 
top seven runners in the top 12. The “blob” 
was comprised of Emily Singer ’14, Sarah 
Guth ’15, Katie Rominger ’14, Katherine 
Tercek ’16, and Summer Spillane ’15, 
 7th, 8th, 9th, 11th, and 12th, 
respectively. 
Coach Nicole Wilkerson was pleased 
with the way her team executed.
mile, although we knew it would be fast 
relied heavily on working together and in 
a tight pack and that was the plan for the 
race. They are stronger as a unit, when 
they share the work and communicate 
with each other. They raced exactly as 
it was planned. We are very strong and 
incredibly deep,” she said.
Nagy credited her teammates, both 
in the race and spectators, for helping 
through the race. 
I have been for a meet … [but I] am just 
running as fast as I can for my team,” she 
said. 
The men’s team was led by Greg 
 fourth, 
breaking the 25 minute barrier for the 
time in the season. Ten seconds behind 
Krathwohl was Nate Sans ’14 as the 
 
11th and 13th, both gathering Second 
Matt ’16 rounded out the scoring for the 
 27th while Sam Craft 
’14 and Luke Carpinello ’16 were the sixth 
and seventh runners for Middlebury. 
“I feel pretty good with the way the 
team performed,” Sans said. “It would 
have been nice to win, but it was a solid 
second place and now we’ll be going into 
that we will run the rest of races well and 
produce good results.”
Similar to the women’s team, the 
men’s team executed its strategy well. 
Krathwohl, Sans, Schaaf and Wood ran 
at the front of the pack for the entirety of 
the race and worked well together while 
of the race.
Sans said that the performance this 
past Saturday will prepare the team well 
for the upcoming championship season.
similar to the courses that we’ve run at 
regionals and nationals, so it was good 
practice for those kinds of meets,” Sans 
said. “The course facilitated running 
‘Midwest Cross Country’ where the pace 
is fast from the beginning as opposed to 
traditional ‘Northeastern Cross Country’ 
where hills and variations in terrain 
produce more tactical races.”
The Panthers travel to Bristol, R.I. 
next Saturday, Nov. 9 to run in the ECAC 
championships and the next weekend run 
in Gorham, ME on Saturday, Nov. 16 to 
compete in the NCAA Northeast Regional. 
Wilkerson is excited for both teams’ 
prospects, saying that she is currently 
coaching “among one of the best women’s 
team in history and the best men’s team, 
compared to teams in the past.” 
By Bryan Holtzman
Women’s Soccer Hosts Conference Finals
upset against Wesleyan in the NESCAC 
tournament, the Middlebury women’s 
soccer team learned from previous mistakes 
Colby on Saturday, Nov. 2. The Panthers 
since 2004 this coming Saturday, Nov. 9 
and Sunday, Nov. 10.
not far from the minds of many players as 
they prepared for the game against Colby.
minds going into Saturday and we were sure 
to not overlook Colby,” Lindsay Kingston 
’14 said. “We continue to maintain the same 
mentality we have had all season, which is 
one game at a time. We are not overlooking 
anyone this year.”
The Panthers suffered a nervous start to 
the game, as possession was disjointed and 
the majority of play occurred inside their 
half. However, Middlebury soon settled 
Scarlett Kirk ’14 six minutes in. After going 
clear of the defense off a ball from Hannah 
Robinson ’16, the powerful forward took 
one too many dribbles allowing oncoming 
Colby keper Emily Brook to get a touch on 
the ball.
Middlebury proved to be the stronger of 
the two sides, with the Mules continually 
outmuscled on the ball by the Panthers 
and Kirk especially terrorizing the defense. 
Typical of the impressive combination play 
all season from Kirk and Julie Favorito 
’14, after a great cross by the latter to open 
the ball forward with a number of deft 
touches, before sending in a pass across 
goal. Robinson was just unable to get on 
the end of it after being thwarted by a Colby 
defender tracking back. 
broke the deadlock 23 minutes into the 
contest. Jamie Soroka ’16 headed a ball 
through the box to Kirk who acted quickly 
corner.
Middlebury maintained a high tempo 
little of the ball. The Panthers were denied 
more chances to get ahead after a rocket 
of a free kirk from Favorito on the top of 
the 18 as well as a powerful shot from Kate 
Raszka ’17 that just went over the crossbar.
The start of the second half brought the 
continued dominance of the Panthers. Kirk 
was denied a second goal after she saw her 
strong connection with a corner from Ali 
minutes in.
However, the game soon lost some of 
its edge, with slightly stagnant play in 
minute against the run of play after the 
Mules caught the Panthers sleeping. After 
getting on the wrong side of the Middlebury 
that elicited a good point blank save from 
Elizabeth Foody ’14. However, the ball 
remained uncleared in the box, and Amanda 
Findlay was able to slot in the rebound.
While the goal gave Colby renewed 
ball to Kirk, who was able to get behind 
Colby’s defense. After drawing the Mules 
keeper out, Kirk drove a powerful shot that 
skipped across the ground into the bottom 
left hand corner.
“I think probably my highlight of the 
game was Scarlett’s second goal,” Head 
coach Peter Kim said. “Colby had just 
broke the game open after scoring and were 
mounting a strong resistance to us, but the 
team rallied quietly quickly to get the game 
back.”
After regaining the lead, Middlebury 
focused on keeping possession and kept 
knocking on Colby’s goal. The Panthers 
were rewarded for their persistent efforts 
after a late goal from Carter Talgo ’15 with 
four minutes left in the game. Kirk led off 
with an impressive solo run, sending a 
defender the wrong way with effortless 
footwork, but her shot yet again found 
the woodwork. Talgo followed up with the 
rebound into the top left hand corner. 
Kim was quick to downplay expectations 
for the upcoming weekend.
“The team is proud of its 
accomplishments, but know that the 
hardest is yet to come,” Kim said. “We 
continue to take the season game to game. 
We’re excited we’re here but it’s time to 
push up our sleeves and get the job done.”
Middlebury will enjoy a home turf 
advantage facing Tufts in the NESCAC 
describes as “fast, physical and direct,” 
riding Panthers.
“To prepare for Tufts we will be working 
on our attack in the offensive half of the 
have some work to do on our runs into the 
box and our passes as well. This is something 
we have been working on all season and we 
will continue to work on because it is one of 
By Alex Morris
400
For the record, Tufts football has 
lost its last 30 games.
TWO
They should give Amherst a run for 
its money.
Owen Teach (84-83, .502)
Damon Hatheway (129-111, .536)
Joe macdonald (14-13, .519)
CLOSEST TO: How many yards will 
Mac Foote throw for in Saturday’s 
game versus Tufts?
How many sets will the volleyball 
team win this weekend?
330
I’m not even sure if this number 
makes sense.
TWO
It’s going to be tough.
390
The Tufts pass defense is the worst 
in the NESCAC, but this game 
rarely makes sense.
FIVE
Amherst has struggled as of late 
and Middlebury has been a great 
tournament team.
FINALS
The Polar Bears just look too strong 
right now.
OREGON
Oregon has a really dope track 
team. That’s all I know.
SEMIFINALS
of the season (including a loss to 
Middlebury) and they haven’t lost 
since.
OREGON
Beginning to wonder how high 
I should have set this line. Alex 
cause their track team is fast.
OREGON
Those uniforms are blinding.
I’m moving up in recent weeks 
folks. Eat my dust Hatheway
CHAMPIONS OREGON
That’s the last time Joe ever 
comes to a party at my house.
editors’ picks
321
The coaching staff should let him 
TWO
round against Amherst.
CHAMPIONS
Their stiffest competition is 
Bowdoin, and I think they avenge 
an early season loss.
Alex Morris (17-10, .630)
22 
23
Points between the Middlebury women’s 
Cross Country team and runner up, Williams. 
The performance earned the Panthers the 
Winning percentage in 
coach Bill Beaney.
women’s soccer team against Colby.
5K. The former Panther placed 
75.5
by the Numb3rs
5
sports November 7, 2013 | 
VOLLEYBALL WINS 
A PAIR HEADING 
INTO NESCAC 
TOURNAMENT
PAGE 21
MEN’S SOCCER 
SEASON ENDS WITH 
HEARTBREAKER AT 
WILLIAMS
PAGE 22in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
ONE
LAST
TIME
For many seniors, last 
to play at home in front of 
their family and friends —  
they didn’t disappoint. Left, 
Billy Sadik-Khan 
’14 brings in one of 
in Middlebury’s 40-13 
win over Hamilton. 
Katherine Theiss ’14 
’14 (below), both 
this weekend. 
24
