November 13, 2014 | Vol. 113 no. 9 | middleburycampus.com
NO VT GOVERNOR 
DECIDED 
PAGE 4
RON’S CLOSET 
APPAREL COMPANY
OUTFITS THE 
STUDENT BODY 
PAGE 13
TEDX FEATURES 
INDIVIDUALS AND 
THEIR IDEAS
PAGE 14
in
sid
e
In her TEDxMiddlebury talk, Assistant Professor of Dance Christal Brown used choreography and 
words to talk about different forms of expression. “I speak volumes without saying anything,” she said. 
Kayla Nahi
TEDX TAKES TO THE STAGESGA Announces 
Reform Group
By Nora O’Leary
College Seeks to Clarify Party Registration
The Osborne House was relocated across the Cross Street Bridge in the early morning of Oct. 27.
Courtesy Trent Campbell/ Addison INdependent
Osborne House Moves Across the Bridge
SEE SGA REFORM, PAGE 3
The Student Government Asso-
ciation (SGA) announced the for-
mation of the SGA Reform Work-
ing Group, which, according to an 
email sent out by SGA President 
Taylor Custer ’15, is designed to 
governance on campus.” It was 
created in part to examine the in-
formation gap between the admin-
istration and students, which has 
undergone recent criticism with 
regard to changes in the tailgating 
policy and other social life issues on 
campus.
Custer describes this issue as a 
lack of transparency between the 
administration and student body.
“On some things, they don’t 
communicate; and then on others, 
there’s this gap between what the 
administrators think the student 
body knows and what we’re actu-
ally focused on and talking about,” 
Custer said.
Custer added that he was frus-
-
ing policy through a school-wide 
email.
“For a lot of the administration 
it was a management issue. So for 
those directly involved in it, they 
never thought about it as some-
thing that students would need a 
say in because it was a safety issue 
from their perspective. Whereas if 
you had asked any student before-
hand they probably would have 
said this will be a big deal for stu-
dents,” he said.
Custer hopes that going for-
ward, the group will create a forum 
through which students can get 
involved with the decision-making 
process earlier. 
The group will examine the re-
lationship between the administra-
tion and students. It will also evalu-
ate the student-SGA relationship 
and will focus on increasing aware-
ness of the role of the SGA.
Custer said, “It is by no means 
just a reaction to what happened 
with the tailgating issue.” Custer 
also sees the lack of interest in last 
year’s SGA elections as an indica-
tion of a larger issue. 
“The fact that people didn’t 
seem to want to run and the lack 
of general interest in it is, to me, a 
huge problem. If students aren’t in-
terested in engaging with the SGA 
for the SGA to argue for policy or 
try and speak for the student body,” 
he said.
The group has been split into 
two groups with different functions.
“One [will] work on the SGA 
side of things and the other [will] 
work with the administrative,” 
Custer said. “For the SGA side, it is 
out what can be better in terms of 
student engagement. What issues 
do students currently have with 
the SGA? Do they not know who is 
in it? Do they not think it has the 
power to do anything? What is the 
By Caroline Agsten
On Monday, Oct. 27, at 5:35 
a.m., the historic Osborne House 
was moved from its home on 77 
Main Street to the other side of the 
Cross Street Bridge at the corner 
of Cross and Water Streets. The 
move of this house, weighing a to-
tal of 120 tons, was not only an act 
of preserving one of Middlebury’s 
oldest houses but also a symbol of 
-
tive projects between Middlebury 
College and the town of Middle-
bury. Carried by generator-pow-
ered dollies, this house will now 
live on the opposite side of Otter 
Creek, vacating a site for the new 
The creation of the new town 
hall and new town recreation fa-
cility was a joint initiative with 
the town and College that was 
formally voted into action last 
spring. As evidence of cooperation 
between the town and the College, 
Middlebury College will contrib-
ute $5.5 million to the project’s 
total $7.5 million cost. This plan is 
the culmination of a decade-long 
conversation to replace these two 
aging facilities and to revitalize 
the community and economic per-
spective of downtown Middlebury. 
However, the original vote on this 
plan by residents of the town and 
the debates that followed showed 
that this plan had not always been 
met with complete optimism and 
support. Issues regarding parking, 
overcrowding and the College’s 
role in the process were among 
some of the concerns raised by 
however, that the majority was in 
favor of the move. Since then, as 
noted by Vice President for Com-
munications and Marketing of the 
College Bill Burger, the stress that 
was felt in the spring, has largely 
been removed. 
This most recent project stands 
as one example of the “payment in 
SEE TOWN, PAGE 3
By Ben Hawthorne
There has been considerable 
confusion and debate among stu-
dents about Middlebury’s party 
registration policies following the 
Nov. 2 forum on social issues host-
ed by the administration. 
The policies, which can be found 
at go/party, distinguish between 
three types of parties: licensed par-
ties, registered parties, and infor-
mal gatherings. Licensed parties 
can be open (i.e. they do not need 
a guest list), charge for alcohol, ca-
tered, and large. However, the fact 
that they are open means that they 
have to get a liquor license from the 
State of Vermont. Informal gather-
ings refer to small gatherings of stu-
dents over age 21, and only have to 
be registered if they use a keg, and 
even then do not need to abide by as 
stringent regulations as licensed or 
registered parties. Registered par-
ties were created to provide a mid-
dle ground between state-regulated 
licensed parties and small informal 
gatherings.
Middlebury began requiring 
party registration to help comply 
with Vermont state liquor law. As-
sociate Dean of Students for Resi-
dential and Student Life Douglas 
Adams, who is the main overseer 
of party registration, notes that the 
actions of the state’s Attorney Gen-
eral and particularly of the liquor 
inspector, not state legislation, are 
primarily responsible for registra-
tion policies.
“The impetus for the original 
registration policies really came 
from the state coming to small 
house parties on campus and other 
events where the liquor inspector 
really had an active presence on 
campus which we don’t see as much 
any more,” Adams said. “If you 
follow these registration require-
ments, and do a good job, you’re 
probably not going to have very 
many problems with the state.”
Party registration aims to allow 
students to have large parties with-
out having to deal with state regula-
tions, as well as to educate students 
on party safety and Vermont state 
law.
“Having a process that educates 
party hosts, emphasizes safety and 
compliance, and is managed inter-
nally reduces the need for outside 
enforcement agencies to become 
involved in these matters,” said 
Associate Director of Public Safety 
Dan Gaiotti.
in place because of state law, as-
pects of the policy have other mo-
tivations, including student health, 
transparency and ease of enforce-
ment for Public Safety and the Ver-
mont government. Restrictions on 
hard alcohol and drinking games 
are in place because of health con-
cerns, for example.
 “It’s a good indicator to Public 
Safety and the town [of Middle-
bury] about where parties are tak-
ing place,” Adams said. “There’s 
limited resources and staff in Public 
Safety. [Registered parties] tend to 
be the large parties, and therefore 
they tend to take on more resourc-
es.”
One concern that students 
have raised about registered par-
ties being shut down. According to 
Gaiotti, 27 of the 69 registered par-
ties held in the past two years have 
been ended early, although 22 of 
these were ended at the request of 
the host. Gaiotti notes further that 
“Illegal or unregistered parties get 
shut down much more frequently.”
On Oct. 30, Michael Geisler, vice pres-
ident for Language  Schools and Schools 
Abroad, Chief Risk Officer, and Professor 
of German and Dr. Mark Peluso, the Col-
lege Medical Director and College Physi-
cian, sent out a school-wide “Important 
Ebola Update.”
 The message included new policies 
that will be instituted to minimize the 
threat of Ebola to students on campus 
and abroad. It said, “Effective immedi-
ately…Middlebury will not support spon-
sored travel to countries identified by the 
Center for Disease Control as high-risk 
areas.”
 This means that the College will of-
fer neither credit nor assistance to stu-
dents, faculty or staff who perform any 
type of activity in Guinea, Liberia or Si-
erra Leone, the only exception being if 
the community member can provide evi-
dence that they have “special expertise 
and training to assist in the humanitar-
ian effort.” If a College community mem-
ber were to travel to any of the high-risk 
areas, they would be required to abstain 
from returning to campus for 21 days — 
the maximum amount of time the virus 
takes to incubate.
This announcement comes on the 
heels of months of sensational news 
headlines, most of which have focused on 
the few cases that have been diagnosed 
in America. The severity of the virus and 
the lack of readily available cures have 
unquestionably contributed to the media 
circus.
 Despite the amount of attention the 
American Ebola outbreak has gotten in 
the media, both Geisler and Peluso insist 
that the threat of an on-campus outbreak 
is incredibly low, especially with the Col-
lege’s new policies.
 Peluso said, “The risk of getting in-
fected with Ebola is extremely low at this 
time…with Middlebury’s policy of asking 
people to wait for 21 days before return-
ing to campus, the risk of someone be-
coming sick on our campuses and spread-
ing diseases is extremely low.”
 Regardless of the incredibly low risk 
of an Ebola case on any of the College’s 
campuses, members of the College Emer-
gency Planning and Preparedness Team 
and the Emergency Core Team decided 
that it would be helpful to notify the 
community of the travel restrictions to 
Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone while 
also informing them of the required 21-
day leave from campus that a community 
member must take upon return from one 
of these countries.
 If a community member were to dis-
regard the new policies set forth and re-
turn to campus immediately after coming 
into possible contact with the Ebola virus, 
the College would be prepared. Peluso 
said that the team would “ask the per-
son to stay where they were, and imme-
diately notify the Vermont Department 
of Health. Consultation with infectious 
disease experts and CDC would quickly 
determine the next steps, and Vermont 
is prepared to transport and treat people 
with possible Ebola virus disease.”
 Fortunately, Geisler is not aware of 
any student whose study abroad or trav-
eling plans were or will be affected by 
these new policy changes. In addition, no 
student has come forward to say that they 
have been in any of the high-risk coun-
tries.
 There are students abroad in Europe-
an countries that have announced cases 
of Ebola, like Spain. However, the risk is 
still extremely low and the College is not 
taking any extra measures for students 
abroad in Madrid or any other places out-
side of Guinea, Liberia or Sierra Leone 
with confirmed cases.
 Geisler said, “We assume that local 
health authorities will do their job as do 
ours over here. We do not anticipate that 
this is going to impact any of the Middle-
bury students in one of the Middlebury 
programs that we have.”
 In response to national media outlets’ 
handling of the Ebola virus, Peluso thinks 
that the stories have become more bal-
anced now that there is more experience 
with the illness. There has been a lot more 
coverage on people recovering from the 
Ebola virus in U.S. hospitals.
 He added, “What I would like to see 
more of are stories that focus on the need 
for more health professionals in West Af-
rica to prevent spread in that region, as 
well as stories about people who volun-
teered and did not get sick.”
How It Spreads: Ebola spreads through human-to-human transmission via 
direct contact with blood, secretions, organs or other bodily fluids of infected 
people, and contact with surfaces and materials contaminated with these fluids.
Ebola in the U.S.: 
Three reported cases. Both Dallas nurses were 
cured. a man who contracted it in Liberia died 
from the virus. One reported case in New York, 
male doctor was cured of virus. 
The Student Government Association 
(SGA) convened on Sunday, Nov. 2 and 
Sunday, Nov. 9 to discuss old and new 
resolutions. Notably, they re-introduced 
a discussion concerning the AAL require-
ment.  
At the Nov. 2 meeting Treasurer Ilana 
Gratch ’16.5 presented the Financial 
Committee’s (FC) biweekly report. The 
FC is still processing annual budget re-
quests. Organizations such as the Gamut 
Room and Middlebury Music United re-
ceived substantial budgets after restruc-
turing their original request and ideas. 
Gratch also announced that the FC now 
has office hours.
Next, a resolution that has been an 
ongoing discussion the past couple weeks 
was temporarily resolved. The MiddSafe 
Bystander Intervention Resolutions 
by Senators Naila Jahan ’15 and Kyle Ger-
stenschlager ’15 was put to a vote after 
some revisions from the initial proposal.
Because GreenDot, a program de-
signed to recognize positive bystander 
intervention, is being introduced in the 
spring, the resolution is now designed to 
support the implementation of MiddSafe 
in Fall 2015 and GreenDot in Spring 
2015. The resolution passed in a 15-0-1 
vote.
Next, Senator Tiff Chang ’17 present-
ed her resolution, Continued Legislative 
Support for MiddIncluded: AAL Reform. 
Last year, the SGA passed a similar reso-
lution declaring support for reform of the 
distribution requirements, specifically 
the AAL cultural category.
Originally proposed by a group from 
the student body, MiddIncluded acknowl-
edges that AAL is not a fair representa-
tion of areas of the world. A suggestion 
for change is included in the resolution. 
Instead of having one NOR, one EUR, 
one AAL and one CMP, students would 
be required to take one NOR, one CMP 
and two from the categories: Africa, Asia, 
Latin America, the Caribbean, Middle 
East, Europe and Oceania.
Some senators, such as Senator Zak 
Fisher ’16, mentioned concern with elim-
inating the European requirement be-
cause a Liberal Arts education is based in 
a European style of learning.
Speaker Michael Brady ’17.5 also ex-
pressed concern of re-passing a resolu-
tion that is similar to the resolution that 
the SGA passed last year. Discussion of 
the resolution continued into the sec-
ond meeting when representatives from 
MiddIncluded presented their mission 
and expressed their aim to put pres-
sure on the faculty to speed the process 
of change. To see more information of 
MiddIncluded’s mission and articles con-
cerning their findings visit, their website 
at go/aal.
 A Bylaws Amendment for an Honor 
Code Committee was presented by Co-
Chair of the Community Council Ben Bo-
gin ’15 at the Nov. 9 meeting as well.  It 
was inspired by a recommendation from 
the Honor Code Review to create a stand-
ing committee regarding the Honor Code.
There was a committee organized 
last year and Bogin proposed creating a 
standing one that will do research for the 
Senate and continue evaluating the Hon-
or Code. He proposed that this commit-
tee is important because a large aspect 
of the Honor Code is that it is partially 
owned by the student body. Bogin sug-
gested that the committee consist of five 
students and be required to meet at least 
six times a semester. The amendment 
will be put to a vote in the near future. 
By Claire Treesh 
SGa
Update
| November 13, 20142 NEWS
Ebola Threat Forces College to Respond
In late September, the Rockefeller Broth-
ers Fund announced its plan to divest its 
money from investments in fossil fuels. The 
fund, with nearly $860 million in assets, an-
nounced that it would divest roughly seven 
percent of its funds currently invested in fos-
sil fuels. 
The Rockefeller Brothers Fund, es-
tablished by Rockefeller heirs in 1940, is 
a smaller organization in assets than the 
better-known Rockefeller Foundation. The 
fund’s announcement of divestment, a small 
amount of money when compared to the 
vast amount of capital in the fossil fuel in-
dustry, attracted great attention.
The announcement, part of a broader 
initiative, was timed to follow several large 
environmental marches around the world, 
and to precede the United Nations climate 
change summit in New York City.
At the College, the announcement trig-
gered discussion and reinvigorated the di-
vestment movement that had started. The 
move by the Rockefeller Brothers Fund is of 
particular interest to the College because it 
is divesting its investment from Investure, 
the money manager the college entrusted 
its endowment to. Students from two cam-
pus organizations, the Sunday Night Group 
and Socially Responsible Investment Club, 
gathered last Sunday to discuss their plans 
to carry the current momentum to campus 
and push for change.
Greta Neubauer ’14.5, a leader of the di-
vestment movement at the College, stressed 
the importance of the movement. “I think 
divestment is important is because of the 
power we have as an institution to shift the 
narrative around the fossil fuel industry... I 
believe Middlebury has responsibility to use 
its social capital and its real capital to make 
a statement that is in alignment with its mis-
sion by divesting from fossil fuels,” she said.
She added, “The movement is saying that 
we need to take this part of our orbit into 
consideration. What happens on campus is 
not all that happens. Our institution actually 
has an impact in other places and we cannot 
be actively funding the extraction of fossil 
fuels.”
The College’s one billion dollar endow-
ment is currently in a collective fund that 
has around three percent of its money in the 
fossil fuel industry.
Talking about her motivation to join the 
movement, Taylor Cook ’18 said that she 
was shocked by the fact that the College, a 
symbol of sustainable environmental prac-
tice, is invested in fossil fuels. She wants to 
join the movement to push the College to a 
higher standard. 
Sophie Vaughan ’17 talked about her mo-
tivation to join the movement. She said, “If 
we don’t help push for a sustainable planet, 
who is? Because if you look historically, a lot 
of movements have been powered by stu-
dents.”
The primary obstacle for divestment 
comes from the outstanding performance of 
Investure and its close business relationship 
with the College. 
Neubauer commented on this compli-
cation in the process. “The board doesn’t 
want to leave Investure. Investure has done 
really well for the College, especially in the 
recession, and since the college has worked 
with them, they have gotten really good re-
turns for the College, done better than peer 
that there is a way the College can divest that 
won’t hurt the endowment,” she said. 
Neubauer talked about the long-term 
risk of fossil fuel investment in the context 
of the worsening climate crisis and emerging 
renewable energy prospects. She said that it 
seems that either Investure has to change or 
the College has to leave for the divestment to 
happen. Good investment return is not good 
enough, she claimed.
Last month, Governor of Vermont Peter 
Shumlin, responded to questions regarding 
the divestment of Vermont’s pension fund 
from fossil fuels during the governor’s de-
bate. “It is not the sharpest tool in the draw-
er,” he said. He stressed his effort spent on 
the renewable energy implementation in the 
state.
“Peter Shumlin, as governor of Ver-
mont, has a lot of tools in his toolbox. And I 
would like him to use some of them,” Jean-
nie Bartlett ’15 said in response to the gov-
ernor’s opinion. Neubauer agrees that the 
state should use some of its tools more ef-
fectively than it does now. 
Though the record of success of the move-
ment is mixed, the momentum of the move-
ment seems growing. Harvard and Yale both 
declined to divest. Stanford agreed to divest, 
but only from coal, while still invested in 
fossil fuels. However, in recent years, a huge 
number of individuals and organizations 
have pledged to sell assets tied to fossil fuel 
companies. The amount pledged by individ-
uals and 180 institutions, including pension 
funds and local governments, is worth more 
than $50 billion. 
“We want the College to divest in con-
junction with carbon neutrality. We would 
love to see that the College divests by 2016, 
so that we are really, honestly and truly car-
bon neutral in all of our operations. And 
we also think that it would be really power-
ful for [President of the College Ronald D. 
Liebowitz] to divest before he leaves the 
school. He is going to leave a legacy, and to 
leave a legacy of not divesting from fossil fu-
els when that is the direction of history is not 
the one that we think he should choose. So 
we are really hopeful that Liebowitz, who is 
committed to making Middlebury a climate 
leader, makes that choice,” Neubauer said.
A New Wave in the Divestment Movement
By Jason Zhang
By Maddie Webb
design by julia hatheway
November 13, 2014 |  3        News
Third “It Happens Here” Event Held
Town and College Collaborate on Move
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
SGA 
Reform 
Group
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
michael o’hara
reason for the lack of engagement?”
This side of the group will identify prob-
lems, while the administrative side will look 
further into how the administration is set up.
“The idea would be that we’ll learn a lot 
about how the administration works and 
which people govern what,” Custer said.
To do this, the SGA has been looking into 
the administration part of the website and 
talking to faculty members to understand its 
structure, which, to Custer, has proven to be 
a confusing and complicated task.
“One really helpful resource is going to 
be our staff advisor Doug Adams [Associate 
Dean of Students for Residential and Student 
Life]. He’s been here for 15 years and is sort of 
our institutional memory,” said Chief of Staff 
Danny Zhang ’15. “He knows what past SGAs 
have done, and obviously how the adminis-
tration works.”
Going forward, the group will be able to 
submit recommendations about changes in 
policy to President of the College Ronald D. 
Liebowitz, who has told Custer he is very open 
to the idea of students getting more say in ad-
ministrative processes. These recommenda-
tions will come in the form of a list, which will 
have to be voted on by the SGA Senate and 
Community Council. “It can be slow and the 
ultimate ability to actually make the change 
is in the administrators’ hands rather than 
students’. I think that’s just a reality of being 
students in a college. To a certain extent, we 
have to be okay with making an argument, 
getting the evidence and saying, ‘This is why 
the change should be made’. At the very least, 
then the administration has to give us a jus-
the recommendations,” Custer said. 
Custer is hopeful that the group’s recom-
mendations will actually be approved. He 
added that administrators have been very 
genuine about trying to be more transparent 
going forward. 
“I do think they’ll take a lot of the recom-
mendations, whatever they are, from the 
working group seriously and enact some of 
them,” he said.
Naomi Ekperigin
Naomi has been doing comedy for more 
than 10 years. She’s been on VH1’s “The 
Short List,” FX’s Totally Biased with 
Kamau Bell,” and has written for the 
Amy Poehler-produced “Broad City” on 
Comedy Central.
FRIDAY 8-9 PM
 
Slamnesty: From Gaza to Ferguson to 
Middlebury
Please join us for Amnesty Internation-
al’s annual open mic, spoken word event 
“Slamnesty.” The theme for this year’s 
event is “From Gaza to Ferguson to 
Middlebury.” Come listen to Middlebury 
student share their stories, experiences, 
and other creative expressions around 
the theme of police brutality. If you’re 
interested performing please sign up at 
go/slamnesty or email us at amnesty@
middlebury.edu.
 FRIDAY 9:30-11 PM
Café Con Leche & ISO After Party
All ages welcome!  Beer and wine avail-
able for 21+ with 2 forms of ID.
SATURDAY 10 PM - 2 AM
WHAT’s HAPPENING THIS WEEK AT:
Basmati
Basmati is a Neo-Soul trio from Middlebury 
College with an untarnished reputation for 
tight grooves and tighter vocal harmonies. 
Their covers and original tunes showcase 
a mellow sound inspired by soul, jazz, and 
modern R&B greats from D’Angelo and Erykah 
Badu to Robert Glasper.
 FRIDAY 8 PM-10 PM
Monday Night Happy Hour
Monday Night Happy Hour is a freshly brewed 
funk/hip-hop band who have sworn under oath 
to make you get up on your feet and dance no 
matter what the tune.
FRIDAY 10 PM-12 AM
Untitled Funk Orchestra
The group extends the ‘soul jazz’ tradition of 
the 1970s, blending jazz with blues, funk, R&B 
and world music. Their songbook includes 
tunes from Miles Davis, Grant Green and jazz 
interpretations of James Brown, the Isley 
Brothers, Taj Mahal, and other popular artists 
from the 70s and 80s. Featuring Jeremy Harlos 
(bass), Kareem Khalifa (guitar), Justin Perdue 
(guitar), Ron Rost (keyboard), Terry Simpkins 
(drums), and Heimo Wallner (trumpet).
SATURDAY 10 PM - 2 AM
Blues Jam
Dennis Willmott from Left Eye Jump will 
provide lead guitar, bass, and drums and these 
guys will back you up or take a break and let 
you play. All musicians and blues fans are wel-
come! Everyone will get a chance to play.
WEDNESDAY 8-10 PM
lieu of taxes” (PILOT) agreement, wherein 
the College makes an annual contribution to 
the town. In 2013, this sum, which is tied to 
the College’s endowment, totaled $251,617. 
This annual payment coupled with the 
College’s assistance on a number of town 
initiatives is a testament to the College’s 
willingness to help contribute to a vibrant 
downtown area. In 2007, for example, the 
College pledged $1 million to complete the 
renovation of the Town Hall Theater in the 
heart of Middlebury. In 2009, it pledged $9 
million to the $16 million plan help fund the 
new bridge crossing Otter Creek. 
The town and College have thus experi-
enced a long history while coexisting togeth-
er.  “The nature of the relationship between 
the town and the College is very symbiotic,” 
noted Jamie Gaucher, Director of the newly 
-
-
lationship has been developed and fostered 
for generations, and it is now experiencing a 
The years of conversation between the 
town and the College regarding the College’s 
role of impacting the local economy culmi-
nated in the creation of the job that Gau-
cher now holds.  The goal of this position 
is to bring new economic vitality and jobs 
to the town of Middlebury in light of recent 
economic events: “The community realized 
that it was in need of a new solution,” said 
Gaucher. “Middlebury had suffered some 
job losses, and there really was no prospect 
at least address, the local economy.” Gauch-
er explained his job as a three-part process: 
engage with an external audience, bring 
innovation-based and technology-based de-
velopment to the area and leverage assets 
inherent to the college to make an economic 
impact for the town. This new job in itself, 
and the College have come together: “This 
was a commitment based on the needs and 
allegiance between the College, town and 
local businesses,” he said. Agreed Gaucher: 
“The interdependence [between the town 
and College] was one of the themes that was 
woven into the cooperative spirit in the cre-
ation of my job.”
students moving between the College and 
the town have been expanded. Through this 
new position, the purchasing of goods and 
services from the local area, the College’s 
investment in local projects, and employ-
ment opportunities, the impact – especially 
the economic impact – of the College is im-
mense. In response to commonly asked 
state representatives and College employees 
alike about the College’s impact, the most 
recent Economic and Community Impact of 
Middlebury College fact sheet was published 
this past summer, with data collected since 
2011. 
As the largest employer in the town of 
Middlebury and in Addison County, the Col-
lege has an enormous impact on the local 
economy. The College provides one out of 
every 10 jobs in Middlebury, making it one 
estimated total number of jobs the College 
provided directly and indirectly to Vermont 
was 2,420, which had economic ripple ef-
fects on other jobs and wages in the state.
As consumers, the students of the Col-
According to a study commissioned by the 
2014, one in every ten customers in town is 
a Middlebury College student. In 2011, ac-
cording to the report, students spent more 
than $5.8 million at Vermont businesses, 
with about 80% of this spending occurring 
in the town of Middlebury. This total of $4.5 
million spending in the town of Middlebury 
experienced the most patronage in the res-
taurant, food and beverages sectors, where 
students spent over $1 million in each. 
However, the relationship is not one-sid-
ed. As evidenced by these numbers, college 
students rely on an accessible town, just as 
the town and the college realize that we have 
to work together for the greater good,” said 
economic development] is a realization that 
we really do succeed or fail together,” he 
continued. Thus the two-way partnership is 
of considerable importance. Gaucher noted 
that the distinction between the town the 
-
curs between the two: “I really do struggle 
to make it an ‘us’ or ‘them,’ or even to have 
a demarcation between ‘this group’ or ‘that 
group.’ I approach what I do from a commu-
nity perspective,” said Gaucher. 
-
ets are $12 and will be $15 at the door. Saturday, November 22nd. 
Doors at 8:30 p.m., show at 9 p.m.! MCAB
On Monday, Nov. 10, students gath-
ered in Wilson Hall to listen to 12 anony-
mously-submitted stories from survivors 
of sexual assault. With its third event in 
the past three years, It Happens Here has 
collected dozens of stories of sexual vio-
lence from members of the Middlebury 
community to provide a space and time 
incidents on college campuses.
According to the website, “this project 
is about amplifying that traditionally si-
lenced voice in an effort to start a con-
versation about a problem that affects so 
many, but is discussed by so few.”
While most states have elected gover-
nors and legislators who will begin their 
terms in 2015, the identity of Vermont’s 
future governor still remains in question 
and will be decided in a secret vote by the 
180 person State Legislature in 2015.  Elec-
tion Day ended with incumbent Governor 
Peter Shumlin (D) holding 47 percent and 
Republican candidate Scott Milne holding 
about 45 percent, with 92 percent of voting 
precincts reporting.  Dan Feliciano of the 
Libertarian Party was the next runner up 
after Milne.  Both Shumlin and Milne de-
clined to declare the election either a victo-
ry or a loss, opting to wait until Wednesday 
when all the votes were counted.
Once all the votes were counted, how-
ever, Shumlin ended up with 89,883 
votes, at 46.4 percent, and Milne with 
87,788 votes, at 45.3 percent. This gave 
Shumlin a margin of about 2000 votes 
over Milne, a low enough margin for Milne 
to demand a recount.  Vermont has a long 
history of strong third party candidates 
who notably affect the election, and this 
year was no different.  Including Shumlin 
and Milne, there were a total of seven can-
didates running for governor.  Feliciano, a 
Libertarian, ended up holding 4.4 percent 
of the vote.  Emily Peyton, an Indepen-
dent, came in next with 1.7 percent.  Pete 
Diamondstone of the Liberty Union Party 
held 0.9 percent, independent Bernard Pe-
ters held 0.7 percent and independent Cris 
Ericson held 0.6 percent.
Although Shumlin won more votes 
than any other candidate, the Vermont 
Constitution requires that the governor be 
elected by winning 50 percent of the votes, 
plus one.  If this does not happen, the deci-
sion then goes to the Legislature. It is not 
uncommon for the Legislature to have to 
choose the governor.  A single gubernato-
rial candidate has failed to win the simple 
majority 23 times in Vermont history, in-
for governor against the Republican candi-
date, the then-incumbent Lieutenant Gov-
ernor Brian Dubie.  Shumlin received 49.5 
percent of the popular vote in that election 
and was chosen by the legislature.  In 2012, 
Shumlin had a decisive victory, winning 58 
percent of the popular vote.  
The fate of the governor is now in the 
hands of the Vermont House and Senate, 
both of which have a Democratic major-
ity.  The Legislature typically chooses 
the candidate who holds the plurality of 
votes, but legislators are technically free 
to choose whichever candidate they would 
like.  However, the last time the Legisla-
ture chose the candidate that did not hold 
the plurality was in 1853 when incumbent 
Erastus Fairbanks of the Whig party held 
43.9 percent of the popular vote, but Dem-
ocratic candidate John S. Robinson, win-
ner of 31.0 percent of the votes, was chosen 
by the Legislature instead.
-
sults leaves room for speculation about the 
future.  The lack of a simple majority and 
unexpected success of a Republican can-
didate challenging the incumbent make a 
clear statement about the current political 
climate in Vermont.  
“We’re hearing a very clear message, 
that folks are frustrated, that they’re hurt-
ing, that with all the talk of economic recov-
ery that’s going mostly to the top 1 percent, 
too many Vermonters are still struggling to 
pay their bills, working too many jobs to 
make ends meet,” Shumlin said.  
“I am incredibly grateful to all of the 
Vermonters who cast their ballots on my 
behalf yesterday,” Milne said.  
The close nature of the race surprised 
voters and candidates alike.  The most re-
cent polls before the election predicted 
Shumlin winning 47 percent of the vote, 
but with a 12 percent lead over Milne. 
Candidates and voters expected Feliciano 
to draw more votes than he ultimately did. 
“It was never evident to me that Scott 
Milne had a chance to win,” said Darcie 
Johnston, Feliciano’s political strategist. 
Feliciano and his campaign team do not 
regret his staying in the election, even 
though had he chosen to duck out of the 
race Milne may have gotten his votes and 
won.  Johnston suggested that some vot-
ers may have come out for Feliciano who 
would not have considered voting for 
Milne. Feliciano and his campaign team 
did not think either Feliciano or Milne 
would stand a chance against Shumlin.
Milne received minimal outside sup-
port on his campaign.  Most notably, the 
Republican Governors Association chose 
not to invest in Milne, assuming he would 
be no competition for Shumlin.
Former Vermont Republican Gov-
ernor and Executive-in-Residence at the 
College Jim Douglas ’72 was surprised that 
Feliciano drew so few votes and was disap-
pointed that Vermont’s Republican minor-
ity failed to unite for Milne.  
“When it comes down to it, they say, ‘I 
ought to pick someone who’s got a shot,’” 
Douglas said of voters who chose Milne 
over Feliciano. Such voters made Feliciano 
less of a serious candidate.
-
cumbent governor in 50 years to lose to a 
challenger.  The situation speaks strongly 
to how Vermonters are feeling about the 
direction of the state, and Shumlin recog-
nized that fact.
“It’s a time for me to regroup,” Shum-
lin said.  “You would have to be tone deaf 
not to be hearing voters’ concerns.”  This 
may have implications for how Shumlin 
conducts his next two years as governor, as 
he sees that there is currently discontent 
and division among Vermont’s electorate. 
“What is clear is that the majority of 
Vermonters do not agree with the path that 
we are on,” Milne said, referring to the fact 
that the majority of votes went to candi-
dates other than Shumlin.  
“I’m voting against whoever (are) the 
incumbents, just to shake things up,” Rene 
Churchill, a resident of Waterbury Center, 
said.  Some voters appear to have just been 
looking for change, whatever the change 
may be.
The next two years will show whether 
Shumlin listened to the electorate or con-
tinued with projects that were controver-
sial, such as transitioning Vermont to a 
single-payer healthcare system.  However, 
the power to decide who ultimately be-
comes governor still lies in the Legislature 
when they convene in January of 2015.
Other elected positions in Vermont 
were not nearly as close as the gubernato-
rial rate.  Incumbent Peter Welch of the 
Democratic Party won Vermont’s only seat 
in the US House of Representatives with 
64.4 percent of the vote.  He was running 
against Republican Mark Donka, who won 
31.1 percent.  Three candidates ran as in-
dependents, including Cris Ericson, who 
also ran for governor.  Matthew Andrews 
ran for the Liberty Union Party.
Senators Bernie Sanders, Indepen-
dent, and Patrick Leahy, Democrat, were 
not up for reelection this year. Sanders and 
Leahy will both be returning to Washing-
ton and to a Republican dominated Con-
gress.
“Whoever controls the Senate it’s only 
going to be by one or two votes,” Leahy 
said. “Either way, whether it’s the Demo-
crats or the Republicans what I would urge 
is let’s try working together for a while.” 
Leahy is hopeful about the future and does 
not view being in the minority party as a 
bad thing.  Leahy, about to begin his 40th 
year as Senator, cited seniority, rather 
than majority, as being more important for 
holding power in the Senate. 
Sanders, on the other hand, fears that 
a Republican majority Congress will cut 
spending for education, Medicare, and 
Medicaid, as well as give tax breaks to the 
wealthy.
“That is not a good agenda for the 
American people,” Sanders, who is in the 
second year of his second term as senator, 
said.
No Majority in Gubernatorial 
Election; Legislature to Vote
By Alessandria Schumacher
By Olivia Jurkowitz
and Lauren Berestecky
The new and improved Middlebury 
Marquis opened just last week.  In ad-
dition to two revamped movie theaters, 
the Marquis also opened Middlebury’s 
first Southwestern restaurant.  At first we 
were skeptical of a Southwestern restau-
rant located inside a movie theater. You 
usually just don’t put the Hunger Games 
and burritos in one venue.  However, af-
ter going to the Middlebury Marquis The-
ater on Main Street, our suspicions were 
discredited.
The first thing we learned when we 
entered the Marquis movie theater was 
that they served Southwestern food, not 
Mexican food. “Southwestern food is 
Mexican food with an American flair,” 
Mady Despins ’15, a Marquis employee, 
said when asked about the difference 
between Mexican and Southwestern cui-
sine. Southwestern food still includes the 
spices and the flavor of Mexican food, but 
also incorporates other ingredients. The 
added ingredients include pesto, pine-
apple, and Gouda, things you may not 
traditionally associate with stereotypical 
Mexican food. 
We got a taste for these added ingre-
dients when we ordered the Vegetable 
Burrito and the Quesadilla Rustica. The 
Vegetable Burrito included an array of 
flavors including cilantro and chipotle 
braised cabbage. We have to say our fa-
vorite part of the Veggie Burrito was the 
quinoa. It was unexpected for a burrito, 
but it gave it a lighter and fresher feel 
than a regular burrito with heavy cream 
sauces and rice. The lighter burrito made 
it so we were able to down it an hour be-
fore practice and finish sprints without 
throwing up. Success!  
The Quesadilla Rustica came with the 
option of adding carnitas, pollo, or carne. 
We decided to try it with pollo (pollo is 
chicken, for all of you non-Spanish speak-
ers).  The Quesadilla Rustica also came 
with roasted peppers, black beans, and 
cheddar cheese.  The best part of the que-
sadilla was the cilantro pesto.  It really 
distinguished it from the average quesa-
dilla you would make at Proctor or order 
from the Grille. Another differentiator 
between Marquis’s quesadillas and other 
food venues is their original ingredients. 
They have incorporated items such as 
carrot habanero sauce as well as ingredi-
ents of chester cilantro and jicama.
We know many people that drive 45 
minutes to Burlington to go to Chipotle, 
and after eating here we have to say the 
drive is no longer worth it. This restau-
rant serves a different style of food than 
Chipotle’ s cuisine, but the spices and fla-
vors satisfy the taste buds the same way 
that Chipotle does. 
Another added benefit of Marquis is 
that you can order at the countertop and 
then take your food into the movie the-
ater.  Therefore the next time when you 
think your most entertaining option for 
the night may just be sitting in your bed 
watching Netflix, think again.  If you’re 
not already convinced, the food is cheap-
er than most popcorn at movie theaters. 
The prices at the restaurant range from 
four to ten dollars. Popcorn averages at 
about 7 dollars at a movie theater.  You 
can also opt for take-out if you don’t want 
to see a movie or don’t have any friends 
to go with.
The combination of price, entertain-
ment and really good southwestern food 
makes this a place you need to at least try 
… we have a feeling this may become your 
new favorite Middlebury eat-out spot.
Peter Shumlin hopes the legislature will reelect him for a third term as Governor.
Jason Zhang
Jason Zhang
From left: Scott Milne, Bernard Peters, Emily Peyton and Peter Shumlin squared off.
local
Ebola quarantine when Rutland resident 
Peter James Italia was placed into a 21-day 
quarantine. Italia was and still is completely 
symptom-free, but nonetheless has agreed 
to remain in quarantine and to cooperate 
-
lin did not originally release Italia’s name 
his Facebook page.
-
erra Leone with the stated intention of in-
-
-
cials can tell, the man had no known con-
tact with Ebola patients during his month of 
-
-
Machado, Local 22 and Local 44 reporter, 
at the news conference.
“It’s not my job to speculate on what he 
-
lin said. “I will not know the answer to that. 
None of us probably will.”
Monday through the John F. Kennedy In-
ternational Airport in New York, N.Y., he 
He did not display symp-
toms of Ebola and was 
then released.
A Vermont law en-
forcement member and a 
public health worker then 
met him at the airport and 
state. 
-
perature, has no signs or 
symptoms of illness and is 
not a health risk to anyone 
The state is keeping 
in a rural area, and public health nurses 
were declined. 
“He’s represented himself in public 
statements as a physician, but he’s not a 
licensed doctor or health care professional 
Italia told the Burlington Free Press that he 
graduated from a medical school in the Do-
minican Republic, but is not yet licensed in 
Vermont.
Italia also told the Burlington Free 
Press 
quarantine, and that he has signed a state 
comply with quarantine.”
-
-
mont authorities are 
prepared. Fletcher Al-
len (Vermont’s largest 
hospital) began prep-
arations for Ebola in 
early October, train-
ing 200 members of 
their staff and making 
sure they had the right 
materials in case they 
patient. Three rooms 
in Fletcher Allen’s 
-
ied for the care of an 
Ebola patient, should one come to Vermont.
The Burlington International Airport, 
Burlington Fire Department and the Willis-
-
illness. The incubation period for the dis-
ease is usually between two and 21 days. 
-
rhea, chest pain, rash and impaired kidney 
fatality rate is around 50 percent, though 
-
WHO, the World Health Organization, 
has released a lot of information on Ebola 
since the recent outbreak this fall. Their fact 
sheet on the illness explains the seriousness 
of the situation.
“The current outbreak in west Africa, 
largest and most complex Ebola outbreak 
deaths in this outbreak than all others com-
bined. It has also spread between countries 
 WHO also explains that humans are 
which Italia has not.
This fall, a hospital in Dallas mistakenly 
sent home an Ebola patient who was show-
-
aging Vermonters from panicking. Italia 
has shown no symptoms, and Ebola is not 
an airborne disease. It is spread through di-
-
son infected with the disease.  
13Rutland Man Quarantined For Ebola
By Isabelle Dietz
Legally Blonde in Middlebury Union 
High School
“Bend and snap.” 
Tickets are only 8 dollars to see 
Middlebury Union’s rendition of Dan 
NOV. 27, 2 - 4PM
Local 
lowdown
 | november 13, 2014 Local 5
Shrek in Bristol
 
NOV. 13, 7:30AM-9:30PM
The Little Mermaid in Vergennes
deaaaaaaal...
NOV. 13, 7 - 9 P.M.
“Dress a Doll” Workshop in Bristol
Can’t decide betwen the blue velvet blouse 
have been answered: the Lawrence Me
workshop this Monday that teaches 
clothes for your doll and how to fashion
will be provided.
NOV.  17, 3:15 - 4:30PM
Courtesy  Fletcher Allen Hospital
Fletcher Allen Hospital is prepared to treat Ebola patients should any emerge in Vt.
“It’s not my job to 
speculate on what he 
said, what he did, or 
where he went. I will 
not know the answer 
to that. None of us 
probably will.”
Governor Peter Shumlin
On The Whereabouts of Peter Italia
We've been here in Middlebury 
since 1982 specializing in 
mouth-watering food. Our goal 
has always been to offer a fresh, 
quality, price sensitive meal to 
the whole family whether you 
dine in or take out. And it’s not 
just pizza: try our pasta, na-
chos, wings, and calzones!
10 Washington Street
Middlebury, VT 05753
(802)-388-3164
Advertisements6  | novemeber 13, 2014
NEWS, LOCAL, OPINIONS, FEATURES, SPORTS, ARTS & SCIENCES
IT’S ALL THERE. LOG ON TODAY.
  THE CAMPUS + THE INTERNET
MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM   MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM
Ever since President Ronald D. Li-
ebowitz announced he would step down 
at the end of the current school year, 
the Presidential Search 
Committee has been 
emailing the Middlebury 
Community updates as 
they search for his re-
placement. The most re-
cent update, which was 
sent at the outset of the 
school year, stated that 
the Committee would 
begin evaluating candidates “whose back-
ground, experiences, and values align with 
our priorities.” But are “our priorities” the 
same as our priorities? That is to say, are 
we to think that the Presidential Search 
Committee, composed of nine trustees, six 
faculty members and two students share 
the priorities of the Middlebury commu-
nity writ large? How can we know when 
-
tiality? 
Given the secrecy of the process, we 
at the Campus have refrained from step-
ping in until now, unsure of how to best 
weigh in on the decision-making process. 
But now that it is more than likely that the 
candidates and may be close to choosing, 
here are our hopes for the next President.
As an Editorial Board, we would like to 
see more students involved in the search’s 
-
resent the range of opinions and experi-
ences that exist within the student body 
with only two students on the Commit-
a concern for those candidates who cur-
rently hold positions at other colleges or 
universities, there are ways in which more 
students could give input on the candi-
on campus for an interview with a small 
group of 10-15 students under the con-
dition that those students are sworn to 
where candidates for faculty positions are 
evaluated by the College community. Let’s 
do the same with our candidates for presi-
dent.  
First and foremost, the president ought 
to have experience as an academic at a 
residential liberal arts college. Academ-
ics are the core of our years at Middle-
bury and we should hire a President who 
has previously served as a professor at a 
liberal arts college and who understands 
the environment and the importance of 
teaching. Additionally, an ideal candidate 
would be someone who has also served in 
an administrative role with a focus on stu-
dent affairs, making them well-equipped 
to oversee a range of social life issues. 
is evolving rapidly. 
With the inclusion of 
MiddCore and other 
experiential learning 
programs reshaping 
our perception of this 
academic tradition, we 
need a president who 
is willing to push the 
boundaries of what it 
means to get an edu-
cation in the 21st cen-
tury. From the Solar 
Decathalon to offering credit for summer 
internships, there are ways the next presi-
dent should advocate for learning that 
happens outside of the classroom, too.
The President must also be an excellent 
fundraiser for the causes and programs 
that matter most. President Barry Mills 
of Bowdoin College wrote in a column 
addressing the role of a college president 
that a trustee once told him, “No matter 
how good a job you do, you won’t be a 
success unless you raise a lot of money.” 
The community would be well-served by 
recognizing that a large part of the Presi-
dent’s job is to raise funds for the Col-
lege because those funds allow us to stay 
competitive, innovative and accessible as 
an institution. Our next president should 
have experience or at least interest in rais-
ing money for the areas that are tradition-
residential buildings and recruiting and 
retaining talented faculty.  
That being said, we recognize that col-
lege presidents are frequently persons 
who have little to no fundraising experi-
ence. This is especially true of academics. 
President Liebowitz, for example, was a 
geography professor, Dean of the Faculty 
and Provost before becoming President. 
Yet over his tenure, Liebowitz has raised 
money for green initiatives, weathered 
and launched the largest fundraising cam-
paign undertaken by a liberal arts college, 
-
ments. Hiring a former faculty member 
and student affairs administrator as the 
next president can give weight to that 
president’s arguments about the impor-
tance of donating in order to hire diverse 
and talented faculty and to improve our 
Outside of fundraising, the next Presi-
dent should make this campus and the 
people here their priority. Middlebury is 
a college in the liberal arts tradition, not 
a corporation, and what makes it so is its 
faculty and students. While we under-
stand that the rebranding and restructur-
ing of the Middlebury identity system may 
be good business, we are concerned that it 
may make for bad education. A president 
who gives undue at-
tention to the auxil-
iary programs may 
detract from the at-
tention required to 
keep the education 
offered by Middle-
bury College top-
notch. 
One way to con-
vince us of their 
commitment to the 
College is to make a 
serious effort to be visible and available 
on campus. We commend President Li-
ebowitz for his constant engagement with 
the student body. The forum on social life 
a few weeks back is a prime example of 
leadership that is willing to engage with 
an upset constituency head-on. Liebow-
itz’s successor should be willing and able 
to communicate with the student body in 
myriad constructive ways — sitting for in-
-
cilitating forums on relevant topics when 
the campus needs them most.
Another way to show commitment to 
this campus is by helping the College re-
of the Town Hall conundrum and recent 
off-campus partying incidents, the rela-
tionship between the College and the town 
has been chilly lately. A President who is 
not sensitive to the relationship between 
a well-known college and a small rural 
town could do further harm to our already 
precarious predicament. Rather, we need 
somebody who will listen to what Middle-
bury residents need and commit to part-
nering them with students and faculty to 
help them achieve their goals. 
Finally, we at the Campus believe that 
the next college president’s biggest prior-
ity should be to enroll students of diverse 
economic backgrounds. While we recog-
nize that the student body has grown sig-
presidency, Middlebury, nevertheless, 
managed to place 51st in an economic 
diversity ranking conducted by The New 
York Times this September. We need to 
do more. Some colleges stopped including 
-
dlebury still “utilizes the student loans as 
could turn to our peer institution Vassar 
College, which eliminated loans for low-
income families seven years ago, for in-
spiration.
Our next president should ensure that 
every prospective Middlebury student — 
rich or poor — is met with an equal ad-
missions opportunity, meaning that as a 
college in the rural state of Vermont, it is 
incumbent on us to do maximum outreach 
and make Middlebury accessible. We ask 
the Committee to select a president seri-
ous and ambitious enough to conceptual-
ize a platform of strategies to enroll more 
low-income students as the University of 
Chicago has. Last month, UChicago elimi-
nated all student loans for low and middle 
income students, ensured them paid sum-
mer internships, and will provide some 
students with tuition-free, pre-college ori-
entation summer school. 
We realize college presidents feel pres-
sure to move the college up in rankings 
and raise money, but we also think that an 
elite college like Middlebury is an engine 
behind social mobility. Like it or not, the 
College is caught in the middle of a na-
tional dialogue about vast inequality and 
every move we make either bridges the 
wealth gap or widens it.
Middlebury has evolved considerably 
over the last few decades, and we think 
that a President who displays all the above 
characteristics would better represent the 
college Middlebury wants to be ten years 
from now, instead of what it was thirty 
years ago.
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor.  The 
Campus will not accept or print anonymous let-
ters. The opinions expressed by contributors to the 
Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, edi-
torial comics and other commentary, are views of 
the individual contributors and do not necessarily 
reflect the opinions of the newspaper. The Campus 
welcomes letters to the editor at 250 words or less, 
or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Sub-
mit works directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 
30, campus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web 
site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To be consid-
ered for publications, submissions must be received 
by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
except during official college vacation periods and 
final examinations. Editorial and business offices 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow-
ing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury 
Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. 
Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle-
bury, Vt., 05753.
A Successful Successor
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Joe Flaherty
MANAGING EDITOR
Conor Grant
BUSINESS MANAGER
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Claire Abbadi, Ellie Reinhardt, 
Christian Jambora
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Lawrence Dolan, 
Edward O’Brien, Isaac Baker
SPORTS EDITORS 
Fritz Parker, Remo Plunkett, Emily Bustard
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Isabelle Dietz,
Alessandria Schumacher
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Ben Anderson, 
Annie Grayer
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio, Leah Lavigne 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Michael O’Hara, Anahi Naranjo
DESIGN EDITORS
Evan Gallagher, Julia Hatheway
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Maggie Cochrane, Jerrica Davy
Alex Herdman
COPY EDITORS
Sarah Sicular
STANDARDS EDITOR
Kate Hamilton
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Jessica Cheung, Michelle Irei
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
the editorial board 
of The Middlebury 
Campus.
“It is more than likely 
that the Committee has 
of candidates and may 
be close to choosing; 
here are our hopes for 
the next President.”
Sarah Lake
Who do 
you want 
as our next 
president?
Weigh in at 
middlebury
campus.com
  8 November 13, 2014 | opinions
I am a little late on the uptake, but 
it appears our campus has taken a re-
newed interest in our social, or lack 
thereof, lives. 
Or perhaps 
l o n g - s i m -
mering ten-
sions have 
boiled over 
and all our 
angst and frustration is being made 
known. Or maybe we just had an oppor-
tunity to complain. No matter what per-
spective you have, President Liebowitz’s 
discussion on social life has revealed a 
lot on the administration and, more im-
portantly, us as a campus.
Yes, I admit it. We do not have the 
most “college” of social lives. This is not 
a large school, this is not a school that 
the exception of KDR), so what are we 
really to expect? It’s Middlebury for 
God’s sake. We enjoy beer from inde-
pendent breweries, long sunsets, and 
complaining about our workload. Get-
ting belligerent in a toga on a Tuesday 
was never part of the equation. Though 
that does sound like fun.
We have a tremendous amount of 
trouble admitting who and what we are. 
There is an identity crisis somewhere in 
between loving a drinking culture and 
going out a couple times a semester. 
Do we want a more robust social life on 
campus? The answer seems to be gen-
erally yes. How do we get it? That’s the 
real question.
Well, who is responsible for taking 
all our fun?! Clearly, we are just a ton of 
fun on our own if only the administra-
tion and the long arm of the law, Public 
Safety, would just leave us alone! We’ve 
all heard that argument, and we’re all 
bored of it. I could tell you our Pub-
could say to the kid chanting “F*%* Pub 
Safe!” to get over yourself. Most impor-
tantly, I could tell anyone that anywhere 
that is nicer than one of our Public Safe-
In many ways we have come to this 
frustrating logical end by way of default. 
We need someone to blame for our 
is the easy target of authority. I un-
derstand that. I have had Public Safety 
knock on my door at 8:45 p.m. on a Fri-
day in an upperclassman dorm. I have 
had Public Safety lecture me about the 
placement of chips at a party. However, 
I would gladly suffer all these inconve-
niences in return for just any one of the 
-
Paul, Bryan and Amy I immediately 
think of as people who have responded 
with professionalism and genuine con-
cern to situations that I could no longer 
control. My only true regret is that I’ve 
only gotten to know these people from 
those situations. Wouldn’t it be better if 
student organizations took them out to 
dinner? Developed professional, work-
ing relationships rather than antagonis-
tic ones? If we can’t control what the ad-
ministration does, then that is on us as 
students. If we want a better social ex-
perience, changing the way we interact 
with Pub Safe on a regular basis could 
go a long way.
What about us though? Are all our 
misbegotten social woes really the fault 
of an administration or policy? Or is it 
something to do with us? Before you 
answer, think about the last time you 
threw some kind of event yourself, be it 
registered or un-registered. When was 
the last time you were on the contrib-
uting rather than receiving end of the 
Middlebury social experience? To the 
small number of you out there who have 
hosted large events you know that they 
are rather expensive, rather stressful at 
times, and can often be received by a 
student body that is plainly ambivalent. 
Let alone the risks of dorm damage, an-
gry drunks and sexual assault.  If every-
one contributes, these responsibilities 
tend to even out. However, when it con-
sistently falls upon a few select student 
organizations, it becomes burdensome, 
and frankly unappealing, to keep throw-
ing those types of events.
Our social lives are not simply going 
to be handed to us — nothing in life ever 
is. The larger “Middlebury” experience 
is not going to simply be given to you. 
It has to be made, and that takes more 
than a little effort. The biggest mis-
conception we have as a student body 
is that words alone will create change, 
change. Before we start demanding pol-
icy changes, let’s start living the changes 
we want seen. I guarantee we will have 
better luck. If you want a certain social 
experience, go out there and get it. Get 
your host training or your TIPS training 
or crowd manager training. Get to know 
Public Safety as genuine people. Let’s 
work on it ourselves; maybe everyone 
will have a little more fun.
Be the Party You Wish to See in the World
THE UNPOPULAR 
OPNION
Andrew Defalco ’15.5 is 
from Boston, Mass.
There is much hypocrisy in politics, but 
after the midterm elections last week, one 
point bothers me more than ever: the glar-
ing contradiction between Republicans’ 
f o u n d i n g 
mantra and 
their current 
values. 
In its 2012 
platform, the 
-
that America has always been a place of 
grand dreams and even grander realities; 
and so it will be again, if we return govern-
ment to its proper role, making it smaller 
... If we keep taxation, litigation, and regu-
lation to a minimum.” 
While the platform names small gov-
ernment as an ideal, Republican policies 
around gay marriage and abortion say 
otherwise. You know all that jazz about in-
dividual freedom? Yeah, yeah, yeah — it’s 
great, but it can go on the back burner for 
those issues.
So what is going on? The short answer: 
a merger of religion and politics. 
Before the 1970s, Republicans re-
cruited from a small pool — mainly White 
Anglo Saxon Protestants. The tone shifted 
with Richard Nixon, however, when he 
hardened his stance on abortion so as to 
entice blue-collar, catholic workers to the 
GOP. Soon after, Evangelicals and Catho-
lics teamed up to man the Moral Majority, 
a political organization that worked with 
the Republican Party and opposed issues 
like abortion and gay rights. 
Thus, the GOP slowly incorporated 
faith into its policies, contextualizing the 
hypocritical nature we see today, most no-
tably in the Tea Party. 
According to 2010 Pew Research 
Center data, 88 percent of Tea Par-
ty voters prefer small government 
-
Party voters oppose same-sex mar-
registered voters) and 59 percent of 
Tea Party voters believe that abor-
tion should be illegal in all/most 
registered voters). About half of Tea 
Party supporters said that their reli-
catholic) were the most important in-
and abortion. 
With the Tea Party playing an in-
creasingly large role in American poli-
total, there are an estimated 513,702 
members registered with the Tea Party, 
and in the 2010 midterms the Tea Party 
percent of whom voted for Republican 
House candidates. 
All that makes me wonder about voters 
who are not Tea Party Republicans, but 
moderate Republicans instead. We hear 
it all the time — those people who claim 
conservative.” They voted for Mitt Rom-
ney because they agreed with his economic 
policy, but don’t get them wrong, they sup-
port gay marriage and/or abortion rights! 
While I do not doubt these folks, I have 
to challenge them. They might support 
small government when it comes to the 
economy, but they have to realize that with 
the bond between the GOP and these reli-
gious groups, the other 75 percent of their 
my opinion harmful) action on social is-
sues. A vote for Mitt Romney didn’t just 
mean lowering taxes; it meant halting gay 
rights and limiting abortion access too.
For some people, the current Repub-
lican combo might be a win-win — those 
who support laissez-faire economic policy 
and also oppose gay marriage and abortion 
others, however, it is more of a zero-sum 
game when they vote Republican — they 
-
points are that 1. Being Republican was 
not always this way — it was the marriage 
of faith and the GOP that made it so, and 
2. What is given up in the zero-sum game, 
take these two points into account before 
elections; doing so will keep them clear-
minded, a much-needed trait when it 
comes to today’s national politics. 
Swing Vote
Erin Van Gessel ’17.5 is 
from San Rafael, Calif.
Party of Small Government?
As registration for spring semes-
Middlebury, I remember the stress and 
excitement that came with it. And, like 
semester of experience under his belt, I 
all the important course information not 
listed in the catalog’s surprisingly brief 
course descriptions.  How did students 
like the professors teaching these cours-
es? How demanding would the workload 
be for each of them? Was I going to be 
writing papers, completing problems 
sets, or taking tests all semester? First, 
of course, I sought advice from the hand-
ful of upperclassmen I had managed to 
campus. While helpful, only one of them 
had actually had any of the professors 
on my list of potential classes. They did, 
however, point me to what I thought was 
the holy grail of course information — 
middkid.com. 
Initially, I thought I had found all 
the information I needed. By reading 
through these reviews written by actual 
how much time others spent on the class 
each week, what they thought about the 
professor’s teaching ability and whether 
they would recommend taking the class. 
Slowly, however, I became increasingly 
disillusioned with the value of the infor-
mation middkid.com provided in help-
ing me make informed decisions about 
my classes. For starters, many of the 
reviews felt dated, with newer faculty 
having few if any reviews at all — an im-
portant gap, given they often teach in-
troductory level courses. In addition, the 
pages containing different reviews re-
ferred to the same professor, sometimes 
with different spellings of his or her 
name. Finally, while I found many of my 
fellow classmates at Middlebury to be 
thoughtful students, they did not seem 
to be the ones writing the reviews on 
middkid.com. Rather than a general re-
view of how most students felt about the 
course, the middkid.com reviews were 
frequently of the “loved it” or “hated it” 
variety.
Last spring, to improve upon all of 
these shortcomings, the SGA launched 
MiddCourses, a student-run course eval-
uation site. MiddCourses makes sure all 
the most recent courses are accurately 
listed by pulling that information directly 
from the College’s course catalog. More 
importantly, though, it limits access only 
to those with a middlebury.edu e-mail 
address and requires users to complete 
two new reviews each semester to view 
the existing database of over 1,500 re-
views. This keeps our reviews up-to-date 
and makes them far more representative 
of general student opinion than those 
found on midd-
kid.com. Rath-
er than con-
tinuing to sing 
the praise Mid-
dCourses, how-
ever, I’ll stop 
here and just 
r e c o m m e n d 
that you simply visit both and compare. 
the better option.
quality, however, I think there remains a 
compelling reason to spend your time on 
MiddCourses — the student body owns 
it. We can, quite literally, change any-
thing we want about the site. Middkid.
-
prise over which we have no control. We 
have already incorporated student feed-
back into MiddCourses so that it better 
serves students, and we are currently 
in the process of adding more features. 
That level of student ownership makes 
the future of MiddCourses far brighter 
than middkid.com. Students will always 
be in the best position to know how to 
improve and update the site so that it 
continues to be a helpful tool prior to 
registration. In addition, writing a re-
view on MiddCourses increases the 
likelihood that future Middlebury stu-
dents will be more informed when mak-
ing decisions about which courses they 
should take. I have yet to meet anyone 
who has actually spent their own time 
reviewing courses on middkid.com. Mid-
dCourses, on the other hand, creates the 
right incentives to encourage students to 
thoughtfully review their courses. 
-
demic experience at Middlebury are in-
credibly valuable, and we ought to share 
them with one another. While those 
merely reviewing a course or a profes-
sor, MiddCourses gives us an opportuni-
ty to capture at least one element of our 
academic experience and pass on that 
information to future students. The site 
offers an invaluable opportunity to re-
duce the confusion and stress many feel 
to take. It is a unique platform through 
which we can institutionalize the type 
word of mouth before we register each 
year. Since we created it, MiddCourses 
can ultimately make sure that future stu-
past students’ experiences — and, quite 
frankly, that is something middkid.com 
will never to be able to offer.
Try MiddCourses
THE BUCK 
STOPS HERE
Taylor Custer ’15 is the 
SGA President from West 
WIN HOMER
I know you didn’t invite him, but he 
was the only one who’d give me a ride.
A Right to Privacy in the Internet Age
| November 13, 2014 9opinions
Three weeks ago I found my bike in a bush. I had 
locked the wheel to the frame, but not the bike rack. 
Someone had thrown my 
bike into a bush. This 
wasn’t an isolated inci-
dent. Two other friends 
have had their bikes 
thrown into bushes. 
Now when I walk by all of the bikes are locked to 
the rack. I would love to live in a community where 
that wasn’t necessary. I would love to live in a place 
where I could leave my bike locked to itself, or better 
yet, leave it unlocked. I believe that’s a possibility. 
To most people, the Honor Code means “I won’t 
cheat.” That’s a pretty low standard for honor. I’d 
like to raise that bar. And let me start by saying that 
I hope I don’t come across as the holier-than-thou, 
honorable Ben Bogin. I am not. But I think that for 
students who aspire to a high standard (as we Mid-
dkids usually do), the Honor Code falls woefully 
short. I want our Honor Code to mean, “I will live 
with integrity at Middlebury, and treat all people 
with respect.” Then maybe people would stop throw-
ing bikes into bushes.
Some have said we should give up on the Honor 
Code. We could go back to proctored tests and leav-
ing our backpacks at the door. But I would be incred-
ibly disappointed to give up honor as a value at Mid-
dlebury. I’d like to keep working on the Honor Code 
so that we don’t have to admit defeat. After discuss-
ing the issues and researching what other schools do, 
I’d like to propose the following ideas.
First, I’d like the Judicial Board to publish sum-
maries of hearings online for the Middlebury Com-
munity. The names of students and professors would 
be redacted, and any participant in a hearing could 
request that the summary be delayed. One goal is to 
provide transparency to the judicial process for both 
students and professors. I also want students to feel 
connected to the Honor Code hearings on a personal 
level. I recently read Judicial Board files from a peer 
institution, and the experience caused me to reflect 
on my own experiences and actions. I want our whole 
community to experience the same thing. I want peo-
ple to talk about the Honor Code as much as they 
wax poetic about chicken parm.
Second, I want to change the Honor Code state-
ment to “I have neither given nor received unau-
thorized aid on this assignment, nor have I seen 
dishonest work.” Not that students should let their 
vigilance detract from their test. But every time we 
sign the honor code, we’ll remember that witness-
ing a violation makes it our responsibility to report 
it. I understand that this situation feels uncomfort-
able, and it is.  But this discomfort is the price we pay 
for the privilege of self-proctored exams. And isn’t 
that what we’re doing here? Stretching our comfort 
zones, thinking about ethical problems and finding 
who we really are?
Third, I want to add the 
Community Stan-
dards to the Hon-
or Code. Right 
now we have a de 
facto Academic 
Honor Code. The 
word “Academic” isn’t 
technically at the 
front, but the 
code only ap-
plies when 
taking a 
test. I 
t h i n k 
that the 
H o n o r 
C o d e 
s h o u l d 
a p p l y 
e v e r y -
w h e r e , 
all the 
time. And 
I want to 
add a section 
with the following 
language: “Anyone witness-
ing a violation of the Community 
Standards is morally obligated to confront that per-
son.” And notice that I’m not saying we should all be 
turning each other in to Pub Safe. I just want to live 
in a community where if people saw someone throw-
ing a bike into a bush, they would take the time to ask 
if the bush had offended that person in some way.
I want to elevate the Honor Code so that it means 
more than don’t cheat. I want it to force students to 
think about what it means to live here in a communi-
ty, and what it means to work and play with integrity 
and respect. These ideas are going to take your sup-
port. I’d love to know what you think. Let me know 
as I wander through Proctor looking for friends, or 
as I stumble, bleary-eyed, out of my many 8am class-
es (I know, they’re rough). Or send me an email at 
bbogin@middlebury.edu.
On My Honor
Reader Op-Ed
Ben Bogin ’15 is from 
Larkspur, Calif.
Last year, I wrote a column urging 
students and the public in general to pay 
more attention to the news surround-
ing the large 
trove of infor-
mation Ed-
ward Snowden 
leaked to The 
Guardian. The 
leaks detailed 
a vast network 
of domestic 
and international spying put in place by 
the US government. In the year since, 
more and more has been revealed about 
what the NSA has done and yet little has 
changed with our legislation to limit 
spying on US citizens. 
And unfortunately, it doesn’t look like 
much will change soon. Both the Senate 
and the House 
have tossed around amendments to the 
USA Freedom Act that would supposedly 
limit the NSA’s ability to collect phone 
data from US citizens. However, the 
Senate’s amendment has received mixed 
support from civil liberties groups. This 
past September, a group of signatories 
including Daniel Ellsberg — the whis-
tleblower who exposed the Pentagon 
Papers — released a letter condemning 
the amendment, warning that it will ce-
ment the NSA’s ability to abuse power, 
not limit it.
I still feel that the Snowden leaks 
and NSA spying have not received 
the attention they deserve. We have 
large amounts of evidence that the 
US government has committed gross 
violations of our civil rights and yet, 
discussions and warnings about these 
violations are often 
still dismissed as crazy 
conspiracy theories. I 
think a big 
reason we have trouble getting upset 
about these issues is that it’s not easy 
outline a way to solve the problem. 
An argument I often hear brought up 
in discussions about the NSA and do-
mestic spying is ‘nothing to hide, noth-
ing to fear.’ Meant not as support for the 
NSA as much as a reason not to get up-
set about what they’re doing, the argu-
ment claims that the average US citizen 
doesn’t need to worry about the govern-
ment reading their emails and listening 
to their phone calls because their on-
line presence doesn’t involve things like 
threats to the government and plans for 
-
rorism,” people tell me. “Not checking 
up on what porn you watch.”
This argument scares me. First and 
foremost, contained in the information 
leaked by Snowden is plenty of evidence 
terrorism.’ In July, The Intercept, an in-
vestigative group co-founded by Glenn 
Greenwald, released a list of American 
citizens targeted by the NSA despite no 
evidence that they were threats to na-
tional security. Unfortunately, the only 
-
uals is that they are of Muslim heritage. 
And in a more bizarre example of abuse 
of power, last summer the Snowden 
documents revealed ‘LOVEINT’, a series 
of instances where NSA employees used 
their access to the group’s surveillance 
program to gain information on love in-
terests.
The other problem with the ‘nothing 
to hide’ argument is that everyone has 
something to hide. I don’t mean that the 
average US citizen has on their computer 
detailed plans for their involvement in 
ISIS. What I mean is that everyone has 
a right to a private life and private corre-
spondence — especially private from the 
eyes of the government. We’ve all said 
things online or through text message 
— whether it be an innocent joke or an 
explicit picture exchanged between two 
consenting adults or something else — 
that maybe won’t make us a government 
target now, but with the NSA surveil-
lance in place, who’s to say that someone 
in the government who disagrees with us 
won’t dig these things up and use them 
rise to some other position of power.
I recognize that it’s outlandish to 
compare what the US government and 
the NSA are doing to past examples of 
dictatorships and other governments 
that have committed serious human 
rights violations and acts of oppression. 
I’m not saying that it’s become the Amer-
ican KGB or that we’ve lost all sense of 
human rights. However, the problem is 
that this infrastructure exists at all and 
that it has been used against innocent 
US citizens even once. Maybe you don’t 
have anything to hide today, but what’s 
to say that something you say now won’t 
be used against you in the future if cir-
cumstances are different.
The Internet is possibly the most 
powerful tool created by humankind. 
The instantaneous access to information 
and communication around the globe 
has forever changed the way we interact 
with each other and the world. How-
ever, this power also means that it has 
unbelievable potential for abuse. Just 
look at places like North Korea or Chi-
na where the government has severely 
(or entirely) restricted public access to 
the internet as a tool of oppression. We 
cannot passively accept what the NSA is 
doing as an inevitable reality of the in-
ternet just because we ‘have nothing to 
hide.’ This issue goes beyond the United 
States of America, too. As citizens of the 
world, we have to take back the Internet 
as a tool for information and free speech 
for all.
Notes from 
the desk
Ben Anderson ’14.5 is 
a Features Editor from 
Towson, Md.
RUBI SAAVEDRA
JENA RITCHEY
The Middlebury Campus| NoVEMBER 13, 201410 11features
-
-
 
-
-
tire week. No internet at all and no phone 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
-
-
 
-
the two hours they 
-
 
friends.
 
-
-
-
 
surviving MIDD_UNPLUGGED
One student goes off the internet for a week
Story by Ben Anderson, DESIGN BY JULIA HATHEWAY, Cartoon by nolan ellsworth.
“Surely if I don’t 
have my phone on me, 
I’ll never see my 
friends again.”
“The Rules”
1. No phone on person
2. Phone off between 8am and 8pm
3. No Internet at all
How Do you avoid procrastinating with technology?
“When I’m in the library, I try not to sit with my computer screen 
facing the wall. That way, everyone can see what I’m doing and I 
feel guilty about spending hours on Facebook.”
-Annie Bartholomew ‘17
“On my phone, I try to arrange my apps so I have to search for 
them if I want to use them to procrastinate. I don’t know if it 
stops me all the time, but at least it’s a barrier to wasting time.”
-Assistant Professor of History of Art and Architecture Edward 
Vazquez
“I don’t ever let fun time invade my work time. I just tell my-
self that if I finish all my work, I’ll have plenty of time to mess 
around.” -Victoria Buschman ‘15
“Missed Connections”
105 emails
24 Facebook notifications
10 Snapchats
nolan Ellsworth
12 features
By Erin Winseman
The Old Stone Mill (OSM) is a large, gray 
stone building located near Otter Creek Falls 
that was purchased and renovated by the 
College in 2008. While many students have 
probably visited the building to grab a cup 
hub of student creative activity.
students a personal space to explore non-
academic creative projects. Each semester, 
students can apply to be a tenant either at the 
OSM itself or in the Annex, the other building 
art projects such as splatter paint or pottery, 
whereas the OSM provides space for projects 
such as novel writing, website coding and 
book club meetings. For many of its tenants, 
-
port their projects. 
“We want it to be a space that empow-
ers students’ creative visions,” said Be n Clark 
’16, one of the six OSM board members. The 
OSM is still accepting applications for next 
semester at osm@middlebury.edu.
There are many projects at the OSM each 
semester and sometimes they can continue 
for over a year. It has grown from an origi-
to about 40 tenants this semester, six years 
since its inauguration. This year’s tenants in-
clude a diverse range of projects; from sewing 
to music rehearsals, culinary pursuits to com-
puter programming, the OSM is undeniably 
one of the most creative, innovative places on 
campus. The role of this new, monthly col-
umn will be to feature individual projects at 
the OSM.
One of the OSM’s current tenants is 
Henry Linehan ’16, a junior at the College 
who uses his space in the Annex to create 
spray and splatter paint stencil artwork. An 
Economics major and Math minor, Linehan 
is from a small town in Colorado and began 
working with stencils in the Annex about a 
year ago. 
“I’m big into the Econ and Math scene,” 
Linehan said. “I felt like that was using one 
side of my brain and the art part was being 
completely left out.”
So last spring, after watching several vid-
eos on street art and wanting to participate in 
the movement, Linehan decided to apply for 
a space in the OSM. He began to experiment 
with stencils and spray paint by creating the 
stencils on his computer, printing and cutting 
them out three pieces of paper thick and then 
laying them down and spray painting over 
them. 
Recently, Linehan experimented with 
spray paint and newspaper to create three-di-
mensional, texturized planets. As we talked, 
he pulled out his phone to show me a picture 
a stencil-made image of two people holding 
hands, a dark blue sky and several planets. 
“My creative process is looking around 
to think of them in an artistic way and come 
make somebody laugh, whether it’s a political 
statement, or whether it’s just a cool thing,” 
Linehan said.
Over the year, Linehan has tweaked and 
improved his technique. He found that in his 
the stencils because he hadn’t made the sten-
cil three pieces of paper thick. He is also con-
sidering drawing his own stencils instead of 
designing them on his computer. 
“Generally, I’d like to say it usually looks 
like I imagined it to look, but every time I 
do it, you never know what it’s going to look 
-
nition between where you put the paper and 
where it isn’t. It’s such a clean cut, I like that 
precision.” He admitted this might be due to 
his interest in economics and math.
Often, Linehan is able to work in his 
space with the entire Annex to himself, play-
ing music on his speakers. “The Old Stone 
Mill gave me the opportunity to have this 
space, which is the biggest thing,” he said. He 
usually tries to go to the Annex once or twice 
a week for a couple hours, which has helped 
him also with his time management. “The 
I am, so having a spot and forcing myself to 
schoolwork,” Linehan said. 
Although Linehan doesn’t have a favor-
ite piece, he said, “Whatever I’m doing in the 
moment I get really into that, and then it’s all 
into the next thing.” The best part of the pro-
cess for him is laying down the stencils and 
spray painting over them.
Linehan could see himself continuing his 
-
ing his college career. “College and classes 
[do not have] tangible results, whereas the re-
sults in OSM after you spray it down, it’s right 
For many of its tenants, the space and 
seed grants provided by the OSM greatly help 
foster artistic and innovative talents that may 
be overshadowed by academics, athletics and 
other school related programs. 
“I think really it’s just having a project 
outside of school. Everyone needs to have 
one,” Linehan said. “A lot of people get that 
project in community service or writing for 
the Campus
that for me at the Old Stone Mill.”
Spray Paint Splatters at OSM Creative Hub
 | november 13, 2014
For this week’s escapade, we were 
on the hunt to try something particu-
-
known to the Middlebury community. 
On Sunday afternoon, we made our 
way over to the natatorium (you can’t 
use the word pool for a cement hole in 
the ground filled with chlorinated water 
that cost over 10 million dollars). Mad-
die exclaimed upon passing the Center 
for the Arts and seeing the Athletic Cen-
ter (“Woah! What happened to the front 
entrance?!”). Although our brightly pat-
terned Victoria Secret bikinis felt like the 
right decision in our rooms, that feeling 
quickly changed once we entered the 
pool. Who knew the status quo attire at 
a college natatorium was different than 
our spring break experiences in Mexico? 
Although our insubstantial pieces of 
string and cloth were waterproof, span-
dex and sports bras are strongly encour-
aged for drumroll … logrolling! After we 
apologized for our idiocy, Hilary Wood-
-
sured us that, other than some potential 
‘slippage,’ our attire would be fine.
We both took turns walking out onto 
the log and following instructions on 
what to do. Surprisingly, it wasn’t im-
possible. Ten nip slips and a more re-
vealing exhibition than Janet Jackson’s 
Super Bowl halftime show later, Izzy was 
successfully rolling on a log in the water. 
We have decided to define the word ‘suc-
cessfully’ in NARP terms to mean at least 
two seconds of flailing arms and incom-
prehensible yelps while at least one of 
our feet maintained contact with the log. 
Although this may not seem like an ac-
complishment to most, we have decided 
98.5 percent of our readers have never 
gone logrolling and, therefore, have no 
say in the matter. Sorry we’re not sorry. 
Maddie was also getting the hang 
of it shortly thereafter and, unlike Izzy, 
managed to keep her swimsuit on. The 
day got even better when Danielle, the 
logrolling coach, told Maddie she had a 
“beautiful, elongated thigh.” A beauti-
ful thigh! Unfortunately, it was working 
to her disadvantage because that meant 
her butt sat further back, which ruined 
her balance. Maddie understood that it 
wasn’t her beautiful thigh causing the 
balance issues, but her fat a$$. 
There came a point when Maddie 
was asked if she knew what a squat was, 
and she had glaring flashbacks to the 
gym session with personal trainer Goran 
last year. The memory was so traumatic 
that she fell off the log and hit her back 
on the way down. This may seem minor, 
but the log has carpet around it for grip-
ping purposes and she got a big rug burn. 
In other words, it was minor for every-
one except her. 
We discovered that the hardest feat 
of logrolling is to maintain composure. It 
is truly an art to resemble Jesus walking 
on water; keeping your upper body still 
as your feet move daintily on the log to 
keep yourself upright. 
Watching Hilary and Danielle get on 
the log together and compete was inspir-
ing enough to convince us both to sign 
up for their J-term workshop this winter 
and get a P.E. credit. All in all, we had 
a blast and the rug burns between our 
thighs only lasted a few hours, causing 
Maddie to say “I feel like I rode a car-
peted mechanical bull” twice. 
By Lee Michael Garcia Jimenez and 
Rubby Valentin Paulino
By Izzy Fleming and Maddie Webb
in-queer-y
To me, it felt so right to see the 
back-up dancers and Big Freedia 
twerk up a storm on-stage, but it 
felt so wrong because it contrib-
uted to the systematic ways in 
which we see black women and 
black queer bodies in society. 
lee michael garcia jimenez & rubby paulino
columnists 
henry linehan
Lineham’s experimentation with his cre-
ative process led him to make this design 
out of spray paint and newspaper.
Something didn’t sit right with me as 
I left the Big Freedia concert. I don’t know 
whether it was the inherent guilt that comes 
with twerking for two hours in a wife beater 
and tight overalls or something deeper. 
In attempts to counter cultural appro-
priation and allow black bodies to claim 
back their own culture through twerking 
and bounce music, Middlebury happened to 
sneak in a more sophisticated identity a 
black, super-femme gay man.
 People around me expressed their ex-
citement to see a “trans woman” twerk on 
stage and “feel their oats” to the beat of “Na 
Who Mad” and “Mo Azz.” I, too, cannot deny 
that I was hoping for Big Freedia to liberate 
all parts of me. 
But in the midst of all the booty shaking, 
808 beats and sweaty bodies that surround-
ed me, I noticed that Big Freedia Queen Diva 
sexualization of black, femme and queer bod-
ies. To me it felt so right to see the back-up 
dancers and Freedia twerk up a storm on 
stage, but it felt so wrong because it contrib-
uted to the systematic ways in which we see 
black women and black queer bodies in so-
ciety. 
Middlebury is already an environment 
where diversity is celebrated and tokenized 
as a product, rather than an experience. Big 
Freedia’s performance was an extension of 
that philosophy that allowed others (the cis 
white hetero majority of Middlebury) to see 
black queer bodies as entertainment or tools 
Another thing that didn’t sit right with 
me was the way in which Big Freedia market-
ed his identity or rather chose not to identify 
so overtly. 
It is fair to say that he was here for his 
music and persona and not his identity, but 
one cannot deny the visible politics that come 
with being a tall black man with hair exten-
sions. The ways in which queer black bodies 
identify and go about their days do not go un-
noticed. 
-
the Middlebury stage and slay all of our souls. 
But when faced with the reality that Big 
Freedia is not a 
trans woman, 
but a femme gay 
man, does his 
identity erase the 
need for genuine 
trans visibility in 
our society? Or 
in other words, 
does the mind-
less transcrip-
tion in seeing Big 
Freedia as a trans 
woman contrib-
ute to the systematic marginalization of trans 
bodies? 
It seemed to me that the ambiguity of his 
identity was at the expense of trans bodies 
since the audience was just able to categorize 
This idea could also be a critique of the audi-
ence as well. 
There was a Pre-Grooveyard open dis-
cussion on the “mindful consumption of mu-
sic and art” in attempts to accurately frame 
the Big Freedia performance and I appreciate 
their behind the scenes work to address these 
issues.  
Interestingly enough, I met with God-
dess, Queen, Sister, Lourdes Ashley Hunter 
the next day. Like Big Freedia, she too slayed 
the campus. She remarked on being a trans 
woman of color at the “Living in the Ques-
tion: The Ongoing Process of Curiosity” event 
held by TedxMiddlebury. Her focus on “de-
constructing feminist analysis and acknowl-
edging all the ways in which structural op-
pression manifests in the lives of Black Queer 
Academics in white cis dominated spaces” 
was something that ironically resonated with 
Big Freedia just the night before. 
front line of the stage to witness Big Freedia 
Queen Diva twerk his art into existence but 
these same students didn’t seem to generate 
enough buzz about 
the presence of a 
politically active 
black trans woman 
speaking at a po-
dium. 
Of course, 
there are many 
underlying factors 
that have to do 
with the market-
ing of each event 
and the way college 
students want to 
spend their weekends but it would be ludi-
crous to dismiss these issues at hand. How 
can the administration, along with the help 
of the student body, work to deconstruct the 
“tokenizing” and “eroticizing” ways in which 
“marginalized identities” are being presented 
to the privileged on campus? Similar ques-
tions were asked at the forum held by the 
College President earlier this month.
Was Big Freedia’s job as an entertainer 
to only liberate our asses? Or was his pres-
ence on stage shading the true liberation of 
queer and black folk?
Big Freedia Twerks for the Privileged
OLD 
STONE 
MILL: 
MIDD’S 
CREATIVE 
HUB
Many people might blame unhappi-
ness or stress on technology, but could 
technology help combat those things as 
well? Many new smartphone apps target 
wellness — from apps like MyFitnessPal 
that deal with exercise and nutrition to 
ones like “The Worry Box,” an app that 
works to reduce anxiety in a password-
protected journal-like format. I’ve used 
some of these new apps and reviewed 
them below.
 
HAPPIFY 
New website and smartphone app 
“Happify” claims to use research from 
studies done at Harvard, UPenn and 
Stanford to help you get happier without 
looking up from your phone. Research 
has shown that happiness involves five 
essential skills: savoring, thanking, as-
piring, giving and empathizing. Happify 
makes games and activities that target 
and develop each of these skills. It might 
ask you your goals for the day or week, 
or a time that you helped someone else. 
One of my favorite activities on Hap-
pify is “Uplift” where you get points for 
pressing hot air balloons with positive 
words on them. After playing on Happify 
for one week, I found that the app helped 
me to slow down and focus on gratitude, 
the things I like to do, my friends and 
family and my goals. I do not condone 
spending more time on one’s phone than 
most already do, but this app does pro-
vide a simple way to make use of the five 
minutes before class starts that you may 
normally spend on Facebook. Happify 
is free but prompts in-app purchases if 
you want full access; I found the free ver-
sion was plenty to occupy me during the 
week.
SMILING MIND
Smiling Mind is a meditation app 
that is designed to help add tranquil-
ity and balance to the lives of the tech-
savvy. When signing up, you choose your 
age and it tailors the app to your choice. 
It focuses particularly on meditation for 
young people and incorporates a body-
scan guided mediation technique to be-
gin. The non-profit that offers the app 
(free of charge!) is running a pilot pro-
gram in Australia involving meditation 
in schools to help children cope with the 
stresses of school and social life. 
Smiling Mind takes research show-
ing meditation’s positive effects on anxi-
ety, depression and stress and trans-
forms it into a simple and useful app. It’s 
incredibly easy to use Smiling Mind and 
it is available on the web for those who 
don’t have smartphones. Like Happify, it 
provides a constructive and relaxing way 
to spend a few minutes that you might 
otherwise waste. 
Smiling Mind guides those unfa-
miliar with meditation through basic 
exercises and gets more sophisticated 
the longer you use it. It sends you dai-
ly reminders (if you want) that gently 
coax you into a daily meditation routine. 
Smiling Mind also gives you the oppor-
tunity to rate how you feel before and 
after the meditation – an interesting 
way to reflect on whether you found that 
particular exercise helpful. As a free and 
simple app targeted toward young peo-
ple, I would recommend Smiling Mind to 
any stressed or unhappy college student.
T2 MOOD TRACKER 
This app allows people to monitor 
moods on six scales: anxiety, stress, de-
pression, brain injury, post-traumatic 
stress and general well-being. Every 
time you use the app, you rate and re-
cord your mood. 
The app plots all your ratings on a 
graph so that you can track your mood 
over time. Notes recorded simultane-
ously with ratings can help determine 
what can be causing mood changes in 
your life, whether it be academic stress, 
new medication or hormones. This app 
is very useful but could use a few minor 
tweaks; sometimes the graphs are hard 
to read and the reminder system only 
works sporadically. However, as an al-
ternative to hand-notation of moods and 
well-being, this app provides a much 
more convenient and useful way to look 
at mood, especially over time. 
13featuresnovember 13, 2014   
Apps Help Manage Stress and Depression
By Emma McDonald
Ryan Brewster ’14 wanted to capture 
the true community-based ethos of Mid-
dlebury College. Seeking to highlight the 
pride associated with the College’s spirit, 
Brewster spent his last semester at Mid-
dlebury wondering how he could best con-
tribute to this dialogue.
“You go to the bookstore, and you 
see normal, generic, preppy clothing that 
doesn’t speak to the character of Middle-
bury,” Brewster said. “When it comes to 
capturing the real pulse of students, it’s 
lacking.”
From Brewster’s realization of this 
disconnect, Ron’s Closet Apparel Com-
pany was born.
“I saw it as my job to break down the 
gap between the students desire to identi-
fy themselves as a Midd student and their 
actual ability to do so,” he said.
Ron’s Closet Apparel Company, 
founded in February 2014, seeks to pre-
serve and celebrate the many unique tra-
ditions of the College through clothing de-
sign. Brewster is in charge of all external 
facets of the company, such as design and 
marketing, while Jake Lessing ’13.5 plays 
a supportive role and is in charge of the 
legal side of the company.
For Brewster, clothing design seemed 
like the natural avenue to achieve his goal 
because he views fashion as a direct mani-
festation of personal expression.
“Midd students have this niche com-
munity that they are a part of,” Brewster 
said. “I thought clothing design would be 
a really great way to represent that cul-
ture. I really see one’s identity and self-
expression communicated through what 
they are wearing. It’s what is right in front 
have.”
After its initial launch, the company 
model approach in which he made all of 
the company’s inventory available up-
front. With little marketing or advertising 
experience, Brewster realized that selling 
his product was more nuanced and com-
plicated than he anticipated. With time 
however, Brewster realized how to create 
this clientele.
“We are such a small, tight-knit group 
of students with, for the most part, shared 
beliefs and values,” he said. “I realized 
that the business model that would stem 
from that is one that takes advantage of 
this kind of tight-knit group of thinkers.”
Brewster credits Tee Spring, a com-
pany that helps designers sell custom ap-
parel online, as the platform that really 
propelled Ron’s Closet Apparel forward. 
Tee Spring helps Brewster set a sales goal 
and give an estimate of how much each 
shirt will cost. 
Then, Brewster launches a social me-
dia campaign 
to publicize his 
product. From 
there, when 
enough enthu-
siasm is solic-
ited and the ini-
tial goal is met, 
the product 
can be printed 
and sold to 
the individual 
buyers. If the 
sales goal is not 
met, the buy-
ers will receive 
a complete refund of their order. Brews-
ter values this business model because it 
emphasizes the grassroots nature of the 
company, putting the prerogative on the 
consumer.
“The fact that the campaign cannot 
succeed unless people are involved makes 
buyers feel invested in the company,” he 
said. “It’s in the buyers’ best interest to 
promote the shirts and make sure they get 
printed. This is how I really want it to stay. 
This crowd-funded model really helps the 
products to have character behind them.”
Under its newfound business model, 
-
paigns. The company has sold around 70 
shirts, of which the “Like a Prayer” shirt 
accounts for 25. In addition, Ron’s Closet 
Facebook page has over 300 likes. To help 
the company gain visibility, Ron’s Closet 
clubs or events on campus that need mar-
keting materials.
Brewster explained that his path to 
graphic design was not a typical one. Al-
though Brewster has been an artist his en-
tire life, he was not introduced to graphic 
design until his senior year of high school. 
His career as a graphic designer started 
College when he was asked to design that 
year’s orientation t-shirt and brochure.
As Coordinator of Communications 
and Social Media for GlobeMed, Brews-
-
ship at Gardens for Health International 
in Rwanda, the club’s partner organiza-
tion. With the pressure to minimize the 
budget as much as possible, Gardens for 
Health International had very limited 
and outdated communication with the 
outside world. By 
working to create 
infographics that 
brought life back 
into the organiza-
tion, Brewster be-
gan to see graphic 
design in a new 
light.
“Through my 
work, I developed 
a greater passion 
for design work 
and how it can ac-
tually do good in 
the world,” he said.
As a Molecular Biology and Biochem-
istry major who is currently working at 
Harvard Medical School, Brewster exem-
liberal arts education.
“The liberal arts really taught me to 
think holistically and be critical of exist-
ing models,” he said. “It also encouraged 
me to think outside of the box and be will-
ing to fail.”
Brewster calls for artists from all 
backgrounds to get involved, and stresses 
that experience is of little importance.
“We are looking for young designers, 
creative minds, anyone who wants to get 
involved with the company. Experience is 
really irrelevant here because we are re-
ally naïve as well.”
As for the future, Brewster hopes 
to build Ron’s Closet as both a clothing 
brand and a collective of like-minded 
graphic designers who want to use their 
artistic abilities to give back to the College 
community.
“My vision is for the company to serve 
as a guild, and a marketing hub for the 
college,” Brewster said. “I hope in years to 
come that students will be eager to follow 
up what I’ve started and make this a cloth-
ing initiative where designers not only can 
submit to Ron’s Closet but also gain vis-
ibility and experience as artists and learn 
important marketing skills.”
Midd Alum Uses Graphic Design to Leave Mark
By Annie Grayer
courtesy of ron’s closet
Midd alum Ryan Brewster’s apparel business mixes nostalgia for the past with busi-
ness plans for the future. His best-selling product, “Like A Prayer” tank, sells for $14.
“Middlebury students have this 
niche community that they are a 
part of and I thought closing de-
sign would be a really great way 
to represent that culture. I really 
see one’s identity and self-ex-
pression communicated through 
what they are wearing.” 
ryan brewster ‘14
midd alum
-
nual TEDx event at Middlebury College. 
to spark dialogue and spread ideas through 
society to art. Since its inception in 1984, the 
and time again, TED talks have thrilled, cap-
tivated and startled audiences by uprooting 
pre-conceived notions and exposing innova-
tive ideas and creations. With eight dynamic 
live speakers, two video presentations and 
to the theme “Living in the Question: The 
he explained, the greatest value lies not in 
an answer but rather in the continual explo-
-
Middlebury alumni Shane Scranton 
experimentation. They showed the audience 
-
image projected onto the lens to encompass 
technology was originally used to create im-
mersive gaming experiences. Scranton and 
real buildings and landscapes to the oculus 
 “Virtual reality takes away the need 
-
plained.
-
whereas virtual reality allows architects to 
inhabit their own designs. 
-
space, a talk delivered by Mordecai-Mark 
much grander scale: the expanding universe. 
that visible light has been traveling and 
-
physics, uncertainty can still reign supreme. 
-
lenged societal norms by addressing issues 
-
on the transgender community, particularly 
-
would eradicate oppression against trans-
gender individuals. 
“From birth, kids are indoctrinated to 
existing on a spectrum rather than in black-
and-white terms. 
with the audience, and provided an empow-
ering voice to the trans-color movement.
-
-
-
-
ance, Liddell pointed out that we subject 
authority and disregards their pluri-potenti-
ality as individuals. 
shined through in her speech, particularly 
words provoked deep introspection within 
the room, as she challenged her peers to not 
have long disadvantaged women and hin-
dered societal progress. 
-
in the United States. Engaging the audience 
with his easygoing but magnetic speaking 
-
-
to more widespread acceptance, is gained 
through everyday conversations. 
-
In other words, interactions with nor-
mal people who happen to smoke pot sub-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
pulses. 
“I speak volumes without saying any-
dancing. 
-
respond with anything you have at your dis-
-
the TEDx talks served to unite the Middle-
bury community through a tremendously 
the right answer, but rather about asking the 
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
The Great Beauty
Journalist Jep Gambardella has charmed and seduced 
11/15, 3 AND 8 PM, DANA AUDITORIUM
African Music and Dance Ensemble
gourd shakers, struck gourds, reed-box rattles, ankle 
11/18, 8 PM, MCA CONCERT HALL
A Small Good Thing
-
11/13-14 8 AND 10 PM; 11/15 4 AND 8 PM, HEP. ZOO
Fifth TedxMiddlebury Event Shares Ideas
Kayla nahi
By Elizabeth Zhou
Kayla nahi
A space for art of all kinds, from spo-
ken word to sculpture to radio pieces to 
dance, Flicker is the student-created-and- 
produced showcase for artistic expression, 
established and directed by Aoife Duna 
place on Friday, Nov. 7 in the Middlebury 
College Dance Theatre, with ten works pre-
sented in addition to a pre-show tabling of 
literary publications from around campus. 
This iteration of Flicker, the second 
after the premier J-term 2014 event, wel-
-
ished pieces, allowing artists to share their 
creative processes with the campus com-
munity. This unique opportunity to create 
and share one’s personal artistic endeav-
ors, class-related or not, aims to encourage 
exploration, experimentation and collabo-
ration between people inclined to express 
themselves through a wide array of medi-
ums.
In the College environment, we may 
between other demands. This is part of the 
reason Duna encourages people to present 
ongoing pieces and to collaborate in the 
creative process. 
Willingness to show a work in the 
midst of its creation holds an element of 
vulnerability and openness on the part 
of the artist which establishes the poten-
tial for engaging dialogue between peers 
and appreciators, friends and spectators. 
Hopefully, this will generate a greater en-
thusiasm for engaging with art in all its 
forms at the College and beyond. 
The creative experience of this itera-
tion of Flicker began before audience mem-
bers even entered the theater, with tables 
set up for literary publications Room 404, 
Beyond the Green and Storytold to share 
their work. Inside the theater, audience 
members encountered a sculpture by An-
nie Bartholomew ’17 that engaged the eye 
with color and non-linear shape. Then the 
performances began, ranging from poetry 
to a radio piece to a myriad of dance per-
formances.
Since I was part of a dance piece cho-
reographed by Duna, I would like to take 
the opportunity to share a bit of the cho-
reographic and rehearsal process behind 
her work, “Banana Split (with a side of 
brewing storm).” Many people have ex-
pressed to me that they “don’t understand 
dance,” so perhaps a glimpse into the way 
it takes form will open up some avenues of 
appreciation.
It is important, for me at least, to 
note that art-making does not always have 
viewer or audience member is supposed to 
“get.” Rather, it is about tapping into the 
deeper aspects of our human experience 
and learning to express those insights. 
For her piece, Duna began with an 
intention to explore an energy and physi-
cality other than the oft-assumed ideal of 
grace and effortless perfection of move-
ment that stems from modern dance’s 
roots in ballet. To explore a kind of move-
ment that is more raw, even animalistic, in 
-
als listening to the kind of energetic music 
that just demands movement, letting the 
energy come out in whatever physical form 
Exploring the interplay of sound, 
movement and energies formed a foun-
dation of inquiry and ideas upon which 
the piece developed over several weeks 
of rehearsal. The work took form in sec-
tions or phrases that captured some ideas 
important to Duna as part of the vision of 
the whole piece, and the phrases gradually 
came together, shifting and settling into an 
overall structure as we learned the chore-
ography. 
Each choreographer, of course, has his 
or her personal way of developing a piece, 
but for me as a dancer it was rewarding to 
share in so much of Duna’s imagination of 
what the piece meant to her, and to help 
it take shape. Duna spoke in rehearsals 
about creating a space where we could feel 
free to express ourselves fully and physi-
cally in a way that we rarely are able to ex-
perience in our daily lives due to societal 
or personal expectations of how we should 
act or move. Whether that meant leaping 
-
ing still, it was about being fully embodied 
in how we felt and not holding anything in. 
This sense of freedom in our creative ex-
pression was channeled into Duna’s chore-
ography. Even as we embodied movements 
that she had come up with, the movements 
were also our own, sustained and given life 
and meaning through our individual en-
ergy. 
In the dynamic, creative interplay of 
Duna’s vision as a choreographer and the 
individual  personalities and physical pres-
ences of every dancer, a space of collabora-
tion and mutual exploration gave rise to a 
piece and a performance experience which 
hopefully shared some of that creative ex-
ploration of rich physical expression with 
the audience who attended Flicker on Fri-
day night.
Flicker will have its next iteration in 
J-term of 2015. Interested students may 
become involved in making art of any and 
-
ing Aoife Duna (aduna@middlebury.edu) 
for more information. The showcase wel-
comes any artists curious about making 
and exploring, no experience required. As 
Duna put it, “Keep making, doing, ques-
tioning, yearning! Lets kick Midd’s art 
scene into high gear!”
“When we are loved we are afraid / love 
will vanish / when we are alone we are afraid 
/ love will never return,” reads a piece of the 
poem “The Black Unicorn” by Audre Lorde, 
included in the program for the Hepburn Zoo 
production of Getting Out.
Getting Out, which ran Nov. 6-8, 
of the semester. Under the direction of Re-
becca Coates-Finke ’16.5, the play explored 
the ever-present fear of not having some-
thing – whether it is love or freedom or food, 
whether because of losing it or never getting 
it back – through the journey of a woman 
named Arlene who has just been released 
from prison and returns to her home in Ken-
tucky to restart her life.
her own production last spring in her Direct-
ing I class, when Aashna Aggarwal ’16 – who 
plays Arlene – approached her about collab-
orating on a project. Coates-Finke, who had 
been reading plays in preparation for Play-
writing I, found Getting Out while looking 
at a series of plays by Marsha Norman and 
instantly connected with the subject matter 
and the format through which the play ad-
dresses it.
“There’s a lot of different layers to the 
play that drew me in,” Coates-Finke said. “It 
is about [a girl] trying to shed her past and 
move on to a new life. And the impossibility 
of doing that. [It’s about] how much ‘getting 
out’ is not a reality of the world.”
Getting Out 
shedding one’s past by putting Arlene’s for-
mer self – called Arlie and played with engag-
ing tenacity and unwavering energy by Sarah 
Karerat ’18 – onstage with Arlene for almost 
every moment of the dramatic action. 
Maggie Cochrane ’16’s smart stage de-
sign, which countered Arlene’s apartment on 
the left side of the stage with an open, trans-
Arlene into the reality of her tiny apartment 
while allowing Arlie’s presence to spread into 
every dimension of the space as she moved 
back in forth through time.
After some discussion with Coates-Finke 
about which version of the protagonist Ag-
garwal would play, Aggarwal decided to take 
on the challenge of grounding herself in the 
post-prison Arlene, a woman with the same 
history and inherent hard edge as Arlie, but 
with a different way of handling these parts 
of herself. Aggarwal’s impressive restraint 
and subtle use of the triggers and reactive 
instincts Karerat instilled into Arlie created 
a strong contrast between the two leads that 
Arlie in her current self, rather than spelling 
the similarities out for them. Coates-Finke 
and both actresses acknowledged the links 
in the text between Arlie and Arlene – pres-
ent in overlapping conversations about their 
weight or their father and in each woman’s 
use of props such as lighters and food items – 
without making them obvious or forced.
To incorporate the pieces of Arlie that 
motivate Arlene, and also distinguish her as 
a new woman, Aggarwal tracked Arlie’s feel-
ings and reactions in each scene and used 
them to explain how and why Arlene does 
what she does. While Arlene’s old self is not 
-
lish a new approach to the same problems. 
“Arlie came up with a way to deal with 
the world, and that’s not going to work for 
Arlene,” Aggarwal said. 
The play, in part, follows Arlene’s pro-
will work for her. Initially, her aggression 
leads her to proclaim, “I ain’t Arlie. Arlie could 
have killed you,” but her emotions evolve to 
allow a quiet yet powerful call for help ask-
ing her neighbor Ruby to stay and protect her 
from Carl, a former friend who tries to tempt 
her into resorting to her past actions to live 
more comfortably. John Cheesman ’16’s be-
lievable portrayal of Carl’s aggression and 
-
than it could be without the development of 
such high stakes by both actors. 
Despite the length of the loudspeaker 
announcements, which opened each act and 
verged on too long to hold the audience’s 
interest, the moments of humor in these an-
nouncements and in supporting characters 
were much appreciated and prevented the 
play from becoming one-note in its message. 
delivered her lines as the mother with impec-
cable comedic timing while matching her 
blunt humor with pointed gravity when nec-
essary. 
Quincy Simmons ’18’s one-liners as 
friendly neighbor Ruby in the second half 
of the show revived what the dreary plants 
brought by prison guard/friend/attempted 
rapist Bennie – played with an effective com-
bination of unsettling ease and rare moments 
of eagerness by Jabari Matthew ’17 – could 
not, brightening both Arlene’s situation and 
the audience’s hope. Simmons’ gentle yet 
matter-of-fact delivery of self-advice such 
as, “Ruby, if that gallon of milk can bounce 
back, so can you” and resonating truths like, 
“Arlene’s had about as much help as she can 
stand,” show that verbal punches can be just 
as powerful as physical ones.
While the text itself felt repetitive in its 
intentions at times, Coates-Finke’s dynamic 
blocking – especially in playing with Arlie’s 
untamed energy when she is forced into con-
-
warding moments prevented the play from 
dragging and brought the audience along to 
Arlene’s ultimate question is how to 
surpass her old ways without giving up the 
luxury – or at least relative luxury – that she 
had gotten used to. She sees Ruby’s life of 
cooking all night and playing cards all day as 
wants to provide her son with a present, posi-
if she returns to prostitution and crime. She 
has received an opportunity to start over, and 
yet the reality of the freedom of a woman just 
released from jail does not provide an easy, 
-
der the oppression she has experienced. She 
is afraid of losing the progress she has made 
if she goes with Carl, and she is afraid of los-
ing her freedom if she stays. It is her recogni-
tion of the inevitability of fearing the road not 
step in one direction at the end of the play, 
bringing her out of the unknown if nothing 
else.
rebecca coates-finke
Sarah Karerat ’18 and Aashna Aggarwal ’16 play two versions of the same woman, separated by one’s determination to change.
Student Production Tackles Getting Out
By Emma Eastwood-Paticchio
DANCE SPOTLIGHT: behind-the-scenes of flicker
november 13, 2014 | 15arts SCIENCES
By Mandy Kimm
On Saturday, Nov. 15, the International 
Student Organization (ISO) will host its 
annual Cultural Show in Wilson Hall. This 
year’s show includes over 15 different acts 
world. It will be a mix of dances, songs, poet-
ry and the much-anticipated fashion show.
The ISO, primarily funded by the SGA, 
is part of the parental cluster called Cultural 
Organizations. It is currently led by 3 co-
presidents, Gabbie Santos ’17, Adara Wicak-
sono ’17 and Hiruy Ephrem ’17 and has a 
Publicity Committee, Community Service 
Committee and Social and Cultural Events 
Planning Committee.
The main purpose of the ISO is centered 
on the general ideas of proactively encour-
aging and acting for the integration of in-
ternational students into the student body, 
embracing and showcasing diversity as a 
strength and a common resource that chal-
lenges students’ perceptions of the world, 
augmenting understanding of a variety 
of cultures in a fun and engaging way and 
working in synergy with other student orga-
nizations on campus. While the main pur-
pose can be seen as being at the impact level, 
current leaders and members of the orga-
nization. This year, the outcome objectives 
are neatly split into three – to incorporate 
increase relevance of international students 
and to connect the ISO with the College 
through increased collaboration with other 
student organizations on campus.
Seen in this context, the ISO Cultural 
Show is a key event in exhibiting the diver-
sity of the student body. The College has 
approximately 275 international students 
on campus representing over 70 different 
countries, and ISO membership includes 
domestic students, not just international 
students. 
“The ISO Show is one of our biggest 
events, and it really becomes a platform for 
all of us to share in the celebration and ap-
preciation of all cultures represented in the 
show,” Santos said.
This year’s theme for the show is 
“Crossing Borders.” The theme was chosen 
by popular vote after different students sug-
gested different themes. The ISO explained 
the meaning of this theme on their Facebook 
page: 
“Middlebury is home to a multitude 
of identities,” the co-presidents said. “Al-
though each one is distinct and unique, we 
bridge diversity and our differences through 
a celebration of all cultures. We dance, we 
sing, we write. With each form of expres-
sion, we share a piece of ourselves with oth-
ers.”
In preparation for the show, ISO mem-
bers and performers have been busy getting 
things in order. After all, success usually fol-
lows when there is certainty of conviction, 
unity of motive and clearness of plan.
“Previously, the show was planned and 
executed through the ISO Show Commit-
tee, but this year we decided to approach it 
by involving the entire ISO general board,” 
Ephrem said. “This way, all members are 
able to input their ideas for the show and 
then we have a greater and more diverse 
merge of ideas.  We had a competition to 
select themes, auditioned MCs and will be 
incorporating new decor to the venue.”
Performers have also been making the 
necessary preparations with great commit-
ment.
“We have been holding rehearsals once 
a week in the beginning and twice a week in 
the past couple weeks,” performer Maddy 
Sanchez ’17 said. “I think we’ve been learn-
knew what was going on and it was pretty 
frustrating, but now we all know what to do. 
The show will include a number of 
pleasant surprises and there is a lot of opti-
mism about its success.
“This year’s show will be great - from 
the breadth of cultures represented to DJ 
Mariam Khan coordinating our fashion 
show,” performer Jiaying Wu ’15 said. “I’m 
sure we’ll be having a fantastic show this 
year!” 
There have been some challenges in 
preparing for the show among both per-
formers and organizers.
“It seems that everyone is trying their 
best, however I do notice that there are 
some shaky things this year,” Sanchez said.
Some of the challenges could be con-
strued as positive and providing a glimpse 
into different cultural nuances of art forms.
“As a dance group leader, one of the 
challenges I have faced in preparing for the 
show is trying to work with dancers from 
different cultural and dancing backgrounds, 
trying to teach them all a piece from a dif-
ferent culture, and having them performing 
it the way people from my country would,” 
said Cultural Events Planning Committee 
Chair Hamza Alsarhan ’17. “I have to explain 
what the lyrics of the song we are dancing 
to mean, so that my dancers are able to feel 
and understand the piece.”
The ISO Cultural Show has been very 
popular in the past to the extent that it has 
come to be the sole event associated with the 
ISO. The truth is that the ISO organizes sev-
eral events and is active outside the college 
and in the community at large. In the past it 
has hosted and plans to continue hosting the 
International Symposium, cultural nights, 
community dinners, off-campus language 
tables, trivia nights and workshops on vari-
ous topics.
“The ISO Symposium is the next big 
event for the organization, coming this 
Spring,” Santos said. “In January, we’ll be 
starting Language Tables for community 
members, and hopefully also offer more vol-
unteer opportunities for our members. Our 
Social and Cultural Events Committee will 
also have more, smaller events in line.”
The show will be an evening of fun and 
celebration, and there is promise of music, 
dances and a fantastic fashion parade.
“I think that the theme of this year’s 
show pushes all participants in the show, as 
well as the audience, to feel the international 
community come together as one, to pro-
duce one great performance,” Alsarhan said.
Tickets are already available through 
a one-hour abridged version which starts 
at 5:30 p.m. to accommodate families with 
children and offers a glimpse of the full per-
formance for other members of the commu-
nity. The second, unabridged section starts 
at 8:00 p.m. Tickets for the early show cost 
$3 for children under 12, $6 for students 
and $8 for the public. For the late show, the 
price raises to $7 for students but remains 
the same for children and the public.
By Mthobisi Sibandze
ISO Show Promises Multicultural Thrills
BY NIMROD SADEH
16arts SCIENCES november 13, 2014 | 
The Jupiter String 
Quartet is a family of mu-
sicians in every sense of the word: the 
group began as a childhood musing and 
has flourished into adulthood over the 
years. It was honed through college all-
nighters, strengthened by the bonds of 
marriage, and is now blossoming into 
one of the most renowned string quartets 
on the planet. Their secret undoubtedly 
lies in the intimate personal connections 
that are so vital to excellent chamber 
music. Jupiter has won countless awards 
around the globe for their masterful 
communication and stunned audiences 
everywhere with their energy and tal-
ent. Middlebury cannot wait to welcome 
them back to campus this Sunday, Nov. 
16 at 3 p.m. in the Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 
Center for the Arts Concert Hall. 
Chamber music is one of the most 
difficult and mysterious musical config-
urations. It requires players to not only 
pay unwavering attention to their peers, 
but also to execute their own parts with 
detailed precision. It is not as struc-
tured and foolproof as an orchestra, yet 
still more absolute and demanding than 
a modern jazz or rock ensemble. Every 
note is heard, every microtone off-pitch 
noted. The personal musicianship of 
each player is naked before the audience. 
Yet the secret behind a magical, gripping 
chamber performance is not one’s own 
musical excellence, but rather the way it 
fits with that of the three other players. 
Attending a chamber recital is watching 
and listening to four people conjure a 
temporal realm, a celestial world where 
the creative energies of all members are 
understood without words, a communi-
cative work of art in real-time. Playing 
chamber music is the closest thing we 
have to telepathy, and Jupiter’s magic is 
that they have mastered it. 
On Sunday, Jupiter will play three 
monumental chamber works. They will 
start with Bach’s Well-Tempered Kla-
vier, transcribed for string quartet by 
WA Mozart. The Well-Tempered Klavier 
is a monumental work, a sort of treatise 
on the very material of music. Any per-
son interested in music — be it classi-
cal, rock, dubstep or any other genre — 
would take interest in it. Bach, who knew 
the foundations of music better than 
anyone before or since, deconstructs 
the fabric of the music and sensation-
ally re-engineers it across all keys. As an 
amateur pianist who has the pleasure of 
playing these stunning pieces, I cannot 
wait to hear them transcribed to strings, 
to hear what four different minds can do 
as opposed to just one. 
Following the Well-Tempered Kla-
vier, Jupiter will perform a 1939 Bela 
Bartók quartet. Written in Hungary dur-
ing the outbreak of the second World 
War, Bartók’s sixth quartet brings a cool 
air of dry dissonance from modern Eu-
rope. It was a dark period in the compos-
er’s life — he was starkly averse to the 
rise of Nazism in neighboring Austria 
and feared it would overtake his native 
Hungary as well, yet he was unable to 
leave due to his mother’s failing health. 
The manuscript of the quartet is pulsing 
with these conflicts, an embodiment of 
all the emotions and sentiments cours-
ing through Bartók’s life. To feel them 
recreated by Jupiter will be a heart-
wrenching experience indeed. 
Saving the best for last, Jupiter will 
end with Beethoven’s 15th String Quar-
tet in A minor. My favorite deaf com-
poser had absolutely no connection to 
the aural realm when he wrote this quar-
tet two years before his death. Conse-
quently, this piece, among his other late 
pieces, was written through purely in-
tellectual motives. His collection of late 
quartets were highly controversial when 
they were published due to their deep 
emotional and intellectual content—leg-
end says that the composer himself cried 
when he read his work. Only a century 
after their publication did these pieces 
become popular again. This composi-
tion is not one you can listen to as back-
ground music; it is a journey that grips 
all the attention it can find. 
The Jupiter String Quartet, which 
enjoys a fruitful relationship with the 
Middlebury Performing Arts Series (this 
is their sixth visit) is not an event to 
miss. Not only is every Jupiter concert 
a collection of highly talented individu-
als, it is also a family gathering. As such 
we will see the masks taken off and the 
music flow freely. With a repertoire this 
stunning, I know where I will be on Sun-
day afternoon. Thanks to a generous en-
dowment, this concert is entirely free, 
with no tickets required! Take the after-
noon to treat yourself and experience the 
glory of a world-class quartet. 
The acclaimed Jupiter String Quartet in a previous performance at the Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 Center for the Arts Concert Hall.
Kayla nahi
Carol’s Hungry Mind Cafe has just been selected to be a distributor of marijuana.
Advertisements 17 | november 13, 2014
Friday night the Middlebury volleyball 
team (12-12, 6-4) played its final game of 
the season, falling to the Bowdoin Polar 
Bears (21-7, 6-4) three sets to one in a 
NESCAC tournament quarterfinal match 
at Tufts.
The first match was knotted up at 15 a 
piece before Bowdoin closed the Panthers 
out on a ten to three run, sparked by a 
pair of Christy Jewett service aces. Eri-
ka Sklaver slammed home the final two 
points of the initial game to give Bowdoin 
a 25 to 18 victory. 
Middlebury started the second set on 
a high note with a six-point streak, high-
lighted by kills from Emily Kolodka ’18 
and Melanie English ’17 and four Bow-
doin attack errors. 
Bowdoin crawled back into the match, 
overtaking the Panthers 17 to 16, before 
Middlebury went on its second six to 
nothing run, led by three kills from Alice 
Roberts ’18, propelling the Panthers to a 
25 to 18 win which tied the affair at one 
match each.
Bowdoin began the ultimately close 
third set with early momentum, gaining a 
seven to one edge on the Panthers, led by 
a Michelle Albright service ace and a pair 
of Christy Jewett Kills. 
The run lasted until a Roberts kill 
started the Panthers’ engines. The Pan-
thers tied the match at 19 when Becca 
Raffel ’18 hammered home a kill. But the 
Polar Bears were unfazed, capturing six 
of the last nine points, led by a service ace 
and kill by Hailey Wahl, and another kill 
by Jewett.
The fourth and final match provided a 
gut-wrenching end to the Panthers’ sea-
son.
Bowdoin went up 14 to seven and 
looked to have the game and the match 
all but in the bag. But a Bowdoin service 
error and two Lizzy Reed ’15 service aces 
as well as two Olivia Kolodka ’15 kills put 
the Panthers right back into the thick of 
the game with a deficit of only one point.
After a Hailey Wahl kill put Bowdoin 
up 21 to 17, the Panthers mustered one fi-
nal push to try and stretch the meeting to 
a fifth match. 
A Hannah Blackburn ’17 kill and a 
bevy of Bowdoin service and attack er-
rors found the Panthers on top of the Po-
lar Bears 23 to 22 heading into the final 
stretch. Bowdoin’s coach, Karen Corey, 
elected to take a timeout to settle her 
young team.
The Panthers needed only two more 
points to set up a dramatic rubber match, 
but the Polar Bear defense and two more 
Christy Jewett kills iced the quarterfinal 
match.
“It’s always tough to lose that last 
match, but all good things come to an end 
eventually. We played well, but not great, 
and when you get to the championships, 
you usually have to play your best if you 
want to win,” Head Coach Sarah Rau-
necker said.
First years Roberts and Raffel led the 
Panthers with 11 kills apiece. English fin-
ished with nine kills, a .368 hitting per-
centage and a strong defensive showing 
with three block solos and two block as-
sists. Blackburn had 33 assists and Char-
lotte Devine ’17 had a match high three 
service aces. Olivia Kolodka had a team 
high 16 digs as fellow senior Reed col-
lected 15.
Bowdoin’s Jewett led all players with 
22 kills and Sklaver also posted a double-
digit total of 13 kills. The Polar Bears’ 
Quincy Leech contributed 27 assists, and 
Katie Doherty had a match high of digs.
On Monday, Nov. 10, the selections for 
the NCAA volleyball tournament were an-
nounced. Tufts and Bowdoin were select-
ed as at-large bids from the NESCAC, and 
will join conference champion Williams 
in the tournament.
The loss was the final game in a Pan-
ther uniform for seniors Reed, Olivia 
Kolodka and Piper Underbrink ’15. 
The three seniors graduate having 
been members of the 2012 NESCAC Tour-
nament championship team that collect-
ed a victory in the NCAA tournament and 
advanced to the second round.
“They had very successful careers here, 
and have helped strengthen our program, 
and we thank them for leaving that lega-
cy,” Raunecker said.
Amherst, who beat Conn. College 3-2 in 
the following game.
result,” Robinson said. “Penalty kicks are 
a tough way to decide a game and so much 
comes down to chance.”
 The Panthers ended their season with 
a 9-3-5 record. Additionally, many indi-
viduals from the squad landed at or near 
the top of the NESCAC individual statis-
tics. Sydor leads the league with a save 
percentage of .845, and sits second in the 
league for total saves, with 60. Sydor has 
also recorded eight shutouts this season, 
allowing 0.61 goals-against per game. 
in points with 22 (8 goals, 6 assists), and 
teammate Glaser was a close third with 21 
points (8 goals, 5 assists).
-
throned three-time defending champion 
Amherst 5-4 on penalty kicks after a 0-0 
draw through regulation and two over-
time periods. 
Bowdoin will receive the NESCAC’s 
only automatic bid to the NCAA postsea-
-
son.
“It’s too bad, but it’s been a great year 
and we’re really going to miss the seniors,” 
season. 
The team looks forward to another suc-
cessful season next fall, fueled by the re-
turn of many players who contributed to 
this season’s sucess. The offensive duo of 
Conrad and Glaser will surely rank near 
the top of the NESCAC in the upcoming 
season and Sydor returns to anchor the 
Panther defense through his outstanding 
goaltending. 
| november 13, 201418 sports
Field Hockey Wins Third Consecutive NESCAC Title
A go-ahead blast from Cat Fowler ’15 in the 
-
-
SCAC title, as the Panthers defeated top-seed 
Bowdoin 2-1 in the conference championship 
game on Sunday, Nov. 9 in Brunswick, Maine.
The Panthers, who defeated Trinity 3-1 in 
the fourth consecutive year, claimed the NES-
CAC’s automatic bid to the NCAA tournament, 
which begins play this week.
The weekend for the second-seeded Pan-
thers began on Saturday afternoon with a semi-
Bantams.  A strong Trinity defense proved no 
problem for Middlebury’s top scorer Fowler, 
-
utes into play. The Panthers scored again with 
a goal by Jillian Green ’16 who was able to capi-
talize off of an initial shot by teammate Olivia 
Jurkowitz ’17. 
Trinity managed to get in on the scoring 
with a goal by leading scorer Kelcie Finn at 
the 24-minute mark. However, their offensive 
pressure in the beginning of the second half 
could not translate into any more goals for the 
Bantams.
Fowler secured the win with a goal 40 
minutes into the game coming off of a corner 
caused by a yellow card distributed to the Ban-
tams goalie.  This goal marked Fowler’s 18th of 
the season, making her the third-highest goal-
scorer in the NESCAC. 
Overall Middlebury had 15 shots, of which 
eight went on goal, while Trinity had seven 
shots with four on goal.  Middlebury received 
nine penalty corners, capitalizing on one of 
them, while the Bantams received four.
The NESCAC championship game the fol-
lowing day marked the fourth consecutive year 
that Middlebury and Bowdoin have met in the 
conference title game. The Panthers looked to 
continue their current two-title streak against 
Bowdoin after last falling to the Polar Bears 
-
niors. With this long-enduring rivalry and ten-
sion in the air, the two teams faced each other at 
noon on Ryan Field.  
Bowdoin all-conference selection Rachel 
tenth minute to cause an early advantage for 
the Polar Bears.
The Panthers worked tirelessly in the at-
corner 31 minutes into play.  Hollis Perticone 
’18 jumped on an opportunity to score off of a 
the ball on the goal line.  The teams went into 
halftime tied with one goal each.
The two talented and evenly matched 
teams played back and forth, both with prom-
ising scoring opportunities, but to no avail. 
Middlebury worked the ball around the goalie 
box off of multiple penalty corners but with no 
change in score.  Panther goalie Emily Knapp 
’15 made a crucial charging save to keep the Po-
lar Bears from netting a game-winning goal in 
 It appeared that the NESCAC champion-
ship would enter overtime play.  This outlook 
quickly changed when with less than two min-
utes left to play, Middlebury earned a corner 
taken by Alyssa DiMaio ’15.  DiMaio inserted 
-
-
lar Bear defense and past the goalie to score the 
game winner with just 26 seconds remaining in 
regulation time.  
-
tion as time ran out. Middlebury led the game 
statistically with seven shots on goal to Bow-
for the Polar Bears.
The goal earned Fowler NESCAC Player 
of the Week recognition and puts her second 
in the program’s all-time rankings for career 
points overall.  Such honors will likely place her 
as a prominent contender for National Player of 
the Year.
The Panthers earned the automatic bid into 
the Division-III NCAA tournament and will 
host a regional round this coming weekend 
with games on both Saturday and Sunday. 
-
ington, VA on Saturday Nov. 23.  The Pan-
thers have made 12 consecutive appearances 
in NCAA tournament play and 15 overall, and 
look to capitalize on their momentum as they 
look to launch a deep run into the national tour-
nament.
By Hailey Cosseboom 
File photo
Cat Fowler ’15 slotted the game-winning goal with 26 seconds remaining to give the Pan-
thers the advantage over second-ranked Bowdoin in Middlebury’s 2-1 NESCAC champi-
onhsip win. The victory marks Middlebury’s third consecutive NESCAC title. 
Men’s Soccer Falls to Polar Bears in Semifinals
3
.845
Consecutive NESCAC titles won by tbe 
442 
156
by the Numb3rs
5
Volleyball Team Spiked by Bowdoin
By Will Case
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 24
the middlebury
great  eight
8
Volleyball
1
RANKING TEAM
Fritz’s Fancies
2
Field Hockey
Cross Country
3
Men’s Soccer
4 
women’s soccer
5
7
Women’s Hockey
6
Men’s Basketball
Football
The last day of football season is al-
ways an interesting intersection of past 
and future. Next fall, a new class of first 
years will replace this year’s seniors, 
who, like most of the thousands of Pan-
thers who came before them, will prob-
ably not have a chance to play on a foot-
ball team again. 
Last Saturday, the Panther football 
team came together to finish out their 
season proudly as they dismantled Tufts 
at home on Youngman Field, racking up 
points en route to a 48-13 win.
As fans of the Middlebury football 
team have grown accustomed to this 
season, the Panthers opened the game 
with a display of defensive prowess. 
Middlebury crippled Tufts’ passing of-
fense, allowing only one first down on 
Tufts’ two first drives. 
Following the second of such drives, 
Middlebury took over on their own 22 
yard line, where quarterback Matt Mi-
lano ’16 and company got to work on of-
fense.
Following a slew of nice runs from 
running back Jon Hurvitz ’17, Milano 
found a rhythm with his talented receiv-
ers. 
Finding tight-end Daniel Fulham ’18 
for a few key receptions, Milano capped 
off the drive with a 10-yard touchdown 
throw to Fulham for his first career 
touchdown, putting the Panthers’ up 7-0.
The ensuing drive featured play un-
characteristic of a typically disciplined 
unit. An unsportsmanlike conduct call 
negated what would’ve been a sack by 
nose-tackle Kyle Ashley ’16, and Tufts 
completed two passes to gain 20 yards, 
including a 33-yard touchdown strike 
against the Middlebury pass defense. 
Tufts, refusing to lie down, equalized the 
score at 7-7.
In the Panthers’ next offensive drive, 
running back Andrew Miller ’16 show-
cased Middlebury’s running game, gain-
ing 30 yards on the drive. To complete 
the drive, Milano completed a six-yard 
pass to Fulham at first-and-goal to re-
cord Fulham’s second touchdown of the 
day.
The teams then traded possessions as 
Middlebury’s defense shut the Jumbos 
down. 
With standout linebackers Tim Pa-
tricia ’16 and Jake Vacovec ’15 making 
frequent visits to the Jumbos backfield, 
Tufts found it difficult to gain footing. In 
response, the Milano found Matt Minno 
’16 for a 57-yard bomb down the sideline.
In the second quarter Tufts would took 
over at midfield after a fumbled punt. 
Following a big run against Middlebury’s 
front seven, the Jumbos scored with less 
than three minutes remaining in the half 
to make the score 21-13. Middlebury 
countered with an impressive two-min-
ute drill, capped by a 34-yard strike by 
the talented Brendan Rankowitz ’15 to 
set up the Panthers on Tufts’ one-yard-
line. During this drive, Rankowitz took 
on the first defender at the six yard line 
before dragging two additional defensive 
backs over five yards, a play which elic-
ited raucous cheers from the assembled 
crowd at Youngman Stadium.
Milano, on a timely third-down run, 
ran to score the last touchdown of the 
half, which ended with a score of 27-13 
after the extra point was blocked.
 Midway through the third quarter, 
Middlebury added to their already con-
siderable lead. After a twenty yard com-
pletion to Ryan Rizzo ’17, Milano com-
pleted the drive with a 13-yard pitch and 
catch with Rankowitz.
 A key sack by Addison Pierce ’17 on 
the ensuing Tufts drive allowed the Pan-
thers to again take the helm at offense. 
Apparently time was at a premium on 
the Middlebury sideline, as Milano found 
the speedy Rizzo for a 72-yard strike on 
the fifth play of the drive. After yet an-
other forced three-and-out by Tufts, 
Milano found Rankowitz for a 33-yard 
score through the air, which signified the 
last significant action by the starters of 
the day.
The final score tallied in at 48-13 in 
Middlbury’s favor, with Milano respon-
sible for seven touchdowns, including six 
on the ground and one through the air. 
Finishing the year with a record of 
6-2, the Panthers finish third in the NE-
SCAC behind undefeated Amherst and 
7-1 Wesleyan, the two teams to whom 
they lost.
Over the past four years the team has 
won 24 out of 32 games, including last 
year’s NESCAC title — a shining period 
in Middlebury football history that the 
seniors ought to be proud of.
Meanwhile, the team has answered 
the greatest question mark that they 
faced at the beginning of the season: the 
replacement of all-everything quarter-
back Mac Foote ’14. After starting the 
season slowly, Milano has rebounded to 
record one of the most prolific passing 
seasons in the history of the program. 
With Milano back at the helm in 2015, 
the Panthers will look to improve upon 
this year’s record.
November 13, 2014| 19SPORTS
Cross Country Displays Depth at ECACs
On Saturday Nov. 8, the cross coun-
try teams were in Westfield, Mass. run-
ning in the ECAC Championships. Both 
squads sat out their top runners so they 
would be well rested for the NCAA re-
gional meet next week, allowing younger 
or less-seasoned athletes to gain cham-
pionship experience. The men finished 
sixth out of 43 teams while the women 
took home a third-place finish in a field 
of 48 teams.
The men threw their younger athletes 
right to the fire: five first-years raced 
and were accompanied by Derek Satter-
field ’15 in his last cross country race as 
a Panther. 
Ascencion Aispuro ’18 led the charge 
for Middlebury, completing the eight-
kilometer course in 26:14, good for 19th 
place. Just ten seconds behind Aispuro 
was classmate Matt Gillis ‘18, finishing 
in 25th. Peter Elkind ’18 and Tim Mc-
Govern ’18 worked together throughout 
the race, finishing in 26:48 and 26:50, 
respectively. Satterfield was next across 
the line, taking 74th out of 303 partici-
pants in 27:17. 
“I just tried to go out and enjoy it,” 
Satterfield said of his final race. “It was 
a fast, fun race. It went out pretty quick 
and since the course was flat it just kind 
of kept on being quick.” 
Alex Carlson ’18 rounded out the Pan-
ther squad, finishing in 27:55.
Satterfield commented on the expe-
rience of competing alongside so many 
younger runners.
“It’s encouraging to see that the first-
years are continuing this team’s hal-
lowed tradition,” he said. “Their team is 
going to be the cat’s pajamas for the next 
three years.”
After a disappointing day at the NES-
CAC Championships the previous week, 
Erzsie Nagy ’17 came back with a ven-
geance, taking a home a 10th-place fin-
ish to lead the Panther women. Nagy 
completed the six-kilometer course in 
22:41. 
“I went out about 30 seconds slower 
[for the first mile] than at NESCACs,” 
Nagy said. “I had so much fun and was 
really able to enjoy the race and appreci-
ate cross country.” 
Finishing close behind Nagy were 
Caroline Guiot ’16 and Emma DeCamp 
’17, taking 12th and 13th-place finishes 
with times of 22:48 and 22:53, respec-
tively. 
Sasha Whittle ’17 and Liesel Robbins 
’18 finished in close succession just mo-
ments later, taking 24th and 26th with 
times of 23:19 and 23:25 to round out 
the scoring places for the Panthers. Alys-
sa Taylor ’17 and Robin Vincent ’18 took 
37th and 91st as the final two Middlebury 
runners.
Next up, the teams will travel to Wil-
liamstown, Mass. on Nov. 15 to race in 
the NCAA New England Region champi-
onships. 
Results at the regional meet deter-
mine what teams and individuals will 
move to compete in the NCAA Champi-
onships, hosted by Wilmington College 
in Wilmington, Ohio on Nov. 22. The top 
two teams at the regional meet as well as 
the top seven individual finishers not on 
a qualifying team automatically punch 
their tickets to Ohio. Additionally, 16 
teams across the country that did not 
secure a top-two finish at their regional 
meet will be awarded at-large qualifying 
bids.
The men have qualified for NCAAs ev-
ery year since 2010 and the women have 
qualified every year since 1996 and have 
only missed qualifying in two of the 21 
seasons the NESCAC has allowed team 
participation at NCAA Championship 
events.
While the Panther women look like 
shoe-ins for a 19th consecutive NCAA 
appearance, the men will face stiff com-
petition from Williams, Colby and M.I.T. 
for the New England region’s bids to the 
meet.
Middlebury Football Secures Third-Place Finish
By Bryan Holtzman
48-13 W
2-1 W
3-1 L 
0-0 L
Football  vs. Tufts  
field hockey vs. Bowdoin
volleyball vs. Bowdoin
Men’s Soccer vs. Bowdoin
panther sc0reboard
Women’s Soccer vs. Williams  2-0 L The women ended their NESCAC postseason run 
Field hockey earned its thid-
straight NESCAC title off a late 
goal from Cat Fowler ’15.
The Panthers rolled over Tufts 
to end their season at 6-2. 
The squad ended their season 
The Panthers fell in a penalty 
shootout after a scoreless 110 
minutes of soccer. 
YES
Ursinus is a good team, but they’re 
no match for these Panthers.
ONE
They’ll beat Colby, but this squad is 
going to have its hands full against 
Bowdoin.
YES 
This team has been dominant all 
season. There’s no reason a bigger 
stage should change that. 
TWO
I see the men’s hockey team coming 
out strong up in Maine with wins 
over both Colby and Bowdoin to 
start the season. 
DYLAN SINNICKSON ’15
Sinnickson tossed up 16.3 points-
per-game last season, second 
only to Joey Kizel ’14. I see him 
expanding on that role this season. 
ALABAMA 
Roll Tide. 
HUNTER MERRYMAN ’15
The co-captain is going to be seeing 
a ton of minutes this season.
ALABAMA
Amari Cooper might be the 
best player in the country. The 
Bulldogs can’t cover him.
editors’ picks
REMO PLUNKETT (16-10, .615)
Fritz Parker (59-55, .517)
YES
There’s no way the Panthers will 
break their 13-game winning streak.
TWO
They’ll start the season off 
strong.
DYLAN SINNICKSON ’15
He holds the highest record of 
points out of anyone on the team 
from last season.
ALABAMA
I don’t think the Crimson Tide 
will lose this home game.
Emily Bustard (10-16, .384)
By Stephen Etna
The men’s soccer team trav-
eled to Amherst, Mass. last week-
of the NESCAC championships. 
-
-
-
sixth-seeded Bowdoin, who had 
defeated the third-seeded Wil-
soccer.
-
gan to generate chances in the 
-
on a tight cross across the face of 
-
-
in the 24th off of a throw in, and 
-
liams ’15 from the top of the pen-
Overall, goal-scoring op-
sparse in this game, with Greg 
two Bowdoin shots on goal, and 
Bowdoin led 6-3 on corner kicks, 
while the Panthers held a 13-10 
advantage in shots. Despite the 
-
the match, each side managed 
-
pired in the second half, when 
Glaser sent a shot wide in a last 
ditch attempt to get the Panthers 
time.
In the extra periods, Bowdoin 
had a chance to win the game 
shot from a tight angle on the 
-
feed that went over the Bowdoin 
keeper, and Glaser was dispos-
sessed while streaking towards 
Conrad’s shot in the opening 
goaltender Stevie Van Siclen 
the score even. 
-
-
-
had his low, hard shot to his left 
-
tender Van Siclen. 
the shot maintained its momen-
1-0. 
again, and replicated his high 
left shot that got the Panthers on 
the second Bowdoin chance, and 
his shot down the middle to level 
the score at 1-1. 
their  third shot and Glaser had 
his shot saved. 
-
-
thers in the game. 
With the score level at 2-2 in 
-
his right and getting a hand on 
the Bowdoin shot. 
Despite having a wave of mo-
-
stand a strong Williams offense 
in the game, shooting six of the 
-
With a scoreless game heading 
NESCAC championship on the line. 
-
free kick from Moria Sloan ’15 and 
over the net. 
-
-
Up one goal, the Ephs contin-
-
ished a header off of a cross from 
-
-
Carter Talgo led the Panthers in 
shooting with three shots in the 
-
shooting game, the Panthers had 
on eight shots on goal. 
Meanwhile Williams goalkeep-
on goal. It was Van Wetter’s 14th 
goal.
The lost against Williams leaves 
-
-
ment.
Meanwhile the Ephs, who were 
-
For the seniors on the 
to the season is a low point in a 
championship since 2006.
20
By Colin McIntyre
FIELD HOCKEY WINS 
NESCAC TITLE, 
MOVES ON TO NCAA 
TOURNAMENT
 PAGE 18
CROSS COUNTRY 
TEAMS DOMINATE 
ECAC RACES  WITH 
ROSTER DEPTH 
PAGE 19
Women’s Soccer 
Falls to Williams 
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
By Gabe Weissmann
Too Much for Tufts
anahi naranjo 
SEE MEN’S SOCCER, PAGE 18
sports
Panthers’ Season Ends with 
-
