November 15, 2012 | Vol. 111 no. 9 | middleburycampus.com
VTGAS TO BUILD 
PIPELINE UNDER 
LAKE CHAMPLAIN
PAGE 5
STUDENT 
ENTREPRENEUR 
MARKETS CLOTHES
PAGE 12
STUDENT FILM 
ENTERS FILM 
FESTIVAL
PAGE 14
in
sid
e
jiayi zhu
A PICTURE IS WORTH A THOUSAND WORDS
SRI challenges College on TD Bank
 
By 
SEE COLLEGE, PAGE 4
Fisher v. Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin
Grutter v. Bollinger
HISPANIC/LATINO
BLACK/AFRICAN AMERICAN
AMERICAN INDIAN OR ALASKA NATIVE
ASIAN AMERICAN, NON-HISPANIC
PERCENTAGES OF ON-CAMPUS RACIAL MINORITIES (SPRING 2012)
Numbers are rounded up to the near-
est one percent. International students 
are not represented in these statistics.
graphic by Ian stewart, source: middlebury college fact book
By Jess Berry
SEE NEW, PAGE 3
By 
SEE RACE, PAGE 4
Before the dust had even settled on 
the 2012 U.S. presidential election, the 
Communist Party of China began its own 
once-in-a-decade leadership transition last 
week. Since the People’s Republic of China 
is a one-party state, a new generation of 
communist leaders automatically equates 
to a new generation of leaders for the entire 
nation.
The 18th Party Congress convened in 
the Great Hall of the People in Beijing last 
Thursday, Nov. 8. The party’s outgoing gen-
eral secretary and the nation’s president, 
Hu Jintao, delivered a progress report to 
2270 delegates. Hu’s speech, lasting over 
an hour and a half, was both an attempt to 
solidify his own legacy as party leader and 
offer parting words of advice to the party on 
China’s forthcoming challenges.
“We must aim higher and work harder 
and continue to pursue development in a 
improve the people’s lives,” Hu said, echo-
his administration over the last 10 years.
During this quinquennial meeting, a 
new slate of members have been selected to 
the party’s Central Committee, from which 
24 members have been chosen for the Po-
litburo, a powerful decision-making organ 
with tremendous control over personnel 
appointments and various sectors of the 
government and military. 
In turn, the Politburo yields nine men to 
the Standing Committee, an elite group of 
leaders that essentially decides every policy 
question for the country. It is the member-
ship of this group that has drawn the most 
speculation and anticipation. The new 
Standing Committee could be revealed as 
early as today.
Almost certainly, the country’s current 
vice president, Xi Jinping, will take over 
Hu’s position as general secretary of the 
Party. He is also expected to assume the 
country’s presidency next March and the 
chairmanship of the Central Military Com-
mission sometime after that.
-
iang, is expected to take over the reigns for 
the popular outgoing Premier Wen Jiabao. 
responsible for the day-to-day operations 
of the government.
the Standing Committee, membership in 
this powerful body becomes much less cer-
tain. Some experts say that the new Stand-
ing Committee will only consist of seven 
seats while others suggest that the selection 
process has been full of arm-twisting and 
backroom politics between factions within 
the party.
Some of the leading contenders for the 
coveted seats of the Standing Committee 
include current Shanghai Party chief Yu 
Zhengsheng, Vice-Premiers Wang Qishan 
and Zhang Dejiang and Organization Chief 
government has tightened its grip on se-
curity. Dissidents have been put under in-
creased watch. Google has been taken out of 
service. Retirees and security guards have 
been put in charge of scouting out suspi-
cious activity. Taxi drivers have even been 
told to remove window cranks on their cars 
If all goes well, this will constitute the 
second smooth leadership transition in 
China’s modern history. This year, China 
-
tion scandals as well as slowing economic 
growth that have concerned top leaders 
who emphasize domestic stability. In turn, 
many expect the incoming leadership to 
face these unprecedented challenges, in 
addition to an inadequate social safety net 
for an aging population, evolving relations 
with the United States and demands for po-
litical reform.
BY DANNY ZHANG
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| November 15, 20122 NEWS
College decides student speaker
By Isabelle Stillman
Eleven contestants, four judges and 
approximately 80 audience members 
gathered in Crossroads Café on the night 
of Nov. 8 for auditions to be the student 
speaker at the College’s TEDx event in 
March.
TEDx is an offshoot of TED, a world-
wide initiative in which speakers have 18 
minutes to share “Ideas Worth Spread-
ing.” To perpetuate this goal, TED be-
gan hosting local, independently orga-
nized events, called TEDx, that can now 
be found at international conferences, 
school district meetings, colleges and 
universities.
TEDx aims to “give communities, or-
ganizations and individuals the opportu-
nity to stimulate dialogue.”
In 2010, alumna Cloe Shasha ’12, who 
now works for TED, started the TEDx-
Middlebury program, which hosts a 
TEDx event featuring one student every 
spring. Since its first year, the number 
of tickets available for the program has 
tripled.
Moria Sloan ’15, a leader of the pro-
gram, explained the criteria for the se-
lected winner of the competition.
“The philosophy behind TED talks is 
quite simply to share ideas,” said Sloan. 
“Thus the judges were looking for speak-
ers that had an idea and could share it 
well on stage.”
First runner-up Daniel Egol ’13 was 
grateful that TEDx had provided an op-
portunity for students to talk about their 
interests.
“We don’t really [otherwise] have the 
space to connect over things that are im-
portant to us,” said Egol.
Given no prompt but the theme “The 
Road Not Taken,” students were allowed 
four minutes to share their own ideas.
Talks covered topics far and wide, 
-
eral Arts Need Each Other More Than 
-
ture Art Tells Us About Human Interac-
-
tial Energy.”
-
ner and will speak at the TEDx event 
on March 9. In his talk titled “Train 
America” he asked, “What does it mean 
to be an American?” Outlining the seven 
weeks he spent travelling cross-country 
vivid characters, whose stories he em-
ployed to confront the idea of the Ameri-
can frontier.
Egol spent his four minutes reflect-
ing on the state of terrorism in Cuba, 
where he has extended family and stud-
which is identified by the U.S. as a ter-
rorist nation, Egol realized “how unjust 
this policy is.”
He relayed stories of his family mem-
bers waiting in long lines for bread and 
health care as well as memories of “an 
enormous amount of trust in others” 
rarely seen in the U.S. Egol concluded 
with a call to “re-evaluate our foreign 
policy.”
After his speech, Egol remarked that 
his goal was, “to connect a political issue 
to a personal experience and hopefully 
raise awareness about that issue,” an aim 
several other speakers seemed to share.
Joseph Putko ’13 was named second 
runner-up for his talk “Cosmic Planetary 
World a Better Place.” His argument to 
incorporate astronomy into every year 
of education focused on “the cosmic per-
spective.”
“The world will never agree on a reli-
gion,” Putko said. “But a taste of the cos-
mic perspective […] can make the world 
a better place.” 
Pam Michaelcheck P’15, one of the four 
judges and a parent, said, “I can say that I 
was impressed by all of the speakers and 
that the deliberation process was hard.”
Mutual appreciation was palpable 
among the speakers.
Cate Costley ’15, whose talk was titled, 
a beneficial experience.
“It’s just so great that everyone is 
standing up here and talking about some-
thing that they’re passionate about,” said 
Costley.
Sloan expressed the drive to push 
boundaries as one of the goals of TEDx-
Middlebury.
“We are constantly striving to over-
achieve, focusing on deadlines and guide-
lines,” she wrote in an email. “And yet the 
most important things are often those 
that are not bounded by any sort of lines.”
Hudson Cavanaugh ’14, another lead-
er of the program, feels just as strongly 
about the importance of TEDx Middle-
bury, saying it “is [central] to Middle-
bury’s mission of providing a liberal arts 
education.”
the March 9 event. Eleven other speak-
ers will also be featured at the event.
Biswash Ghimire 
Map project highlights sexual assault
By Anna Chamby
It Happens Here (IHH), a student-
organized sexual assault awareness and 
prevention group at the College, has 
launched its Map Project, an initiative 
which seeks to compile on-campus loca-
tions where students have experienced 
some form of sexual assault. 
The student organization, co-founded 
Carroll Brown ’13.5, aims to promote 
open campus-wide discussions about 
sexual violence at the College through 
the sharing of personal stories from sex-
ual assault survivors within the student 
body, in an effort to diminish the stigma 
and invisibility surrounding the issue. 
IHH began their campaign last year with 
a spring event held in the McCullough 
Student Center, during which more than 
20 students presented anonymous stu-
dent monologues of sexual assault expe-
riences in front of roughly 500 audience 
members.  
“Our group believes there is power in 
sharing personal stories from members 
of our own community,” Brown wrote in 
email.  “Additionally, monologues allow 
emotions to come alive — we all know 
rape is a tragic problem … but hearing 
someone recount their experience makes 
the problem all the more real.”  
Upon its founding, the group mem-
bers voted against becoming a college-
recognized official student organization 
and in doing so opted out of receiving 
funding from the school. 
“With that funding comes a certain 
loss of agency,” explained Caitlin Waters 
’13, an active IHH member who is co-
leading the group this semester. “That is 
a loss we are not willing to risk.”
The Map Project, which kicks off 
IHH’s second year, was introduced in 
anticipation of their Spring 2013 event, 
which will be similar to last year’s in-
augural event.  Students who have been 
sexually assaulted on campus are en-
couraged to anonymously submit spe-
cific building names or other locations 
where they were violated through IHH’s 
online website.  Submissions will be ac-
cepted through the fall and part of the 
spring semester, at which time the cam-
pus locations will be marked on an en-
larged campus map and displayed pub-
licly in the days leading up to the group’s 
spring event.  
IHH members have expressed hope 
that the Map Project will personalize the 
widespread problem of sexual violence.  
“[Pinpointing sexual assault occur-
rences] to a location will make it really 
relevant to people,” Emily Pedowitz ’13, 
co-leader of IHH, explained. “It’s mak-
ing sexual assault visual, and I think by 
making it visual, it will lead to more con-
versation. And hopefully that conversa-
tion will lead to more ideas and I think 
lead to a better culture … a more aware 
culture.”
Group leaders are aware that poten-
tial opposition and discomfort may arise 
from the display of the maps, and some 
students have already voiced concerns 
over the public presentation of locations 
of sexual assault. 
“[The map] could give negative repu-
tations to certain social houses or resi-
dence halls … and it could effect every-
one who lives in such a place,” says 
Map Project stigmatizes certain areas 
and locations on campus and it just puts 
a disproportionate burden on certain ar-
eas just because an isolated event may … 
have occurred there.” 
IHH is not associated with the 
school’s Sexual Assault Oversight Com-
mittee (SAOC); however, both organiza-
tions represent the growing community 
effort to provide education and preven-
tion of sexual assault on campus.  
“The first step towards creating a 
sexual-assault-free campus is acknowl-
edging that it exists at Middlebury, and 
working as a community to understand 
and address the many complex factors 
that contribute to its occurrence,” wrote 
Associate Dean for Judicial Affairs and 
email.
In addition to the Map Project and the 
spring events, IHH is working to expand 
their initiative to other colleges and 
communities.  Brown and the IHH group 
encourage students interested in joining, 
adding a location, or submitting a story, 
to visit go/ithappenshere.
«Tu viens ici chaque semaine, oui?» 
(Translation: You come here every 
week, right?)
People thrive in environments where 
they feel comfortable. It’s certainly not 
a groundbreaking revelation, but I like 
to think that we’re all at our best when 
we know our way around and genuine-
ly feel at ease. So imagine my surprise 
when Paris came along, knocked me 
upside down, kicked me to the curb and 
left me feeling more out of place than 
ever before.
It’s not that I couldn’t figure my way 
around the city (the Paris metro is prac-
tically idiot-proof). It was that people, 
or, to be precise, the Parisians, knew 
that I wasn’t one of them the moment 
I walked in the door. My olive-tinged 
skin and eastern European blood gar-
nered me a lot of “holas” and a hand-
ful of “hellos,” but never a “bonjour.” In 
my first weeks here, I was never given 
the chance to blend in. My one and only 
defining characteristic was that I didn’t 
belong.
People don’t talk about how isolating 
studying abroad can be, being in a new 
place with new people and all. And so 
for my first weeks in Paris, my goal was 
to kick that feeling of isolation and find 
somewhere that I could really belong. 
Little did I know that I would find ex-
actly what I was looking for in the most 
unexpected of places.
The smallest greenmarket in Paris is 
held on Tuesdays and Fridays around 
the corner from the Middlebury of-
fice. Hidden behind the sprawling pro-
duce vendor is a dinky Lebanese food 
stand which shells hummus, stuffed 
grape leaves, tabouleh and falafels for 
three euros per portion (read: wallet-
friendly, flavorful and healthy. Believe 
it or not, you can have too much but-
ter and crème fraiche). I had purchased 
my lunch (moudardara being my dish 
of choice) from the dinky little vendor 
a mere three times before I heard those 
fateful words.
«Tu viens ici chaque semaine, oui?»
And at that very moment, it clicked. 
I became a regular. I had found a place 
where I could belong and where I could 
feel welcome, even if it only exists be-
tween 7 a.m. and 1 p.m., twice a week.
I’ve bought my lunch from Jean, the 
vendor, who I now jokingly refer to as 
my French boyfriend (he doesn’t know 
it yet), on every marché day since he 
first recognized me. We chat about the 
weather and my classes during our two-
minute, bi-weekly transaction in which 
I ask for une portion du moudardara, 
he bags it (throwing in an extra pita for 
good measure) and I hand him three eu-
ros. 
There are still plenty of places in this 
city where I am defined by my foreign-
ness, but somehow, after the first time 
that Jean recognized me, it didn’t mat-
ter anymore. There was at least once 
place in this city of three million to 
whom I mattered and to who I could 
look forward to seeing. Buying lunch 
from Jean has become a routine, and 
with that ritual comes comfort, ease and 
a sense of belonging.
I don’t care if my “French boyfriend” 
doesn’t treat me to clichéd picnics in a 
garden with a bottle of wine and some 
cheese. He gives me extra pitas and isn’t 
bothered by the fact that I’m not une 
vraie parisienne. And in a relationship 
as open and undefined as ours, what 
more could I ask for? 
overseas
briefing
BY EMILY SINGER ’14
Paris, France
November 15, 2012 |  3        News
Free Friday Film 
The Dark Knight
FRIDAY AT 7 & 10 P.M.
DANA AUDITORIUM
Zumba 
Come dance the calories 
away at McCullough 
Social Space.
SUNDAY AT 4 P.M.
Late Night Dance Party
Time for another fun 
Friday at the Bunker!
FRIDAY AT 10:30 P.M.
Monday Night Football
Watch the game and 
enjoy some free Grille 
snacks.
MONDAY AT 8:30 P.M
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
New site lets 
community 
buy and sell
On Oct. 29, Jennifer Herrera, the se-
nior advisor for diversity initiatives, an-
nounced the launch of a new online classi-
The initiative, a WordPress site 
launched last winter, will enable anyone 
with a Middlebury NetID to list an item for 
sale, restricting the market to a small, lo-
cal area for students, faculty and staff, and 
guaranteeing the safety and security of the 
online marketplace.
This Library and Information Services 
(LIS) project is sponsored and adminis-
advising from Human Resources. As the 
with advents from MiddNotes to Midd-
to update and expedite services that were 
previously dependent on print or people-
to-people interactions.
Joe Antonioli, the manager of web and 
interactive digital media technologies and 
one of the developers of the project, ex-
plained the importance of the new service.
“[It] came about because the Middle-
bury community indicated that the most-
missed feature of the printed MiddPoints 
-
nioli.
While he and the rest of the team did 
not explicitly set out to cut down on post-
bulletin boards to message boards has the 
signs decorated with take-away phone 
The service will also hopefully be an on-
line substitute to be utilized for bartering 
rides board.
-
online services, was enthused about the 
most for a forum to exchange rides.
“I’m really looking forward to taking 
advantage of the service, I hope it will pro-
vide me with an easier way to get home to 
The site is currently active and running 
By Adam Ouriel
First campus open forum 
discusses sexual assault
By Sam Simas
On Nov. 7 students and faculty gathered 
-
pus Open Forum event. This month’s forum, 
-
lado, Student Government Association (SGA) 
on-campus sexual assault and policy.
The concept of an open forum event was 
identifying the need to create a space and 
time on campus for students to engage each 
other in serious discussion. 
“We were talking last spring about our 
collective wish to gather students face-to-face 
once a month in an open forum to engage in 
issues and topics that are important to them,” 
This month’s topic of sexual assault was 
chosen by Arnowitz and Smith, following the 
SGA and other students who demonstrated 
-
lege’s resources in the wake of an open letter 
written by a sexual assault victim printed in 
“What we’re really after is cultural change, 
trying not just to tweak things that already 
exist and build on what we already have, but 
really trying to be creative and imaginative in 
saying, ‘What would a campus look like that 
would be completely devoid of these issues, 
and how do we get there?’” said Director of 
-
tion at the forum. Hanta also serves as head 
Following a brief introduction by Hanta 
as well as a brief speech from SGA Director 
the evening’s participants broke into small 
groups to discuss questions addressing sexu-
al assault on campus.
The small group discussions led to conver-
sations regarding the lack of role models and 
larger discussion surrounding sexual assault 
on campus. Some of the student participants 
suggested creating a discussion similar to 
MiddUncensored, an event normally held at 
to upperclassmen conversation. 
“We don’t have a lot of role models on 
campus” said Alex Strott ’15, speaking to one 
of the impediments to opening conversation 
about sexual assault. “Without role models, 
-
tions on serious topics.” 
“It’s important to draw on people in the 
community and what they want to discuss at 
these forums. It’s all about giving more voices 
and having discussions that we wouldn’t nor-
mally be having,” said Smith. 
Participants at the November event were 
asked to submit future forum topic ideas be-
fore leaving. After submitting their sugges-
tions, many attendees lingered afterwards to 
continue their conversations.
While November’s forum was well-at-
of the community to attend future forums is 
The forum organizers anticipate that identi-
fying widely-appealing and relevant discus-
sion topics as well as spreading awareness of 
the events will be key to the forums’ success.
Open forum events will be held for one 
hour, once each month. Topics will be dic-
tated by student submissions and shared by 
email.
discuss sexual assault on Nov. 7.
Biswash Ghimire 
Spring Symposium 2013
Have a great idea for a spring 
symposium? Check go/mcabspeak for 
more info! Applications are due on 
January 6th.
that run late and others that do independent 
work with students as examples.
“I would say that all of these are valuable 
activities that advance the mission of Middle-
of them,” said Winkler. “And therefore I sup-
port this motion [to revise the quorum down-
ward].”
language of the motion and its implications, 
the faculty members in attendance voted and 
a vast majority. Only a few attendees opposed 
the motion, Schmitt among them.
of the quorum was passed, a number of fac-
ulty members got up and left the meeting.
Schmitt later spoke of his disappointment 
-
pectations for faculty members.
“I was disappointed that the motion was 
He also hopes that his message from the 
meeting was taken as encouragement for fac-
ulty to come to meetings in the future and that 
the new standard will be strictly enforced.
“My hope is that the culture of the faculty 
meetings is a more positive one going for-
ward,” said Schmitt.
-
ebowitz expressed agreement with the points 
of both Schmitt and Winkler, and said he be-
lieves there is a medium between the two.
“I’m happy we came to a resolution and 
we’ll be able to conduct business,” said Li-
ebowitz.
-
sociate Professor of Political Science Bert 
Johnson said he was extremely pleased to see 
many of his colleagues at the faculty meeting.
“It was one of those things that warmed 
my heart,” said Johnson. “It was great to see 
people come out when they needed to, and 
hopefully we will have higher attendance go-
ing forward.”
Johnson explained that he understands 
Schmitt’s point of view, but sees the new 
quorum as less of a downgrade and more of 
a compromise.
“I certainly understand where [Schmitt 
is] coming from, and I too wish that peo-
ple would more regularly appear at faculty 
meetings,” said Johnson. “However, con-
sidering the practicalities of the matter, I 
think it’s just not feasible to get that many 
people there regularly. So I think one-third 
is a reasonable compromise and it still re-
quires more of the faculty than has typically 
attended. We’re not letting ourselves totally 
off the hook.”
Professor of Political Science Matthew 
Dickinson, who does not regularly attend 
faculty meetings and did not attend the 
meeting on Monday, cited the work he does 
as a professor, researcher, political scientist 
and departmental chair as his reasons for 
not being able to attend the faculty meetings.
“My primary role, the mission that drives 
this college, is educating undergraduates,” 
said Dickinson. “That’s what drives every-
“I have to make choices about how to 
spend my time,” Dickinson continued. 
“Some people prioritize by working through 
faculty administrative bodies to contribute 
-
tions. […] I am deeply appreciative of what 
[Schmitt] is saying and the passion he brings 
to college governance, and I’m glad he’s out 
there, but I can’t be.”
approved by vast majority
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
4 NEWS
college 
shorts
Obama’s reelection sparks 
protest at Ole Miss
Students at the University of Mississippi 
protested Obama’s reelection last Tuesday 
following announcements that the incum-
bent had won four more years in the na-
According to the student newspaper, the 
Daily Mississippian, hundreds of students 
participated in violent politicized chants 
Twitter photo shows a campaign sign being 
Two people were arrested during the 
protests, one for intoxication and the other 
students’ Twitter reports that “uncivil lan-
The university’s William Winter Insti-
tute for Racial Reconciliation organized a 
that took place on the Wednesday evening 
people held up candles outside the admin-
— The Washington Post
Green Mountain College 
euthanizes beloved ox
euthanized its retired farm ox Lou on Sun-
day, explaining that the 11-year-old ox’s 
hind leg injury was worsening and was ex-
pected to continue to deteriorate during the 
to turn the body into beef products that will 
Lou and another ox, Bill, were retired 
Mountain College has a long-standing tra-
dition of utilizing livestock in the dining 
halls in keep with the school’s emphasis on 
remains, however, were met with opposi-
tion for animal rights activists who wanted 
Bill the ox will continue to live at the col-
— VPR
NYU library suffers storm 
damage from Sandy
14-foot surge of water from the East River 
into the Ehram Medical Library at New 
The storm ruined most of the library’s 
on-site print collections, study spaces and 
and services was also wiped out by the 
storm, and the staff has been working over-
time from a remote location to retore on-
Paula De Stefano, head of the universi-
ty’s preservation and conservation depart-
ment, described the foroce of the water as 
“Furniture was moved, metal was twist-
Jason Kucsma, executive director of the 
Metropolitan New York Library Council, a 
Sandy forced the group to craft and imple-
“It’s a stark reminder [of] how vulner-
— The Chronicle of Higher Education
| november 15, 2012
leading an initiative to create a survey on 
examine a number of issues, including, but 
not limited to, distribution requirements, 
interaction between students and profes-
sors, the dining hall, the endowment, stu-
dent access to athletic facilities, library 
“A lot of surveys happen on campus, but 
the survey is that we’re polling students to 
want to know to how we can better serve the 
student body in the second semester and the 
-
SGA cabinet members have voiced concerns 
that the survey should not be too long, citing 
fears that student participation may decline 
-
mously passed the “Resolution for Inclusive 
-
athletes from non-varsity programs access 
-
cling Club, the Figure Skating Club, Living 
Dance, RIDDIM, men’s and women’s ulti-
mate Frisbee and men’s and women’s water 
The resolution proposes that the College 
professional athletic trainers for the ben-
would run for two to four hours per week 
“It’s time for the College to recognize that 
varsity athletes are not the only students 
who are at risk of injury as a result of on-
Arnosti also emphasized the scope of the 
“The SGA is not recommending that the 
College pay for students’ long-term injury 
program would provide immediate, profes-
sional consultation for students with less se-
rious athletic injuries … This proposed pro-
gram is not meant to impose an additional 
burden on Middlebury’s current athletic 
trainers, but to advise the administration 
that a small increase in the athletic depart-
ment’s budget would go a long way towards 
improving the well-being of non-varsity 
SGA senators remain concerned over the 
disappearance of dishware from the dining 
halls, and invited Director of Dining Ser-
-
ticular, senators say their constituents have 
raised concerns about a lack of cups and 
“The biggest problem in Proctor is that 
too many students take dishes and do not 
problem on my staff is unfair and incor-
from having paper cups available and there 
is a bagged lunch program at Proctor in the 
morning for those students who are unable 
take-out containers available at lunch time 
While there are currently boxes for dish-
es in student housing, these boxes are not 
Services does not want to send staff to pick 
up dishes around campus, as this would 
Biette argued that the dish crisis could be 
easily solved if students take the initiative to 
-
ly discuss establishing Student Advisory 
committees are currently required for all 
majors, only some departments have estab-
sga update Resolution proposes non-varsity athletic injury care
voiced concern to the administration that the 
College’s decision to bank with TD is not con-
sistent with the College’s values or commit-
The administration, however, has no plans to 
“The [College’s] relationship with TD has 
president for Finance and Treasurer’s Of-
-
ing products to the degree and specialization 
that the College requires and TD is a strong 
Additionally, Toronto Dominion extended 
Members of the ACSRI have called for the 
College to move its money out of TD in con-
versations over the course of the past year, 
and the College’s decision to reduce its over-
night holdings in TD bank was characterized 
by these students as evidence of the group’s 
“great strides working with the administra-
-
cision to reduce its overnight holdings is not 
related to ACSRI’s efforts.
“When I met with the ACSRI, they urged 
me to consider minimizing the college’s over-
night holdings at TD as a way of reducing 
practice anyway to minimize overnight cash 
holdings to the extent the balances would 
cover bank and related fees, our treasury op-
erations as a standard practice will … mini-
The minimum cash amount to be left in 
Any leftover funds will be withdrawn and in-
vested in other assets that may yield higher 
“In the case where there is more daily cash 
our target minimum cash amount is trans-
ferred [out of the TD account overnight] to 
short-term investment vehicles, primar-
The timing of this decision can be ex-
plained by improvements in the global econo-
money was more secure earning interest in a 
bank account, yet the College is now seeking 
“I do want to reiterate that the amount of 
overnight cash holdings at TD is a result of 
cash management practices and not as a re-
sult of a college position on TD’s sustainabil-
Despite the fact that TD may count fossil 
fuel extraction and mining companies among 
-
opted several corporate responsibility and 
principles of sustainable investment, and re-
cently launched its TD Forests program, an 
initiative aimed at reducing paper consump-
tion and increasing protected forest areas, 
Report, the bank reported that only 5 percent 
-
ing in environmentally and socially sensitive 
industries such as mining and fossil fuel ex-
The bank’s sustainability and corporate 
responsibility report, which was assured by 
LLC, states its position on socially respon-
“TD recognizes that … banks have a role 
-
ergy reserves and laying the groundwork for 
renewable energy development and deploy-
money for transactions that would … result in 
the degradation of protected critical natural 
-
actions that are directly related to the trade 
in or manufacturing of material for nuclear, 
-
Members of the ACSRI club have identi-
would not disclose at press time, that they feel 
would be a more socially responsible banking 
“In Keynesian economics, you see the multi-
plier effect — money comes into an area, and 
then it gets used a couple of times, and the 
-
ship, there’s no multiplier effect there, and 
it’s a lost opportunity to help develop our 
community and improve the surrounding 
“We operate under the assumption that 
there’s always something better — there’s 
always a way to marginally, incrementally 
banks may be bad, but … there’s only so much 
-
ing the world and all of its complexities and 
throwing our hands up in the air, we try to 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Jovicic suggested that more “deep rooted 
schools, should be considered when trying to 
address under-representation of certain ra-
Collado pointed to some of the same is-
“We cannot deny the fact that there are 
that if we were to pull out race we would be 
completely ignoring how the pathways to 
Middlebury are absolutely still narrow and 
have huge barriers for people of color in this 
-
lege’s history as an “elite, historically pre-
-
approach — where racial inequalities are ad-
-
-
sions join those expressed in amicus briefs 
arguments outlining the decreased chance of 
admission or success in post-graduate edu-
cation for minority students who are in the 
lower percentiles of undergraduate classes, 
the lack of positive correlation between in-
creasing numbers of minority students and 
increasing academic grades and the criticism 
Outlined in the Grutter case, “critical 
not feel isolated or like spokespersons for 
-
“The tendency is that when there are few 
students of color on a campus, let’s say at 
Middlebury, we tend to get pigeonholed into 
“Bringing in larger numbers of students of 
color will inherently diversify the population 
highlight the lack of quantitative boundar-
argued that increasing racial diversity would 
“I think that having a larger quantity of 
students of color would at least provide more 
opportunities for encounters between stu-
Both Buckles and Dry agree that it is un-
likely the court will overturn the Grutter case, 
leaving Middlebury to continue its current 
“One of the real hallmarks of Middlebury’s 
growth and the success of this institution has 
been the increase in accessibility and diver-
it’s enough, but it goes back to the question, 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
By Will Schwartz
How do Vermont politicians cam-
paign? In addition to the typical flyers, 
television commercials, Facebook fan 
pages and websites, Vermont politicians 
find engaging ways to infuse their cam-
paigns with “green mountain flavor” to 
appeal to the sensibilities of the average 
Vermonter. Republican incumbent can-
didate for Vermont Lieutenant Governor 
Phil Scott embarked on a 14-county bike 
tour from Oct. 2 to Oct. 9, logging 568 
miles over the course of his trip.  This 
unofficial campaign tour enabled the Lt. 
Governor to promote his policies and 
explain his platform, which helped him 
secure re-election for another two-year 
term. 
Scott had several aims for his ambi-
tious bike campaign. Firstly, he hoped to 
highlight the policies that 
he has been promoting 
during his last term, such 
as self-reliance, tourism 
and the importance of 
buying local products. 
He also hoped that 
his tour would promote 
Vermont tourism during 
the key foliage season and 
he would like to lead by 
example. 
The trip was a “long-
time personal fitness 
goal” for Scott, an avid cy-
clist, and a way to get in 
touch with local, typical 
Vermonters in an infor-
mal setting. 
“I’ve been to parades and fairs at 
the state’s larger venues,” said Scott in 
a press release. “But I also want to visit 
with people from all walks of life and in 
Vermont’s smaller towns.”
“Seeing the state on two wheels calls 
for a slower pace and increases your 
awareness and perspective from a num-
ber of different standpoints,” Scott said. 
“It makes it easier to see and appreciate 
more of the small, and many times fam-
ily-owned, businesses that make up our 
economy.” 
Vermonters managed to distinguish 
Scott from the average cyclist despite his 
large raincoat and his decision to ride 
alone. As he reported to Vtdigger, one 
woman stopped him on the road to hand 
deliver an eight-page letter outlining her 
concerns about rising fuel costs. 
Off the road each day, Scott stopped 
at bike shops and held “meet and greet” 
sessions at local pubs and restaurants. 
He also stopped by the Hartford Cham-
ber of Commerce, Gifford Medical Cen-
ter in Randolph and the Coolidge Home-
stead in Plymouth. 
At the end of the ride, Scott’s physi-
cally challenging 
campaign strategy 
paid off. Prior to the 
election, he earned 
endorsements of the 
Manchester Jour-
nal, the Herald of 
Randolph and Bur-
lington Free Press, 
signaling a good 
start for the elec-
tion-day. On elec-
tion night, his op-
ponent Cassandra 
Gekas called in at 11 
p.m. to concede vic-
tory and wish Scott 
the best of luck. 
Post-election tallies 
indicate that Scott scored 57.1 percent 
out of the total electorate, claiming one 
of the rare Republican victories in Ver-
mont. 
Scott’s relatively high victory mar-
gin makes his re-election all the more 
significant. Some critics think that Scott 
is a promising future gubernatorial can-
didate for the Republican Party, which 
struggles to make its voice heard in the 
democratic stronghold of Vermont.
Eric Davis, professor emeritus of po-
litical science at Middlebury College, is 
one such skeptic of Scott’s gubernatorial 
potential. Davis sees Scott’s party affili-
ation as “a dilemma for Scott’s future as-
pirations.” 
“The reason why Scott is elected is 
because he is seen as a regular guy and 
he is willing to cooperate with the Demo-
crats,” Davis said. “But if he is hoping to 
run for the governor’s seat after Shumlin 
resigns, his identity as a Republican will 
hinder him in Vermont, one of the most 
democratic states in the United States.
“[Scott] would [need to] be an in-
dependent candidate in order to gain a 
higher position” Davis concluded. 
Regardless of his long-term political 
aspirations, Scott has made it clear that 
he is ready to get back to work. In his vic-
tory speech, he urged all Vermonters to 
cooperate together to get things done. 
Scott promised to continue to work 
for the welfare of all Vermonters, irre-
spective of political differences. 
“It doesn’t matter who’s in charge, 
we all have a responsibility to do what’s 
best for Vermonters,” Scott said after 
his re-election was confirmed. “After the 
campaign is over you put your partisan 
stripes aside and you do what’s best for 
Vermont and Vermonters.” 
local
Polls spell re-election for 
Courtesy of Deerfield Valley News
Strains of corn that are genetically engineered to kill pests often kill benign species.
Lt. Governor Phil Scott rides through Wilmington, Vt. in his campaign’s tour of Vermont.
Vermont politicians
By Winnie Yeung
As millions of projection-hungry 
Americans eagerly gathered around their 
television and computer screens on elec-
tion night to monitor the imminent elec-
toral flood, Vermont became the first 
state to break the silence when analysts 
tallied the state’s three electoral votes 
in President of the United States Barack 
Obama’s column.  
Although the state was called in 
Obama’s favor with only a tiny fraction 
of precincts reporting, the prediction 
was a safe one. Vermont — which was 
also the first state captured by Obama 
in the 2008 election — has voted for the 
Democratic candidate in every presiden-
tial election since 1992.
Vermont was one of three states in 
which President Obama received the ma-
jority of votes in every county (the other 
entirely blue states were Governor Mitt 
Romney’s home state of Massachusetts 
and Obama’s birth state of Hawaii).
Obama’s 35.8 percent margin of vic-
tory of Vermont was the third highest 
in the nation for the second consecutive 
election, trailing only Washington, D.C. 
and Hawaii.
Although some votes remain un-
counted, preliminary tabulations indi-
cate that Obama captured 67 percent of 
the vote in Vermont compared to Rom-
ney’s 31 percent.
Although Vermont still voted deci-
sively in favor of Obama, overall voter 
turnout in the state decreased. There was 
an 8.2 percent decrease in voter turnout 
in Vermont — 325,046 Vermonters voted 
in the 2008 election and only 298,513 
voted in the 2012 election. 
Although voter participation in 2012 
was slightly lower than in 2008, not 
much else changed in Vermont’s politi-
cal landscape. The state’s political com-
position is exceedingly homogeneous 
— incumbent candidates won all of the 
major elections in Vermont, and Demo-
crats captured all but two of these major 
offices.
At the state level, incumbent Gover-
nor Peter Shumlin (Dem.) defeated can-
didate Randy Brock (Rep.) by a sizable 
20 percent margin. Incumbent Indepen-
dent Senator Bernie Sanders defeated 
Republican challenger John MacGovern 
by 46 percent and incumbent Congress-
man Peter Welch (Dem.) defeated chal-
lenger Mark Donka (Rep.) by an even 
heftier margin of 49 percent. 
Incumbent Democratic Attorney 
General Bill Sorrell defeated Republican 
candidate Jack McMullen, Progressive 
candidate Ed Stanak and Liberty Union 
Party candidate Rosemarie Jackowski. 
Incumbent Republican Lieutenant Gov-
ernor, one of the few office-holding Re-
publicans in Vermont, defeated Demo-
cratic/Progressive candidate Cassandra 
Gekas.
By Conor Grant
Lt. Governor Phil Scott rides to second term
“If [Scott] is hop-
ing to run for the 
governor’s seat 
after Shumlin re-
signs, his identity 
as a Republican 
will hinder him in 
Vermont.”
Eric Davis
Professor Emeritus of Political science
65% 32%
Vermont votes for 
President ...
IND
REP
Vermont 
voters chose 
Independent 
Bernie Sand-
ers (70%) 
over Repub-
lican candi-
date John 
MacGovern 
(25%) for
SENATE
71%
24%
Democrat Peter Welch
Republican
Mark  Donka
House of Representat
ive
s
GOVERNOR
of Vermont
Democrat Peter 
Shumlin beat 
Republican 
Randy Brok
REP DEM
Lieutenant Governor
58%
39%
WIN: 
Republican 
Phil Scott
LOSS: 
Democrat 
Cassandra 
Gekas
HOW DID 
VERMONT 
VOTE IN THE 
2012 
ELECTION 
CYCLE?
Vermont Gas Systems (VTGas) and 
International Paper, a company whose 
mill sits on the banks of Lake Cham-
plain, have come to an agreement this 
month and plans are being presented to 
legislators regarding the construction of 
a pipeline across the lake. The proposed 
pipeline will run from Addison County to 
Ticonderoga, allowing the International 
Paper mill to switch from fuel oil to natu-
ral gas. This change would reduce fuel 
costs and reduce greenhouse gas emis-
sions.
An important factor for the pipeline 
installation is that the lake is held in 
public trust. This means that technically 
the lake is a resource owned by everyone, 
making the addition of a pipeline through 
the bottom of the lake complicated from 
a policy point of view. 
In an interview with Vermont Public 
Radio (VPR), David Deen, who chairs the 
House Fish, Wildlife and Water Resourc-
es Committee in Vermont explained the 
complications of the body of water being 
in public trust.
“The use of a public trust resource 
is in the hands of the representatives of 
the people,” said Deen. “And in that case, 
we had to approve Burlington using that 
filled land, because the bottom of the 
lake is impressed with the public trust. 
It’s a public resource.”
VTGas proposes laying the pipeline 
under Lake Champlain using directional 
drilling, a method that allows the pipes 
to cross the lake without disturbing the 
bottom. Wenbo Zhang ’13, studies envi-
ronmental policy at the College and ac-
knowledges the potential negative effects 
a pipeline would have.
“On the one hand, building an under-
water pipeline inevitably generates some 
sort of disturbance to the lake ecosys-
tem,” said Zhang. “The long-term risk of 
the project is a potential leakage of the 
pipeline, which may cause a large-scale 
contamination of the lake.”
The potential danger of the situa-
tion seems to be outweighed by its long-
term benefits, however. The pipeline 
under Lake Champlain and its extension 
through Addison County would be eco-
logically beneficial in many ways; Donna 
Wadsworth, International Paper spokes-
woman, said in an interview with VTdig-
ger that the pipeline is “an opportunity 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 
approximately 26 percent.”
Zhang also went on to acknowledge 
these possible benefits. 
“The natural gas will be replacing oil, 
which means that in the long term, less 
greenhouse gases will be emitted,” she 
said. “Because it will be constructed on 
public land, Vermont residents should all 
have a say in the decision-making pro-
cess. It is important to inform the public 
of the pros and cons of the construction, 
so that they can provide their representa-
tives with an educated yes or no.”
Beyond public participation in the 
approval of this project, the pipeline 
would not be solely for International 
Paper’s use — this project intends to al-
low VTGas to upgrade their southern 
gas line into Rutland County, including 
Middlebury itself. International Paper 
has agreed to pay in full the $70 million 
the project will cost, and none of the resi-
dents tax dollars will go to it. 
The proposed International Paper 
conduit “will support a larger and longer 
pipeline network, at no additional cost to 
our customers, and will help us achieve 
our goal of bringing natural gas serve to 
more Vermonters,” VTGas President and 
CEO Don Gilbert said in a press release. 
Lynn Coale, a resident of Weybridge 
and executive director of the Hannaford 
Career Center in Middlebury, thinks the 
extension of the pipeline will be very 
beneficial for Middlebury. He sees natu-
ral gas as good from ecological and eco-
nomic perspectives, as it burns more 
cleanly than fuel oil and is abundant and 
cheap, although not a renewable source. 
“As an example,” Coale explained, 
“We were looking at putting a thousand 
gallon fuel tank on our campus but put 
the plan on hold in anticipation of the 
natural gas coming.”
On a more personal level, right now 
Coale uses a combination of fuel sources 
to heat his home, just a stone’s throw 
from the College. Aside from wood, 
the family also burns fuel oil to heat 
their home. When asked if he would 
take advantage of the new pipelines in 
Middlebury to purchase natural gas for 
their home, Coale replied with an enthu-
siastic “Oh absolutely!” 
Coale is a supporter of natural gas 
on a national level as well, believing that 
“natural gas is a clean and efficient fuel 
that will quickly catapult the U.S. to en-
ergy independence. It’s not renewable 
and we’d need to feed pipelines into dif-
ferent states, but it’s abundant and can 
be produced fairly safely.”
On a local level, Coale expresses his 
relative confusion and concern over the 
placement of a pipeline across the bot-
tom of Lake Champlain, and hopes that 
VTGas and the builders will communi-
cate the full extent of the project to the 
public.
If approved by state regulators, the 
pipeline should begin servicing Interna-
tional Paper by 2015. More information 
on the costs, benefits and complications 
in building on land put in the public 
trust will come to light over the follow-
ing months as VTGas, International Pa-
per and Vermont state legislators make 
progress on this issue. 
By Devin MacDonald
 | november 15, 2012Local 6
Vermont Gas Systems and International Paper have proposed to fund and construct a natural gas pipeline deep under Lake Champlain.
VTGas plans to construct pipeline 24
Decadent Dessert Bash in Vergennes
Give in to your sweet tooth this Saturday 
and come to the Vergennes Opera House 
to enjoy a mouthwatering array of des-
serts. The selection includes local desserts, 
cheeses and more, and the evening fea-
-
vation of the Vergennes Opera House.
Tickets $18 in advance for Friends of the 
Vergennes Opera House, $20 in advance 
for non-members, $25 at the door. 
Tickets available at www.vergennesop-
erahouse.org or 802-877-6737.
NOV. 17 7:30 P.M. - 10:30 P.M.
Craft Sale in MIddlebury
This two-day sale put on by a group 
called “Ten Thousand Villages” will fea-
ture hand-crafted items made by justly 
paid artists from around the world. Just 
in time for the holiday season, selections 
will include Christmas ornaments, instru-
ments, baskets, toys and jewelry. 
Call 802-337-0231 for more information. 
NOV. 16, 3:00 P.M. - 7:00 P.M.
Local 
lowdown
“Legally Blonde” comes to the       
Brandon stage
Students from the Otter Valley Union 
High School will put on the lively Broad-
way musical this coming weekend. Tickets 
are $8 in advance, $10 at the door for 
adults and $8 for students and seniors. 
This play is not suitable for children 
younger than 12.
For more information, call 802-247-6833
NOV. 16, 17 - 18, 7 P.M. - 9 P.M.
Courtesy of Star Touring Association
By Maureen Wyse & 
Barbara Ofosu-Somuah
The Wizard of Oz on Stage in Bristol
Come to Mount Abraham Union High 
and the Lion come to life on stage is an 
exciting treat for the whole family. 
Tickets are $11 for adults, and $7 for 
seniors and children under 12.
For more information call 802-453-2333.
NOV. 17, 2:30 P.M. - 4:30 P.M.
All You Can Eat Pancake Breakfast in 
Addison
Start your Sunday off right with a pan-
cake feast at the Addison Fire Station. The 
breakfast includes both plain and blueber-
ry pancakes, sausage, bacon, home fries, 
coffee, hot chocolate, orange juice and 
of new equipment for the Addison volun-
Adults $6, kids under 12 $4. 
Call 802-759-2237 for tickets.
NOV. 18, 7 A.M. - 11 A.M.
Turkey Trot and Gobble Wobble in 
Middlebury
Get up and at ‘em this Sunday morning 
and participate in the Turkey Trot or the 
Gobble Wobble race. Check in for these 
two races will be going on from 10 to 
11:30 a.m. Both of these exciting races 
begin outside Middlebury and will end in 
town. Please bring non-perishable food 
items for the Addison County Food Shelf. 
For more information visit www.middle-
NOV. 18, 10 A.M. - 2 P.M.
This winter term, Middlebury College 
will once again join a national organization 
that hosts Dance Marathons on college cam-
puses across the country to raise money for 
Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals by 
hosting the second annual Middlebury Col-
lege Dance Marathon! 
Our 12-hour event directly supports 
families at the Vermont Children’s Miracle 
Network Hospital at Fletcher Allen in Bur-
lington, Vt. The money we raise helps with 
hospital bills, transportation costs for get-
ting to the hospital, the homecare needs of 
the kids and any other medical related ex-
pense these families incur while taking care 
of their kids. 
Last year, our event was a big success. 
Not only did we raise almost $5,000, but 
we also had a large turn out from the stu-
dent body and the families from the hos-
pital came down from Burlington to dance 
with us. Throughout the night, you could 
tell what a great time the kids were having 
as they came up with new dance moves, 
played games with the Middlebury students 
and struggled to keep their eyes open past 
11 p.m. 
This year, our hospital champion, Vic-
toria, is already excited to join us for our 
events and show us her dance skills!
Last year’s Dance Marathon featured 
performances by different on-campus 
groups such as Riddim. Additionally, differ-
ent activities such as giant twister kept par-
ticipants awake throughout the night. This 
year we are hoping to build on the success 
of last year by making everything bigger and 
better.  Already, we are putting together an 
array of activities to keep the night full of fun 
and excitement.  
Middlebury Dance Marathon 2.0’s 
theme is “Around the World in 12 Hours.” 
Currently, the committee is in talks with an 
array of student groups about incorporating 
all the resources Middlebury students have 
to offer into our event.
We believe that this is a great cause 
that can bring together college students and 
community members, so one of our goals 
this year is to get the Middlebury town com-
munity more involved. Although our event 
is focused on fundraising, it also provides a 
great opportunity for families to relax and 
enjoy themselves. 
 Dance Marathon 2.0 is taking 
place on Jan. 19, from 4 p.m. to 4 a.m. (the 
second Saturday in winter term). Registra-
tion is now open! Participants can sign up 
at go/dancemarathon either as an indi-
vidual dancer or create a team for you and 
your friends. If you are interested in getting 
involved in the planning process or having 
your group participate please contact us at 
middleburydancemarathon@gmail.com. 
Come and join us! We would love to see your 
dance moves!
Connecting with Community
Some of the many ways Middlebury students get involved in the surrounding area
Have an opinion about something?
Write it down in fewer 
than 800 words.
STEP 1:
Email it as an attachment to:
campus@middlebury.edu
Due by 5 p.m. Sundays for 
the Thursday print issue
STEP 2:
Indicate in your email 
where you’re from and 
your class year.
STEP 3:
Enjoy your 15 minutes of 
fame on Thursday when 
the paper comes out!
STEP 4:
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
decided by the 
editorial board.
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
events; the use of vulgar language or personal at-
tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con-
tains any of the aforementioned will be removed 
before publication. Contributors will be allowed to 
reference prior articles published in the Opinions 
section or announcements for the public record. If 
a reference is made to prior articles, the submis-
sion will be considered a letter to the editor.  The 
Campus will not accept or print anonymous let-
ters. The opinions expressed by contributors to the 
Opinions section, as well as reviews, columns, edi-
torial comics and other commentary, are views of 
the individual contributors and do not necessarily 
welcomes letters to the editor at 250 words or less, 
or opinions submissions at 800 words or less. Sub-
mit works directly to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 
30, campus@middlebury.edu or via the paper’s 
web site at  www.middleburycampus.com. To be 
considered for publications, submissions must be 
received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves 
the right to edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury 
College. The Middlebury Campus is produced on 
Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign 
CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New 
York. The advertising deadline for all display and 
-
lowing week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middle-
bury Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, 
Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 
443-5737. Please address distribution concerns to 
Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
opinions
Kathryn DeSutter
Michelle Smoler
Quinn Proffer
Jess Berry, Bronwyn Oatley, 
Kelsey Collins
Joanna Lyons, Carina Guiterman
Tom Clayton, Damon Hatheway,
Owen Teach
Conor Grant, Isaac Baker
Lauren Davidson, Stephanie Roush, 
Joshua Kruskal
Deirdre Sackett, 
Santiago Azpurua-Borras
Jessica Munyon,  Jiayi Zhu
Ian Stewart
Olivia Allen, Marea Hatheway
Greg Woolston
Leah Pickett
Charlotte Gardiner
By Dylan levy
One of the College’s greatest 
strengths lies in its professors. The 
Princeton Review recently ranked the 
College seventh in the “professors get 
high marks” category, a 
fact that is likely unsur-
prising to many students 
here. What is surprising, 
however, is that a pri-
mary criticism that came 
from the College’s 2011 
reaccreditation process 
was that faculty mem-
bers should be more in-
volved in the governing of our institu-
tion.
The faculty’s role in governance has 
come under further consideration after 
the Oct. 1 faculty meeting was adjourned 
because the number of faculty members 
present failed to meet the necessary 
quorum of 169 professors. A quorum 
was declared at the Nov. 12 meeting, 
which was largely centered on a reso-
lution to change the definition of the 
quorum, and an overwhelming major-
ity of faculty members present voted to 
change the quorum to one-third of the 
faculty population on campus. 
We would hope that faculty mem-
bers care about and are involved with 
the governance of the College. The de-
cisions voted on at faculty meetings — 
involving grade changes, the approval 
of graduates and practices relating to 
the firing of professors, to name a few 
— have direct effects on students and 
disheartened to hear about the general 
pattern of low faculty attendance. 
 Before we cast judgment, we must 
examine what, exactly, the role of a 
professor entails. Too often we think of 
teaching — and the grading and plan-
ning that it necessitates — as a profes-
sor’s sole responsibility. The reality is 
that in addition to teaching, our faculty 
members are expected to be accessible 
to students outside of the classroom, 
produce research and scholarly work 
and, as evidenced by the quorum neces-
sary for faculty meetings, participate in 
the governance of the College.
It is clear that we ask a lot of faculty 
members here, which begs the question 
of what the primary obligation of a pro-
fessor should be. Most of us agree that 
students should be the first priority for 
professors, but it is less clear how our 
professors can and should best facilitate 
an enriching learning experience for 
us. Is a professor who shows up to fac-
ulty meetings to vote on academic poli-
cy inherently more attuned to students’ 
needs than the professor who makes 
him or herself available to meet with 
students for extra help? Both actions are 
important in that they affect students 
directly, but it is difficult to say whether 
one is more valuable to students than 
the other. 
One thing that is clear is that our 
professors are incredibly committed to 
facilitating the academic growth of stu-
dents, and for this we are grateful. This 
enthusiasm and passion for teaching 
does not exist solely within the confines 
-
fessors here make themselves readily 
available to students who want to meet 
outside of class time, whether for extra 
help or just enlightening discussion.
But while this commitment to the 
individual growth of students is com-
mendable, we feel that it is also impor-
tant for professors to be able to balance 
this commitment with their responsibil-
ity to contribute to the governance of 
the College as a whole, and we call on 
the administration to help faculty mem-
bers do so. The revised quorum may be 
one such way, as it allows for faculty 
meetings to take place even when some 
professors have conflicting obligations.
One problem may be that there are 
few clear motivations for professors to 
attend long faculty meetings, whereas 
there is great incentive to being a good 
professor inside the classroom. Effec-
tive teaching is awarded with student 
growth and learning, as well as positive 
feedback from students. Does the Col-
lege need to provide incentives for pro-
fessors to attend faculty meetings? The 
fact that the meetings are now run by a 
faculty moderator instead of President 
of the College Ronald D. Liebowitz may 
be one such enticement. The adminis-
tration and the faculty together, should 
examine if further changes are neces-
sary.
Students on the whole have many 
responsibilities, such as long assign-
ments and papers, sports practices, club 
meetings and off-campus jobs. The only 
way for students to keep up is to find a 
-
casionally skimming an academic article 
or skipping a meeting to cram for an 
exam. The same can be said for our pro-
fessors, who, on top of having additional 
responsibilities to their families and to 
their outside communities, are expected 
to teach with enthusiasm, be accessible 
to students and help govern our institu-
tion. So while we believe that it is part of 
the duty of a professor to attend faculty 
meetings, we recognize that, like their 
students, professors have to strike a bal-
ance between conflicting responsibili-
ties. At the same time, a good solution 
is not one that entails neglecting impor-
tant facets of one’s job, such as attend-
ing faculty meetings.
For many students of the liberal arts 
elite, undergraduate existence is an era 
of unchecked decadence. You can eat a 
packet of peanut M&M’s and a cigarette 
for lunch and get nothing worse than a 
few judge-y looks from the girl headed 
towards the gym in Lululemon. You can 
saturate your bloodstream with controlled 
substances, sleep until 2 p.m., not shower 
for three days, 
bury your bed 
in dirty clothes. 
Most of us don’t 
have a kid or a dog 
or even a house-
plant. The only 
responsibility you 
have for four years 
is you, and yet, if 
you’re anything like me, you can’t even 
be trusted with that. Let’s assume that we 
already attend to our chronic self-absorp-
tion and readily engage in the daily battle 
against solipsism, and consider the state 
of our internal worlds for one indulgent 
moment more.
Why are we so self-destructive during 
our years of prime vitality? 
It’s beyond “College, no 
parents, no bedtimes!” We 
aren’t even very good at 
hedonism at Middlebury, 
a little too lazy to really 
get wild. We seem to half-
heartedly zombie through 
our days, become the 
worst versions of ourselves 
and fall into truly ugly cy-
cles. After a night and half 
a morning of unwashed, 
nicotine and caffeine-fueled library blitz-
ing, we crawl into bed for a four-hour nap 
while a beautiful day blazes outside. We 
live in strange extremes, like Siddhartha 
pre-Middle Path or St. Augustine pre-
middle age. I’m not saying we’re living in 
sin — I don’t think I can make any kind of 
judgment call when I refuse to stop drink-
ing straight from a bottle of Charles Shaw 
on a Tuesday night or to stop taking he-
roically long naps. But I do think that our 
default is pretty obnoxious and doesn’t 
make us happy. We are fast, young things 
in the lap of luxury and opportunity, and 
we are not living very well. That’s not a 
Middlebury problem. That’s a me/you/us 
problem.
Making space for happiness is a pro-
cess of getting clean, in whatever small 
or large gesture that requires. I think we 
could start with intentional loveliness. 
“Intentional loveliness” is something 
I just made up because I like the word 
“lovely,” so much so that several different 
people have recently informed me that I 
overuse the adjective. Reworking some 
little part in your life to make it “lovely” 
isn’t necessarily an aesthetic change, but 
it can be as simple as that. I’d like to ar-
gue that letting a friend pull your tangle-y 
hair off your sticky-with-stress-tears face, 
brushing and braiding it and changing 
out of your sweatpants into your pretti-
est crushed velvet dress simply for a trip 
to Proctor dinner is almost better than 
an hour of therapy. Pulling ourselves to-
gether doesn’t mean that we need to start 
training for a marathon, eating quinoa 
and setting 9 p.m. bedtimes, though if you 
can successfully overhaul your life like 
that, holler at me, you role model human 
beings.
Luckily for this columnist, this week 
coincides with a religious festival that 
complements this idea of getting clean in 
order to make room for good things. Ac-
cording to the Hindu Student Association 
(HSA) and Wikipedia, Diwali, also called 
Deepavali, is the 
festival of lights 
for Hindus and 
Sikhs and began 
last Sunday and 
ends Thursday. It 
is a time of fresh 
starts and involves 
cleaning your liv-
ing space, shar-
ing good food with 
friends and lighting 
candles and lamps 
to celebrate the good that overcomes the 
dark. The spiritual aims of the festival re-
mind me somewhat of the Christian Lent-
en season, though it boasts a more light-
hearted atmosphere that I think is more 
appealing than the abstinence of its West-
ern parallel. I think this wish or greeting 
to be shared during the festival of lights, 
again provided by the HSA, better articu-
us: “The sun does not shine there, nor do 
the moon and the stars, nor do lightning 
shine? All the lights of the world cannot be 
compared even to a ray of the inner light 
of the Self. Merge yourself in this light of 
lights and enjoy the supreme Deepavali.” 
Be kind to yourselves this week by 
scrubbing some part of your grimy exis-
tence. Wake up early and wash your face. 
Be lovely and light.
 8opinions November 15, 2012 | 
Looking towards 2016
Loveliness
the 
elephant 
in the room
Ben Kinney ’15 is from 
Seattle, Wash. 
not 
about the 
patriarchy
Sam Kaufman 
’12.5 is from Jamaica 
Plains, Mass.
After last Tuesday’s election, the media immediately began its post-presiden-
tial election process of savaging the losing campaign for reasons explaining their 
defeat. While it is true that Romney’s campaign could have made many small, yet 
beneficial changes to improve its positioning against Presi-
dent Obama, it did not fall short in the election because of 
gaffes or poor organization or Paul Ryan. Instead, the Rom-
ney campaign suffered from long-term social trends in the 
Republican Party that must be corrected if the party hopes 
to win control of the presidency in 2016. 
This year’s election results show that the Republican 
Party lacks support among women, minori-
ties and our more liberal generation — three 
groups becoming more important within 
American demographics. Single American women supported Obama 
two-to-one over Romney, and non-white voters (now more than 
one-fourth of the voting population as opposed to nine percent in 
1980) voted more than three-to-one in Obama’s favor. But while 
many political journalists and analysts have asserted, quite convinc-
ingly, that the Republican party needs to replace its social views to 
prevent itself from solely catering to conservative white male voters, 
the abandonment of social views is less important to the GOP than a 
clarification of its party ideologies. 
Women and American minority groups are not, as the media 
would like us to believe, single-issue voters. Despite assertions from 
Chris Matthews that Romney’s views on abortion “destroyed his 
ability to win over women voters,” a 2012 CNN poll showed that 
the majority of women (52 percent) considered themselves pro-life. 
Similarly, Hispanic Americans did not vote en masse for Obama out of a desire for 
illegal immigration to continue. The problem is not the socially conservative views 
of the Republican Party, but rather that these views are not applied conservatively. 
In order to gain support from women, young people and minority groups in 
2016, the Republican Party must distinguish between true social conservatism and 
their current policies of social control by extending their fiscal principles of “small 
government” and “increased personal freedom” to social policy. Republican candi-
dates must clarify their goals without compromising their party’s beliefs, opposing 
abortion and illegal immigration, for instance, but not attacking Planned Parent-
hood and illegal immigrant populations. Conservative women don’t like govern-
ment control over their taxes or uteruses, and the Republican Party’s willingness 
to force its social views on Americans isolates voters whose social views may not 
even align with the Democratic Party. One of my favorite examples of how this dis-
tinction is possible comes from Congressman Marco Rubio, who asserted over the 
summer that the Republican Party must “not define [itself] as the 
anti-immigration party, but as the pro-legal immigration party.” 
By changing its rhetoric while maintaining its social con-
servatism, Republicans can gain more support in the moder-
ate majority and break away from the increasing control of the 
party’s radical few. The Republican Party is not the party of ho-
mophobes, sexists and bigots, and in order to sever themselves 
from these extremist social interests, the Republican Party must 
clearly adopt policies denouncing government attacks on social 
freedoms. Moreover, Romney’s decision to pander to this socially 
controlling extreme right wing resulted in a redefinition of his 
views later in the campaign that confused and isolated both mod-
erate and right-leaning voters. If the GOP wants to succeed in 
the 2016 election, it needs to not sway in its values, but maintain 
pragmatic and clear social, fiscal and foreign policy goals. The 
GOP’s social stances are not outdated, but they have become so 
corrupted by the Tea Party Movement and Bush-era conserva-
tives that they contradict the Republican principles of individual rights and pri-
vacy. The message of the Republican Party needs to return to its ideological roots; 
if it does, it will be successful. Economic freedom and social self-determination will 
remain popular even as American social views and demographics shift and evolve.
“ By changing its 
rhetoric while 
maintaining its 
social conservatism, 
Republicans can gain 
more support in the 
moderate majority 
and break away from 
the increasing control 
of the party’s radical 
few.”
Women and last week’s election
Perhaps one of the most exciting re-
sults of last week’s election — for wom-
en, at least — is that the United States 
now has the highest number of women 
in Congress than ever before. Unfortu-
nately, that only means 20 women in 
the Senate out of 100 seats, and 78 out 
of 435 seats in the House (although a 
few races are still undecided). This is a 
net increase of seven women (we lost 
two female senators to retirement). So 
while we are certainly breaking records 
here — just look at the fact that in 1991 
there were just two female senators for 
proof — the representation of women is 
still far from equal. 
I don’t mean to downplay accom-
plishments, as there were a number of 
them. We elected Tammy Baldwin, the 
Massachusetts. In addition, we elected 
-
ie Hirono, who is also Buddhist. These 
women are certainly shaking up the sta-
freaking exciting and inspiring. Even 
more exciting is that New Hampshire’s 
entire delegation is now female, as is its 
governor. Talk about girl power, huh?
Over the last year, there has been 
a great deal of fuss made over the sup-
posed “War on Wom-
en,” a term coined by 
the Democratic Party. 
The last congress had, 
in many ways, one of 
the most anti-women 
agendas in many years. 
It felt like almost daily 
we were presented with 
wanted to curb wom-
en’s access to birth control and health-
care, limit abortion rights and block 
equal pay. The entire crusade against 
Planned Parenthood as a supposed 
abortion-factory, when in reality the 
organization spends the majority of its 
funds on general women’s health issues 
such as mammograms and check-ups 
and only spends about three percent of 
its funds on abortion services, is another 
such example. 
Our electorate was bombarded over 
and over this election cycle with inane 
and dangerous falsehoods coming out 
of the mouths of incumbents or can-
didates. Luckily, a whole slew of these 
guys weren’t elected or reelected. These 
legislators and candidates, or, as a num-
ber of feminist blog christened them, the 
“Rape Caucus,” lost pretty much because 
of their fallible logic. Todd Akin’s “legiti-
mate rape” comments pretty much res-
urrected Senator McCaskill’s campaign. 
Even the Republican Party backed away 
hard from Akin after those comments. 
These scattered 
losses culminated 
in the ultimate 
refusal by Ameri-
cans to accept 
their logic when 
the public rejected 
the Romney-Ryan 
ballot. 
But I digress 
— let’s get back to the new female can-
didates. What does an increase of three 
women mean in the Senate? To be hon-
est, I’m not totally sure, especially af-
ter considering the following facts: the 
balance of the Senate still remains es-
sentially the same, without either party 
the senate is an infamously slow-moving 
body that defers to seniority. So, does 
this increase in women in our legisla-
ture truly mean anything? Does it imply 
mean a critical mass? I’m not sure. 
I think this up-
coming Congress will 
give us our best look 
at how bringing more 
women to the table 
can change the discus-
sion. I’m hopeful that 
the net gain, although 
relatively scant, can 
start momentum to 
change longer-term 
trends towards greater female inclu-
sion. Perhaps we can move away from 
our “tried and true” strategy of old white 
men legislating for women (and every-
one else). I think, as Senator Gillibrand 
has said, that bringing more women to 
the discussion can only be a good thing. 
Perhaps more will get done with more 
women. I’m hopeful and excited about 
this possibility. I am inspired by these 
women who have beat the odds and suc-
ceeded in bringing wholly new voices to 
a pretty staid institution. I have tem-
pered but optimistic hopes for the 113th 
Congress. And I’m certainly excited to 
watch the next season of our favorite 
melodrama. Fiscal cliff be damned. 
“Perhaps we can move 
away from our ‘tried 
and true’ strategy 
of old white men 
legislating for women 
(and everyone else).”
the crack 
spirit guide
Eliza Wallace ’14 is 
from Shepherdstown, 
W. Va.
“We are fast, young 
things in the lap 
of luxury and 
opportunity, and we 
are not living very well. 
That’s not a Middlebury 
problem. That’s a me/
you/us problem.”
Advertisements 9November 15, 2012 | 
Any 
with Appointment
802/349.8833
Jessicas
hu ling Middlebury since 1996
Break Shuttles
Reserve Early, Avoid Aggravation
Allow Us Conciergeor
Organize Your Own Group
 Serving:Airports Amtraks Greyhound or MegaBus
 
Minima
l Waitin
g 
upon ret
urn
260 COURT STREET 
MIDDLEBURY, VT  05753
802-388-5400
M-F 9-7 | SAT 9-6 | SUN 9-5
SUPERCUTS IS ALL ABOUT 
CUTS THAT ROCK!
1-800-SUPERCUTS | supercuts.com 
LIKE US ON FACEBOOK TO LEARN ABOUT SPECIALS! 
WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/SUPERCUTS.OF.MIDDLEBURY
                                                           Like 
          delicious food? Atwater 
                               dinners? Have any suggestions 
                             about what should be made for dinner?
                            If  you're interested in collaborating with
                           MCAB in order to host an Atwater dinner 
                           over the Spring Semester or Jterm please 
                            email mcabsocial@middlebury.edu with 
                              a theme and some ideas. Also, if you 
                                 would like to host one in Jterm 
                                   the deadline for a 
                                         submission 
                                               request is
Host 
an Atwater dinner
Decemb
er 1
st
JOIN 
US
WRITE FOR 
THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, 
NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS 
AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE  
INTERESTED, EMAIL 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
THE CAMPUS+THE INTERNET
MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM
NEW, LOCAL, OPINIONS, FEATURES, SPORTS, ARTS & SCIENCES
IT’S ALL THERE. LOG ON TODAY
NEED CA$H?
GET A JOB.
NEED FAME?
WRITE FOR US.
10 sports 11
’11/’12 RECORD: 14-10-3
CAPTAINS: MATHIEU CASTONGUAY 
’13, CHRIS STEELE ’13 & TREVOR POL-
LOCK ’13
’11/’12 RECORD: 7-17
CAPTAINS: TRACY BORSINGER ’13, 
KATE LOGAN ’13 & JESSE MILLER ’13
’11/’12 RECORD: N/A (CARNIVALS)
CAPTAINS: CHRISTINE SCHOZER 
’13 (W. ALPINE), KEELY LEVINS ’13 
& HILARY RICH ’13 (W. NORDIC), 
BRYAN SHPALL ’13 (M. ALPINE), 
AUSTIN COBB ’14 & BEN LUSTGARTEN 
’14 (M. NORDIC)
’11/’12 RECORD: 21-4-3
CAPTAINS: HEATHER MARRISON ’13, 
MADISON STYRBICKI ’13 & MAGGIE 
WOODWARD ’13
’11/’12 RECORD: 26-4
CAPTAINS: NOLAN THOMPSON ’13 & 
PETER LYNCH ’13
’11/’12 RECORD: 16-8 (W), 16-9 (M)
CAPTAINS: MOLLY HUBBARD ’13 
& LINDSAY BECKER ’13 (W), JAY 
DOLAN ’13 & SPENCER HURST ’13 (M)
’11/’12 RECORD: 3-5 (M), 7-1 (W)
CAPTAINS: MIKE OSTER ’14 & TYLER 
SANDOVAL ’13 [M] OLIVIA BLAHUT 
’13, SALENA CASHA ’13 & NORA DALY 
’13 [W] ’11/’12 RECORD: N/A (INDIVIDIAL)
CAPTAINS: LOUIS CORNACCHIONE ’13, 
DANIEL BENT ’13, KYLE HARROLD ’13 
& PATRICK ROONEY ’13 [M] MOLLY 
MCLEAN ’13, KARA WALKER ’13 & 
SARAH O’BRIEN ’13 [W]
WINTER SPORTS PREVIEW
The Middlebury Campus| november 15, 2012
Brian Ayers ’14 took Midd Entrepe-
-
trepeneur.
too,” said Ayers.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
turers. 
-
12 features
WINNERS&losers
| november 15, 2012
TURKEY DAY
The one day when it’s 
socially appropriate to eat 
your body weight in food.
PAINT PARTY
That previously white t-shirt 
will remain a keepsake 
forever...
AS YOU LIKE IT
Tonight through Sunday, 
head over to Wright for a 
dose of the Bard.
ELECTION’S OVER
There goes our default con-
versation fodder ...
PROCTOR CAT
To feed it or not to feed it? 
That is the question.
GLOBAL WARMING
No complaints about the 
warm-ish weather, but the 
lack of snow is suspicious.
-
Saturday.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
taste cheese 
chopsticks
BY JIAYI ZHU
wi
th
By Stephanie Roush
Student starts clothing company
-
-
-
-
-
Zach Doleac
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mountain Club expands fall programming
By Claire Abbadi
Courtesy of Mountain Film
13featuresnovember 15, 2012   
The 2012 election may be over, but the 
College Democrats and College Republi-
cans are already looking ahead. On Nov. 6 
the two clubs hosted Election Night at the 
Grille to watch the results come in. 
“It was packed – there were so many 
people, which was great. I think [Professor 
of Political Science and Department Chair] 
Matthew Dickinson and [Associate Profes-
sor of Political Science] Bert Johnson were 
on top of their game,” said Emily Wagman 
’13, president of the College Democrats. “I 
think they called the election before CNN 
did.” 
Dunja Jovicic ’13, co-president of the 
College Republicans also thought the event 
went well. 
“Good outcome, good energy, so I 
think it went well in terms of an event put 
on by both groups,” she said. 
Wagman said the atmosphere in the 
Grille was exciting. 
“It was great to see so many people 
politically involved, right at the very end,” 
said Wagman. “A consistent group of peo-
ple show up at meetings every week and 
phone bank and go canvassing but it was 
amazing to see the amount of people that 
showed up to watch the election results 
come in.” 
When asked about the much-lauded 
“ground game” of the Obama campaign 
and their strength in getting people out to 
vote, Wagman said, “Looking back on this 
in the future, [the] ’08 and this campaign 
are both going to be looked at as very good 
get-out-the-vote strategies. The campaign 
really was on top of everything, especially 
in the swing states.” 
Wagman also said the results contra-
dicted the notion that Obama’s young sup-
porters would not turn out to vote a second 
time around. 
“Turnout among the youth was high-
er,” said Wagman, “Which, I think, shows 
that [an] enthusiasm gap wasn’t really 
there.” 
Looking forward, Wagman said the 
Democrats are going to continue hosting 
events and talking policy. 
“We’ll bring professors in to talk about 
different kinds of policy and what policy 
coming out of a second Obama term might 
look like. I think we are going to try to 
bring in some outside speakers as well. It’ll 
be mostly on campus, a little more quiet.” 
Wagman said the Democrats will 
continue to do voter contact in the future 
as they did during this election cycle. Af-
ter all, according to Wagman, “We have a 
House to take back in 2014.” 
Jovicic said the Republicans will also 
work to promote political dialogue on cam-
pus. 
“The main goal of both groups is to en-
gage in discourse and promote that kind of 
discussion on campus and keep awareness 
up and have an outlet for students on cam-
pus who are politically active or would like 
to be,” said Jovicic. 
The Republicans also are going to 
bring speakers to campus, including 
Middlebury alumni. 
“We had both John MacGovern ‘80 
and Randy Brock ’65 come in,” said Jovi-
cic. “We’ll try to keep bringing conserva-
tive speakers to campus, so I encourage, 
whatever you believe in, to listen because 
it’s interesting to get another perspective.” 
Like the College Democrats, Jovicic 
said the College Republican’s pace will 
slow drop that the election is over. 
“It might slow down a little bit just 
because [the presidential election] was 
the big thing this year,” said Jovicic, “but 
we just keep having our weekly meetings 
[and] keep awareness up.” 
The College Republicans also will be 
keeping on eye on future GOP presidential 
contenders. 
“The GOP is already looking towards 
2016, so we’ll probably be following up on 
what they’re doing, who could be the major 
players, who are we looking to to represent 
the Republican Party in 2016,” said Jovi-
cic. 
Overall, Jovicic said she hopes for 
political discourse on campus to be more 
open to learning both sides. 
“The more you keep your eyes and 
ears open the more you realize that there 
are conservatives on campus who really do 
care about the subject matter.” 
In regard to President Obama’s re-
election, Jovicic said, “As a club and as 
individuals we’re obviously a little disap-
-
volvement on campus. It’s just a reason to 
keep looking towards who’s going to rep-
resent us in 2016. Obviously it’s not the 
outcome that we wanted but we’ll still be 
a club and still engage with the Democrats 
and bring speakers on both sides and keep 
that discourse up.”  
By Joe Flaherty
College political groups react to election
BY SHANNON FIEDLER
hooking  sober
We’re a small school. And inherent in 
that are various characteristics and ways it 
affects our daily lives. You’re forced to talk in 
classes capped at 15. Our size affects our aca-
demic lives, our athletic lives, our social lives, 
our extra-curricular lives. And, notably, our 
dating lives.
So what does this mean for a panther-
on-the-prowl? Well if Johnny Lee was “look-
ing for love in all the wrong places,” I guess 
you could say that we’re “looking for love in 
all the same places.”
Because how easy is it to fall into a pretty 
steady routine here? Running from this class 
to that practice to that club, our days easily 
become regimented. And, I’ve noticed that 
weekends don’t offer much variation either. 
hook-up partner, your choices are limited. 
away, because you’re constantly meeting 
new people and everyone is full of possibil-
ity. But by the time you get to be a junior, it 
feels like you’ve gone to the Nordstrom’s End 
of Season Sale a day too late, and all that’s 
left are dresses in outlandish patterns, shoes 
that no one could wear outside of a Gatsby 
themed party. And in most cases, it’s not even 
that luckier and earlier customers have weed-
that you have weeded through them. Maybe 
he hooked up with your best friend or worse 
you hooked up with his best friend, and you’d 
hate for your kissing style to be conversation 
over a casual game of Super Smash Bros.
But here’s the biggest characteristic of 
hooking-up at a small school: You can run, 
but you can’t hide.
If you made-out with someone on a 
not see him the next morning as you’re bat-
tling the hangover from hell, you can’t be pos-
itive you won’t. You could run into them at 
empty carrel in the library, picking up a pack-
age at the mail center. There’s no sea of faces 
for you to get lost in. Just like you can’t hide 
in the back of a classroom if you didn’t do 
your reading, you can’t hide from a one night 
stand if you snuck out of his room at 6 a.m.
But that’s cynical me. Romantic me, 
however, can’t help but ponder: Maybe the 
qualities that make hooking-up at a small 
it wonderful?
So there are fewer options: well, think of 
it as boutique shopping. You could go to Nor-
dstrom and have to search through racks and 
or you could go to a boutique where all of the 
products are high quality and after one rack 
the dress of your dreams jumps right out at 
you. Midd kids, I like to think, are the highest 
quality. And so, instead of weeding through 
thousands of dudes, meaning thousands of 
disappointments for you, you have a much 
smaller number of boys (or girls) to skim 
And maybe you can’t hide, but if you 
don’t want to hide you can’t get lost either.  If 
you walk home from a party absolutely ga-ga 
over the guy you were just kissing, you can 
know with certainty you’ll see him sometime 
over the next week. And it’s totally organic. 
You don’t have to stalk that guy you danced 
with and didn’t know his name because, 1) 
you probably knew his name, and 2) you’ll 
run into each other naturally, eventually. 
Even though it can be hard to not get 
frustrated with what seems like a lack of op-
tion or an inability to disconnect your hook-
ups with your day-to-day life, I would argue 
that it’s a little price to pay for what a hook-
up can become. Midd kids have a pretty high 
chance of marrying other Midd kids.  Maybe 
that’s because our admissions does such a 
good job of picking those 2,500 students, 
that they’re all the most eligible bachelors 
and bachelorettes of the collegiate world. 
Maybe Johnny Lee should be looking for love 
at Middlebury. Because God knows once he 
and again. And again.
Last Friday, Carllee James ’13 celebrat-
ed being 200 days away from the end of 
a journey she started three years ago as a 
and without any idea of what she wanted to 
some time left at the College. For James, 
“It still feels far. I’m also not racing 
kind of enjoying my time here, not sad, not 
excited yet,” said James. If she was sad or 
excited, her face would be sure to tell. 
“I’m pretty reactive,” she explained, 
doesn’t sit well with me, I kind of give a 
stank face, as they say.” 
James gives kudos to her dad for both 
her facial and long-limbed expressiveness. 
Ten years ago, James had a bicycle cameo 
on an episode of Sesame Street — thanks to 
her dad as well. 
At that time, Mr. James was writing 
for Sesame Street and was able to land his 
daughter this role, as well as a meeting with 
Kevin Clash, the voice of Elmo. 
“I was pretty young when I met him so 
he did his Elmo voice and I was like, ‘Cool 
… oh my god … Elmo’s black!’”
Race is a big topic for James. She iden-
is white and her dad is black, feeling that 
the delineation of half-white and half-black 
doesn’t do her identity justice. 
“I think it’s hard because in the United 
States the racial system is this binary white-
black so there’s no real recognized biracial-
ity yet. I kind of felt like I needed to pick 
sides at some points,” said James. 
Social situations in high school in-
volved some code switching between the 
ways in which she would interact with black 
friends and white friends. Middlebury pres-
ents a different scenario.
“Because it’s so white here, when 
someone’s not white they kind of stand out. 
Really I’m just not white because I look not 
white or I look exotic and that’s kind of cool 
to people or something.”
James is working with other students 
on the JusTalks initiative, which aims to 
break down the black-white binary of stu-
dent identities. 
The project has been underway for a 
year and will culminate in an event in Jan-
uary that takes students through a day of 
activities focusing on different aspects of 
identity. 
James herself, as a tap-dancing, Fris-
bee playing, theater dabbling, psychology 
major with an interest in disabilities stud-
ies, has proven even the most expansive 
umbrellas of student identities to be too 
limiting.  
“Probably down the road, I might 
teach. I always played student and teacher 
as a kid so I grew up liking that. I just need 
to learn more before I can teach someone,” 
she said. 
James is already a teacher, though. 
At the secular Jewish camp James attends 
every summer she teaches a variety of folk 
dances to the younger campers, a cohort 
of kids who are primarily the offspring of 
radical leftists. 
“They’re very simple folk dances and I 
think the joy of it is at the end of the sum-
mer there’s a camp wide dance. That’s 
when everyone is out on the basketball 
court dancing,” she said. 
After graduation, James plans to study 
sign language, which James views as a 
dance in its own way. The limbs-and-face 
her.
“I went to this sign language immer-
sion program for a few days this past sum-
mer and I can remember everyone’s face so 
well because it’s so much about your facial 
expression. Yeah, your hands matter, but 
you’re facial expression has to go with it or 
else it doesn’t make sense to the viewer,” 
she said. 
“I probably use the least amount of 
like to play in shorts sometimes rather than 
a tutu.”
Campus character: Carllee james
Carllee James credits her father for her expresive facial reactions and her long limbs.
meredith white
By Meredith White
Zach Doleac
Courtesy of Mountain Film
arts sciences
Continuing coverage of 
the computer science 
department
Page 15
don’t
miss
this
A Night of Swing and Jazz 
The Sound Investment Jazz Ensemble and the Mid-
dlebury Swing Dance Club are coming together for a 
fantastic evening. The best way to enjoy their music is 
through the soles of your feet. So bring your dancing 
shoes, and join them for some great music and great 
dancing.
11/16, 9 P.M., MCCULLOUGH SOCIAL SPACE 
Man Forever 
The Middlebury College Department of Music presents 
Man Forever, featuring John Colpitts ’95, drummer/
composer, aka “Kid Millions,” member of the band 
Oneida. Colpitts will perform alongside students Eric 
Benepe ’13.5, Joel Feier ’13 and Nick Smaller ’14 as part 
of his residency at the College. 
11/16, 10 P.M., MAHANEY CENTER FOR THE ARTS, ROOM 125 
As You Like It
This production of William Shakespeare’s be-
loved comedy is a melancholy tale of love and 
exile, set in the early part of the 20th century, as 
the old world tips forever into the new, and all is 
forever changed. Tickets $6 for students.  Addi-
tional 2 p.m. showing on Saturday only. 
11/15-11/17, 8 P.M., WRIGHT MEMORIAL THEATER
Choirs unite in Mead Chapel for Requiem
This past weekend, the Vermont Collegiate Choral 
Consortium performed Gabriel Fauré’s Requiem at 
three locations around Vermont, including a Thursday 
night performance in Mead Chapel. The Consortium 
includes five choirs from Castleton State, Johnson 
State, Middlebury and Saint Michael’s Colleges 
and the University of Vermont (UVM). The 
Consortium started two years ago in the spring 
of 2000 with a joint performance between 
Middlebury College, Castleton State College 
and Saint Michael’s College. It was not until 
this year and the performance of Requiem that 
Johnson College and UVM joined the Consor-
tium. For all three concerts, admission was free 
with a suggested $10 donation to the Consor-
tium.
The concert began with each choir per-
forming a single solo piece. Singing from the 
balcony seats of Mead Chapel, the choirs pre-
sented a wide array of songs, varying in origin, 
language and overall energy. Saint Michael’s 
College Chorale sang first, an African-American 
spiritual medley titled “Where the Sun Will 
Never Go Down.” The first parts of the piece 
started off slowly, featuring melodious ballads 
that drew in the audience to start a spectacular 
night of music. Paradoxically and unfortunate-
ly, the energy seemed to drop a bit as the piece 
picked up pace. Saint Michael’s Chorale was 
the only of the five choirs to feature a soloist, 
though at first she seemed to get lost among the energy 
of the rest of the choir. That is, until the finale, which 
featured a powerful back and forth between the soloist 
and the rest of the choir.
Middlebury College’s own choir sang “A Boy and a 
Girl,” a slower piece composed by Eric Whitacre. The 
haunting tones of this piece framed lyrics that told the 
story of, most appropriately, the growing love between 
a boy and a girl and follow them from their first kisses 
to their final moments, buried together after death. The 
energy and emotion behind this performance of “A Boy 
and a Girl” truly outlined Middlebury College Choir’s 
strength as a cohesive group of singers and was the 
highlight of the first half of the night.
After an intermission, the main event of the night 
began. Requiem is composed of seven separate move-
ments and in between movements, the different direc-
tors of the choirs of the Consortium rotated the role of 
director for this night’s performance. A few days after 
the show, Director of Choral Activities 
Jeff Buettner spoke about the piece and 
he explained how Fauré’s Requiem was 
chosen. 
“This piece was something we 
wanted all of our students to know 
when they leave college,” he said. “It 
is a piece that is performed frequently 
by symphony orchestras and choirs 
around the world and we wanted our 
students to be aware of that culture.”
The first movement started strong 
as the choirs enveloped the room with 
their voices. At times the organ seemed 
to come in too strongly or too abruptly. 
And where the voices championed the 
first movement, the strings stole the 
show during the second movement, 
“Offertory.” Their sounds guided the 
audience through both the images of 
Hell that haunt the lyrics of “Offertory” 
and the images of hope that pervade 
throughout the whole piece.
The performance featured two 
soloists. Suzanne Kantorski-Merrill, 
soprano, sang her solo during Pie Jesu, the fourth 
movement. Her solo was one of the highlights of the 
show, though it felt as though she was separated from 
Five local choirs joined a chamber orchestra in Mead Chapel for Fauré’s Requiem.
Ben Anderson
By Ben Anderson
Do As I Say
Five Middlebury students recently 
Do As I Say, to the 
48-Hour Burlington Film Festival. The 
Hunter Nolan ’13, Zachary Doleac ’12.5, 
Matthew Lennon ’13 and Michael Gadom-
ski ’13.5. On Thursday, Nov. 8, the cast 
and gave the audience insight to the pro-
cess behind its creation. 
-
tion had to follow a particular set of rules. 
One of these rules was the inclusion of a 
large mural that looks over Burlington. 
actors, and the line “a storm is coming” 
somehow. However, the biggest obstacle 
the team had to face is the fact that the 
The team decided to streamline this pro-
cess by assigning one central role to each 
of its members. 
Seamans was in charge of writing. 
Nolan directed, Doleac was the head cin-
ematographer and Lennon edited cuts. Fi-
nally, Gadomsky was in charge of sound, 
as well as creating a completely original 
During the discussion, the group re-
a day and night scene were both needed. 
This made Lennon’s editing, usually the 
speed.
Another unique challenge the team 
faced was the draft of the actors. As the 
competition was structured, actors and 
actresses were not “made available” until 
the script writing 
Unfortunately, the team did not win 
any awards for their work. 
is discussing a grave issue to his daughter. 
home of an unhappy family. The family is 
slowly falling apart, as evidenced by the 
daughter of the family wishing her father’s 
store be consumed by arson. For whatever 
reason, this family is chosen to be the tar-
get of the protagonist, who breaks into the 
store to rob them.
The Phish line that Do As I Say used 
was “Whatever you do, take care of your 
shoes” from the song “Cavern.” It was 
used during the heist scene when the thief 
hardwood. When he realized the sounds 
of his boots would give him away, he de-
of his footsteps. But by this point it was far 
too late — he was caught in the act, lead-
ing to a conversation between the thief 
and the daughter. 
-
gathered through contextual clues, but 
felt a bit rushed due to the very nature of 
the competition.  
take on a family down on their luck, and 
the crazy things individuals are willing to 
do to keep their heads above water.
The College plans on entering the 
competition again the following year. 
Do As I Say is available online and 
is available on www.middleburycampus.
com.
Do As I Say, the College’s entry in Vermont’s 48-Hour Burlington Film Festi-
val, focuses on a dysfunctional family and a thief who tries to rob their store. 
courtesy
By Santiago Azpurua-Borras 
In this touching scene, father and daughter say their goodbyes, presumably for 
the last time as the father will face the consequences of his attempted burglary.
courtesy
SEE CHOIRS, PAGE 16
Alfred Hitchcock and randomized 
clinical trials seem like two entirely sepa-
rate topics. The former is considered to 
be one of the greatest directors of all time, 
and the latter is necessary to make sure a 
certain medical treatment is safe and ef-
fective. It may seem preposterous to com-
pare the two, but on Friday, Nov. 9, Dr. 
Richard Legro ’79 gave a lecture on how 
similar they actually are.
Legro has an illustrious academic 
and medical history: he went to medical 
school in Germany, got his clinical degree 
at Mt. Sinai, did a residency at the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh and had a fellowship 
at the University of Southern California. 
However, during his time at the College, 
Legro was an English major and did not 
take any of the pre-med requirements. 
Rather, he was fascinated by literature 
and film.
Legro opened the lecture by asking 
the audience if they knew who Alfred 
Hitchcock was. After the laughter died 
down, Legro explained that his talk would 
describe why randomized clinical trials 
are important and what Hitchcock can 
teach us about clinical trials.
Before diving into the meat of the 
lecture, Legro first touched upon the mis-
conception that “great art and science are 
the work of individual geniuses working 
in solitude.” He noted that we tend to 
over-romanticize medicine, providing ex-
amples of “solo” scientists such as Alex-
ander Fleming, who discovered penicillin. 
However, no one person achieved these 
breakthroughs alone — for instance, once 
penicillin’s use was discovered, there 
were hundreds of people mass-producing 
the penicillin mold to extract the antibi-
otic.
Randomized clinical trials (RCT) de-
crease biases from both investigators and 
subjects. The randomization aspect pre-
vents such biases. Legro then explained 
another reason why RCTs are needed — 
to “eliminate common but ineffective, es-
tablished treatments.” 
He then delivered the gist of the lec-
ture: RCTs are analogous to films such as 
Hitchcock’s because they are costly and 
time intensive, and require planning, ex-
pertise and complex interactions between 
stakeholders. In addition, both films and 
experimental results can be interpreted 
in many ways. Legro gave the example 
of silent movies, where the lines in the 
dialogue box could change the tone of the 
moving images from dramatic to satirical. 
The same can be done with experimental 
results — the “producers” can choose to 
show the “audience” what they feel the 
audience wants to see. He explained that 
this is not science, but rather, marketing.
Legro gave the example of a hor-
mone treatment for menopause. It was 
widely advocated based on “perceived 
health benefits.” However, pharmaceuti-
cal companies were advertising this treat-
ment before all of the clinical trials had 
been completed. Legro made a dark com-
ment: “How could they know [the pros 
and cons] when the facts weren’t in yet?” 
Companies were advertising a product 
that had unknown side effects. Finally, 
a RCT was done, and found that there 
were many problems with the hormone 
treatment, including blood clots, heart 
disease, breast cancer and dementia. Ex-
pectedly, prescriptions decreased.
In addition to the “selling point” as-
pect, Hitchcock’s films can teach scien-
tists about the importance of cooperation, 
planning and having a team of experts 
working in tandem to produce the best 
results. Legro noted that “scientists must 
lead trials from conception to completion 
by developing protocols, analyzing re-
sults, presenting and publishing data and 
publicizing it to colleagues and laypeo-
ple.” Also, Hitchcock chose important, 
captivating themes such as death, love 
and sex. Legro drew scientific compari-
sons to these themes: respectively, sur-
vival from cancer, infertility treatments 
and erectile dysfunction, all of which are 
important to either survival or quality of 
life. Legro also said that Hitchcock’s films 
were produced efficiently and swiftly be-
cause of all the meticulous planning that 
went into the storyboarding. By focusing 
on the planning stages and putting effort 
into a storyboard — or a scientific pro-
tocol — the filming (or experimenting) 
can go much smoother. Lastly, Hitch-
cock’s famous MacGuffins (the thing that 
everyone is chasing after in the movie) 
also make appearances in the scientific 
world. Researchers may think they are 
pursuing one goal, but could end up find-
ing an entirely different result.
At the end of the lecture, Legro en-
couraged students to think indepen-
dently and “turn off the internet.” He 
emphasized the importance of planning 
and preparation as the keys to realizing 
project goals. He also made clear that, 
as scientists or doctors, standing on the 
“shoulders of giants” is essential to scien-
tific prowess. 
Finally, Legro called attention to the 
success of scientists who build on other 
people’s work and work with others who 
are doing great work.
“There is no I in auteur,” he said.  
this week on wrmc 91.1 fm
PUNK ‘N FUNK WITH HALLEY LAMBERSON, ELLIE OAKLEY AND BECCA ROE
Get ready for Punk ‘n Funk: bring your dancing shoes and your groove to bust a move.
FRIDAY 12:30 - 2 P.M.
S&M: SPORTS AND METEOROLOGY WITH DELLA CUMMINGS
S&M: where we talk about your favorite topic. Sports and Meteorology. 
THURSDAY 8 - 9 A.M. 
ONCE IN A LIFETIME WITH DYLAN REDFORD, MOSS TURPAN
Once in a Lifetime combines music and narrative journalism to explore the many dif-
ferent kinds of relationships people in the Middlebury community have developed with 
music throughout their lives. Each week, the show features a different guest who shares 
his or her own special experience with music and joins the DJs in contemplating the fas-
cinating bond between music and memory in the contemporary world.
SUNDAY 4 - 6 P.M.
ROADTRIP RADIO WITH BECKY GOODMAN, SALLY CARUSO AND PATRICK FREEMAN
Featuring local and classic music from sea to shining sea, as well as a weekly Vermont 
spotlight.
SATURDAY 12:30 - 2 P.M.
Speaker connects the art of Hitchcock and clinical trials
By Deirdre Sackett
“I disdain green eggs and green ham.” 
Easy enough to simplify this sentence down 
to the classic Dr. Seuss: “I do not like green 
eggs and ham.” The leap from complexity to 
simplicity is easy for the human brain. But 
it’s an entirely different story for a comput-
To grasp the scope of the computer’s 
problem, imagine this scenario: you only 
speak English, you’re handed a complex 
sentence in Chinese and you’re told to sim-
plify it to the level of the average Chinese 
kindergarten student. Not so easy.
This is the problem that Assistant Pro-
fessor of Computer Science David Kauchak 
has been working on for the past two years. 
processing on a problem called “text simpli-
with Kauchack on his research this past 
summer, explained that natural language 
processing is basically “equipping comput-
ers to understand language spoken by hu-
mans.”
“It’s computer science with linguistics 
really,” said Kauchak. “The basic premise 
is this: you give me a document and I’ll try 
to create a program that automatically sim-
-
matical complexity and reducing the com-
plexity of the vocabulary.”
Written material is generally composed 
at the reading level of the author and not 
the reader. Communication breakdown oc-
curs when a document is simply to complex 
for the reader to understand. This can cre-
ate real communication challenges in the 
realm of politics, medicine and education.
“There’s a lot of applications for this,” 
Kauchak said. “One of the most interest-
ing is in the medical domain. There’s a lot 
of information out there on diseases, treat-
ments, diagnoses. But there have been a 
number of studies that show that a lot of 
people don’t have the reading ability to 
comprehend most of the literature that’s 
available. There’s a study that said 89 mil-
lion people in the US — that’s a little over a 
quarter of the population — don’t have suf-
documentation that is given to them.”
One solution to this problem would be 
to simply have the authors of the literature 
write the material at a lower reading level. 
But that would require a massive systemic 
overhaul of medical writing standards.
“That’s a non-trivial overhaul, and 
that’s just not going to happen in the near 
future,” said Kauchak. “The goal of this 
project is to be able to do that sort of sim-
could take a medical pamphlet about cancer 
or diabetes, and be able to produce similar 
content but in a way that’s easier to under-
stand for somebody who doesn’t have that 
higher reading level.”
population) are foreign-born, and of those 
has incredible potential to facilitate com-
munication for U.S. residents with English 
as a second language by creating simpli-
articles, information pamphlets — for these 
But going back to the earlier scenario: 
how does one train a computer to simplify 
a document in a language of which it has no 
fundamental understanding? It all comes 
down to statistics, probability and creative 
programming.
Kauchak used a language translation 
analogy — easier to understand than the 
the process. If there is a list of sentence pairs 
— one sentence in Chinese and its English 
equivalent — you would tell the computer 
to use the list to establish a probability that 
one word will translate to another.
“I see this word in Chinese in let’s say 
sentences I see exactly this other word,” 
said Kauchak. “And in the other 30 English 
cases, there’s a different word. Based on 
these ratios, I can establish the probabilities 
of how a word will be translated. Then you 
try and “teach” your model these different 
types of probabilities. So there’s two steps: 
the training, where you try and learn these 
probabilities from your data that’s aligned, 
and the translation step, where you take a 
new sentence, and based on what you’ve 
seen before, ask: what are all the possible 
ways I could put the words and phrases in 
this sentence together, and which of those is 
the most likely? It’s all about probability, es-
tablishing numerical relations. You can’t do 
this manually. Because from a decent-sized 
data set you’re going to end up with a few 
hundred thousand, maybe a million words. 
And so for each of those words, you’re going 
on the word — possible translations. It’s not 
something you’re doing manually. It’s a lot 
of data.”
That’s how to train a computer to trans-
late from one language to another. Train-
ing it to simplify a complex sentence is a 
little trickier, and it involves analyzing the 
grammatical structure of the sentence, and 
isn’t.
Kauchak was attracted to natural lan-
guage processing because of its intuitive 
nature.
“It’s easy to get excited about,” he said. 
“People do it on a day-to-day basis. It’s very 
tangible, very human. And being able to 
look at a problem and understand the input 
and the output. It’s very satisfying.”
By Will Henriques
science sp   tlight: natural language processing 
his research, Kauchak is working on natural language processing in computers. 
jiayi zhu
 | november 15, 2012 arts SCIENCES15
november 15, 2012  | arts SCIENCES16
Kid Millions, aka John Colpitts ’95, has 
played with the experimental rock band 
Oneida for 15 years.  His current solo act, 
Man Forever, incorporates local talent from 
the locations where he has performances. 
The Campus had the privilege of speak-
ing with him before he began his weeklong 
residency at the College, during which he 
taught classes and worked with student 
bands. As the culmination of his week at 
the College, Kid Millions will be giving a 
performance with students Erik Benepe 
’13.5, Joel Feier ’13 and Nick Smaller ’14 
Friday evening in the Kevin P. Mahaney ’84 
Center for the Arts.
Middlebury Campus: How big of 
a departure for you was your solo album 
Pansophical Cataract in comparison to 
what you’d been doing with Oneida?
Kid Millions: The reason I did some-
thing outside of Oneida was because I was 
asked by a label that’s part of the Secretly 
Canadian family. That family of record 
labels puts out Oneida records, and they 
asked me to do something different. And, 
yeah, I guess it was a big departure in some 
ways because it was just me and I called all 
the shots.
MC: How did you come up with the 
name Kid Millions? Did it come from the 
old movie?
KM: The name came from the movie, 
but not because I saw it. Our band was 
touring in Salt Lake City, and I saw a poster 
somewhere for the movie and was like ‘OK.’ 
I’d wanted a new name when I was travel-
ing because I felt like I was kind of shy and 
not outgoing enough. I’d actually named 
myself different things with other bands, so 
it just made sense at the time.
MC: You try to get local talent to ac-
company your new solo guise Man Forever 
when you travel. How does this manner of 
performing differ from having a set band 
play with you?
KM: With preparation it’s like a whole 
different game because when you travel 
with a band you’re basically rehearsing ev-
ery night.  With this, I have to start from 
scratch every night.  I have to see what kind 
of musicians I get. I usually like to get two 
hours with them. I try to send scores in ad-
vance, but even then they might have dif-
ferent expectations of what I want.  It’s very 
different, but the cool thing is I get to meet 
-
ferent people everywhere I go and we get 
to hang out.  That’s one of the biggest posi-
tives.  For the most part, people are thrilled 
to do the pieces.
MC: Is there a certain philosophy that 
informs your music-making or does it just 
come about organically?
KM: I’d say there’s a philosophy.  The 
people I’ve worked with tend to be rock and 
experimental people. They’re not typically 
conservatory musicians, not used to just 
getting a score and playing it.  People in 
this world are more about expressing them-
selves — that’s the assumption they take 
with them to the stage.  What I really want-
ed to do was to get people to stop express-
ing themselves because I was really sick of 
it.  I was getting sick of the jamming aspect 
of live performance, and I wanted the mu-
sic to be more of just one sound.  Of course 
there’s a lot that goes into it, but the general 
philosophy for me is to simplify.  ... It’s use-
ful if you have facility on some instruments, 
but it’s not everything. All of that technique 
is removed, and it’s just about the music, I 
hope.
MC: -
cially start and what kind of things will you 
be doing?
KM: I get [to the College] on Tuesday 
morning, and I’m going to be working with 
a couple of classes. One is [Professor of 
Music] Su Tan’s composition class Music 
209 and the other is [Christian A. John-
son Professor of Music] Peter Hamlin’s 
Electronic Music 212.  With Su Tan, I’ll be 
talking to students about the practical steps 
and choices that you would want to make 
to have a career in music.  I want to demys-
tify it a little bit.  I want to just give people 
a set of resources and tools to look up and 
use in order to bridge the gap between aca-
demia and life outside of that because it’s 
hard to really know anything when you’re 
in school.  
When I was at Middlebury it was won-
derful. I had these great teachers, but I was 
really on my own in terms of conceptual-
izing how to make music part of my life 
outside of school. It didn’t feel like it was 
possible.  That might have been in my head, 
but it also felt like there were assumed 
pathways that my professors were aware of 
and then there was a whole pathway out-
side of that that I wasn’t aware of.  I want to 
talk about that so people will be focused on 
their studies but also know what it would 
take to be part of a musical community out-
side of that.
With Peter Hamlin’s class I’m doing 
a remix project. I’ll be talking to students 
about that, and I have a few tracks that 
haven’t been released yet that we’ll work 
on. Potentially, the artists whose tracks 
these are might use what we make if they 
like the remixes.
I’m also doing workshops for bands. 
That will happen for all the days I’m there. 
I think the idea is for me to hear students 
perform and I’ll just talk about it with them 
— hear what they want to get out of per-
forming and doing music. From there I can 
give them ways to develop that.  
Also, at night I’m working with three 
Middlebury students to play my music. 
We’re going to rehearse the music and 
play a show on Friday night at the school 
in room 125 in the Center for the Arts. The 
group that I’m working with will also play 
in Montreal on Saturday and Burlington on 
Sunday.
MC: How does it feel to come back to 
your alma mater to teach and give a perfor-
mance?  
KM: Well I don’t know yet. I’m excited 
though. It’s complicated, honestly. I’m ner-
vous because I feel like the caliber of stu-
dent is going to be really high and I need 
to address that and hold my own. But no, 
I’m really excited.  Middlebury was a really 
perfect place for me when I was that age. I 
was getting my bearings with music. I knew 
I wanted to get serious about music, but I 
just didn’t know what kind of place I was 
going to have with it. I think Middlebury 
is such a small community that it’s safe 
taste. I’m really curious just to see what 
things will be like. When I was there, it was 
music like me.  I’m curious to see what is 
compelling to students in college now.
MC: What can people expect from the 
performance Friday evening?
KM: Well, I’m not 100 percent sure. 
It’s going to be something we develop while 
I’m there.  I think it will be something re-
the hallmarks of American minimalism 
crossed with say punk. Perhaps even some 
improvisation within limited boundaries. 
It should be fun.
Musician alumn returns for residency 
By Grady Trela
This studio, which no one had never heard 
of before, was tasked with creating the long-
awaited true sequel to one of the most be-
loved series of our time: Halo. I was skepti-
cal. Bungie had put their hearts and souls 
into this amazingly fun (if a bit campy) uni-
verse, so how did these guys ever expect to 
be able to compare? Much to my surprise: 
they did shockingly well. Because the game 
is so massive, I will be focusing on the mul-
tiplayer for this review as it has always been 
a big part of the Halo franchise and it’s 
back, bigger than ever.
again my fears were poorly placed. While 
the game does take some cues from its hot-
selling competition, its core identity is very 
much Halo. 
The big changes in gameplay are the 
loadouts. Halo 4 now allows players to cus-
tomize their beginning loadouts, with their 
choice in starting weapons as well as various 
perks and armor 
powers. What this 
system brilliantly 
balances is that 
unlockable weap-
ons are the fairly 
standard weapons and not anything that 
will give you an unfair advantage on the 
That’s the other big change in the mul-
tiplayer: get three kills without dying, and 
you are granted an ordinance drop, a se-
lection of one of three possibilities ranging 
from weapons to bonus abilities such as a 
speed or damage boost. 
The maps come back in full swing and 
vary greatly in terms of visual appeal as well 
as what game types are viable on it. All the 
classics are back such as slayer, capture the 
include Flood, which serves as a zombie-
game type of griftball (yes, the very griftball 
from the beloved Red vs. Blue online Ma-
chinima series). 
As for the new weapons, Halo 4 does 
not shy away. The most obvious are the 
promethean weapons that look like they’re 
made from futuristic lego bricks and pack 
quite the punch. There are also a lot of little 
tweaks that Halo veterans will immediately 
notice, such as the rocket launcher which 
has nerfed its splash damage. In addition, 
the plasma pistol can act as an EMT pulse 
when it is used on vehicles, and dual wield-
ing is completely missing. While I feel it was 
never used extensively, I do miss running 
around like a maniac while dual wielding 
I also want to make special mention of 
the Mantis, a bi-pedal walking robot suit 
equipped with a machine gun on one hand 
and a grenade launcher in the other. The 
thing is ridiculously strong, incredibly over-
(once you can actually get that close to it, 
that is). 
Much like Halo Reach, there are a mul-
titude of challenges for the player to chase 
after while he or she plays online. These 
things range from assassinating opponents 
to being an assistant towards a team player. 
These give objective-based players some-
thing to work for, even if he or she does not 
care about the various cosmetic options that 
are slowly unlocked for your character as 
you play. 
This cosmetic customization also fea-
tures a very silly feature: as you rank up, 
your customization menu will excitedly tell 
you that you have new items in your cache 
and signals this by placing a gold star next 
to the appropriate menu selection. Yet as 
you open them, you realize that they are still 
locked; the game just teases you at how cool 
your character could look, but you must be 
ready to work for it. 
Halo 4 features both online play as well 
as local multiplayer, but no matter what re-
gion of the world you try to throw plasma 
grenades at, you will always be having a 
great time. 
one life left
BY SANTIAGO AZPURUA-BORRAS
halo 4
Xbox 360
Mature
the strings at points and the performance 
could have been enhanced by more 
interplay between her and the orchestra. 
The other soloist was David Nieween, a 
baritone, who sang during the piece’s sixth 
movement, “Libera Me.” His strong entry 
set the stage for a full ensemble build and 
one of the emotional high points of the 
night.
The climax of the piece came dur-
the choirs sang words of redemption, the 
whole chamber orchestra built to an explo-
sion of emotion and then dropped off into 
the piece: “Grant them eternal rest, O Lord, 
and may perpetual light shine upon them.”
While the shear number of singers in 
the room, covering both the stage and the 
balconies above, was almost overwhelming, 
perhaps the most impressive part of the 
experience was the coordination it took to 
put it all together. 
“One of our many challenges is that 
we do not have much time to rehearse the 
piece together,” said Buettner. “Each choir 
practiced it on their own for many weeks 
but for the whole performance we only had 
one day to rehearse the entire group and 
that puts pressure on things. You need to 
be very organized and anticipate what you 
will need to work on the most. But that’s 
also part of the fun.”
“My favorite part was when I would 
forget my own expectations for the music 
and I would simply listen and look up and 
see all of my students and all of these other 
students singing and listen to the beautiful 
sound that they were producing,” he con-
tinued. “It was really quite remarkable and 
incredibly rewarding because the music 
meant more than even what the piece was 
supposed to mean and that is the beauty of 
these major works. They’re something you 
have to put together with other people.”
Going forward, Buettner is hopeful for 
the future of the Consortium. During the 
2013-14 academic year, the Middlebury 
College Choir will be on tour in Austria and 
Germany, so it is unlikely that there will be 
any major Consortium shows. However, 
after Middlebury College Choir’s return, 
the Consoritum plans to hit the ground 
running with more shows of the caliber of 
Fauré’s Requiem.
Choirs enchant Mead Chapel audience
ISO cultural show
11/17 
 5:30 & 8 P.m.
McCullough social space
$6 for students
as you like it
11/15 - 11/16 — 8 P.M., 
11/17 — 2 and 8 p.m.
wright theater
$6 for students
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 14
frantic clearances. Much of the play 
occurred in the midfield as both teams 
tried to establish themselves. The play 
was also especially physical, with both 
teams exerting aggressive pressure on 
the ball.
Middlebury, Kirk especially, had a 
few decent chances. The striker was first 
played through on the left wing, taking 
on a defender before Misericordia’s 
goalkeeper made a good save on her 
near post. Kirk came close again after 
controlling a long ball from Favorito, 
trying to chip it over the oncoming 
goalkeeper, but was unable to get the 
power needed.
Despite early Middlebury domination, 
Misericordia opened the scoring account 
against the run of play in the 24th 
minute. Sam Helmstetter latched onto a 
cross and was able to turn her defender 
before tucking the ball into the right 
hand corner.
Despite going down a goal, the 
Panthers continued to challenge 
Misericordia. After a quick turn 
surrounded by defenders, Kirk’s lob 
narrowly went over the crossbar. The 
half finished with a scramble in front 
of the Cougars goal before the ball was 
cleared off the line.
Misericordia started off the stronger 
of the two teams in the second half, 
building on the confidence from their 
first goal. Helmstetter in particular was 
a problem for the Middlebury defenders, 
constantly pressuring them when in 
possession.
Middlebury created some chances 
throughout the second half, pressing for 
an equalizer. Favorito narrowly missed 
the goal with a powerful strike that sent 
the Cougars goalkeeper diving to her 
left. Kirk also created a good opportunity 
after stealing the ball on the edge of the 
18-yard box and driving to the edge of 
the touchline before unleashing a high 
shot.
There was a sense of urgency for the 
Panthers in the final 10 minutes of the 
game as the team began to pick up pace. 
They bombarded Misericordia’s box 
with numerous crosses as the defenders 
scrappily hung on and even cleared a 
shot off the line. They were unable to 
equalize, however, as they went on to 
lose 1-0.
“Everyone was disappointed that 
our season came to an end on Sunday, 
especially because we felt like this group 
really could have gone all the way in the 
tournament,” said Maddy Boston ’13. 
“On Sunday, despite out-shooting and 
out-playing [Misericordia], we didn’t 
having any luck in scoring. Sometimes 
soccer just goes that way.”
Middlebury ends their season with a 
record of 13-2-2, but great hope for the 
future. 
“Overall, I’m proud of how much hard 
work and dedication this group brought 
every day this season,” Schlueter 
said. “Our ability to demand more of 
ourselves and each other raised the level 
at which we played to a new standard 
for Middlebury women’s soccer. I can’t 
wait for them go above and beyond that 
standard next season.”
November 15, 2012| 17SPORTS
minutes, including a blast from Fowler 
which went just wide of goal, but wasn’t 
able to score, sending the game into extra 
time.
In sudden-death overtime, the 
Panthers immediately found themselves 
on the defensive end, as three 
early DePauw penalty corners 
provided the Tigers with several 
scoring opportunities. 
Five minutes into the period, 
DePauw’s Paige Henry launched 
a hard shot past Brooks, sending 
celebration and stunning the 
previously unbeaten Panthers.
13 saves to lead DePauw, who 
record of 18-1, while failing in their quest 
since 1998. The Panthers’ four seniors have 
seen the team’s record improve over each 
of their four years, culminating with an 
NCAA tournmanet play in each of the last 
four seasons.
“I am very proud of what our team has 
accomplished this year,” said Greer. “We 
created an unbelievable 
amount of momentum from 
the very beginning of the 
season and just rode with it. 
We set out to compete and 
win games and we ended up 
winning 18 in a row.”
Middlebury’s all-time scoring 
leader with 111 goals and 267 
points. Last year’s national 
player of the year, she will 
merit strong consideration 
for that title again this season.
school team records: goals in a season (100), 
shutouts (nine) and consecutive games 
without allowing a goal (eight). Brooks’ 
record-breaking goals-against average of 
0.68 speaks to the all-around dominance 
that this team has displayed throughout the 
season, as they outscored their opponents 
100-17 on the year.
Greer, however, looks beyond the 
the season.
“Most importantly, I think, is that every 
day we had fun playing,” said Greer. “That’s 
how we were successful.”
Panthers ousted from NCAAs by Depauw
panther sc0reboard
women’s soccer vs. Misericordia  
football  vs. Tufts 
volleyball vs. Clarkson
men’s rugby vs. Southern Conn.
field hockey vs. Depauw
1-0 L 
35-13 W
3-1 L
40-5 W
2-1 L (OT)
The Panthers split the 
weekend’s games as they fall 
in NCAA second round.
The NESCAC champs lose 
three straight sets in second 
round NCAA exit.
Football caps a 7-1 season 
with a blowout vs. Jumbos.
conference title.
Perfect season comes to an 
end as Panthers cannot get 
by Depauw in OT thriller.
Women’s soccer fails to score in season ending loss
CONTINUED FROM 20
CONTINUED FROM 20
“We set out to 
compete and 
win games and 
we ended up 
winning 18 in a 
row.”
Lauren Greer ’13
 tri-captain 
jiayi zhu
Charlotte Gardiner ’13 watches as first-year midfielder Anna Kenyon ’16, who 
scored a goal on her one shot of the game, dribbles by a Skidmore defender.
WANT TO WORK FOR THIS GUY???
Have any interest in getting a level B job on campus? ! e Middlebury   
Campus is looking for a new o"  ce manager for spring 2013. Pay starts at 
$9.20/hour. Please email qpro# er@middlebury.edu if interested!
JOIN OUR PACK
WRITE FOR THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE INTERESTED, EMAIL CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
| November 15, 201218 sports
After beating Trinity, Bowdoin and 
Connecticut College to win the NESCAC 
Championship last weekend, the Middlebury 
volleyball team defeated Southern Vermont 
NCAA Tournament on Friday night, Nov. 9. 
The Panthers could not advance out of the 
regional round on Saturday, however, as 
Clarkson ended Middlebury’s season by the 
same score.
Despite the second-round exit, the 
campaign was a resounding success for 
the Panthers, recipients of their fourth 
conference title. 
“The championship was a total team effort 
with everyone contributing to the wins,” said 
outside hitter Meg Anderson ’14. 
Southern Vermont College, entered the 
evenly matched, and it took Middlebury four 
sets to take down Southern Vermont and 
Middlebury’s defense was unstoppable in 
the Southern Vermont offense and denying 
them multiple opportunities to put points on 
the board. 
In the third set, however, the 
Mountaineers took over and won the set by 
four points. Southern Vermont senior Jessica 
and totaling a .343 hitting percentage in the 
game. After letting one set go, however, the 
Panthers came back to claim the fourth set 
and seal the victory. 
tri-captain Caitlin Barrett ’13 steered the 
round of the NCAA tournament making a 
statement with a .444 hitting percentage and 
four blocks to go along with it. The 3-1 win 
advanced the team to the second round of the 
NCAA tournament, against the host squad, 
third-seeded Clarkson University. 
but this time the result was not in favor of the 
Panthers, who dropped three straight sets 
season come to an end after the tough four-
Middlebury took immediate control from 
Haderlein’s aces. In the next couple of sets 
Middlebury trailed behind Clarkson by a 
few points and in all situations the lead got 
the best of them and kept the Panthers from 
grasping a win in any of the last three sets.
“A few of the Clarkson hitters got hot 
hands in the last three games and we couldn’t 
get a good block on them,” Barrett said. “The 
played really well. We made a few unforced 
errors in the last three games and that kind of 
changed things around.”
 Although the team did not leave the 
court as victors, they still had some notable 
moments from the match. Amy Hart ’14 had 
Jarchow ’14 also reached 11 kills and a trio 
of block assists. Haderlein had another 
Barrett, Madeline Firestone ’13, and Jarchow, 
has a lot to be proud of as they hang up their 
jerseys, leaving the program considerably 
stronger than when they arrived.
“Looking back on things, it’s really cool to 
see how far the program has come since my 
to be there and hoping we could make a run. 
And now the past two or three years we go 
to the NESCAC Tournament expecting to 
win and hoping to go as far as we can in the 
NCAA Tournament. It’s really cool to see 
each recruiting class is stronger and stronger 
and that’s awesome for the program.” 
Volleyball falls to Clarkson in 
second round of NCAA t0urney 
By Mary Claire Ecclesine
8
Women’s Hockey
Lauren Greer can focus on 
ice hockey now.
1
RANKING TEAM
Damon’s Decisions
2
Cross Country
Running to the top: First and 
third in the NCAA Regionals.
Football
John Wiet, you guys.
3
FIELD HOCKEY
too soon.
4 
Women’s Soccer
talented team.
5 VOlleyballAnother deep postseason run 
7
Men’s Basketball
Ranked fourth in the country 
6
MCRC
What they’ve accomplished in 
the middlebury
great  eight
editors’ picks
Tom clayton (21-19, .525) Owen Teach (41-47, .465)Damon Hatheway (78-65, .545)
CLOSEST GUESS: How many 
goals will men’s hockey have 
this weekend against Colby and 
Bowdoin?
CLOSEST GUESS: How many 
points will Joey Kizel ’14 
average in this weekend’s 
Lebanon Valley tournament?
OVER/UNDER: Three points for 
Lauren Greer ’13 in women’s 
hockey action vs. Colby and 
Bowdoin.
Championships this weekend: 
men’s or women’s cross 
country?
What will the Lakers’ record, 
with new coach Mike D’Antoni, 
be vs. Phoenix and Houston? 
This is still the most complete 
team in the West and Houston 
isn’t as good as people think.
SEVEN
Will the hockey team avoid 
another slow start? Two wins 
this weekend would help.
guard in the NESCAC.
UNDER
It usually takes a couple weeks 
to get your skates back under 
you. Or so I’ve been told.
EIGHT
Some nerves, some confusion, 
weekend usually means high-
scoring games. 
SEVEN
Hopefully they carry that 
momentum from last year 
right into Colby.
Should be a big day against 
Ursinus.
After the graduation of Ryan 
leader of this team.
UNDER
If she is not able to exchange 
hockey equipment in time, she 
will be at a huge disadvantage. 
UNDER
I’ll be in trouble if her scoring 
carries over to the ice. So will 
Colby and Bowdoin.
D’Antoni will do well there until 
Dwight Howard starts to hate 
him for mysterious reasons. 
1-1
James Harden is thriving on 
the Rockets.
MEN’S
See the Middlebury Great Eight.
MEN’S
They dominated NESCACs.
MEN’S
Hopefully the women don’t 
get too much motivation from 
my answer.
Cross country teams qualify for NCAA Championships
The Middlebury men’s and women’s 
cross country teams continued their 
streak of success this season, with 
the Panther men taking first and the 
Panther women taking third at the NCAA 
Regional Final this past Saturday, Nov. 
The men were able to edge out the 49 
other teams, including fellow NESCAC 
competitors Bowdoin and Bates, for their 
first NCAA Regional title with a score of 
91 points. Due to difficulties computing 
the final team scores the men learned 
that they had won only once they were in 
line to accept individual awards.
“It was very cool to be with your team 
and get surpised with that together,” said 
men’s team co-captain Jack Davies ’13. 
The Middlebury women, meanwhile, 
placed right behind MIT and NESCAC 
Davies, who placed third in a nail-
the  eight kilometer race, led the men. 
after first-place finisher Coby Horowitz 
of Bowdoin and nine milliseconds after 
second-place finisher Samuel Seekins of 
Bowdoin as well. While Bowdoin took 
the top two spots in the race, Davies’ 
performance was followed up by a 
team-wide effort with Nate Sans ’14, co-
captain Patrick Hebble ’13, Kevin Wood 
respectively. These strong efforts were 
crucial in allowing Middlebury to secure 
the top spot with the lowest amount of 
cumulative points of the entire field.
“It shows we’re a deep, well-rounded 
team,” Davies said. “Our two, three, four 
and five runners finished right together. 
It shows that we work with each other, 
it’s evidence of our training with each 
other all year and shows that we have 
confidence in one another.”  
Addie Tousley ’13 led the Middlebury 
women by finishing second in the 
Amherst racer Keri Lambert who placed 
performance was complemented by a 
finishes from Emily Attwood ’14, Sarah 
Rominger ’14, respectively. 
Each of the top-five Panther men 
racers and the top-six Panther women’s 
racers earned All-New England Honors 
race.  
Women’s tri-captain Juliet Ryan-
Davis ’13 commented on the team’s level 
of excitement heading into the NCAA 
championships. 
“This is an exciting opportunity for 
both the men’s and women’s teams,” 
said Ryan-Davis. “Making it to NCAA’s 
in such good standing within the New 
England region is a huge accomplishment 
already. Our teams have been focusing 
all season long on tightening the gap 
between every runner. Now it’s just 
a matter of putting it all out there and 
seeing what we can do.”
The strong finishes from both Panther 
teams secured spots for the two squads 
in this weekends NCAA championship. 
Middlebury will travel to Terre Haute, 
Indiana this coming Saturday to 
individual qualifiers from around the 
nation in hopes of winning a national 
championship. 
By Gabe Weissman
The Middlebury College Rugby Club 
(MCRC) beat Southern Connecticut 
State University 40-5 at a neutral site  on 
the campus of American International 
College in Springfield, Mass. on 
Saturday, Nov. 10. With the win the 
Blue clinched the East Coast Rugby 
Conference (ECRC) and a berth in the 
National Championship tournament this 
spring. 
The team finished the fall 
campaign, their second season 
since moving up to the Division 
I-AA ECRC, with a 6-1 record.
In the final match of a 
decorated four-year career, 
All-American and Blue captain 
Brian Sirkia ’12.5 led the side in 
scoring with two tries and five 
conversions. 
“There was no way he was 
going to let the MCRC lose this 
game,” said coach John Phillips. 
“ He led by example, leading 
from the front, setting the tone of how 
we play.”
“We try to think of ourselves as a 
machine that takes care of business 
every Saturday,” said Sirkia. “[We 
show] no emotion, no overconfidence or 
laziness, just fuel during the week and 
act professionally on Saturday morning. 
That approach has worked for us so far.”
The mechanistic win capped the 
career of a player coach John Phillips has 
described as unique. 
“He will be missed, for his leadership 
skills on and off the field. He was truly 
one of the great captains of the MCRC,” 
Phillips said.
The side has reached the national 
tournament in six of the 
last seven years, but this 
year’s bid is the first since 
the step up to Division I. 
“I think that going into 
the game against Boston 
College two weeks ago we 
were too caught up with 
thinking about how we 
needed to win and how 
that was the big chance 
to win the league,” said 
Ben Stasiuk ’13.5. “We had 
been thinking about that 
game for weeks, unlike any other game 
where I feel before we seemed to only 
prepare for that week’s game and then 
move forward to the next week’s. I think 
this put too much hype on the game and 
our heads were too occupied with what 
was on the line and we did not adjust to 
our mistakes well and committed tons of 
penalties.”
Saturday’s match began with another 
slew of penalties, and when Laird Silsby 
’15 was sent off for the match with a 
yellow card, the Blue faced the remainder 
of the match short one man. 
“We just stayed completely level 
headed and made the adjustments we 
had to make on our own game. I am 
really proud of the adaptability and 
control shown by everyone on the team,” 
Stasiuk said.
Once the side settled down the result 
followed with relative ease. Playing with 
poise in the backfield, Stasiuk, Sirkia and 
Dylan Whitaker ’13 controlled possession 
and distributed the ball to the side’s fleet 
outside runners. 
The champion of the ECRC earns an 
automatic bid to the national tournament 
in the spring. The side will reconvene 
after the holidays to resume training and 
initiate a crop of new players added in 
the interim.
“Rugby practice will start up again 
mid to late March and we will have a 
few scrimmages against various teams to 
prep for the tournament. Dartmouth won 
the Ivy League so we are really hoping to 
get another crack at them,” said Stasiuk. 
“We are also getting some great players 
coming back from abroad and guys who 
play football in the fall.”
The captain will be difficult to replace, 
but Sirkia leaves the club in better shape 
than he found it in. 
“Every member of the club, not the 
just the 23 first-side players, are working 
incredibly hard and contributing,” said 
Sirkia. “The cohesion of the whole club 
is stronger than it’s ever been since I’ve 
been here, which makes a difference 
every day.” 
yards and a score in just 1:56. Driscoll 
caught three passes including a one-
yard touchdown reception, breaking 
both records on the possession. On the 
touchdown play, Driscoll lined up on 
the far side of the field behind first-year 
wideout Matt Minno ’16 in what appeared 
to be a power run formation. Pre-snap, 
however, Driscoll came in motion into 
the slot before darting back towards the 
sideline as the ball was snapped and 
hauling in a low pass, perfectly placed by 
Foote.
“A lot of teams like to go man-to-man 
at the goal line, so we thought if we could 
get in motion, if they were in man we’d 
see it,” Driscoll said. “Meanwhile, I’d go 
in motion, keep carrying [my defender 
inside] and get his hips turned and then 
pop back out.”
Foote finished the half 23-32 from the 
air for 220 yards and two touchdowns in 
what was his most impressive half of the 
season.
“I felt really good in the beginning of 
the game,” Foote said. “They were only 
rushing three so it gave me a lot of time 
to find guys and I was able to hit some 
underneath routes.” 
Middlebury extended its lead shortly 
after the break. Following stalled drives 
for both teams, Foote led a nine-play 42-
yard drive as much with his feet as with 
his arm. Facing third-and-nine from the 
Tufts 18-yard line, Foote escaped from 
a collapsing pocket, scampering to the 
sideline and absorbing a hit for a six-
yard gain. On the next play — a fourth-
and-three — Foote took off for the second 
time, lowering his helmet at the line of 
scrimmage and falling forward for a 
crucial first down. After missing a wide-
open Amster in the end zone on a sure 
touchdown pass, Foote connected with 
Amster on the next play, threading the 
needle between two Jumbos defenders 
for a touchdown.
Having conceded 21 points, the 
visitors responded, driving almost 70 
yards in just over two minutes to cut the 
lead to eight. On the ensuing point after 
try, Patricia broke through the middle of 
the line, extending to block the kick.
Leading now by just one score, the 
Panthers worked their way down field 
as running back Remi Ashkar ’13 carried 
the ball four times for 26 yards on 
the drive. Two straight incompletions 
following a four-yard run from running 
back Matt Rhea ’14, however, brought 
on Jake Feury ’16 and the kicking team 
to attempt a 25-yard field goal. Tufts’s 
first-year linebacker Matt McCormack 
broke through the line of scrimmage and 
blocked Feury’s low line drive kick. 
The Jumbos and Panthers traded 
possessions with neither team able to 
pick up more than two first downs. Facing 
fourth-and-six from the Jumbos’ 39-yard 
line, Driscoll dropped an end-over-end 
punt at the five-yard line, which hopped 
into the arms of Dan Kenerson ’13 inside 
the one-yard line.
Undaunted, Tufts converted a third-
and-long from the shadow of its own end 
zone, triggering three straight first down 
plays. Dodds took 13 plays to go 89 yards 
into the Middlebury red zone, where all 
went wrong for Tufts — as things tend 
to do during a 22-game losing streak — 
as Dodds and running back Jeff Weaver 
botched the exchange on a handoff, 
leading to a bouncing ball that was 
scooped up by Wiet.
“It was a quarterback draw and [Matt 
Crimmins ’14] forced the fumble and 
it squirted into the backfield where I 
happened to be,” Wiet said. 
At his own 10-yard line, with nothing 
but daylight in front of him, Wiet took 
off, racing 65 yards before being dragged 
down by Tufts tight end Nick Kenyon. 
Alertly, albeit dangerously, Wiet twisted 
before hitting the ground and pitched 
the ball to Onouye who hopped over 
Kenyon and his fallen teammate and ran 
the final 25 yards for the score, sending 
the sideline and an enthusiastic crowd at 
Youngman Field into a frenzy.
“[Onouye] was attempting to block for 
me and [Kenyon] outran him,” Wiet said, 
“but I heard him off to my left saying, 
‘Here to your left! Here to your left!’”
Trailing on the play, Onouye 
accurately determined that Kenyon was 
going to catch Wiet before he reached the 
end zone. 
“I realized that [Wiet] was running 
out of gas,” Onouye said. “I moved to the 
left [which gave Kenyon] a chance, but I 
knew he’d pitch it to me because I’d been 
calling for it for a while and I knew he 
wanted the defense to score. After we 
scored I ran up to him and we just hugged 
each other but [we] were so tired that we 
didn’t actually say anything. We just went 
over to the sideline and called for water.” 
Elated fans also wondered at Wiet’s 
decision to lateral the football. 
“I had a few people come up to me 
after the play and ask me if [Wiet] was 
a rugby player because of his heads up 
play,” Chapman said. “That’s something 
I’ll never forget.”
The Tufts offense never recovered. 
Dodds threw three consecutive 
incompletions and the Jumbos punted 
the ball away.
Middlebury added one final 
touchdown despite Rhea’s best attempts 
to run out the remainder of the clock 
as he carried the ball on eight of the 
first nine plays on the next drive for 36 
yards. On third-and-eight, from the Tufts 
43-yard line and just over two minutes 
remaining, however, Foote went to the 
air, finding Chapman down field for first 
down yardage. Chapman, sensing that it 
might be the final play of his career, broke 
a tackle and outran another defender to 
the pylon for the clinching score. 
Fittingly, Chapman began his career 
with a very similar play.
“My freshman year, [in the] first 
game I played, we were up 38-0 against 
Colby — and I know [coach] Ritter was 
probably kicking himself — but we ran a 
play right down the middle and I caught 
a touchdown on a catch-and-run for 60 
yards or so,” he said. “So this [time], as 
I was running, I thought, this isn’t really 
the best play for me to catch a ball. But 
he came back to me and one guy bounced 
off me and I thought ‘Alright, I can make 
a play here,’ so I ran for the corner of the 
end zone.”
Chapman’s touchdown proved to be 
the final offensive play of the season for 
the Panthers, save one final kneel down. 
The Panthers finished the season 7-1 for 
the first time since 2007 and made great 
strides both on offense and defense where 
they ranked second and third in scoring 
offense and scoring defense, respectively.
“It was a year of timely defense — we 
came up with stops [and] turnovers when 
we needed them,” said Wiet. “That final 
play was just a perfect example of the 
change our defense has made from last 
year to this year. We were opportunistic, 
we took advantage of other [teams’] 
mistakes, we caused turnovers and scored 
some points for our offense as well.”
The Middlebury defense has improved 
drastically under second-year defensive 
coordinator Doug Mandigo. The unit will 
be headlined going forward by Onouye, 
Blockowicz, who intercepted his third 
pass of the season Saturday, and safety 
Matthew Benedict ’15, who finished third 
on the team with 59 tackles. The strength 
of the team, however, will be in the 
linebackers, including Tim Patricia ’16 
who finished second in the conference in 
tackles and is a frontrunner for NESCAC 
Rookie of the Year.
On the other side of the ball, Offensive 
Player of the Year candidate Foote returns 
for his senior year with a number of 
rising stars at the wide receiver position 
including Brendan Rankowitz ’15, Minno 
and Harrison Goodkind ’16. 
The most significant loss for the 
Panthers will most likely be on both 
the offensive and defensive line, where 
Middlebury will lose six starters, three 
starters on each side of the ball, including 
tri-captain Ryan Moores ’13. Moores is 
the leader of a group that allowed just 
five sacks all season, by far the fewest in 
the conference.
“They were really unbelievable,” said 
Foote. “They took pride in what they did. 
They didn’t ask for a lot of recognition, 
but they deserve all the credit in the 
world.”
November 15, 2012| 19SPORTS
by the Numb3rs
91
38
2897
Points scored by the men’s cross country 
team, enough to win the NCAA New 
England Regional. 
Career receiving yards for Zach 
Driscoll, a Middlebury record. 
standout Lauren Greer. 
Passing yards for Mac Foote, a 
NESCAC single-season record. 
2257
5
MCRC headed to Nationals with ECRC title
“We try to think 
of ourselves as 
a machine that 
takes care of 
business every 
Saturday.”
Brian Sirkia ’12.5
 all-american captain 
By Tom Clayton
Quarterback Mac Foote ’14 rolls to his right with great protection from his offensive 
line. Foote was sacked just five times this season — the fewest in the NESCAC.
jiayi zhu
Foote breaks McKillop’s all-time passing record in win
CONTINUED FROM 20
sports November 15, 2012 | 20
Panthers upset in second round of NCAAs
By Fritz Parker
By Alex Morris
Leah Fessler
Jiayi Zhu
WINTER SPORTS 
PREVIEW
PAGE 10-11
MCRC CAPTURES 
PROGRAM’S FIRST 
DIVISION ONE TITLE
PAGE 19
Football downs Tufts 
finishes season 7-1
By Damon Hatheway
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
SEE PANTHERS, PAGE 17
SEE WOMEN’S, PAGE 17 SEE FOOTE, PAGE 19
