November 21, 2013 | Vol. 112 no. 10 | middleburycampus.com
TOUR DE 
FRACK RAISES 
AWARENESS
PAGE 4
A NEW BRANCH 
OF BLACKBIRD 
LITERARY MAGAZINE
PAGE 12
DAVID MAMET’S 
BOSTON MARRIAGE:
A REVIEW
PAGE 14
in
sid
e
Electronic musician Com Truise performs at the WRMC’s Grooveyard on Friday, Nov. 15 in the 
McCullough Social Space. The WRMC-hosted concert also featured Twin Sister, a pop disco act from 
New York. Eric Hass ’15 opened Grooveyard with a DJ set.
Paul Gerard
GROOVIN’ TO THE MUSIC
Adara Wicaksono ’17 (left) and Prestige Shongwe ’16 (right) stand in support of Gabbie Santos ’17 
(center) as she speaks about Typhoon Haiyan’s devastation and the inherent Filipine resiliency.
Rachel Frank
Internships for 
Credit Debated
By Alex Edel
SEE DEVIL, PAGE 4
Students Fast in Solidarity
By Emily Singer
homophobic incidents 
prompt offical response
By Ellie Reinhardt
Students gathered outside Mead 
Chapel for a candlelight vigil on 
Thursday, Nov. 14 to mourn the 
devastation and damage caused by 
Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines 
and Southeast Asia and to call atten-
tion to climate change. Mourning at 
the vigil, which was hosted by Divest 
Midd, was furthered by a number of 
students electing to fast in solidarity 
with Filipino climate delegate to the 
U.N., Naderev “Yeb” Sano.
At the start of the U.N.’s two-
week-long climate talks, Sano an-
nounced his fast.
“In solidarity with my country-
back home … I will now commence 
a voluntary fasting for the climate. 
This means I will voluntarily refrain 
from eating food during this [confer-
ence] until a meaningful outcome is 
in sight,” he said.
Gabbie Santos ’17 is from Cavite, 
an hour north of Manila in the Phil-
ippines and spoke at the vigil with 
sadness in regard to the current situ-
ation and cautious optimism for the 
future.
“In the face of adversity, one after 
another, let it be known to the world 
that, as we Filipinos like to say … ‘the 
Filipino spirit is waterproof,’ the Fil-
ipino people are a resilient people. 
But this does not mean that we are 
willing to place more and more lives 
on the line in the face of future, po-
tentially more devastating disasters 
and calamities,” she said.
Santos also spoke at the vigil on 
behalf of Oliver Wijayapala ’17, who 
is from the affected area of Leyte in 
the Philippines. Leyte was among 
the areas hit hardest by Typhoon 
Haiyan, which left nearly 3,000 
dead and approximately 920,000 
displaced.
Reading Wijayapala’s words, 
Santos said, “My family’s hometown 
in southern Leyte was in the direct 
get in contact with my family mem-
bers there, but I believe and hope 
they are all okay. There is a lot of 
damage and debris, though … Please 
keep in your thoughts and prayers 
my family and all those affected by 
this disaster.”
SEE STUDENTS, PAGE 2
Recent incidents of ho-
mophobia on campus have 
prodded College administrators 
to unveil a number of planned 
initiatives earlier than original-
ly intended. The ongoing goals 
and initiatives, spearheaded by 
the Office of the Dean of the 
College, are aimed at enhanc-
ing the existing programing in 
order to strengthen support 
for the LBGTQA community on 
campus this year. 
While plans for bolstered of-
ficial College support for the 
LBGTQA community have been 
in the works sinc the summer, 
recent incidents of homophobia 
on campus — including an inci-
dent in which a member of the 
LBGTQA community received 
an anonymous threatening let-
ter taped to the student’s door 
in addition to the recent contro-
very regarding Chance the Rap-
per’s lyrics — have prompted 
the administration to announce 
their goals and plans prior to 
the official implementation of 
such programs.
 Assistant Director of Stu-
dent Activities and Special As-
sistant to the Dean of the Col-
lege Jennifer Herrera is leading 
the initiatives in conjuction 
with Dean of the College Shir-
ley Collado, Associate Dean of 
Students for Student Activities 
and Orientation JJ Boggs, Di-
rector of Health and Wellness 
Barbara McCall and the board 
of the Queers and Allies (Q&A) 
student organization.
“We’ve had these two major 
incidents occur on campus that 
have gained more visibility than 
us being able to share this news 
about our LGBTQA resources 
SEE LBGTQA, PAGE 3
Members of the Student Gov-
ernment Association’s (SGA) 
Educational Affairs Commit-
tee will meet with the faculty 
Educational Affairs Committee 
(EAC) today, Nov. 21, to discuss 
issues surrounding credit-bear-
ing internships. The talks oc-
cur amidst extensive conversa-
tion within the committee and 
the administration regarding 
awarding credit for summer in-
ternships. 
Last spring, members of the 
EAC began discussing the pos-
sibility of credit bearing sum-
mer internships. Through these 
discussions, members of the 
EAC wrote a working document 
that was sent out to members of 
the faculty last summer. With 
faculty and student feedback, 
the EAC hopes to expand the 
working document to an official 
piece of legislation that would 
put forward the policy necessary 
for students to receive credit. 
When such a document is com-
plete, a majority of the faculty 
must vote in favor of the policy 
for it to be effected. Right now 
though, the EAC is still in what 
Dean of Faculty and chair of the 
EAC, Andi Lloyd describes as an 
“information gathering stage.”
For the first two months 
of school, the EAC focused on 
identifying College-wide learn-
ing goals, a topic not unrelated 
to the committee’s new top pri-
ority – internship credit. 
“I think the question of in-
ternships is not unrelated to 
those questions about the point 
of a liberal arts education be-
cause part of the question we 
are trying to answer here is 
what is the relationship be-
tween an internship and the 
curriculum?  Are they sepa-
rate?,” Lloyd asked. “Can they 
be connected? Should they be 
connected? What are the advan-
tages of giving credit to these 
internships? What are the ad-
vantages of connecting intern-
ships to the curriculum? What 
are the disadvantages?”
Dean of the College Shirley 
Collado believes that these in-
ternships are advantageous and 
should be tied to the College. 
“I’m an advocate for credit 
for internships because I see 
the value in what’s happening 
within the Center for Careers 
and Internships (CCI) – I see 
the value in student led projects 
and the work that students ac-
complish during the summer,” 
said Collado. “If they were able 
to pursue a more structured way 
of tying it to their experiences 
at Middlebury and having their 
work be acknowledged in a par-
ticular way, credit for intern-
ships makes sense.”
Several reasons prompted 
the EAC to begin seriously con-
sidering the issue last spring 
including the fact that some in-
ternships are open only to those 
students who will receive credit 
from their institution. 
Another reason comes with 
a discrepancy that has plagued 
many students, like SGA Presi-
dent Rachel Liddell, in the fact 
that students may be awarded 
credit for internships taken 
over J-term as well as some in-
ternships completed abroad. In-
The German newsmagazine Focus has 
reported that the art collection of Cornelius 
Gurlitt, an 80-year old German man whose 
collection of 1406 artworks was seized by 
German authorities in his Munich apart-
ment in Feb. 2012, was found to include 
several previously unknown works by fa-
mous artists including Henri Matisse, Pablo 
Picasso, Marc Chagall, Max Liebermann, 
Edvard Munch, Pierre-Auguste Renoir and 
Paul Gauguin. The collective value of the 
discovered works has been estimated to be 
at least €1 billion.
The story of Cornelius Gurlitt’s hidden 
collection began in pre-WWII Nazi Ger-
many. Cornelius’ father Hildebrand Gurlitt 
was an art dealer and museum director on 
friendly terms with many modern artists 
-
rial position in Hamburg in 1933, the elder 
Gurlitt was one of four men asked by Nazi 
propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels to 
help sell the thousands of artworks the Na-
-
beled “degenerate” to overseas buyers. The 
Nazis organized the Degenerate Art Exhibi-
tion in 1937 to showcase the kind of art they 
claimed to have corrupting effects on the 
German people. Among the elder Gurlitt’s 
trading collection of nearly 1500 works are 
also believed to be many that the Nazis con-
to and during World War II.
Near the end of World War II, Gurlitt 
As Allied Forces marched across Germany 
and defeated the Third Reich, they detained 
and interrogated the elder Gurlitt. He told 
members of the Monuments, Fine Arts, and 
Archives unit of the American military that 
most of his collection had been destroyed 
in the bombing of Dresden and he did not 
illegally stolen artworks.
that Gurlitt’s collection was rightfully owned 
personal property. The elder Gurlitt died in 
1956 from a car crash. Meanwhile, his son, 
Cornelius, lived quietly in Salzburg, Aus-
tria. After the deceased Gurlitt’s wife died 
in 1967, Cornelius moved into his mother’s 
apartment in Munich — the same one where 
the massive collection was uncovered early 
last year.
What led authorities to the Munich 
apartment was almost sheer serendipity. 
Travelling from Germany to Switzerland 
by train in late 2010, Cornelius Gurlitt was 
found carrying €9000 in cash, all in crisp 
new €500 bills. More than a year of inves-
tigations later, authorities raided Gurlitt’s 
Munich apartment and found a massive col-
lection of artworks hidden behind curtains 
and canned food in the guest room. The au-
thorities carted the works away to a storage 
facility in the city of Garching where they 
sought to trace their provenance.
In an interview with the German news-
magazine Der Spiegel, Gurlitt maintained 
that he had not broken any laws and that the 
seized works are his rightful personal prop-
erty. He expressed dismay at the media cir-
cus that has intruded his reclusive lifestyle 
after Focus broke the story back in early No-
vember.
“There is nothing more I have loved more 
in my life than my pictures,” Gurlitt told Der 
Spiegel, adding that the loss of his collection 
has been more devastating than the loss of 
his mother and his sister.
Gurlitt sold some of the works in his col-
lection over the years to help pay for living 
expenses and medical treatment. In the fall 
of 2011, he put Max Beckmann’s “Lion Tam-
er” up for sale at an auction house in Co-
logne. It sold for €725,000. Gurlitt and the 
Jewish heirs with claim to the work settled 
for a 55-45 split on the sale.
BY DANNY ZHANG
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| November 21, 20132 NEWS
Spotlight on Engaged Learning
By Nate Sans
On Wednesday, Nov. 14, the Educational 
Affairs Committee (EAC) organized a panel 
on project-based and experiential learning at 
the College. Faculty members from an array of 
academic departments presented on hands-
on teaching and learning techniques they have 
employed in their own classrooms.
Albert D. Mead Professor of Biology Jer-
emy Ward, Professor of Mathematics Frank 
Swenton and Associate Professor of Phys-
ics Noah Graham described their experience 
overseeing the Science, Technology, Engineer-
ing, Mathematics (STEM) Innovation Project 
course during J-term, focusing on applied 
sciences. STEM is a nationwide educational 
movement that seeks to improve education 
and experimentation in the sciences across the 
country. The J-term course project extended 
into the spring and summer, allowing students 
to further hone their ideas and designs and 
produce a thorough, engaging and hands-on 
Professor of Geology Peter Ryan and Coor-
dinator for Community-Based Environmental 
Studies Diane Munroe described the Environ-
mental Studies Senior Seminar as an opportu-
nity for students to participate in “community-
connected experiential learning,” citing the 
Fall 2010 seminar as an example.
Students in the seminar worked in collabo-
ration with the Vermont Geological Survey 
and the Vermont Department of Health to 
map and study arsenic contamination in pri-
vate wells in Vermont and worked with State 
Senator Virginia Lyons to design legislation 
addressing the problem. The legislation that 
students worked on passed in the Vermont 
legislature, but was ultimately vetoed by Ver-
mont Governor Peter Shumlin. 
College Professor David Colander argued 
that the College could implement an interdis-
ciplinary “Liberal Arts Plus” plan to apply the 
principles of a liberal arts education to prac-
tical problems. Colander’s idea would involve 
who completed a number of related Liberal 
Arts Plus classes and that participation by 
“Professors of the Practice” would be a crucial 
component of his plan. These professionals 
would serve as guest mentors in classes from 
and would “teach an applied portion of the 
course relating their experience to the stu-
dents.” 
Assistant Professor of History of Art and 
Architecture Sarah Laursen and Director of 
the College Museum Richard Saunders de-
scribed their experience teaching “Gold, Sex 
and Death at the Museum,” a 200-level course 
in the History of Art and Architecture Depart-
ment, explaining that the course is meant to 
introduce students to a museum’s many work-
ing parts by incorporating lectures by visiting 
museum curators, conservators, and critics.
Hannah Ostrow ’14, a HARC major and a 
student in “Gold, Sex and Death at the Mu-
seum” has found the structure and material of 
the course to be incredibly valuable.
“I think we’d all be better off if Middlebury 
incorporated more pre-professional course-
work into the liberal arts model,” Ostrow 
wrote in an email. “I’m taking Gold, Sex, and 
Death in the Museum this semester alongside 
an art history theory course, which is as ‘pure’ 
liberal arts as it gets and I don’t feel that either 
is diminished because of the other.”
Discussions from the panel have the poten-
-
ing internships for credit and an increase in 
experiential learning opportunities. Student 
appetite, too, is likely to drive the College to 
facilitate professional development through 
course offerings such as the ones discussed at 
the panel and the expansion of MiddCORE.
Students Hold Vigil, Call For Climate Change
Members of Divest Midd recited Sano’s 
speech from the Climate Summit at Thurs-
day’s vigil as both a call to action and a means 
of mourning the destruction. In further soli-
darity, Adrian Leong ’16, Ellie Ng ’14, Greta 
Neubauer ’14.5, Ashley Babcock ’17 and Vir-
ginia Wiltshire-Gordon ’16 fasted on Thurs-
day. A number of other students participated 
in fasts over the weekend and into this week.
“I am choosing to refrain from eating on 
Thursday because I treat his [Sano’s] coun-
trymen as my countrymen, his brother as my 
state of our climate, as well as [the] social jus-
tice system and bring them to more people’s 
attention,” Leong wrote in a post on Facebook.
Leong created a Facebook event for his 
fast, encouraging others to join him. Over 40 
friends listed themselves as “going,” thereby 
implying participation. Leong said that word 
of his fast spread rapidly to friends at other 
schools.
“Many who fasted alongside with me told 
their responsibilities to the world in this time 
of great change,” Leong wrote in an email, call-
ing the response to his actions “overwhelm-
ingly positive.”
The purpose of Sano’s and students’ fast 
is twofold — to mourn the loss of life and de-
struction and to recognize the gravity of the 
ongoing climate crisis.
“Whether we accept it or not, Climate 
Change does not lie in the distant future,” Le-
ong wrote in his Facebook event. “It is now, 
and it is right here. I have a few friends from 
the Philippines who also have family members 
there, as I know that many [others] do, too. 
Even if this is not the case, you may well know 
other friends that do. Thus, it is utterly impos-
sible to deny how closely our lives are linked 
to the lost lives and survivors of the strongest 
typhoon to have ever hit land.”
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Rachel Frank
community council Council Focuses on  Communication
By David Yang
On Monday, Nov. 18 Community Council 
met with Executive Director of Health and 
Counseling Services Gus Jordan and Direc-
tor of Health and Wellness Education Barbara 
McCall to continue the conversation on alco-
hol and changing the culture that surrounds it. 
In last week’s short respite from the on-
going conversation around hard liquor, the 
Council discussed ways to increase commu-
nication between all members of the College 
community, including students, faculty and 
staff.
Last week, Community Council Co-Chair 
Luke Carroll Brown ’14, introduced the topic 
with a story about Ian Cameron ’13.5, who 
passed away after a tragic car accident this 
past summer. Cameron had close friendships 
with several membes of Ross custodial and 
dining staff. One woman from the Ross staff, 
Brown told the members of the Council, “said 
Ian was her best friend.” 
“Whereas so many other students see her 
just as the individual who cleans their toi-
let, Ian saw her as someone who helped him 
at this College and as a friend,” Brown said. 
Sadly, Cameron’s story is not representative of 
the whole student body, and the interactions 
between students and staff are often weak or 
nonexistent. The best community the College 
can have, Brown said, “involves communica-
tion between all facets of the community.” 
He proposed two ideas that would increase 
communications: a bi-weekly community 
lunch series and the creation of an award in 
the memory of Cameron to honor a student 
who actively interacts with staff and faculty.
Members of the Council proposed many 
ideas that would encourage communica-
tion. Elizabeth Lee ’17 suggested creating an 
organization which would regularly reach 
out to other members of the college commu-
Schools, called for an expansion of the Friends 
of International Students (FIS) Host Program, 
a program which connects international stu-
dents with hosts from the College commu-
nity, to encompass domestic students as well. 
Rachel Liddell ’15, SGA president, suggested 
smaller informal gatherings of students with 
staff who contribute tremendously to student 
life, such as the staff from the Service Building. 
A broader examination of the power rela-
tions on campus also took place.
“One of the challenges is that some staff 
members don’t perceive themselves as people 
who have power in our community,” observed 
Will Nash, professor of American Studies and 
English & American Literatures. “They might 
often perceive students as people with a cer-
tain kind of power. People with power must 
see the power to create a space of trust for 
people without power. If you don’t do it that 
way, it doesn’t work.”
In this week’s meeting, the discussion con-
cerning hard liquor and changing campus 
culture was resumed. Jordan and McCall both 
offered the Council new perspectives on the is-
sue. They described how the support system 
for students concerning alcohol abuse at the 
Parton Center for Health and Wellness oper-
ates and were happy to engage in the conver-
sation with Community Council. 
A great portion of the discussion centered 
on the culture of drinking here at Middlebury. 
hard play hard” mentality on campus. “A lot of 
people here do realize that when they drink a 
lot, it makes their lives harder, not easier,” she 
said. McCall concurred, calling the mentality 
“problematic.”
There was also a general consensus in the 
Council on the dearth of social events on cam-
pus that encourage students to attend without 
having consumed alcohol beforehand. In the 
meeeting many members concluded that in-
creased institutional efforts and funds com-
mitted were necessary to create a more dy-
namic social scene on campus. 
 “The fact that we are having a conversa-
tion here today is hugely helpful,” said McCall. 
into the larger puzzle and what Community 
pieces [is hugely important]. ” 
Students gather outside of Mead Chapel on Thursday Nov. 14 at dusk to mourn the thousands of victims lost to Typhoon Haiyan.
November 21, 2013 |  3        News
LBGTQA Programs to Expand Across Departments
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
and support initiatives,” Herrera said. 
“So what needs to be understood is that 
our effort to strengthen existing support 
and implement additional programs is 
not in reaction to those instances … As 
we made more progress in our work, it 
was our intention to introduce some 
of these initiatives later this academic 
year.” 
Herrera made sure to note that due to 
the recent nature of the implementation 
of these support programs, she has not 
yet been able to gather feedback from as 
many students as previously intended. 
Q&A, however, has been involved in pre-
liminary discussions.
“I’m glad that the administration is 
moving forward with tangible goals,” 
said Q&A co-chair David Yedid ’15. “I 
think the College is very behind in the 
way that they support minority stu-
dent groups and there needs to be a big 
change.”
An increased focus on addressing the 
needs of the LGBTQA community at the 
College began this summer, after the 
College completed its first assessment 
through the online organization Campus 
Pride.
Campus Pride is a national nonprofit 
run for and by students with the goal of 
helping campuses “develop, support and 
give ‘voice and action’ in building future 
LGBT and ally student leaders,” accord-
ing the company’s website.
According to Herrera, the assessment 
provides an LGBT Friendly Campus Cli-
mate Index, touching upon eight factors 
to rate a campus on their LGBT-inclusive 
policy, programs and practices. These 
factors include LGBT policy inclusion, 
support, institutional commitment, aca-
demic life, student life, housing, campus 
safety, counseling and health, and re-
cruitment and retention efforts. Rated 
on a scale of zero to five, the College 
scored three and a half points.
Herrera, Boggs and Collado used the 
results and suggestions of the Campus 
Pride assessment, along with recom-
mendations from students involved with 
Q&A and earlier LGBTQ groups on cam-
pus to create a list of four goals.
“Obviously [the goals are] not totally 
comprehensive, there’s still a lot to do,” 
Herrera said. “We can’t just check off 
these goals. We’re working on develop-
ing sustainable programs and strength-
ening the current support and resources 
we have on campus now for students.”
According to Herrera, the first of 
these goals is the implementation of a 
sustainable training program on LG-
BTQA/diversity issues for Residential 
Life staff and campus constituencies, 
including Safe Zone training. Secondly, 
the Campus Pride assessment has led 
to the development of an accessible, 
simple process for students to identify a 
preferred name and preferred pronoun 
on College records and documents via 
an electronic Bannerweb request form. 
Increased programming will also focus 
on developing LGBTQ-friendly resource 
materials and the Gender and Sexuality 
Resources website as part of a broader 
Diversity and Community website in 
addition to the establishment of a peer-
mentoring program to welcome and as-
sist LGBTQ students in transitioning to 
academic and campus life.
Yedid expressed concern that al-
though these goals are “sold and fair”, 
there is currently no staff or faculty posi-
tion whose job is to specifically act as a 
contact for the College’s LGBTQA com-
munity. 
“These goals are positive, but I think 
there needs to be a larger changing of 
culture and that needs to happen with 
the knowledge that that’s someone’s 
job,” he said.
Along with the efforts to achieve these 
four goals, the College is looking at ini-
tiatives in other areas as well: both the 
Athletics Department and Parton Center 
for Health and Wellness are working on 
their own LGBTQA projects.
This fall, the Athletics Department 
joined the You Can Play (YCP) project. 
Through You Can Play, colleges and 
universities create videos, posted to the 
YCP website, stating their commitment 
to “ensuring equality, respect and safety 
for all athletes, without regard to sexual 
orientation,” according to youcanplay-
project.org. 
“I certainly liked the message a lot, 
but I also liked the idea that there is a 
sustainable element to a video which is 
more permanent than a speaker or an-
other one-time event,” wrote Director 
of Athletics Erin Quinn in an email, ex-
plaining why he and his staff chose to 
work on the project.
Parton faculty and staff have started 
to work with the RU12? Community 
Center, a Burlington-based organization 
that celebrates, educates, and advocates 
for the LGBTQA population in Vermont.
This September, Parton staff partici-
pated in a workshop run by RU12? and 
plan to hold another later in the year.
“Our hope is that through a variety of 
trainings and discussions over the next 
few years, Parton staff in health and 
counseling will continue to gain greater 
insight and understanding of the particu-
lar experiences of any students who may 
have felt stigmatized, misunderstood 
or dismissed by health care providers 
(at home or elsewhere) in the past, and 
through these trainings to increase our 
ability to provide excellent care,” wrote 
Executive Director of Health and Coun-
seling Services Gus Jordan in an email.
The implementation of such programs 
and the achievement of the College’s LG-
BTQA community goals is expected to be 
a slow and fluid process, seeking feed-
back from students, faculty and staff, 
alike, along the way.
“We know that there are some holes 
and there is a lot that we can strength-
en and improve but in order to not be-
come overwhelmed by all of the potential 
work, we’ve narrowed it down to some 
concrete things to get off the ground and 
to develop in a real sustainable way this 
academic year so they can continue to 
move forward and be successful,” Her-
rera said. “We realize that new initiatives 
will surface and develop and we will be 
thinking about what the next things to 
tackle are.”
Verbal Onslaught
THURSDAY 9:00-11:00pm
Verbal Onslaught is Middlebury’s 
own spoken word and open mic. 
Shy and outspoken poets, good 
listeners, loud hand-clappers and 
-
ists are all more than welcome. 1/2 
priced appetizers w/ Midd ID.
Conqueror Root
FRIDAY 8:00-11:00pm
Conqueror Root performs from the 
American roots catalog of blues, 
New Orleans, rockabilly, old R&B, 
and vintage jazz
.
Chris Bakridges Trio 
w/ John Stowell
SATURDAY 8:00-11:00pm
Detroit-born Chris Bakridges has 
forged a unique path: embodying 
the essence of jazz exploration, 
-
provisation, creating jazz with a 
Mediterranean-style.
Old Stone Mill Final 
Tenant Showcase
FRIDAY 4:00-6:00pm
Come out and see the exciting proj-
ects that Middlebury students have 
been working on at the Old Stone 
Mill this semester.
Spanish Karaoke
FRIDAY 10:00pm-2:00am
Sing your heart out with Alizanza 
with this special-themed karaoke. 
All ages welcome! Beer and wine 
available for 21+ w/ 2 forms of ID.
.
Cafe con Leche 
Dance Party
SATURDAY 10:30pm-2:00am
Come dance at the ISO after-party! 
There will be 1/2 priced smoothies 
and FREE food. All ages welcome! 
Beer, wine and SANGRIA available 
for 21+ w/ 2 forms of ID.
Sunday Night Football
SUNDAY 8:00-11:00pm
PATRIOTS v. BRONCOS
on the big screen and FREE pop-
corn. Come cheer on your favorite 
team and order our favorite snack 
at Crossroads or the Grille.
Russian-language 
students to test 
online language 
learning tool.
$15 for 30 minutes.
Contact: ljepson@
eecs.tu!s.edu
(In response, indicate 
your level and the 
textbook you use.)
4 NEWS
Devil is in the Details for Internship Credit
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
ternship credit awarded over J-term may 
be used only as a credit for that term and 
may not be counted towards fall or spring 
credits, while internship credit assigned 
abroad is taken only in lieu of a class tak-
en while abroad. However, the question 
still looms in the minds of many – what 
is different about an internship during 
the summer than an internship during 
the winter? 
“If you do an intern-
ship over J-term you 
can receive a credit and 
if you do it during the 
summer, you don’t” 
said Liddell. “That kind 
of low-hanging fruit is 
an inconsistency, and 
there are many other 
examples like that.” 
In attempts to de-
scribe why this incon-
sistency exists, Lloyd 
cited the fact that J-
term was originally a 
time for more experi-
mental learning. 
“Why in J-term and 
not the summer is one 
essential question. Historically Winter 
term was conceived of as a more experi-
mental place in our curriculum — a time 
when things happen that didn’t happen 
during the fall and spring,” said Lloyd. 
“Although maybe an unsatisfying an-
swer, that history explains why students 
can take internships for credit during 
J-term but not during the fall or spring 
semesters.” 
However, she echoed Liddell’s feel-
ings towards the seeming inconsisten-
cies with this type of policy and ex-
plained that this is something the EAC 
will take into consideration when draft-
ing the legislation. 
“The why winter not summer ques-
tion has a less clear answer and that’s 
one of the things the EAC is talking 
about – is there any rationale for saying 
yes to something in winter and no to the 
same thing in the summer?” Lloyd said. 
These are just a few of the wide sweep-
ing questions that the EAC has been ask-
ing while considering the possibility of 
awarding credit. Professors from a wide 
range of disciplines have argued on both 
sides of the issue, discussing various 
complicated issues such as faculty com-
pensation for summer work. The EAC 
seeks to foster these debates while find-
ing a middle ground with a policy that 
would meet both student and faculty 
needs. 
“We want to be confident though that 
we aren’t setting up for a conflict in the 
legislation where students have a reason-
able expectation to be able to do a new 
program and get credit for internships, 
but faculty say, ‘well why is this getting 
added to my responsibilities when my 
summer is already planned to be work-
ing on research or traveling or some-
thing else,’” said Associate Professor of 
Physics and EAC Member Noah Graham. 
Vice President for Academic Affairs 
Tim Spears also saw 
the importance in a 
discussion that re-
solved many of the 
complications of 
the issue, pointing 
towards the major 
advantages students 
would gain from 
legislation on this 
topic. 
“We want to have 
a good conversation 
about this proposal 
and we want the con-
versation to reflect 
all the complica-
tions that come with 
the topic, but I hope 
we can have the con-
versation in a positive spirit, keeping our 
eye on the advantages that can be gained 
from expanding educational opportuni-
ties for students,” Spears said. 
One of these issues has to do with as-
sessing the quality of an internship and 
the academic relevance that such an in-
ternship might hold. 
“Internships vary widely in the type 
and depth of learning opportunities they 
provide.  I’m open to the idea that some 
might be worthy of credit, but I think the 
challenges are how to identify the worthy 
subset reliably, and how to demonstrate 
their substance, rigor, and congruence 
with our goals.  If we can find a way to 
do those things, we can provide students 
with exciting, novel opportunities to ap-
ply their liberal arts education outside 
the classroom, while still preserving the 
quality and integrity of a Middlebury 
education,” wrote Associate Professor of 
Psychology and fellow EAC Member Su-
zanne Gurland in an email.
To award credit for internships many 
professors feel the need for students 
to make a connection to the academic 
realm. This may come in the form of a 
paper, journal, or even a class. Graham 
acknowledged that pigeonholing intern-
ships into certain academic fields might 
be problematic. 
“We wouldn’t want to get too narrowly 
constrained to say that a certain course 
corresponds with a certain internship 
because tomorrow a new startup may 
start in some new area,” Graham said. “I 
think we need to be wary about micro-
managing too much, so we want to cre-
ate an environment where that can kind 
of happen but where the unexpected can 
come in. An opportunity may arise and 
we hope to give a student that nimble-
ness to grab that opportunity.”
However, Spears stressed the fact that 
a strong connection between academics 
and the work experience must be made 
in order for the internship to be counted 
as a credit, which could effectively re-
place a class.  
“I don’t think we are going to move 
into a situation where students are go-
ing to get credit simply for completing an 
internship. There will have to be some-
thing associated with the internship that 
we can identify as being academic in na-
ture for a student to get credit,” Spears 
said. 
Beyond issues of connecting intern-
ships to the academic world, there looms 
the question of finding a way to make 
internships equal to all students, an is-
sue echoed by many faculty, staff and 
students. 
For Russell J. Leng ‘60 Professor of 
International Politics and Economics 
Allison Stanger, this matter holds the 
utmost importance when deciding if the 
College should give credit for intern-
ships. As the number of unpaid intern-
ships throughout the U.S. climbs, the 
question of forced labor and widening 
inequality has come to light. Stanger 
and many others feel the 
College must address in-
equality when looking at 
internships. 
“There is a major ineq-
uity in the current system 
that we need to address 
at Middlebury College,” 
she said. “I think that it 
is problematic to expand 
the possibilities to get 
credit for internships un-
til that inequity has been 
addressed, and everybody 
who wants an internship 
can actually afford to 
have that experience.”
If the EAC were to 
grant credit to intern-
ships, many consider 
their support contingent on whether all 
students at the College will have equal 
opportunities to access these intern-
ships. 
“It puts some students at a profound 
disadvantage compared to their wealthi-
er peers. I wouldn’t want to support any 
policy that would exacerbate that divide, 
even though knowing that for some stu-
dents in a more privileged position, it 
would be really helpful to get credit for 
the internships that they are able to do,” 
Stanger said. “There is a broader issue at 
stake.”
Liddell spoke similarly about the 
grave need for more funding within the 
CCI in order to make this a fair process. 
“I’m really committed to ensuring that 
internships for credit don’t become one 
more way that a lack of financial means 
disadvantages students,” said Liddell. 
Lloyd also sees the issue of equity as 
an important topic to discuss when writ-
ing legislation.
“I think that equity and access issues 
are huge, and EAC has certainly dis-
cussed them. As this discussion moves 
forward, I hope that we can provide 
some clarity to the broader faculty on 
what those equity and access issues are. 
The reality that there are internships 
that our students can’t participate in 
without earning credit is an important 
element of this discussion that we need 
to grapple with.” 
With all these considerations in mind, 
the EAC hopes to get legislation out to 
members of the faculty within the next 
few months. Then, depending on the 
amount of feedback from faculty, it will 
hold open meetings in which faculty 
members could introduce amendments 
and air issues they may have with the 
policy. With approval of a majority of 
the faculty, the legislation will go into ef-
fect, although the 
logistics of such a 
complicated issue 
may take longer 
to actually be en-
acted. 
While Liddell 
feels that this 
may be her most 
“optimistic cam-
paign promise,” 
she feels that the 
implementat ion 
period may go far 
beyond this aca-
demic year. 
“If the policy 
is implemented, I 
would say it will 
probably be three 
to four years before it’s really accessible 
to students,” she said. “We all have this 
four-year concept within our brains, 
and it will be hard for me to just walk 
away and never reap the benefits of this 
change, but I think it’s still powerful to 
leave a legacy.”
| November 21, 2013
“I think that it is 
problematic to expand 
the possibilities to get 
credit for internships 
until that inequality 
has been addressed, 
and everybody who 
wants an internship can 
actually afford to have 
that experience.”
Allison Stanger
Professor of international politics and Economics
“The why winter not 
summer question has a 
less clear answer and 
that’s one of the things 
the EAC is talking 
about – is there any 
rationale for saying yes 
to something in winter 
and no to the same 
thing in summer.”
Andi Lloyd
Dean of Faculty
WHAT DO YOU WANT TO SEE HERE? 
On Saturday, Nov. 16, students took part 
in “Tour de Fracked,” a bike ride organized 
to peacefully protest the Vermont fracked 
gas pipeline that is proposed to run through 
Middlebury.
The College has expressed its support for 
the pipeline, maintaining that it will provide an 
inexpensive, local form of energy for the school 
and residents of the town. Many students, how-
ever, are fighting the College’s stance because 
they believe the environmental and social side 
effects of fracking are too high of a price to pay. 
Hydraulic fracturing is a process of obtain-
ing natural gas by pressurizing liquids, includ-
ing harmful chemical substances, to fracture 
rock below the earth. These chemicals have 
the potential to leak 
into groundwater 
near wells and thus 
contaminate drink-
ing water. 
Rosalie Wright-
Lapin ’15, one of the 
organizers of the 
bike ride, is fear-
ful of the social is-
sues associated with 
fracking.
“[The] pipe-
line poses a major 
ethical paradox,” 
Wright-Lapin said. 
“Many argue that 
fracked gas will 
provide affordable 
“clean” heat for 
Vermonters. The 
importance of making heat affordable for Ver-
monters is undoubtedly a social justice issue 
— all humans (especially living in a climate like 
Vermont’s) should have access to affordable 
heat. However, the mere process of fracking 
disrupts towns and threatens the health and 
environment of those communities.”
People in the residential communities near 
a fracking site are often put in compromising 
situations in which they do not usually have the 
power to change. This brings into question the 
ethics of using fracked gas.
Zane Anthony ’16.5 is another passionate 
orchestrator of the Tour de Frack who wants 
to make the possible implementation of the 
pipeline, and the controversy over fracking in 
general, more of a focus on campus. At Pow-
ershift, an environmental convention for stu-
dents across the country that occurred over Fall 
Break, Anthony and others became motivated 
to do more related to the climate crisis and en-
vironmental justice movements. 
Anthony has been working with an organi-
zation called the Vermont Public Interest Re-
search Group (VPIRG), which aims to bring the 
voice of Vermont citizens to public policy de-
bates. Anthony’s work with VPIRG helped him 
gain momentum for spearheading the Tour de 
Fracked. 
The bike ride was meant to be a symbolic 
showing of “Middlebury activists riding togeth-
er in solidarity in opposition to the Vermont 
pipeline.” The Tour de Fracked group had ad-
vertised for their cause. Other advertisements 
were more creative, such as a caution-tape 
patch that served as a statement of solidarity, 
because caution tape symbolizes the precau-
tionary principle; a huge element in the sus-
tainability movement. Advertisements have in-
cluded flyers, notification of the local media, a 
planned conference and over 75 photo petitions 
of students holding up their statements of dis-
approval of the pipeline. 
Despite their efforts, Anthony feels that en-
vironmental activist groups are somewhat lack-
ing on campus. He noted the major focus on 
the issues of divestment and local food, and the 
absence of strong activism for any other area. 
“[It’s] a fallacy [that] Middlebury prides it-
self on its progressive nature — divestment and 
[local] food are longer term [issues] but the 
pipeline could be built in February,” said An-
thony. “Now is the time, before it is built, for 
people to see that they are opposed to it.”
According to Wright-Lapin, there are many 
reasons to be opposed to the construction of the 
pipeline. 
“Any organic farms through which the 
pipeline passes can no longer be organic, thus 
ruining the living that many hardworking Ver-
monters have built for themselves and their 
families,” said Wright-Lapin. 
“Providing affordable heat for some is only 
a step towards social justice if it is not ruining 
the homes of others. Bettering people’s lives is 
only meaningful when it is not harming people 
on the other end,” she said.
These students held Tour de Frack to bring 
the broad spectrum of environmental issues, 
and the effects that could result from the piple-
ine for both the College and the Middlebury 
community to the attention of the college com-
munity at large.
local
Students Participate in Tour de Fracked Bike 
Ride; Raise Awareness about Looming Pipeline
Students of the College took part in the Tour de Fracked bike ride in protesting the pipeine.
Carol’s Hungry Mind Cafe has j u s t 
By Allie Cohen
“It’s a fallacy that 
Middlebury prides 
itself on its progres-
sive nature. Divset-
ment and local food 
are longer term is-
sues but the pipe-
line could be built 
in February.”
zANE ANthony
Courtesy of Hannah Bristol
“Fund Solutions Not Pollution,” reads a sign.
Students made posters, like the one above, advertising the event on the College campus.
courtesy
21
By Cassidy R. Campbell Mueller
Alpaca Open House in Brandon
Alpacas are exciting and now you’ll have 
the chance to learn all about them. Maple 
View Farm Alpacas will be hosting the 
12th annual holiday open house where 
you’ll have just the opportunity! Visitors 
into yarn at the Vermont Fiber Mill & Stu-
dio. The event continues on Sunday. For 
more information call (802) 247-5412 or 
visit www.mapleviewfarmalpacas.com.
NOV. 30, 11 AM – 4 PM
Local 
lowdown
Local 6
Lecture on Bali in Bristol
Join the community in hearing a lec-
ture by Dr. Carla Osgood and Dr. David 
Osgood entitled “Bali: Consciousness, 
Culture and Community” at the Lawrence 
Memorial Library in Bristol. They have 
spent 20 years teaching in Bali, and are 
sure to provide an invaluable perspective. 
NOV. 21, 7 PM – 8:30 PM
“West Side Story” on Stage in Brandon
If you need an excuse to cry, watching 
“West Side Story” live is a pretty good 
one. Otter Valley Union High School will 
be hosting Walking Stick Theatre’s pro-
duction of “West Side Story.” Advanced 
tickets are $8 at Carr’s Florist in Brandon 
and at the Otter Valley Union High School 
Library. Tickets are $8 at the door for 
students and seniors, $10 for adults.
NOV. 21, 7 – 9 PM
Holiday Bazaar and Bake Sale in 
Monkton
not be missed! Head over to the Friends 
Methodist Church, 78 Monkton Ridge 
anytime Saturday morning to shop for 
some crafts and jewelry that were made 
locally. Also enjoy homemade chocolate, 
donuts, and other snacks! For more infor-
mation, call 802-453-2870. 
NOV. 23, 9 AM – 2 PM
USDA Invests in Addison 
County Rural Development
Ten Thousand Villages Craft Sale in 
Middlebury
A two-day sale at the Memorial Baptist 
Church will start this Friday. This could 
up — your winter holiday gift shopping! 
The event will feature interesting crafts 
hand-made and by fairly paid artisans 
and crafters from all over the world. 
Handicap accessible but, remember, cash 
or check only! For more information call 
(802) 453-5583.
NOV. 22-23, 3 – 6 PM
Turkey Trot and Gobble Wobble in 
Middlebury
Craving more moth-like events? Love lis-
tening to stories? Attend the StoryMatters 
meeting on Tuesday at Ilsley Library! The 
local group will share stories all on the 
topic of food. There will also be a teach-
ing session after the stories during which 
trainers will help others with the process 
of storytelling. For more information, 
email lar17g@myfairpoint.net
NOV. 24, 10 AM– 2 PM
 | november 21, 2013
Courtesy
Each year, the United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture spends billions of 
dollars on agriculture, nutrition, regu-
lation, conservation and rural devel-
opment. The 
USDA’s Rural 
D e v e l o p m e n t 
division in-
vests some of 
this money on 
housing, com-
munity facili-
ties, businesses 
and utilities in 
rural Vermont. 
The goal of 
the 40 or more 
programs of-
fered by the 
Rural Development Division is to pro-
vide funding for land, equipment, work-
ing capital, infrastructure and training or 
technical assistance, according to a sum-
mary of programs on the Vermont USDA 
Rural Development website. 
The owners of Champlain Orchards, 
Bill Suhr and Andrea Scott, have used 
some of these programs to grow and im-
prove their farm. Suhr told the Addison 
Indpendent that his farm has used loans 
and grants from the USDA to install an 
irrigation system and provide housing 
for employees. The farm will soon build 
greenhouses to extend the growing sea-
son and is working on converting a ware-
house into a refrigeration unit. All of 
these improvements in Suhr’s business 
were funded in part by grants or loans 
from different divisions of the USDA, in-
cluding the Rural Development program. 
According to the Addison indepen-
dent, Suhr described the relationship 
between the programs and his farm as a 
win-win in which his business gets sup-
port and in turn other local businesses 
benefit as well. 
The Rural Development division of 
the USDA invested $8,261,382 in Addi-
son County during the fiscal year 2012 
according to its report on projects by 
county in Vermont. Of the 14 counties 
in Vermont, the USDA program invested 
the most in Chittenden County and the 
least in Essex County during 2012. 
The program’s average investment 
per county in Vermont in 2012 was about 
$9,000,000, with investments in Addi-
son County above the median investment 
per county. Ted Brady, the state director 
of the USDA Vermont and New Hamp-
shire Rural Develop-
ment program, told 
the Addison Indepen-
dent that the program 
invests anywhere 
from $5 to $10 mil-
lion in Addison Coun-
ty every year. The 
loans and grants go to 
farms, businesses and 
communities.
Last year in Ad-
dison County, 96 per-
cent of the funding 
from the USDA Rural 
Development program went to housing 
programs. These programs included di-
rect and guaranteed loans to families and 
housing repair grants and loans. Guaran-
teed housing loans constituted about 94 
percent of the total funding form Addi-
son County from the USDA program in 
2012. 
According to the programs summary 
on the USDA Rural Development web-
site, the “Single Family Home Ownership 
Guaranteed Loans” are meant to assist 
moderate income families or individu-
als in buying their homes by guarantee-
ing loans made by private lenders. The 
loan targets populations in rural areas of 
10,000 people or less and has a 30-year 
fixed rate. 
The remaining 4 percent of the 
2012 funding went to businesses in Ad-
dison County in the form of grants. In 
Middlebury, $11,824 went to an eco-
nomic gardening program for four busi-
nesses in the form of a Rural Business 
Enterprise Grant. The goal of the grant 
was to provide local entrepreneurs with 
competitive intelligence on markets, cus-
tomers and competitors as well as virtual 
business counseling and other online 
tools. 
Another business grant went to 
Green Mountain Organic Creamery, LLC 
in North Ferrisburgh to be used as work-
ing capital to help make ice cream and 
chocolate milk. In Starksboro, a $14,592 
Rural Energy for America Grant went to 
a farm to help with the purchase and in-
stallation of a solar roof that will replace 
39% of the on-farm energy usage. 
Just as the financial support for 
projects at Champlain Orchards has 
also helped businesses connected to the 
farm, the loans and grants provided by 
the USDA are directly helping businesses 
and families in Addison County while in-
directly improving the community and 
local economy as a whole. 
“It’s a smart investment on the be-
half of the taxpayer — they may see quite 
the return on investment,” Suhr said.
‘Tis the Season  — Volunteer in the 
Community!
Volunteer for the United Way
work? Perhaps you feel passionately 
stability? Maybe you display profession-
alism and enthusiasm? United Way of 
Addison County is looking for volunteers, 
or “ambassadors,” available to help from 
Jan. 13 through the end of March.  The 
job consists of reading grant applications 
stability and participating in the process 
that follows. All those interested should 
contact Kate McGowan, the Executive Di-
rector of United Way of Addison County 
at kmcgowan@middlebury.edu by Dec. 4.
Lead Christmas Caroling at 
Porter Hospital
Looking for a way to get involved in the 
greater community in a meaningful way? 
Join residents of Helen Porter, local girl 
scouts and local residents in Christmas 
caroling at Helen Porter during this an-
nual event on Dec. 7 from 2:00 – 4:00 
p.m. Porter is searching for groups of 
students as well as individuals who would 
be interested in singing some carols at the 
event. Enjoy a hot chocolate bar, Christ-
mas trees and general holiday spirit while 
engaging with the community during the 
holiday season! If you’re interested, con-
tact Laurie Borden at LBorden@porter-
medical.org.
Be a Train Engineer for 
Sheldon Museum’s Electric 
Train Display
It’s that time of year again. Sheldon 
Museum in Middlebury is preparing 
their annual electric train display. This 
wonderful tradition engages community 
members of many ages and backgrounds. 
Sheldon Museum is seeking volunteers 
who are willing to be train engineers until 
mid-January. They are also searching for 
volunteers to welcome guests and assist 
in general management of the layout. 
Contact Ed Mcguire at edmcguire1964@
gmail.com for more information or to 
pursue this position. 
Courtesy
“It’s a smart invest-
ment on the behalf 
of the taxpayer - 
they may see quite 
the return on in-
vestment.”
Bill Suhr, Champlain orchards
 7AdvertisementsNovember 21, 2013| 
At Least We Get More 
Done !an !ese Guys 
Come Join Our Team and Accomplish 
Something 
middleburycampus.com
&
McDonalds 
The Two Things in your 
life that are open 24/7
opinions
Unpaid internships have become a 
nearly ubiquitous feature of the modern 
economy. For many students, they 
offer the opportunity 
to explore their field 
of interest before later 
attempting to find a 
paid job. While the 
prevalence of unpaid 
work opportunities 
creates a number of 
problems for those 
who don’t have the 
resources and support to forgo a paid 
summer position, they are a necessary 
stepping stone into the workplace for 
many fields in which the College offers 
courses, including politics, film and 
finance. They allow for the exploration 
of fields not offered and roads not 
taken, providing the sort of tangible 
experience absent during the rest of 
the year. By offering credit for summer 
internships in addition to the J-term 
internships that it already credits, 
Middlebury would grant students more 
freedom for that exploration. 
This is not just a case of adding 
more paths for students to get the 36 
credits necessary to 
graduate. Under the 
status quo, many 
unpaid internships 
are not available for 
students who do not 
receive college credit 
for their efforts. The 
purpose of changing 
the College’s policy 
is to increase options 
for students and 
to acknowledge 
the important role of internship 
experience in an education. The option 
to earn a maximum of two credits, in 
addition to the two already available in 
J-term, would not replace the learning 
opportunities gained through a broad 
array of courses. These would not 
count towards a major or towards any 
of the numerous required credit areas 
that define the liberal arts experience, 
but would create additional flexibility 
for students who come to Middlebury 
without extra AP and IB credits and 
who intern over the summer instead of 
the winter.
Under the current policy, 
Middlebury gives credit only to unpaid 
winter term internships. Students are 
able to receive a stipend to help cover 
living or transportation costs, but no 
more. To transpose such a policy to the 
summer would be inherently regressive, 
unfairly privileging those students who 
can draw on other resources and forgo 
funding over the summer months while 
still starting the year with money for 
books, food and the occasional day at 
the ski slopes.
Ac kno w l e d g ing 
the credit-worthiness 
of internships as 
an integral part of 
the undergraduate 
education means 
that their funding 
should fall under 
the same umbrella 
as financial aid. 
The typical summer 
stipend rarely covers 
full living expenses, 
either in the summer or beyond. 
Needing more money than that should 
never disqualify a hard-working student 
from seeking out the opportunities 
to learn pre-professional skills. Just 
as students who receive financial aid 
and work study opportunities during 
the academic year are still eligible to 
receive course credit and graduate 
from Middlebury, those who receive 
additional funding or pay for summer 
internships should not be prevented 
from earning the same course credit for 
their work as peers with the luxury of 
working for free.  
In assigning credits for summer 
internships, the College should use 
a broad definition in deciding what 
constitutes an internship. Credit-
bearing internships should involve 
demonstrated responsibility, a 
supervisor who can impart meaningful 
experiences, and a minimum number 
of a previous position. They shouldn’t 
be a seasonal position or a continuation 
of previous work. Students should 
have to complete an assignment – a 
journal or paper – that connects their 
experience to their broader education. 
But beyond that, Middlebury should 
allow flexibility to prevent the type 
of career funneling that would strip 
away that which makes this community 
diverse in experience.
In an economy that has failed to 
significantly expand since the supposed 
end of the great recession, many 
students fear that their liberal arts 
education – valuable as it is – does not 
provide them with all of the tools and 
expertise that employers now demand. 
Middlebury already provides credit for 
winter term internships. Expanding 
this policy to the summer would not 
devalue the liberal arts experience but 
would help to expand it year-round, 
while conceding that students here 
pay upwards of $200,000 over four 
years not only to intangibly expand 
their minds and thoughts, but to come 
out prepared for that sometimes-
murky next chapter of their lives ready 
to tackle the myriad challenges of 
adulthood.  
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifi-
able events; the use of vulgar language or per-
sonal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article 
that contains any of the aforementioned will be 
removed before publication. Contributors will 
be allowed to reference prior articles published 
in the Opinions section or announcements for 
the public record. If a reference is made to prior 
articles, the submission will be considered a let-
ter to the editor.  The Campus will not accept or 
print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed 
by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as 
reviews, columns, editorial comics and other com-
mentary, are views of the individual contributors 
and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submis-
sions at 800 words or less. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at 
www.middleburycampus.com. To be considered 
for publications, submissions must be received by 
5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic 
year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and busi-
ness offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, 
Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is 
produced on Apple Macintosh computers using 
Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press 
Republican in New York. The advertising deadline 
for all display and classified advertising is 5 p.m. 
Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Mid-
dlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business 
phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribu-
tion concerns to the Business Director. First class 
postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
Give Credit Where Credit is Due
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kyle Finck
MANAGING EDITOR
Alex Edel 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Emily Singer, Kelsey Collins, Claire Abbadi, 
Nate Sans
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Zach Drennen,  
Jack Dolan
SPORTS EDITORS 
Damon Hatheway,
Owen Teach, Alex Morris, Joe MacDonald
LOCAL EDITORS 
Molly Talbert, Ilana Gratch
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Isabelle Stillman, 
Joe Flaherty
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Ben Anderson,
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anthea Viragh, Paul Gerard
DESIGN EDITOR
Olivia Allen
ONLINE EDITORS
Greg Woolston, Maggie Cochrane
COPY EDITOR
Dan Bateyko
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Ian Stewart, Greta Neubauer
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
decided by the 
editorial board.
8,446 miles. That is how far it is 
from Middlebury to Tacloban City, Phil-
ippines.
When the Earth suffers, we suffer 
with it, but not everyone suffers equal-
ly. Today, the 
Philippines is 
bearing much 
of the bur-
den. Since our 
c o m m u n i t y 
often tends to 
feel apathetic 
towards the 
people and 
communit ies 
that are distant from us, we are fasting 
today not only to stand in solidarity with 
the Filipino people, but also because we 
believe that shared suffering is a path 
to empathy. Although fasting will not 
have an actual impact on the lives of the 
people who are suffering, it brings our at-
tention closer to their suffering. It gives 
us a feeling which we cannot simply for-
get about: every time we feel a pang of 
hunger we are reminded of people living 
with this condition but are without much 
hope of relief. Fasting is a way to at least 
incorporate a very small part of their 
struggle into our lives, helping to bridge 
the geographic gap between us.
Our idea of fasting for climate jus-
tice came from the Filipino delegate to 
the UN climate talk, Mr. Yeb Saño. He 
is fasting for the whole length of the 
current conference “until meaningful 
outcome is in sight”. This is the second 
time in a row where he has addressed 
the international community at the an-
nual climate talk after a disastrous storm 
had struck his country. At present, youth 
groups attending the conference in War-
saw, as well as many people around the 
world and other Middlebury students, 
are also fasting.
If this storm had happened in a 
wealthier area, the damages done to hu-
man lives may not have been so great. 
An IPCC report from 2011 shows that 95 
percent of the deaths resulting from “ex-
treme climate disasters” are in develop-
is so skewed towards people in devel-
oping countries is because they are less 
adequately prepared for coping with cli-
mate disasters than 
developed coun-
tries. Rapid popula-
tion growth and ur-
banization produce 
clusters of poorly 
constructed houses 
in cities in devel-
oping countries 
that are extremely 
vulnerable to even 
smaller-scale cli-
mate events, let 
alone “extreme cli-
mate disasters.” 
At the end of 
the day, we still 
know that we will 
have food available 
for us to eat. But as 
climate change becomes an increasingly 
more frequent storms become the new 
climate norm, more and more people will 
not have that food security. What should 
we do in order to be able to relate to them 
on a deeper, more personal level? Fasting 
attention to what they are going through 
and keeps them in our thoughts. It helps 
to bring us closer to the reality of the 
words and images that we hear and see 
on news reports. But it will not relieve 
the suffering in the Philippines. Fight-
ing for environmental and social justice 
cannot be tackled in one day, we must in-
corporate these ideals into our everyday 
thoughts and actions.
Reader oped 
Ash Babcock ’17 is from 
Adrian Leong ’16 is 
from Hong Kong
Virginia Wiltshire-
Gordon ’16 is from 
Fasting for the Philippines
Because of an editorial error, the article, “Crossroads Swimming in Sushi Profits” published on Nov. 
14 in the News section contained incorrect information. In both the article and the graphic, the num-
bers cited as profits were for sales, not profits. The numbers for beverage sales in 2012 and 2013 were 
flipped. They sold 1,100 beverages in 2012 and 5,006 in 2013. The article, “Winter Sports Preview” 
published on Nov. 14 in the Sports section reported that Erzsebet Nagy ’17 was NESCAC Cross Country champion. She came 
in second place at the NESCAC Cross Country Championships. The Campus regrets these errors.
Correcton
“The purpose of 
changing the College’s 
policy is to increase 
options for students 
and to acknowledge 
the important role of 
internship experience 
in an education.”
Tamir Williams
Graphic Assistance by Ben Hawthorne and Evan Gallagher
|November 21, 2013 9opinions
Cheating at a competitive place 
like Middlebury will never go away, 
but it is possible to change the in-
centives that currently allow its 
tolerance. Beyond being lazy and 
counter-productive to education, 
cheating is a collective action prob-
lem. The best 
way to prevent 
cheating — in 
addition to in-
vesting in steps 
like plagiarism 
detection software and proctoring 
all tests at Middlebury — is to make 
sure we each have skin in the game. 
The story of cheating at Mid-
dlebury is not only about “Billy,” 
the anonymous Middlebury stu-
dent in Jessica Cheung’s exposé of 
Middlebury’s academic dishonesty; 
it is also about how Middlebury’s 
policies enable cheating. Roughly 
one in three students anonymously 
self-report cheating, while the true 
number is likely higher. The unde-
niable truth is cheating is rampant 
at Middlebury.
You and 
I may have 
never cheat-
ed, but the 
burden of 
responsibi l -
ity to proac-
tively prevent 
cheating falls 
on all of us, 
i n c l u d i n g 
the student 
body, student 
governance, staff (including Old 
Chapel) and faculty. Our academic 
system is failing, in the language of 
the honor code, to provide the “ethi-
cal, and social qualities essential for 
leadership.”
When students cheat in intro-
ductory Econ courses, it does not 
significantly affect the rest of the 
Middlebury student body or even 
those in the same classes in which 
the cheating occurs, because the 
vast majority of people we are in 
competition with for jobs are at 
other colleges and universities. 
That some under-qualified, over-
stressed Middlebury students get 
better GPAs by cheating seems mor-
ally ambiguous: at least it is a fellow 
MiddKid and, hey, nobody wants to 
be a tattletale. Our imagined com-
munion with “Billy” personalizes 
his actions, making them relatively 
more palatable. The truth is cheat-
ing undermines our education no 
matter what — it creates a perverse 
incentive structure that devalues 
hard work, and rewards willingness 
to break community values. 
Regularly running student work 
through plagiarism detection soft-
ware is a no-brainer so long as the 
burden on professors is not egre-
gious.  Regularly proctoring exams, 
even if not by professors, is simi-
larly necessary, because trust-based 
proctoring has been a failure. Any 
peace of mind 
gained by not 
having a pro-
fessor in the 
room is over-
shadowed by 
the cheating it 
enables. 
But making 
lasting changes 
require a more 
radical step: 
final grades for 
courses should be determined by a 
normal distribution curve within 
each course, especially in larger, 
lecture courses with less variability 
in the “average student”. This idea 
is based on the belief that Middle-
bury students would not acquiesce 
to rampant cheating in their class 
if it directly hurt their own grades, 
and that students would be deterred 
from cheating if it directly affected 
their (honest) friend’s grades. In 
addition, a curve would prevent 
departments, professors and indi-
vidual courses from having widely 
different GPAs that are totally un-
related to the 
difficulty of 
the course (cue 
Chinese, Phys-
ics and Murray 
Dry’s students 
nodding their 
heads vigor-
ously). 
Mean grades for all courses 
should be set at the average grade 
for the entire student body, roughly 
just worse than a B+. Exceptions 
could be made for seminars and 
small courses, while the rules could 
be flexible enough to allow profes-
sors discretion in evaluating stu-
dents. On the whole, however, we 
would have a more meritocratic sys-
tem, an incentive to crack down on 
cheating, and more consistent grad-
ing between majors and professors, 
all without changing the average 
grade. 
Would such a change create 
more competition, and fuel more 
cheating? Would it lead to a less col-
laborative atmosphere in and out 
of the classroom? Perhaps, but that 
is exactly where there is need for a 
new honor code, based on fostering 
solidarity and collaboration within a 
competitive space. 
Academic life is, by its very 
nature, competitive — creating a 
grade-based curve would only ex-
plicitly acknowledge that fact. As 
currently constructed, our academic 
honor code is redundant, cheating is 
equally prohibited with or without 
it. In contrast, an honor code based 
on actively encouraging positive 
community values, such as collabo-
ration, critical thinking, account-
ability and empathy — the qualities 
that define great leaders — could be 
a step towards a better Middlebury. 
The job environment we are en-
tering is extremely competitive, but 
collaboration — even when there is 
no obvious 
self-interest 
involved — is 
how prob-
lems are 
solved, in-
dustries are 
a d v a n c e d 
and disrup-
tive technologies are invented. How 
we train the next generation of lead-
ers should reflect this reality. 
Learning to behave morally 
within a competitive atmosphere is 
one of the most important lessons 
Middlebury should aspire to im-
part to its students. The liberal arts 
are not about a prohibition of pre-
professional course offerings, but 
rather a holistic education in lieu 
of skill-based training. Ethical self-
awareness is central to what “learn-
ing how to think” really means. 
Reform is not only necessary; 
it is possible. The willingness of 
our administration and our student 
body to constantly and critically 
reevaluate our values and policies 
is one of Middlebury’s greatest in-
stitutional strengths, and it is time 
that we took advantage of it. 
Here is how we do it: public, 
transparent discourse. Looking to 
the the exceptional journalism con-
ducted at middbeat and The Cam-
pus this year, student-run media 
at Middlebury is of a higher caliber 
now that it ever has been during my 
tenure at Middlebury. A curve may 
not be the way to go, but we need 
to construct an alternative academ-
ic model, because the status quo is 
failing us. 
Warm Glow
Hudson Cavanagh ’14 
is from New York, N.Y.
Why Drones Can’t Win Wars
Cheaters Never Win, and Neither Should Enablers
Double-tap. Explosion. Dust. Blood. Celebra-
tions. It reads like a resume of a more traditional 
military confrontation but in these modern in-
stances no one has to touch 
a gun or even look their en-
emy in the face. Welcome 
to the world of Unmanned 
Aerial Vehicles. 
Many governments, pri-
vate firms and individuals 
operate these every day. They are not necessarily 
armed — but they can be, and often are, when in 
the hands of regimes such as that of the United 
States. They have been quite rightly subject to 
much controversy — especially surrounding the 
issue of whether or not it would be legal for them 
to shoot down U.S. citizens living and operating 
in militant groups abroad, etc.
A few weeks back, Hakimullah Mehsud, the 
leader of the Taliban, was killed by a drone attack 
in the north of Pakistan. One of the West’s ideo-
logical nemeses was taken out without any loss of 
life on “our side.” A success by the standards of 
short-term reale politique perhaps but the con-
sequences could prove to be severe. Many fear 
that act of aggression will compromise the efforts 
in Pakistani politics to enter into dialogue with 
the Taliban as they attempt to establish some de-
gree of stability in the tribal north of the country. 
Revenge attacks that will inevitably affect civil-
ians (supposedly our side) have been threatened. 
Furthermore, the newly nominated leader of the 
Taliban, Mullah Fazrullah, 
is infamous for being be-
hind the group that shot the 
brave Malala Yousafzai in 
the head for trying to get an 
education. There are hopes 
that, due to his less explicit 
links to the majority of the 
Taliban associated tribes, 
Fazrullah will have less di-
rect control over the Tali-
ban’s total operations. Does this mean that they 
will wither away and disappear? Of course not. 
Drone attacks on specific individuals, especially 
if they are being targeted for their political posi-
tions, can only ever replace one evil with another. 
All that they ensure is further delaying the peace 
process and disillusioning allied states. 
How would the U.S. feel if one of their allies 
were to kill a U.S. citizen on U.S. soil because 
they posed a possible threat to that allied state? 
This is a U.S. regime with plummeting prestige 
on the international scene and one of the few 
things it should be glad to have on its side in its 
“war on terror” is a gov-
ernment committed to 
fighting the same cause — 
it is of course in Pakistan’s 
interest to disable violent 
militant groups within its 
borders. But to overstep 
national sovereignty in 
such a regular and foolish 
manner can have very lit-
tle benefit in the long run. 
Furthermore, the precision of drone strikes 
is also questionable, in large part through the 
regular use of the double-tap, which ensures a 
second bombing of the same location only a few 
moments after the initial blast, inevitably harm-
ing those who first respond to the scene of the 
attack. 
The ethical use of drones in “normal” warfare 
is an altogether different question, and one can, 
with some optimism, imagine a future in which 
drones fight themselves with no human lives are 
lost or at stake. But in the world that we live in, 
the careless abuse of an allied sovereignty for at-
tacks that have highly questionable outcomes, 
should not be supported. The U.S. would not al-
low it on its own territory and if it cannot uphold 
that most basic of reciprocities then how can it 
expect to be taken as a serious mediator of in-
ternational affairs, let alone “the world’s police-
man.”
eyes on the 
outside
Jack George ’16 is from 
London, U.K.
“The truth is cheating 
undermines our education 
no matter what — it creates 
a perverse incentive 
structure that devalues 
hard work, and rewards 
willingness to break 
community values.”
“How would the U.S. feel if 
one of their allies were to 
kill a U.S. citizen on U.S. 
soil because they posed 
a possible threat to that 
allied state?”
Samantha Wood
“You and I may have 
never cheated, but the 
burden of responsibility 
to proactively prevent 
cheating falls on all of us.”
opinions10 November 21, 2013 | 
Akrasia is the ancient Greek word for “weak-
ness of will,” or, in other words, acting against 
one’s better judgment. This past week makes me 
think that the U.S. might have itself a bad case of 
the stuff when it comes to climate questions. 
As Greenwire and The 
New York Times report, the 
EPA lowered federal renew-
able fuel targets for the first 
time since 2007. Up until last 
Friday, the agency had hoped 
to have roughly 18.15 billion 
gallons of renewable fuels blended into the rest of 
the petroleum-based gasoline and diesel fuels on 
the market — 3.75 billion gallons of which was to 
include advanced biofuels not 
derived from corn inputs. On the 
revision, the nation’s fuel mix 
must contain 15.21 billion gallons 
of renewable fuels, 13.01 billion 
being conventional ethanol and 
2.2 billion gallons of advanced 
biofuels. The question concern-
ing the viability of ethanol as an 
alternative fuel notwithstanding, the EPA’s move 
appears to me to be little more than a concession 
to industry pressures. 
That the rollback was called “a step in the right 
direction” by Jack Gerard, CEO of the American 
Petroleum Institute, disturbs me almost as much as 
his follow-up comment that “more must be done.” 
The EPA justifies its decision by appeal to the lack 
of market support for alternative fuels both at 
the pump and on the assembly line. However, the 
agency fails in any real way to provide an offsetting 
measure for the corresponding boom in domestic 
petroleum production in recent years. With less 
support for renewables and increased production 
of conventional fuels, reductions in emissions from 
nationwide automobile traffic take a huge hit.
In another equally depressing news bit, the 
U.S. seems to be preparing itself for a repeat per-
formance of its 1997 Kyoto Protocol blunder. As 
world players gather in Warsaw, Poland for UN 
climate talks, the tone coming from Congress is 
less than enthusiastic. While some elected officials 
like Senators Ed Markey (D-Mass) and Ben Cardin 
(D-Md.) favor U.S. involvement in an international 
climate agreement, the two acknowledge that the 
present makeup of the Senate will make it extraor-
dinarily difficult to win U.S. support for any such 
measure. 
The President’s administration and others 
worldwide have pledged to develop an interna-
tional arrangement to address the climate crisis 
by 2015, which would likely go into effect by 2020. 
However, sentiments from Senator John Barraso 
(R-Wyo.) that effectively damned 
EPA regulations for power plants 
for their economic effects as 
well as those of Senator Warren 
Hatch (R-Utah) who appealed to 
the “legitimate question of sci-
ence” regarding the legitimacy 
of claims about climate change 
indicate that conservatives dog-
matic denials of the facts might undermine yet an-
other opportunity for the U.S. to take a leadership 
role in the global climate battle. 
When the best evidence repeatedly points us 
towards taking action, we have seemed to develop a 
nasty habit of turning the other cheek and neglect-
ing where our best deliberations might take us.
There is no denying that economic concerns 
should be an important consideration, but as my 
fellow columnist and editor, Zach Drennan, point-
ed out last week, fossil fuels — especially new, 
riskier extraction methods — are hardly a safe 
long-term investment. Investing in more resilient 
pathways makes more sense than leaving our fu-
ture up to chance. 
Policymakers, unfortunately, still see some 
reason to gamble on carbon — whether they are 
reasons to which we average citizens are blind or 
they are being hidden behind congressional back-
doors, I cannot say. To open up fuel markets for 
more petroleum consumption while simultane-
ously resisting active contribution to mitigating 
problems caused by that consumption sets us up 
for nothing but failure. A few billion gallons of al-
ternative fuels might only be a small portion of our 
total energy mix, but when we actively undermine 
progress, we drill holes in the water buckets that 
are supposed to help us put out a climate fire that 
is only growing. 
Drops in the Bucket
Green Piece
Julian Macrone ’14 is 
from Clifton, N.J.
 HAVE AN OPINION? 
   WEIGH IN TODAY
“Investing in more 
resilient pathways 
makes more sense than 
leaving our future up to 
chance.”
Amr Thameen
Amr Thameen
if only likes could help
The More Beautiful World
Emily Cox
VOICE YOUR OPINION 
@ MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM
To the Editors of the Middlebury 
Campus,
We would like to offer some com-
ments and clarification on the article 
entitled “Reading and Ranking: Shap-
ing the Class 
of 2018” in the 
November 14, 
2013 issue of 
the Middlebury 
Campus. 
First, thank 
you for spend-
ing time with 
the Admissions 
Office to shed 
some light on a 
process that is often perceived at best 
as “opaque,” and at worst downright 
frustrating. All of us, undergrads and 
graduates alike, have gone through 
the college admissions process, and 
all of us at one point have wondered 
what goes on behind the scenes to se-
lect the next new class of Middlebury 
students.  
With that said, we wanted to 
support and make some clarifying 
comments on your article about the 
Admissions process and how appli-
cants are considered. While the arti-
cle quotes Manuel Carballo, Director 
of Admissions, as saying, “we aren’t 
interviewing students or having con-
versations with them”, the reality is 
that many applicants are still being 
interviewed. Last year, Middlebury’s 
Alumni Admissions Program (AAP) 
interviewed over 6,000 of the more 
than 9,000 undergraduate applica-
tions received by the College.  
The AAP is the College’s largest 
alumni volunteer program with al-
most 2,500 active participants and 
over 3,800 members. The program 
has members across the world, in 
nearly every country and every state. 
In fact, the Admissions Office esti-
mates that at least 50 percent of the 
current matriculated students of the 
College received an interview from an 
alumni or alumnae.  
As alumni interviewers, we realize 
that our conversations only represent 
one aspect of an applicant’s overall 
profile, which also include high school 
transcripts, test scores, recommenda-
tions and other application materials, 
both objective and subjective. Our ef-
forts, however, do make a difference 
as our conversations with applicants 
provide direct insight into the most 
subjective and very important “per-
sonal category” of an application, as 
referenced by Dean of Admissions, 
Greg Buckles, in your article. 
As leaders of AAP, we are all proud 
of our work. Looking at alumni admis-
sions programs at peer institutions, 
Middlebury’s AAP is often recognized 
as a model of the college admissions 
process in terms of the number of in-
terviews completed and the quality of 
the reports.  
As we all know, the landscape of 
higher education is changing rapidly 
and in ways that many of us do not 
fully comprehend. The college appli-
cant of today is smarter, global, so-
cially-networked and more technolog-
ically advanced than we ever thought 
possible. In order to make sure that 
Middlebury continues its tradition of 
attracting the best and the brightest, 
programs like AAP are critical to the 
overall process, and we are proud to 
know that all of the work done by the 
alumni/ae volunteers of the College is 
valuable and appreciated by the Ad-
missions Office.
Best regards,
Ed Soh – ’94, AAP National Chair 
and MCAA Board Member
Wendy Russell Tracy – ’95, AAP 
National Chair and MCAA Board 
Member
Skip D’Aliso – ’87, AAP National 
Chair and MCAA Board Member
The Case for Alumni 
Interviews
|November 21, 2013 11opinions
Letter to 
the Editor
On behalf of the 
undersigned 
members of the 
Alumni Admissions 
Program
ePanther
  2 ATMs on campus  
(Student Center and the  
Library) plus 4 free ATMs  
near campus (Middlebury 
Market & Cafe, 30 Main St.,  
15 Seymour St. and Rte 7 So.)
  Over 100 additional  
free ATMs (Falcon Network)
  No minimum balance
  No monthly fee
  eStatement
  Free online banking
  Free bill pay
  Free mobile banking
B B
877-508-8455
ePanther
 AN
ACC
NO minimum balance 
or monthly fee 
 G
O
 P
AN
R
!
8810_NBM_MC_ePantherAd_02cm.indd   1 9/4/13   3:35 PM
Seniors Jeff Hetzel ’14 and Damon Ha-theway ’13.5 are kicking up their feet, sinking deep into the couch, making themselves perfectly at home — in 
Chair of the English Department Brett Millier’s 
home, that is. 
Currently on leave for the academic year, Mil-
lier and Assistant Professor of American Studies 
Karl Lindholm have together rented out their fam-
ily home off Cider Mill Road to the two students 
who would have otherwise lived in Forest Hall, 
having been ticketed one of the dreaded numbers 
in the housing lottery. Hetzel and Hatheway were 
lucky, but it was only because Millier’s luck had 
run out a little bit.
“The advice one hears is generally pretty clear: 
don’t rent to students and if you do, get a huge 
security deposit,” Millier wrote in an email. “So 
renting to students was, frankly, our last op-
tion. Fortunately, my husband knew Damon and 
Jeff, trusted them implicitly. Our next door neigh-
bors also know Damon well, so there was quite a 
bit of reassurance available to us.”
At the head of the running for Millier and Lind-
holm’s house were incoming faculty members — 
members whom the College usually hires on one-
year terms. According to Millier, these incoming 
hires generally make up the demand for faculty-
owned houses in the rent market. So the College, 
Millier wrote, is “the major player among land-
lords in town — at least in the faculty maker and 
much depends on how much the college housing is 
available in the year one is on leave.” 
And there is a supply, too. When College facul-
ty members go on their full-year leave, they tend to 
put their property on the rental market. In Millier’s 
case, she “talked with perhaps half a dozen incom-
ing faculty members — every one of them ended 
up living in a College-owned house or apartment.”
You could call this idea of a student living in 
a professor’s house while they are away bizarre, 
but  Hetzel and Hatheway say it is pretty awesome. 
Whereas the rest of us are packed right in the edge 
a family of four and two dogs.
“The best part of living in a house is choosing 
the pace at which I live,” Hatheway said. “I think 
when you live on campus, with everyone else, you 
tend to get caught up at the pace at which everyone 
else lives their lives, which can often feel very dif-
ferent from how you live. Having our own space 
means that I’m far more intentional about when 
I’m at home, when I’m on campus and what I do 
with my time.”
Whether thrilled by or scared by this aspect of 
living in a professor’s house, Hetzel cryptically 
said in an email: “There are books everywhere.”
The matchmaking between prospective renters, 
and Millier and Lindholm were also complicated 
by the fact that taking care of her two dogs was 
part and parcel of moving in. But Hetzel and Ha-
theway were upright and excited about it. 
Feeding, walking and taking care of the dogs 
are just a few among many real world routines Ha-
theway and Hetzel wouldn’t have otherwise got 
into if they stayed on-campus. 
“Paying rent, for example, is relatively straight-
forward, but everyone should learn,” Hatheway 
said. “When your landlords are people you know, 
you develop a different relationship: tenant-land-
lord. You have to have that relationship indepen-
dent from your personal one. Making terms agree-
able for both sides should happen in a vacuum.”
Negotiating with a professor on rent prices 
“went similarly to how it would making plans with 
anyone. The student-professor relationship is close 
in this case — they care about us and know us per-
sonally — but we don’t take the fact that we are 
living in their family’s home lightly.”
And as for the house rule? Millier says, “We 
have not felt ‘boundary issues’ with our student 
renters. I am sure they know enough to blackmail 
us if they want to. But let’s hope not!”
With about 96 percent of the student body living on-campus for all four years, off-campus housing is not the norm at the College. With all the 
amenities a student could want offered on-campus, 
many students do not see the rationale for striking out 
Associate Dean of Students for Residential and Stu-
dent Life Doug Adams wrote in an email that enroll-
ment does not factor into the number of students who 
choose to pursue off-campus housing.
“The numbers of students living off-campus have 
been fairly consistent over the last decade – ranging 
from 90-110,” wrote Adams. “Student enrollment has 
little impact on these numbers.”
Only seniors are able to apply for off-campus hous-
ing. The 104 students currently living off-campus cite 
different reasons for wanting to have some distance 
from the College.
“I decided to live off-campus because I wanted to 
have the opportunity to assume responsibility for how 
I lived,” wrote Anna Stevens ’13.5 in an email. “This 
includes both the tedious things – paying bills, con-
tacting landlords when things break, being respectful 
of neighbors – and the positive things: being able to 
paint my apartment, have candles, and have large gath-
erings.”
Other students, like Molly Shane ’13.5, said they 
liked living outside the “Middlebury bubble.”
“It is so easy to feel isolated and detached from the 
town of Middlebury when you live up on the hill, sleep 
in dorms, and eat in dining halls,” wrote Shane in an 
email. “Living off-campus has allowed me to feel far 
more connected to this community than ever before.”
Laura Lowry ’14 explained that some friends chose 
to live off-campus because of a combination of factors.
“They decided to live off-campus to save money 
and to get away from campus and the social scene,” 
-
pus every night really lowers her stress level.” 
Adams said that a highly active social and academic 
scene on-campus is central to the College’s identity.
“Middlebury is a residential college.  As such, stu-
dent life happens on the campus – classes, dining, ex-
tracurricular organizations, athletics, events, etc.,” he 
added. “This immersive, residential experience is a 
core element to the College’s mission where learning 
happens both inside and outside the classroom.”
Nevertheless, the residential experience may be 
both a blessing and a curse, especially to students who 
feel overwhelmed.
“Students who live off-campus are sometimes 
seeking distance from the hubbub of campus living; 
something more independent and subdued than their 
residence hall,” wrote Adams. “Other reasons cited 
by students include a desire to live closer to the local 
community; a change from living on-campus; want-
ing to live on their own. Off-campus living can offer 
more variety in terms of housing options – apartments, 
houses – as well as the option to live off the College 
meal plan. Students will often say that they are looking 
for a ‘homey’ experience.”
Stevens said the attractions of the residential col-
lege experience fade slightly by senior year.
“Living in dormitories and social houses was fun 
be people around and things going on,” she said. “But, 
as we got older, my friends and I no longer wanted to 
live with people we did not know and we wanted to be 
able to have parties and gatherings without factoring in 
the other residents, Public Safety, etc.”
However, moving off-campus can come at a cost. 
Obviously, expenses such as rent, utilities and trans-
portation come into play, as well as a new set of rules 
regarding living next to non-student neighbors.
with its headaches that students living on-campus do 
not have to worry about.
“I think each housing challenge that has arisen for 
me since living off-campus has less to do with Middle-
bury’s housing system or protocol than miscommuni-
cations with my landlords,” said Stevens.
Last year, she and her housemates were not allowed 
access to the basement where the boiler was located 
and as a result were unable to keep track of their oil 
levels.
“Multiple times over the winter we had to pay for 
emergency oil to be delivered to us,” she said. “This 
was extremely frustrating, as we had to pay for mis-
takes that had been out of our control.”
At many other colleges and universities, the deci-
sion to live off-campus is not much of a decision at all. 
The vast majority of upperclassmen at the University 
of Wisconsin – Madison choose to live in apartments 
or houses that are considered to be off-campus hous-
“Apartments and houses are typically cheaper than 
residence halls,” wrote University of Wisconsin junior 
Jared Peroutky in an email. “The average cost of a dorm 
at UW-Madison is around $7,500 for nine months. You 
$7,000 or cheaper.”
The typical rental options in Middlebury include 
locations on Court Street, apartments above the restau-
rant Taste of India, a rental below the champagne bar 
on College Street and property above Leatherworks. 
housing is a kind of education in its own right. The 
process of house-hunting was described by Rita Croce 
’14.5 as “The Game.”
“There’s no one source of information for off-cam-
pus housing,” she said. “You have to do your research, 
talk to as many sources as you can, and visit a wide 
variety of options. You have to know how to negotiate 
with the landlord on rent, learn about various kinds of 
utilities, and ask the right questions ... or at least know 
how to bull**** them.”
From the landlord’s perspective, off-cam-pus living is “really not that exciting,” according to Peter Jette, who owns the eight-apartment building above Taste of 
India and the free-standing Weybridge House. 
“Middlebury kids are pretty responsible overall,” 
Jette said of his experience. 
Hannah Macgoun, who has owned 59 Shannon 
“Most of the students are pretty responsible and 
will keep it in good shape and let you know if some-
Macgoun added that she often prefers to rent to 
students instead of certain members of the town or 
surrounding area. 
“I’ve rented to some people who are in Section 
some problems with some of them where they don’t 
report things until it’s drastic.”
Jette and Macgoun both cite noise and partying as 
some of the biggest issues with their tenants, but both 
have had to interfere only a handful times. 
-
goun has her tenants under control.
“I live right next door, so I can kind of keep an eye 
on some of the parties and,” she said with a pause, 
“nighttime activities.”
In both landlords’ experience, students have been 
receptive to complaints.
“They’re all responsible and will go along with 
turning down the music or moving inside,” said Mac-
goun.
Jette also cites students’ busy lives as a small 
glitch in the landlord-tenant process. 
“The top of their priority list isn’t necessarily pay-
ing their rent,” he said. 
Though Jette noted that students always come 
through on payments, he mentioned other hitches in 
the system, such as students who have become ac-
customed to dorm living. 
“They’ve clearly never had the responsibility of 
renting an apartment before,” he said. “They may 
call me if they have a clogged toilet, which is really 
not my department. Living in a dorm, you can call on 
somebody for virtually anything, but when you’re a 
tenant it’s a different set of circumstances.”
Though apartment life doesn’t come with the 
perks of a dorm, demand for off-campus living spac-
es has remained high throughout both Macgoun and 
Jettes’ experiences. Jette is already receiving calls 
from students looking to rent the apartments in the 
Taste of India building next fall. 
all of them,” Jette said, who turns away two or three 
apartments’ worth of students each year. He believes 
housing. 
to rent the same apartment,” Macgoun said.
group if another seems more “responsible.” 
trailing off. Sometimes all-female groups can be “all 
right,” but Macgoun prefers mixed gender groups. 
Overall, Jette and Macgoun have both had posi-
tive experiences, saying their tenants are consistently 
reliable and responsible. 
The Middlebury Campus| NOVEMBER 21, 201312 13features
So
uth
 M
ain
 St
ree
t
Col
lege
 Str
eet
Weybridge Street
Court Street
1
2
3
4
5Out on 
the town
Faculty as Landlords
1 2 3
4 5
1 Leatherworks apartments 2 The Blossom Basket on Bakery Lane 3 Taste of India Apartments 4 The Apartments at Sama’s High Street Apartments5
artwork by Charlotte Fairless
An in-depth look at off-campus housing
By Isabelle Stillman, Jessica Cheung, & Joe Flaherty
design by Olivia Allen
photos by Joe Flaherty
The Landlord’s Perspective
14 features | november 21, 2013
By Joy Zhu
By Charlotte Boghossian
Blackbird, a literary arts magazine, 
will present its new online branch, The 
Orchard, on Friday, Nov. 22, in tandem 
with the release of Blackbird’s biannual 
publication. The magazine’s Editing 
Board, which includes editors of both 
publications, will host a launch party at 
The Mill on Friday night, featuring live 
music and readings, to celebrate the first 
website dedicated to all forms of art on 
campus. The Orchard aims to uncover 
art created with little or no recognition – 
from intro classes to thesis work to free-
time experimentation – which Blackbird 
cannot accomplish with a page limit.
“We think that a large portion of this 
campus is creating great work that hasn’t 
been tapped into, and these people and 
their art get little recognition,” said Elli 
Itin ’16, one of The Orchard’s online edi-
tors. “We’re really hoping to expand both 
the audience and the people who identify 
themselves as artists.”
Such is the aim of the online forum, 
which represents a collaborative ef-
fort by Blackbird Editor-in-Chief Jack 
George ’16, and new Online Editors 
Wendy Walcoff ’16, Elli Itin ’16 and Isa-
belle Stillman ’16. 
“It’s a partnership that came from 
a convergence of ideas,” Stillman said. 
“Wendy, Elli and I had this idea in the 
spring and Blackbird was having it at the 
same time. When we realized we were 
trying to do the same thing, we thought 
we might as well partner.”
Though Blackbird provides an exem-
plary literary outlet, the team is taking 
on this new endeavor in order to broad-
en the stage for student art beyond the 
pages of a literary magazine, by includ-
ing more mediums and welcoming more 
submissions.
All content featured in Blackbird 
will appear on The Orchard, but because 
of the space that the online format pro-
vides, the website will feature additional 
content, branching out into a wider va-
riety of mediums including music, film 
and dance.
For Walcoff, Itin and Stillman the 
idea was born out of the notable lack of 
such an online publication on campus.
“It was shocking to us that there 
was no online forum for art at Midd,” 
said Walcoff, who has spearheaded the 
graphic design of the site in collabora-
tion with other Blackbird staff. “Making 
the website was not hard to do, it just 
hadn’t been done. I think some of the 
reluctance comes from the attachment 
to the print edition, which is great and 
important to continue, but there are so 
many more forms of art that it was just 
crazy there was no place for that.”
The magazine’s team sees the new 
online component as a natural extension 
of Blackbird.    
“The key difference is that the on-
line section will be updated regularly,” 
George said. “We’re looking to do the 
same thing online that the literary maga-
zines does here, which is to source and 
promote the best creative content on 
campus.”
The Orchard will function much as 
Blackbird does: as a 
student run organi-
zation with a reading 
board that reviews 
submissions. The 
content deemed the 
best will be printed 
in one of Blackbird’s 
biannual publica-
tions, and the rest 
will be handed over 
to The Orchard for 
review.
The Orchard is 
outlined to function 
as a blog of a myriad 
of creative work, rather than a selective 
handful of pieces.
“It should be more accessible, cel-
ebratory and inclusive rather than elite,” 
Itin said. “We think there’s tons of won-
derful work being produced and we want 
there to be a more inclusive forum for it 
to be published.”
The Orchard and Blackbird editors 
erased the boundary between the two 
groups as their ideas merged, and the 
two Boards have worked in tandem to 
bring this new branch of the arts publi-
cation to life.
Both Walcoff and Stillman served on 
the Blackbird reading board last spring, 
and from their experience, hoped to cre-
ate a publication that served a different 
role on campus than the print magazine.
“I felt the board was quick to judge 
in a way that disrespected the artists’ 
work,” Stillman said. “We decided to di-
verge with this a bit because we felt that 
anyone who makes art deserves more at-
tention than a brief glance and a quick 
judgment.”
Walcoff agreed, pointing out that the 
majority of student work gets overlooked 
by the subjective eyes of a literary maga-
zine reading and art board.
The mission to expand the body of 
work that can be published and appre-
ciated on campus embodies the online 
publication’s vision to expand what it 
means to be an artist at the College.
“A large portion of this campus is 
creating great work that hasn’t been 
tapped into, and these people aren’t re-
ally seen as artists,” Itin said. “We’re re-
ally hoping to expand both the audience 
and the people who identify themselves 
as artists.”
As of now, 
the editors have 
rounded up 
enough creative 
content to go live 
on Friday, and 
hope the site will 
develop overtime 
with the help of 
the student body.
“We think 
once it’s up and 
running, it will be 
more or less self-
propelled,” Wal-
coff said.
Everyone involved in the project 
shares an overarching goal of broaden-
ing the reach and scope of creative con-
tent at the College.
“We are united in this process be-
cause there is a lot of creative content on 
this campus,” George said. “There are a 
lot of incredible people here; they just 
need a uniform platform on which they 
can express themselves. The Orchard 
will be more accessible, more open to 
everyone.”
“Blackbird’s goal of highlighting 
great art is something that we share,” 
Stillman added. “The Orchard will be a 
platform for the student body, not for a 
select group of people. Even though we 
will filter and organize things so that it 
is conducive to having it on a website, it 
is a site for students to see each other’s 
work, share their work and be inspired 
by each other.”
Blackbird  Presents The Orchard, a 
New Online Journal for Student Art 
“A large portion of this 
campus is creating great 
work that hasn’t been 
tapped into. We’re really 
hoping to expand both the 
audience and the people 
who identify themselves 
as artists.”
Elli itin ’16
THE ORCHARD ONLINE EDITOR
OVER-
HEARD 
IN THE  
CAMPUS
“Just last week they 
had a paint dance – I 
walked through that 
and came out looking 
like a rainbow. Luckily, 
it was all washable ... 
The second year that I 
was a night watchman 
in one night. They had 
to call in custodial and 
everybody.”
– Night Watchman Tom 
Raymond
a step towards social 
-
-
ers. Bettering people’s 
when it is not harm-
ing people on the other 
end.” 
– Tour de Fracked 
participant Rosalie 
Wright-Lapin ’15
“This is like Rocky. The boys have to believe 
– Head Rugby Coach John Phillips
¡AMurica!
At home in Hong Kong, I used to be 
able to just stand up and go anywhere. 
Right now, any means of travel requires 
meticulous premeditation. 
Sometimes I feel like I am stuck on 
an island, in every sense of the word (be-
lieve it or not, Middlebury is built on a 
slope so as to avoid a flood if there ever 
were one).
Next time when you say you are in 
the middle of nowhere, think twice and 
look again. While I was taking a study 
break outside Battell, I noticed that the 
rocks that make up the walls of the  first-
year dorm are ingrained with bark-like 
patterns. I’m no expert on plant biology 
but I believe they must have been fossil-
ized plantlife. Look closer: blots spread 
in radial networks ingrained in walls, 
clinging on like some kind of viral dis-
ease. Berries break out from the walls 
like pimples on a teenager’s face.
Middlebury is actually ripe with 
insidious plantlife. Yesterday, while I 
was walking back to my dorm, I was 
frightened by the sight of a leaf that 
moved across the ground in the wind — I 
thought it was a frog. 
You never really notice that trees are 
of a certain breed until your foot gets 
bruised from stepping on a chestnut, and 
the ground is strewn with the carnage of 
mashed fruit. The sight is decadent, es-
pecially since they are delectable. 
Moreover, Middlebury’s trees are 
excessively fruitful, especially since, 
compared to gymnosperms, the repro-
duction of angiosperms is much more 
energetically expensive, given that it re-
quires both male and female structures 
as well as the factor of chance — pollina-
tion by bees or whatever means. Favor-
able genes may also be lost in the pro-
cess of recombination.
The reason that canopies burgeon 
to such thicknesses and trunks grow to 
such great heights must have something 
to do with the stability of our environ-
ment, and  possibly the length of time 
in which it is stuck in this unchanging 
environment
This must have been the logic of our 
education. When we are here, time stops 
dead, the universe stops orbitting for us 
to mature intellectually.
Lung Ying-tai, a Taiwanese essayist, 
once said that Hong Kong lacks culture 
because there is no place for people to 
congregate and linger; everything must 
be rapidly progressing on a certain tra-
jectory. The reason there is a differnt 
culture in Europe is that people stop — 
in cafés plazas — to ruminate about life, 
books and philosophy. Space is created 
in the absence of excessive stress.
The greatest works of art are borne 
out of social unrest and human suffer-
ing. Ernest Hemingway once said that an 
unhappy childhood is the best training 
for a writer. Censorship in Russia and 
China led to the production of many a 
great works of literature and film. Where 
would “1984” be without totalitarian re-
gimes? 
We cannot create poignant mean-
ing out of nothing; and yet among ev-
erything that flew out of Pandora’s box 
everything but one — ‘hope’ — is the al-
ternative to perching on the edge of the 
abyss.
15featuresnovember 21, 2013   
Raymond Runs the Nightly Watch
Night Watchman Tom Raymond checks a sprinkler system in the basement of the CFA. 
Joe Flaherty
for SGA President, and escaped the burden 
Burlington Airport.
But none of this really matters because, 
her hand.
friends. Boarding school gradually eroded 
in social house basements also played their 
part.
a mild regret.
to parties (because he has tinnitus, a legacy 
of the middle school rock band) has a little 
ter madhouse than do the shapely, athletic 
are almost as dissatisfying as holding out 
little risks.
though memorable nonetheless.
going to take a different date to a different 
a good laugh.
true romance.
Dining, Dating, 
& DashingBEHIND
THE     VEST
By Joe Flaherty
By Ryan Kim
campus is illuminated by a full moon, and the 
Tom Raymond is on the clock, checking in for 
Raymond climbs into the cab of the pick
checking buildings.
assistance to them if they need us for some
Raymond said he sees a discouraging 
ment.  
could be attributed to the fact that, for a lot of 
College.
Sure enough, as Raymond entered social 
During an early stop on his route, Ray
Alumni Center. Walking to a corner of the 
kitchen, he deftly pulled out a grey rectan
you catch it 
rather than 
it leaking all 
night, and 
either shut 
it off or get 
s o m e o n e 
in here to 
it starts 
r u n n i n g 
t h r o u g h 
the ceiling, 
it makes 
a big dif
ference in 
damage is 
all kinds of mechanical rooms, making sure 
Checking the air compression of sprin
relies on a certain amount of air compression 
many of 
t h e 
b u i l d
ings on 
campus, 
a n d 
R a y
m o n d 
has to 
r e c o r d 
t h e 
p r e s
s u r e 
nightly 
to en
sure the 
system 
is not 
ed by a 
faulty amount of pressure.  
Raymond checks the pressure of sprinkler 
Salisbury, Vermont after the staff member, 
lesson not lost on Raymond.  At one point, a 
Bicentennial Hall, Raymond described one of 
checking the roof of Bicentennial Hall and 
near the railing.  
route.  
5
13
Number of hours on Tom Raymond’s 
night shift on Saturday. Raymond 
also works to deliver the Addison 
Independent.
and sprayed in one night where 
additional custodial staff had to be 
called in to clean up the mess.
Number of staff on the night watch 
team.  Raymond, Bushey, and 
DeLorenzo walk and drive different 
routes around campus.
Most people Raymond has ever seen in 
the Mill at one time.
Number of stairs on the night 
watchman walk route, by 
Raymond’s count.
behind the
Numb3rs 1,750
3
400
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Fall Dance Concert: Press/Release
This evening of new dance works showcases the cho-
reography of emerging student dance artists at the in-
termediate and advanced levels, and the annual New-
comer’s Piece, choreographed this year by Catherine 
Cabeen.
11/22-23, 8 P.M., MCA DANCE THEATRE
The Sound Investment Jazz Ensemble 
Middlebury’s Sound Investment Jazz Ensemble cel-
ebrates the wisdom that “it don’t mean a thing if it 
ain’t got that swing” with a program of contemporary 
jazz compositions and some of the best music of the big 
band era.
10/22, 8 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
Pentecost
This play about the freeing and redemptive pow-
er of art “is the meatiest new drama I have seen 
since Stoppard’s Arcadia” said Jonathan Kalb, at 
the Village Voice. The title is a New Testament 
reference to the multiplicity of languages.
11/21-11/23, 7:30 P.M., WRIGHT MEMORIAL THEATRE
In response to criticism that he could 
only write for men, playwright David Mamet 
penned the farcical “Boston Marriage” in 
1999, following two Victorian era women as 
they explore their relationships with each 
other and the people who surround them. 
The play enjoyed a Nov. 14-16 run in the 
Hepburn Zoo, delighting audiences with its 
careful presentation and razor sharp wit.
Members of the audience may have 
been expecting a scene out of a Jane Aus-
ten novel when they walked into the Zoo, 
greeted by Victorian furniture and harpsi-
chord music playing overhead.  Many were 
happily surprised by the vibrancy with which 
they were greeted over the next 90 minutes. 
The senior acting work of Christina Fox ’13.5 
and Meghan Leathers ’13.5, turned the play 
“Boston Marriage” into a comic piece, exam-
ining relationships between gender and class 
through a fresh, playful lens, engaging the 
After much deliberation, Fox and Leath-
ers departed from typical theater department 
their time at the College to chose a play rec-
ommended to them by Assistant Professor of 
Theatre Alex Draper.
female protagonists that aren’t full of angst 
or misery,” Leathers noted. “The leads in this 
play are fantastic – they’re exciting and great 
and strong and absurd, and it’s been really 
challenging and fun to play with.”
“Boston Marriage” is built around 
the protagonists’ dynamic dialogue. Anna, 
played by Leathers, is the narcissistic, im-
possibly witty mistress of a wealthy man and 
a  friend of Claire’s, acted by Fox, a woman 
visiting to tell the news of the new love of her 
life – a young woman. The emotional and 
physical tension between the leads is instant-
ly recognizable, Anna sporting her lovers’ 
family heirloom emerald necklace, touching 
its garish size to reinforce its representation 
to be the key to the development of the plot, 
Claire’s lover stealing away to Anna’s resi-
-
ting on a strange woman’s neck. Both women 
-
ly, and they turn to each other for comfort 
and complaining.
Anna and Claire are in a Boston mar-
riage, a term used to refer to two single wom-
en living together in Victorian times with 
possible sexual implications. They curse each 
other’s faults, often likening one another to 
some sort of farm animal, only to be driven 
together by moments of affection and desire. 
The two women are delightful to watch, 
with members of the audience jealously 
wishing that they too could join the action. 
The deliciously wicked gleam in Fox’s eye as 
she counters Leathers’ practically perfect co-
medic timing, along with Leathers’ revelling 
in the depth of her character, delivering line 
after line of complex, nuanced dialogue, is 
truly a treat for the audience.
Mamet does not give Claire as many 
bracingly funny lines, and in the wrong 
hands she could appear to be a weaker, 
more subservient version of Anna, but Fox 
breathed vibrant life into Claire with a grace-
ful, realistic subtlety that revealed her char-
acter’s power over the duration of the show. 
The only other character who appears in 
must grapple with the possibility of pregnan-
cy and the power that men hold over women 
in Victorian society. Charlotte Michaelcheck 
charming with her character’s accent and 
tendencies for emotional outbursts (as well 
as, I suspect, Michaelcheck’s extremely ex-
pressive eyebrows and facial expressions).
Though the Irish – no, Scottish – maid 
has intimate access to Anna and Claire’s 
lives, in many respects she holds, like the au-
dience, the role of an objective viewer, sepa-
rated by class, nationality, and her love for 
men. Seemingly oblivious and occasionally 
rendered incompetent by nervousness, Cath-
erine surprises the audience and the women 
she serves with an unassuming, profound 
Anna and Claire do not possess. These bits of 
wisdom interrupt a role that, if possible, pro-
vided even more comic relief to the play than 
the two characters already displayed.
Indeed, some in the audience were sim-
ply giddy in anticipation of the next laugh, 
gasping between breaths and nervously wait-
ing for one of the three characters to contin-
ue the comedic rhythm. 
Costume designer Elisabeth Harmor 
’16 provided Leathers and Fox with beauti-
ful wardrobes, supplying them each with two 
accessories for a game of psychic dress up 
that did not disappoint.
Overall, the show had a vitality of spirit 
that radiated into the audience.
Director Jake Schwartzwald ’14 has 
been following Fox’s and Leather’s thesis 
agreeing to direct another play that the pair 
had selected before transitioning to “Boston 
Marriage” this semester.
“We sought Jake out because we knew 
we wanted to do a comedy and Jake is a co-
median and we knew he could work with us 
and guide us in that comic spirit,” Leathers 
said. 
Indeed, Leathers, Fox and Schwartz-
wald enjoyed an ease in each other’s com-
pany over casual lunch that transferred into 
lot of effort to appear at ease, and Leathers, 
Michaelcheck and Fox performed gracefully 
and naturally under Schwartwald’s direc-
tion.
The audience responded so well to “Bos-
ton Marriage” because it made them laugh, 
-
ized that Anna, Claire and Catherine were 
have allowed.
“Though this play is so different from 
Mamet’s other works, it’s very much the 
same in dealing with wealth, appearances, 
personal gain and the emptiness that can 
create,” Fox said. “There is timelessness to 
romantic relationships and the competitive-
ness within them.”
“Anna and Claire are competing for and 
with each other,” Schwartzwald succinctly 
noted.
“Boston Marriage” speaks to lives left 
-
ter days, whether one is leaving a homeland 
to serve wealthy women or rejecting passion 
-
necting with each of the characters through 
their humor and pain, relating to women 
seemingly worlds away. 
Some of the plays put on by the theatre 
department are thought-provoking, disturb-
ing, subversive and puzzling, and those plays 
need to be shown to an audience of college 
students that may not usually be exposed to 
that certain brand of theatre.  It is important 
to also remember that sometimes people go 
to plays to at once forget their troubles and 
be reminded that they are not alone, and that 
-
riage” showed. As Anna sagely notes, “We 
must have a pie. Stress cannot exist in the 
presence of a pie.”
Boston Marriage Farcically Explores Love
By Leah Lavigne
Meghan Leathers ’13.5 dismisses her maid, played by Charlotte Michaelcheck ’15, as she banters with Christina Fox ’13.5 about the rules and obstacles in their relationship.
Paul Gerard
To anyone who has felt the slight-
est angst throughout his or her formative 
years — and I know this applies to all of you 
— great news: pop punk lives on! But I’m 
not talking Vans Warped Tour here; I’m 
talking the hard stuff. The good stuff. The 
ol’ fashioned, ass-kicking tempos venting 
those oh-so-important frustrations of the 
suburban teenage experience packed into 
neat little singles and half-hour LPs. And 
-
tie of Waxahatchee and Allison of Swearin’ 
summer festival circuit on the backbone 
of her excellent spring release “Cerulean 
Salt” while Allison’s band recently put out 
The album kicks off with “Dust in the 
Gold Sack”, which is quite possibly the 
best pop punk song in the past 10 years, 
Ripe with heavy licks and thick riffs, Swea-
the Breeders, the Pixies and countless oth-
ers on the opener and scattered through-
out the eleven tracks as well. “Mermaid” is 
merely a darkened “Only in Dreams” from 
the Weezer’s “Blue Album”, while “Echo 
Locate” is a cross between Nirvana’s “In 
Bloom” and “Insomniac”-era Green Day 
(which was damn good — don’t let anyone 
tell you otherwise).
Despite the negatives attached to the 
genre’s name, on top of the risks of sound-
ing anything remotely like those last two 
bands mentioned, Swearin’ effortlessly for-
sakes the clean tunings of the last 15 years 
of mass-produced consumer-pandering 
pop punk. The use of gritty distortion gives 
rise to an extra dimension to their music 
that the precision of more recent overpro-
duction eliminates; no longer do they need 
to lay down an additional layer in order to 
songs are highly textured  despite the sim-
plicity of arrangements.
In comparison to the band’s self-titled 
debut, the album’s cuts are a tad slower 
and more drawn out, which isn’t exactly 
hard to do when its longest track barely 
reached 2:38. The transition mirrors the 
new mood of the record; the irritation 
LP gives way to a darker, more despondent 
-
best encapsulated by her falling for the 
sticky skin of a Southern boy in the song 
“Just”, is replaced with anxiety and frus-
tration, sometimes to a daunting degree.
Lyrically, her rhymes carry slightly 
outlet. But such an earnest and straight-
forward delivery is refreshing in itself. 
Her words need not be drenched in hazy 
metaphor; rather, she evokes a visceral 
response from a more pure, stripped ex-
pression. And why not? Such naturalness 
is what fostered the massive appeal to pop 
bridge the gap between the isolating abra-
siveness of 70s punk and the broad, collec-
tively tame youth experience. In all, they 
nail it on this record.
As sweet as it is mesmerizing, Allison’s 
voice humanizes the dark overtones of her 
palpable melodies. They stand in gloomy 
whine, which is a nice change of pace from 
the Allison show in their debut. The band 
incorporates a stringent “you write it, you 
sing it” policy and it pays out nicely in the 
four tracks he leads. 
does falter at a couple points. “Glare of the 
Sun” is a bit of a misstep, and, save a brief 
reprieve with “Unwanted Place”, the latter 
half of the album falls into a lull. Consider-
ing the form of a pop punk album, it’s a bit 
-
ing Strange” passes. Yet it never devolves 
into cacophony, and even the more boring 
tracks on the record are pleasant on their 
own regard.
With this solid thrill of a release, 
Swearin’ excites me for the future of rock. 
Not that I was ever really worried; the al-
bum, at its very core, is still but a re-imag-
ination of past formulas still as fresh as 
ever. But any world in which I can admit 
to liking pop punk again — better yet, any 
world in which pop-punk is good again — 
is better than the last. Thanks to Swearin’, 
november 21, 2013 | 17arts SCIENCES
Here in the last third of the semester, we 
much as I would like to play a bunch of long 
weeks ago, Pokémon. This kind of environ-
ment is where smaller indie games become 
my bread and butter. So here are a few of the 
bite sized computer games that I have played 
lately that can be played between bouts of 
studying madness. 
Space Engineers
Available on Steam for $15, Space Engi-
neers is a game in Early Access Alpha. Early 
Access games are still being developed, but 
you can buy them right now if you want to 
have some input on the development pro-
cess. While the Early Access program often 
produces some questionable titles, Space En-
gineers holds up its end of the bargain.
    The concept of the game is evident in 
the title. You are an engineer in space and 
you can build ships and space stations. In this 
Early Access version, players are all set in cre-
ative mode, giving them unlimited resources 
to build their creations. Normally, I don’t get 
into these kinds of games. Minecraft is a lot 
-
vival, when I have some kind of opposition. 
This mode does not yet exist in Space Engi-
neers, but I still found myself wiling away a 
few hours building ships entirely from thrust-
ers or crafting obstacle courses out of gravity 
generators. 
    Space Engineers is shaping up to be a 
great game, and if you have any love for other 
crafting videogames, this is an easy sell. The 
range of tools available already, and the cool 
guns and gadgets that should be coming out 
soon, make it both robust and ridiculous, al-
lowing for both impressive and impressively 
stupid creations.
Risk of Rain
    The term “Roguelike” gets thrown 
around a lot in gaming culture these days. A 
roguelike is a game that features a high de-
gree of challenge, randomization and per-
manent character death. Risk of Rain has 
added co-operative play to the formula. Up 
to four players are dropped into a gorgeous 
alien world where they must shoot their way 
through various mystical and bizarre en-
emies, claiming a host of power-ups on the 
way. 
Roguelike formula is its use of time. As you 
right side of the screen steadily increases. 
Each time it goes up another notch, the num-
ber and strength of the enemies increase. 
This means that players must collect power-
ups and levels at a blinding pace in order to 
-
ing to be powerful enough to take on the boss 
at the end of each level. Finding this balance 
is what makes Risk of Rain so hectic and fun 
with friends.
This game is very much designed around 
co-op, and I had substantially less fun with 
the game on my own. Luckily, you can play 
the game locally with friends by attaching 
more than one controller to your PC. At $10 
on Steam, Risk of Rain will provide a solid 
amount of frustrated, yet gleeful fun.
One Finger Death Punch
  This is probably the most raw fun I have 
had with a game all year. One Finger Death 
Punch is a simple game. Your character 
stands in the center of the screen as enemies 
approach from both sides. You click with 
the left and right buttons to punch the left 
and right enemies, respectively. This simple 
concept is used brilliantly to create one of 
the most visceral and exciting action games 
I have ever played. As new enemy types and 
skills are introduced the levels become more 
frantic and impressive. One miss timed click 
can lead to an early demise, while a perfect 
Death Punch is a fantastic game, and it is easy 
to open it up and play for a few minutes to 
take your mind off the humdrum, non-kung-
fu-fueled world that we live in.
    One Finger Death Punch is available 
on Desura right now for two dollars, so there 
is basically no excuse not to buy it. Seriously. 
Google it right now, let it change your life as 
it did mine.
one life left
BY CHAPIN BOYER
I’ve been following Alpenglow since I 
-
-
ly decorated M Gallery of the Old Stone Mill. 
It is not an Alpenglow show without some 
through the roof beams. I suppose I cannot 
claim that anymore, though, since they have 
been playing in real concert venues with pre-
sumably pretty advanced lighting systems 
for a couple years now. Their most recent 
appearance in Middlebury followed less than 
two weeks after the end of an international 
fall tour with the band Lucius.
Opened by Burlington band Quiet Line, 
Alpenglow played last Saturday night, Nov. 
17, to a crowd of student fans and old friends 
in the Johnson Gallery. The band often 
chooses underutilized or unusual spaces on 
campus for their concerts. Singer, multi-in-
strumentalist and songwriter Peter Coccoma 
’12 of Alpenglow spoke of their return to Mid-
dlebury and their use of the gallery’s space.
“I always look forward to these shows,” 
he said. “I like that we can control the num-
ber of people who come to them.”
I think Alpenglow requires this intimacy 
for the best experience, along with the white 
string lights and the groups of friends all lean-
ing on each other’s shoulders as they watch, 
passing around Citizen Cider and singing the 
Everyone expects this atmosphere at 
every Alpenglow concert, whether it be their 
sixth or seventeenth. 
“Last year it seemed like [an Alpen-
glow show] was every other weekend,” Josh 
Swartz ’14.5 said.
But despite the number of times they 
have played, a huge crowd still shows up, be-
cause despite their familiarity, as Alex Jack-
man ’14 said, “their shows are always differ-
ent in terms of their set up, and they manage 
to keep it interesting.”
During this set, for example, we were 
treated with “Fields,” a song from their re-
cent EP that they do not usually perform live.
Another distinctive element of this par-
ticular concert was the installation art from 
Sanford Mirling’s Studio Art Independent 
Study (ART 700). Nick Smaller ’14 created 
a video-audio installation that involved the 
band.
making an oscilloscopic representation of the 
sound they’re playing,” Smaller said.
like a video game, and pulsated in aquama-
rine and pink behind their heads. Smaller 
explained that the band had approached the 
artists and were interested in collaborating, 
so he created a piece for the class and the 
show.
Sally Caruso ’15.5 and Ali Silberkleit 
’13.5, who have an exhibition opening at the 
M Gallery today, had pieces of work up as 
well. Caruso made soap paintings of danc-
ing, melting people, made visible with black 
lights. A large pink tree hanging from the 
ceiling was a remnant of Silberkleit’s piece, 
which originally included hanging pink bal-
the naked artist chopping down the tree play-
ing behind it. 
“The piece had to do with the death 
masculine roll in my life in a dumb and girly 
way,” Silberkleit said. 
Graeme Daubert ’12.5, often lead vocals 
for Alpenglow, pointed out the weird split 
formation of the audience between songs.
“I feel like we have the partiers over here 
and the listeners over here,” he said, gestur-
ing to the standers and the sitters respec-
tively. 
Despite their indecision, the audience 
was attentive, including the Dissipated Eight 
a capella crew who showed up to support 
their former member, Daubert. When asked 
why she had attended, Anna Jacobsen ’16 
looked at me with an expression both solemn 
hate hockey.” 
Their opening act, Quiet Line, was a very 
sweet, if sleepy kind of Weybridge kitchen 
as ever, with Daubert’s voice ringing like a 
seraphim beating on a hollowed-out log of a 
giant sequoia tree. As audience member So-
phie Quay-de la Vallee ’16.5 said, “It’s all in 
that voice.” 
“This is the peak of Alpenglow,” Paul 
game.”
Alpenglow performs alongside installation
By Eliza Wallace
courtesy
Review
for the rec  rd
BY CHAD CLEMENS
“Surfing Strange”
Swearin’
Renowned Biologist and Science edu-
cator Sean Carroll came to the College last 
Thursday, Nov. 14, and gave two talks, one 
on his recently published book “Brave Ge-
nius: A Scientist’s Journey from the French 
Resistance to the Nobel Prize” and the other 
biology and how different forms evolved in 
animal species. 
Associate Professor of Biology Cath-
erine Combelles introduced Carroll on both 
occasions, citing his award winning re-
search as a Professor of Molecular Biology 
at Washington University, and his work in 
science education as the Vice-President of 
the Howard Hughes Medical institute. She 
also mentioned his well-reviewed books on 
popular science and his science column in 
the New York Times.  In his two lectures 
Carroll lived up to his laurels and combined 
his brilliant research with an ability to inter-
history were taught in the form of stores, it 
would never be forgotten.” He then related 
was both one of the leaders of the French re-
sistance against the Nazi regime and a win-
ner of the noble prize in Physiology. 
Monod was a French Jew and a gradu-
ate student in biology when the Nazis in-
vaded France. He halted his research, which 
would one day win him a Nobel Prize, and 
joined the most militant of French resistance 
group. His escapades included barely escap-
ing a deadly Gestapo raid, running arms 
across the Swiss border, and arming French 
during D-day. He eventually became one of 
the leaders of the resistance movement and 
helped liberate Paris from the Nazis. 
Carroll linked Monod’s efforts dur-
ing the French Resistance to his biological 
research saying “chance played a huge role 
in his personal life, along with his thinking 
about biology” and because of this “it was 
role of chance in the course of life on earth in 
his 1980 book called chance and necessity.”
During the Q&A session Sean Carroll 
widened his topic to science and society. 
Carroll advocated for a greater role of sci-
ence in culture, saying “cultural impact can 
happen through science – the Apollo pro-
gram had a huge impact, we watched that 
drama unfold day by day. I think there are 
-
riences that we can share that might gives 
science a little better penetration into the 
hearts and minds of people.”
over evolution in America and the fact that 
nearly 50 percent of Americans believe in 
creationism. In leading the science educa-
tion branch of the Howard Hughes Medical 
institute, which he described as the “largest 
private supporter of science education in the 
U.S”, he said that “one strategy I employ is 
I decided I wasn’t going to argue with any-
one over 22. I think there’s no return on that 
-
ence of seeing glimmers of openness and 
idea that lots and lots of large religious de-
nominations fully embrace evolutionary sci-
ence.”
In Carroll’s more science heavy lecture 
on Evolutionary Developmental biology he 
described the importance of evolutionary 
developmental biology to our understand-
ing of evolution. 
“Development is the process that makes 
form,” he said, “and therefore changes in 
that process must underlie the evolution of 
biology is so integral to understanding the 
evolution of form.”
He also gave a survey of the incredibly 
which few people had predicted. 
“The gene that is responsible for the 
-
bryo, is also active in the development in the 
shrimp, and strangely enough the wings of 
a chicken,” he said. “So this gene is used in 
the formation of all sorts of appendages in 
the animal kingdom. And this was very sur-
recipes than bugs. No biologist on the plan-
et predicted these homologs and that there 
would be similar genetic ingredients in the 
making of bodies in things as different as 
was not caused by the development of new 
-
isting developmental genes. Thus, although 
all animals in the animal kingdom have 
similar genetic toolkits, they utilize them in 
different ways.
Carroll combined both erudition and 
one of the most important concepts in biol-
ogy and science. 
november 21, 2013 | 18 arts SCIENCES
go/obofall dance concert 11/22 - 11/23mca dance theater$6 for students iso cultural show11/23$3 for students atwater dining hall thanksgiving dinner11/28$5
science sp   tlight: Bio Speaker on campus
By Toby Aicher
Middlebury rang in the 2013-2014 
season with two impressive performances 
in front of a home crowd, tying Bowdoin 
by a score of 2-2 on Saturday, Nov. 16 
and shaming Colby by a score of 7-1 on 
Sunday, Nov. 17. Derek Pimentel ’15 and 
Connor Frick ’16 buried the key goals in 
combined for points on Sunday.  
Assistant coach Jamie McKenna 
praised the hustle the team demonstrated 
right from the opening faceoff and 
credited the offensive success to the quick 
learning curve of the younger players. 
were last year — we outskated both teams 
this weekend and moved the puck very 
well,” McKenna said. “We had a lot of 
young guys last year and now they know 
our system better.  I think that was really 
on display in both games.”  
a 3-on-1 rush that formed suddenly on a 
blocked Middlebury shot from the point. 
The Bowdoin winger rushed up the left 
wing and zipped a low shot off the pad of 
Middlebury goalie Mike Peters ’15 before 
a teammate capitalized on the rebound 
opportunity. 
intermission, but with two minutes gone 
in the second period Pimentel sounded 
the familiar goal horn for Middlebury’s 
earned the assist with a quick pass off the 
side boards. 
After killing off two Bowdoin power 
plays in the second period, Middlebury 
earned an advantage of their own and 
Kenyon arena. Breaking to his left past a 
defender at the blue line, Frick changed 
hands at the last moment and found space 
high on the right side of the net for the 
goal. 
Midway through the third period, a 
rash of four penalties within two minutes 
opened up the ice for a 3-on-3 situation 
that lasted 19 seconds. 
“I’ve never seen that in all my time 
here,” McKenna said. “But we were told 
to expect a lot more calls this year, so we 
need to be good on the power play and 
killing off penalties.” 
Middlebury survived the odd-man 
situation but with only seven minutes 
left in the game, the Polar Bears stymied 
a Panther breakout and Bowdoin’s John 
The Panthers urgently doubled the 
pressure and controlled the rest of 
the game, but a determined Bowdoin 
goaltender repeatedly denied the golden 
chances coming from the sticks of last 
year’s top scorers Louis Belisle ’14 and 
Matt Silcoff ’16.  
“I felt good about the way we played,” 
said forward Ben Wiggins ’14. “Some of 
us were disappointed because there were 
really good opportunities to end that 
game, but that really just made us more 
hungry to get back out and win against 
Colby.”
Middlebury came out sticks ready on 
Sunday versus Colby, outshooting the 
Mules 41 shots to just 13.  The offense 
cycled hard in the corners and worked the 
puck out to the perimeter for dangerous 
seemed like the Panthers held a power 
play advantage, positioning three shooters 
patiently creating quality chances.
rebound on the right post and nimbly 
lifting another into the net above a 
sprawling goaltender. 
Peters held tight at his end to keep 
Colby at bay. During one sequence, Peters 
stretched out the right pad, then used the 
blocker athletically on a high rebound 
shot to kill off a Colby power play near the 
The Panthers found a rhythm on the 
man advantage, scoring three power 
play goals on the night. With a 5-on-3 
advantage just expiring, Evan Neugold 
’16 drifted backwards to the left faceoff 
circle and clapped a one-timer off a pass 
from Ronald Fishman ’16 into the top 
corner. Jake Charles ’16 then joined on 
a rush behind Pimentel and sang a hard 
snapshot off the inside left post for his 
again, Robbie Donahoe ’14 slapped a hard 
pass down low to Wiggins, who one-timed 
a second pass to Belisle for a bang-bang 
goal. 
In the third period, Charles added 
another goal to his resume on a tipped 
shot from the point, and Mike Longo ’14 
bore down toward the net on a three-
snapper over the goalie’s glove. 
Just like his coach, Wiggins expressed 
contentment with the pace Middlebury 
brought. 
“It was a great start,” he said. “Our pace 
of play really impressed me, especially for 
moved the puck and stayed focused well, 
so that all points in positive direction for 
the season.”
The Panthers hit the road next 
weekend, looking to carry on their fast-
paced game and scoring success against 
Tufts on Saturday, Nov. 22 and Conn. 
College on Sunday, Nov. 23.
november 21, 2013| 19sports
Men’s Hockey Ices Colby, Draws Bowdoin
By John Wyman
Cross Country Teams Win Automatic NCAA Bids
On Saturday, Nov. 16 the cross 
running in the NCAA New England 
Regional Championships. The results 
of the regional meet would determine 
participants in the following week’s NCAA 
Division III National Championships. 
Specifically, the top two finishing teams 
in each gender would get automatic bids 
to the national meet, while every other 
team would be entered into the at-large 
pool from which 16 teams from around 
the country would be selected. Both 
teams, however, avoided the at-large 
process by securing second place finishes 
and punching their tickets to Indiana.
In front of a crowd of teammates 
whose seasons were finished and alumni 
making the trek to Maine, the women 
began the day by scoring 57 points for 
their second place finish. Williams, 
which the Panthers had soundly beaten 
two weeks previous at the NESCAC 
Championships, finished first with 44 
points. The Ephs and Panthers showed 
that they were the class of the field, with 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
finishing third with 127 points.
As was the case at NESCACs, the 
women were led by rookie Erzsie 
Nagy ’17 and Alison Maxwell ’15. Nagy 
captured a fourth-place finish in her 
first regional meet with a time of 21:27. 
Maxwell finished a second later to 
capture fifth. Twenty seconds behind 
Nagy and Maxwell came the patented 
Middlebury “blob” comprised of Emily 
Singer ’14 (who lost a shoe 200 meters 
into the race), Katherine Tercek ’16 and 
place finishes, respectively. The blob 
completed the scoring runners for the 
women, but Williams had placed a pack 
of their own slightly ahead, which proved 
to be enough to seal the victory even 
though their fifth runner had yet to cross 
’14 and Summer Spillane ’15 finished 
22nd and 24th as the sixth and seventh 
runners on the team, which garnered 
them All-Region honors.
Both Tercek and coach Nicole 
Wilkerson attributed Williams’ success 
over the Panthers to the way the first 
mile of the six-kilometer (3.7 mile) race 
played out. 
“Us girls, we usually run as a blob,” 
Wilkerson said. 
“It was difficult at regionals to do 
this because the field was so big and the 
course was pretty curvy. We struggled 
getting to the head of the pack as a blob 
at the beginning of the race which put us 
at a bit of a disadvantage to Williams,” 
Tercek said. 
From the sideline, Wilkerson saw the 
same thing. 
“I told the women to get off the line 
quickly but since the course was wide 
for the first mile, we did not have to 
be too aggressive across the field,” she 
said. “What I did not take into account 
was that there were three turns in that 
first mile and we just got bottle necked 
and could not move.  I saw [Tercek] at 
about 1k into it and she just had no place 
to move. Williams popped a better first 
mile and although we were making up 
ground on them, we just ran out of real 
estate.”
After the women’s strong showing, 
the men toed the line as reigning 
regional champions. They finished the 
day in second place with 78 points, just a 
single point behind NESCAC champions, 
Williams, and, just as in the women’s 
race, MIT was a distant third.
The first mile of the race went out 
faster than any other race the men had 
participated in this year, clocking in at 
4:45. The men positioned themselves 
Wood ’15, Nate Sans ’14 and Wilder 
Schaaf ’14.5 in the lead pack. Sam 
Craft ’14, Sebastian Matt ’16 and Luke 
Carpinello ’16 were positioned near each 
other in the chase pack, forming two 
distinct prides of Panthers to work with 
one another. 
As the race progressed, the groups 
strung out, particularly after strong 
moves by Tully Hannan of Bates and 
Mike LeDuc — the eventual champion 
— of Connecticut College. Krathwohl led 
the Panthers across the line with an 8th-
place finish in 24:53. Wood finished three 
seconds and two spots back of Krathwohl 
and was followed closely behind by Sans 
and Schaaf. With four runners in, the 
Panthers needed one more to cross the 
line. Matt, who ran with much passion, 
rounded the final corner into the home 
straightaway roughly 20 seconds 
behind Schaaf and was followed closely 
behind by Craft. On the homestretch, 
Craft unleashed his 800 meter speed 
and kicked past Matt and several other 
runners to close the book on the scoring. 
Both Craft and Matt — as well as their 
teammates who had finished ahead of 
them — collected All-Region honors.
Sans talked about the team’s major 
unifying characteristic for the season. 
“Competitive drive: not only does 
everyone on the team want to run well 
personally but they also really want the 
team to win,” he said. “Losing any time 
is tough, especially by one point, but I 
think that will fuel our competitive drive 
and next week we will be that much more 
determined.”
Both teams will travel to Hanover, 
Ind., to run in the NCAA National meet 
on Nov. 23. The NCAA pays for the teams 
to travel three days prior to the meet, 
which Wilkerson says will allow the team 
to have the highest level of preparation. 
“We have a routine that we follow 
and a somewhat dictated professional 
protocol the day before the race and 
race day as well,” she said. “Being able 
to rely on that will help. They know how 
to channel the physical, mental, and 
emotional aspect of racing already and I 
feel like we have prepared really well for 
the meet.” 
In terms of prospects for the meet, 
Wilkerson also discussed the team’s 
prospects for the meet. 
“The men had their best race of the 
season and had to run hard from the 
gun … I think the one point loss makes 
us more hungry, like ravenous for next 
week,” she said. “For the women, Johns 
Hopkins is going to be tough to beat.”
By Bryan Holtzman
Paul Gerard
victory over Colby, Saturday. Pimentel leads the team with three goals in two games.
23
24
104
2
The number of rebounds Katie Pett ’14 
recorded in the women’s basketball team’s 
opener against Fitchburg.
The number of points scored by sophomore 
forward Matt Daley ’16 in Middlebury’s 81-
71 win over Alvernia on Friday.
The number of points scored by NFL-
point leader Steven Hauschka ’07, who  
for the 10-1 Seattle Seahawks. 
The number of consecutive seasons McCallum 
Foote ’14 has been named NESCAC Offensive 
Player of the Year.
The time in minutes of the 200-
yard medley relay team anchored 
by managing editor Alex Edel ’14.
by the Numb3rs
1:55.6 
The men and women’s swimming 
and diving teams opened the season 
on Saturday, Nov. 16 hosting Tufts and 
Connecticut College at the Natatorium. 
The women topped Tufts 190-108, 
but narrowly lost to Connecticut 148-
140. The men were defeated in each 
matchup, falling to Tufts 216-84 and to 
Connecticut 189-99. 
The women got off to a fast start, 
winning the 200-yard medley relay 
with a time of 1:48.70. Andie Tibbetts 
’14 opened with a time of 28.07 seconds 
in the backstroke leg and was followed 
by Jamie Hillas ’15 (butterfly), Megan 
Griffin ’16 (breaststroke), and Courtney 
Haron ’15 (freestyle). The Panthers’ ‘B’ 
relay also finished third in the race. 
Tibbetts was arguably one of the 
team’s best performer on the day, 
winning the 100-yard backstroke and 
finishing second in the 200-yard event. 
She is already the school record holder 
in both races. Hillas won the 100-yard 
breaststroke and finished second in 
the 100-yard butterfly. Jennifer Koide 
’17 burst onto the scene by winning the 
200-yard breaststroke and finishing 
second in the 200-yard freestyle in her 
first collegiate meet. 
Colleen Harper ’14 won the one-
meter diving event for Middlebury with 
a score of 221.50 points. Adrianna Baker 
’15 finished third in both the one and 
three meter events.  
It was an easy victory over Tufts, and 
the Panthers almost edged Connecticut 
as well. However, they could not catch 
up to the Camels in the final relay.
“After two months of intensive 
preseason training it was exciting to 
finally be able to race,” Tibbetts said. “At 
this point in the season our focus is on 
general performance and attitude and 
this meet allowed us to showcase that. It 
was a great first meet and indicative of a 
promising rest of the season.”
After finishing third in the opening 
relay against Tufts, the men made up 
ground in the 1000-yard freestyle with 
Michael McGean ’17 and Andy Rosenthal 
’16 capturing second and third place, 
respectively. After that, however, the 
Panthers dug themselves a hole and 
were never able to catch up. 
Stephan Koenigsberger ’16 won 
the 100-yard breaststroke in a time of 
1:00.20 seconds and later finished third 
in the 200-yard event.  
Ian Mackay ’14 came in second in the 
50-yard freestyle with a time of 21.55 
seconds. He will look to improve upon 
his school and NESCAC record time of 
20.34 throughout the season. Mackay 
also finished second in the 100-yard 
freestyle.
Skylar Dallmeyer-Drennen ’14 and 
Dylan Peters ’16 finished third and 
fourth, respectively, in both the one and 
three meter diving events. 
Even following the defeats, the team 
is still optimistic about its chances 
moving forward.
“Team spirit was through the roof 
which makes the pool an awesome place 
to be,” Koenigsberger said. “We all knew 
to keep things in perspective and were 
thinking about the big picture, rather 
than just this one meet.” 
The teams will travel to rival Amherst 
on Saturday, Dec. 7 for their final meet 
before winter break.
| november 21, 2013sports20
The Middlebury men’s basketball team 
opened the season with a perfect weekend 
to win the Rotary Tip-Off Tournament 
hosted by Franklin & Marshall in Lancaster, 
Pa. on Friday, Nov. 15 and Saturday, Nov. 
16.  On Friday, the Panthers won their 
season-opener by defeating the 21st-ranked 
Alvernia Crusaders 81-71. Clutch free throw 
shooting down the stretch secured the victory 
for Middlebury in the championship over 
Baruch on Saturday. On Tuesday, Nov. 19, 
the Panthers stayed undefeated by blowing 
out Green Mountain State College 94-53 in 
Middlebury’s home opener.
Friday represented the coming-out 
party for sophomore forward Matt Daley 
’16. After struggling through a personally 
disappointing season last year, Daley got his 
Brown look like a genius. Against a vertically 
challenged Alvernia squad, the 6’ 8” forward 
dropped a game-high 24 points and tacked 
on 11 boards, an assist and a block in just 25 
minutes.
disappointed in my playing time,” Daley 
admitted. “But the team was so successful 
that it was hard to argue [with my role]. So it 
felt really good to get into the starting lineup 
and contribute to a win right away.”
Starting opposite Daley, 6’ 8” center Jack 
Roberts ’14 recorded a double-double of 
shooting, while pulling down 13 boards and 
tallying three rejections.
The only Panther to play more minutes 
than Daley was captain and D3Hoops.
com Preseason All-American Joey Kizel 
shooting), Kizel managed 14 points, including 
a perfect 4-4 from the free throw stripe and 
2-6 from deep, while also leading the team in 
Furthermore, Los Angeles native Hunter 
Merryman ’15 picked up where he left off last 
year, when he shot 43 percent from beyond 
the arc off the bench. On Friday, Merryman 
played 25 minutes in relief and netted two of 
four three-point attempts. 
The championship was played on 
Saturday between Middlebury and Baruch. 
The Panthers led by just three with under 
30 seconds remaining, but near-perfect 
free throw shooting late from the Panthers 
resulted in a 96-89 victory.
Like Daley on Friday, Dylan Sinnickson 
’15 showcased his improved game after 
missing all of last season due to injury. The 
ultra-athletic wingman scored 22 off the 
bench on 8-14 shooting and 4-5 from beyond 
the arc while leading the squad with eight 
rebounds. Baruch failed to anticipate that 
Sinnickson could knock down jumpers at 
“It feels great to be back in game situations 
improved since the last time I was on the 
time to rebuild myself after the injury.”
Kizel returned to form against Baruch, 
from the line and tacking on nine assists and 
seven boards.
Head coach Jeff Brown hopes to allow 
Kizel to work off the ball more in the future, 
but for now realizes that the senior must 
take control of an otherwise inexperienced 
backcourt.
“Our backcourt is shaping up well,” Brown 
said. “Joey is an elite player and we do hope 
to allow him to play off the ball some [in the 
future].”
Merryman stepped into the starting lineup 
for the championship game and provided 34 
6-11 shooting, including a pair of threes on 
four attempts
Daley was again effective, despite limited 
playing time due to foul trouble. In just 20 
minutes, the forward scored 11 points on four 
and grabbed seven rebounds.
Vermont-native and two-time Vermont 
Gatorade Player of the Year Matt St. Amour 
’17 — he of 2,064 career points for Missisquoi 
Valley Union, third in Vermont state history 
— started both games on the weekend, 
averaging 25 minutes. 
“This weekend was a great learning 
experience for me,” St. Amour said. “It 
was great to start my career with two wins. 
Starting was a great honor and I tried to focus 
on the things that the coaching staff wanted 
to see, like playing defense, communicating 
and making the smart offensive plays.”
shooting 5-17 on the weekend, St. Amour did 
net 3-8 shots from long range, and Coach 
Brown expects good things to come.
“I expect him to become more comfortable 
Brown said.
His teammates, too, have been impressed 
by St. Amour’s play early on.
“He is a shooter,” Daley said. “He has a 
bright future and he will hit clutch shots for 
us.”
The story of Tuesday’s game against 
Green Mountain College was the impressive 
debut of Jake Brown ’16. In 12 minutes off the 
bench, Brown scored four points and tallied 
four assists, but most importantly played 
tenacious defense and showed off his ball-
handling ability and poise beyond his years.
Meanwhile, Daley was the game’s high 
scorer with 14 points on 6-8 shooting and 2-2 
from the line. Additionally, Luis Alvarez ’14 
last December due to injuries. 
After only three games, it is obvious that 
the Panthers’ depth will be a huge asset this 
year. 
“We have a very balanced team and 
I expect to use some different lineups 
throughout the season,” Brown said. “We are 
looking at several options and combinations. 
We can have different looks as a team. We are 
looking to capitalize on our depth.”
The Panthers return to action this 
weekend in Owings Mill, Md. at Stevenson 
University for the Hoopsville National 
Invitational Classic. The Hoopsville Classic 
will feature two other 2013 Elite Eight teams, 
Cabrini and St. Mary’s (Md.). Three teams in 
com preseason top 25, including number 
10 St. Mary’s, number 18 Middlebury and 
will come on Friday, Nov. 22 against the host 
Mustangs, and the Panthers will play again 
on Sunday, Nov. 24 against St. Mary’s, their 
10 teams in the country.
Men’s Basketball Wins Tip-Off Tournament
By Joe MacDonald
Women’s Hockey Bucks Mules in NESCAC Openers
The second-ranked women’s hockey 
team got off to a hot start this weekend, 
winning both games at Colby on Friday, 
Nov. 15 and Saturday, Nov. 16, as they try to 
put last year’s NCAA Championship defeat 
behind them.
The Panthers won their season opener 
commanding 4-0 win on Saturday. For a 
team with high hopes for the postseason, 
the winter could not have begun in a better 
way. The Panthers showed toughness by 
while asserting their defensive prowess in 
the second.
Middlebury continued its history of 
effective play against Colby, outscoring the 
Mules 6-1, slightly less impressive than last 
season’s aggregate score of 14-3 against 
them. 
As the Panthers took to the ice to begin their 
skating warm-ups, the Mules took their time 
in the locker room, earning them a protocol 
violation to start the game. Middlebury took 
advantage of the violation, and scored a 
power play goal to start off the season 1:58 
into the game. Jane Freda ’17 notched the 
in off a shot from Sara 
Ugalde ’14, who received 
the pass from Carly 
Watson ’17. This also 
collegiate assist. 
The second goal 
came in the second 
period, when Katie 
Mandigo ’16 tipped the 
puck into the goal after 
it popped off of Mules 
goaltender Brianne 
Wheeler following a shot 
from Anna Van Kula ’16 
with eight minutes gone in the period. Just 
a few seconds later, Colby scored a goal off 
a face off win to let the Panthers know they 
were not giving up. Luckily, the Panthers 
defense and a nice performance in goal by 
saves on the day.
“Everyone stayed pretty calm on the 
bench during the third period, even though 
we knew Colby could get back into the game 
at any point,” Van Kula said. “We were all 
focused on doing the little 
things right and working hard 
in our defensive zone so that 
we could keep them off the 
scoreboard.”
Coach Bill Mandigo 
is excited to see his team 
producing healthily in the early 
stages. 
“I have been impressed with 
the practices so far,” coach 
Mandigo said. “It’s nice to see 
that transition into the games.”
The next day Middlebury 
blew Colby away and left 
Waterville with two wins after a 4-0 shutout 
victory in a game where they outshot their 
opponent 42-22.
the day with 22 saves, half of which came 
in a clutch third period. Colby did its best to 
trip themselves up out of the gate, leaving 
belt. On the third power play for Middlebury, 
Katie Sullivan ’15 swept the puck in from the 
left side of the goal, making Colby pay for its 
period, Middlebury secured their lead with 
two goals. 
At 4:53 Hannah Bielawski ’15 scored with 
help from Sullivan and Jesse Brownschidle 
’17. Just three minutes later, Kate Moreau 
’15 put one in the back of the net with 
assists from Allie Aiello ’17 and Sullivan. 
in the third period off a passing play from 
the sides into the middle. Aiello gave it up 
to Bielawski, who fed it into the center for 
Moreau to earn her second of the game. 
Yet again Jones was a wall in net, 
stopping 22 Mule attempts and earning her 
sixth career shutout.
The Panthers converted on two of eight 
power play opportunities over the weekend.
With a successful starting weekend 
behind them, the women’s hockey program 
looks ahead to its home opener at Kenyon 
Arena with a double-header with Trinity on 
Friday, Nov. 22 and Saturday, Nov. 23.
By Ben Buckles
“We were all fo-
cused on ...  work-
ing hard in our de-
fensive zone so that 
we could keep them 
off the scoreboard.”
Anna Van kula ’16
Swim Teams Fail to Make a Splash in First Meet 
By Kevin Yochim
Paul Gerard
Dylan Peters ’16 executes a dive en 
Fresh off a two-weekend bye 
period following its East Coast Rugby 
Conference (ECRC) regular season title, 
the Middlebury College Rugby Club 
(MCRC) roared to a 57-3 demolition 
of Empire Conference champion Stony 
Brook on Saturday, Nov. 16 in the opening 
round of the American Collegiate Rugby 
Championship Division I playoffs. The win 
sets up MCRC to host perennial Division 
I powerhouse Penn State University in 
23 in what is undoubtedly a watershed 
moment in the history of the Club.
MCRC’s victory over Stony Brook also 
Middlebury has won at the Division I 
level since moving up from Division II 
three years ago, with the lopsided result 
being a source of pride for head coach 
John Phillips. He believed that his team 
had been overlooked all season and that 
Saturday sent shockwaves through the 
rugby world.
“I just knew by watching game tape 
of Stony Brook that they didn’t know 
who they were facing when they got us,” 
Phillips said. “I thought that we could beat 
them by 30 points, but I never imagined a 
57-3 win. That is the most satisfying win 
that I have ever had. I have won a National 
Championship and we beat Northeastern 
last year, but I have never seen the boys so 
excited after a game. We sent a message. 
Experts wrote us off, but I just let the 
I said to the boys before the game ‘go for 
the jugular.’ Afterwards I said, ‘I told you 
to go for the jugular, but you ripped their 
throats out!’”
Assistant coach Ben Wells also pointed 
to the fact that the win proved that the 
infant ECRC, a conference only in its third 
year of existence, is on the rise.
“Two years ago Northeastern was the 
round to Stony Brook. Last year we won 
the league and were knocked out by St. 
Bonaventure, also the Empire champions,” 
had not done that well collectively on 
the national stage, but we really felt like 
we were on a different level this year. We 
wanted to travel down there and prove it.”
A large reason behind the impressive 
score line at Stony Brook was the 
impressive play of MCRC’s forward pack, 
an area in which the club has enjoyed 
dominance all year long. Team points 
leader and inside center Jake Feury ’16 
mentioned the addition of forwards’ coach 
Junior Tuiqere as a major reason for the 
elevated level of front pack play this year.
“The forward pack has been working 
with Junior this year and he’s been 
focusing mostly on scrummaging and 
line-outs,” Feury said. “As a result, our 
forwards have dominated every team we’ve 
played in the scrum and I think they stole 
about 90 percent of Stony Brook’s scrums. 
Every play they’d go out there and blow 
the other team over. It’s a combination of 
the techniques they’ve been learning from 
coach and their brute strength that made a 
huge impact on the game.”
The team also played on Saturday 
without standout Laird Silsby ’15 due to 
an elbow injury, a player whom Phillips 
and Wells characterized as the MVP of the 
league. Silsby’s status for this weekend’s 
game remains questionable, but the team 
is hoping he can suit up for Penn State 
from injury.
“We were really upset when we found 
that Laird couldn’t play, as he’s been 
a huge asset to our team all year and 
he’s worked really hard to get this team 
where it’s at,” Feury said. “We are really 
excited at the fact that he might be able to 
come back this weekend, but we are fully 
Wells echoed Feury’s words, saying 
that the team will be ready either way.
“One thing we always talk about as 
coaches is ‘squad,’” Wells said. “We are 
a club of 45 kids coming out to practice 
regularly throughout the fall and 20 more 
on campus supporting it. When you hold 
the other team out of the try zone and to 
– it takes the whole team to do that.”
Turning the attention to this coming 
Saturday’s match up with Penn State, a 
palpable excitement is evident amongst 
MCRC coaches and players with the 
Nittany Lions coming to town. 
“I mean this is huge. It’s bigger than 
big. It’s Penn State coming to Middlebury 
College – a Division I program playing a 
Division III school. This game is bigger 
than the national championships that we 
won in 2007 and 2009,” Phillips said. “I 
am praying for snow. I think that’ll even 
Wells also struggled to put the game in 
perspective.
“It puts us in another echelon of college 
rugby. It would be like Middlebury football 
hosting Penn State – it’s a reasonably 
comparable comparison and it’s totally 
absurd. It almost doesn’t even compute,” 
he said. “If you had told me even three 
years ago that we’d be hosting Penn State 
believed you.”
Phillips pointed to mental preparation 
as the most important factor this week for 
his side.
“If we get our mental preparation on 
track we’ll be alright. Physically we are 
there, but mentally it’s like, ‘we’re playing 
Penn State.’ That’s a huge mental block,” 
he said. “This is like Rocky. The boys have 
to believe they can do this. If they believe 
Win or lose on Saturday, however, this 
MCRC season has helped catapult the club 
into the national spotlight. With its move 
to Division I three years ago criticized 
for being foolhardy, Wells asserts the 
trajectory of the club is in good shape.
“The way that we dismantled Stony 
Brook and now that we have Penn State 
coming to us, it puts us in the conversation 
of the elite in the country,” he said. 
Feury echoed Wells’ remarks.
“The MCRC is extremely excited and 
game, especially against a team of Penn 
State’s caliber,” Feury said. “We have 
never faced a team in 15s of this level 
before, and this will be a great test for us as 
a program. If we want to keep moving up, 
getting national exposure and promoting 
Middlebury as an elite program, we need 
to keep going out there against the best 
teams.”
In another of the contest’s intriguing 
storylines, Fuery’s brother Blaze enjoyed a 
stellar campaign for the visiting Penn State 
side, but tore his ACL three weeks ago and 
thus will be relegated to the sidelines.
“He’ll be out there doing what he 
can – he’s the captain of the team so his 
leadership will still be shown,” Feury said. 
“He will be doing everything he can from 
the sidelines and we hope him a speedy 
recovery.”
The match kicks off at 1 p.m. on the 
rugby pitch. On the other side of the 
playoff bracket, Bowling Green coming 
off a bye faces Kutztown (83-17 winners 
over West Virginia.) Penn State downed 
Clemson in a 27-26 thriller on the road 
last Saturday. 
 november 21, 2013 | 21SPORTS
By Owen Teach
Pett, Panthers Rebound in Opening Weekend Split
The Middlebury women’s basketball 
team earned a split on their season-
opening weekend in the Colby Sawyer 
Tournament, rebounding after a narrow, 
hard-fought loss to Fitchburg to down the 
hosts in a decisive victory that Middlebury 
dominated from the opening tip. 
In Saturday’s loss to the Falcons, 
Middlebury twice battled back from 
double-digit deficits, once in the first 
half and again in the second half to take 
a one-point lead with under a minute 
remaining in regulation as guard Laura 
Lowry ’14 freed herself from her defender 
late in the shot clock to drain a three-
pointer that gave the team a fleeting lead. 
Fitchburg converted on a pair of free 
throws on the ensuing possession and 
the Panthers coughed up the basketball 
on the next possession with less than 
30 seconds remaining, forcing them to 
foul the Falcons. Consecutive sequences 
of Fitchburgh free throws and empty 
Middlebury possessions sealed the 
Panthers’ fate.
“They pressed us the entire game, and 
that made it really difficult for us to get 
into our offensive set,” said guard Sarah 
Marcus ’14. “They took away everything 
that we’re comfortable in and forced us 
to make lots of turnovers. We played the 
second half with a ton of effort, but little 
efficiency. We were looking for quick 
fixes when we should have been looking 
for the extra pass and at the end that got 
the best of us.”
The loss also diminished an 
outstanding individual performance by 
senior Katie Pett ’14, who poured in 16 
points and pulled down 23 rebounds, 
duplicating her career highs in both areas. 
Pett’s pair of 23-rebound performances 
— separated by just over 10 months — 
are the second-highest 
single-game tallies in 
program history, trailing 
only the 34-rebound 
performance of Caroline 
Leary ’92, Middlebury’s 
all-time leader in 
career rebounds. 
While Pett 
acknowledged that 
first-game adrenaline 
aided her performance, 
the game situation —
and the importance 
of controlling the 
basketball — drove her 
to make plays.
“As the game went 
on, it became obvious how critical it was 
to limit their second chances and how 
badly we needed second chance baskets,” 
Pett said. “I was just locked in on doing 
whatever I could do to give us the best 
chance at winning.”
“Katie Pett is one of the most 
competitive and hardworking people that 
I know,” Lowry said. “As always, that 
translated into a ton of rebounds, and 
huge defensive presence. She brings an 
intensity to the floor that elevates all of 
our play.”
The next day, Middlebury found 
space to operate offensively, shooting 
45 percent from the floor — a significant 
improvement on Saturday’s 21-69 
(30.4 percent) shooting 
performance. The Panthers 
were carried by its trio of 
starting guards as Marcus, 
Lowry and first-year 
Siobhan O’Sullivan ’17 
combined to score 40 of the 
Panthers’ 59 points, nearly 
eclipsing Colby-Sawyer’s 
43-point performance.
“Colby-Sawyer is a 
very good team, but plays 
a different style than 
Fitchburg, which allowed 
us to run our offense,” said 
head coach Noreen Pecsok. 
“We were able to get in a 
rhythm offensively that we 
never did against Fitchburg.”
On the other end, Middlebury limited 
the Chargers to just six first-half field 
goals on 22 percent shooting as the 
Panthers jumped out to a 14-2 lead, which 
they extended to 14 by the break. Pett 
grabbed 12 more rebounds and recorded 
four steals in another strong performance 
on the defensive end. 
“We worked hard to get good shots 
out of our offense and focused on having 
baskets come from assists,” Marcus said. 
“We recognized that we needed to play 
more composed to not turn the ball over 
and that we need to focus on what each 
of us can do individually to make our 
teammates better.”
While Middlebury still turned the ball 
over 24 times — giving them 52 through 
two games — 14 of the team’s 22 made 
field goals came off assists as Marcus led 
the way with five dimes and Lowry added 
four more.
Another bright spot was the play of a 
pair of first-years. O’Sullivan, who  started 
both games, contributed 11 points, five 
rebounds and five steals, while turning 
the ball over just once in 27 minutes 
against the Chargers. Elizabeth Knox ’17, 
meanwhile, stuffed the stat sheet with six 
points, five rebounds, three assists and a 
steal in just 17 minutes off the bench.
“Once we spend more time on the court 
together playing Middlebury basketball 
the offensive issues and turnovers that 
slowed us down this weekend will be 
dealt with,” Lowry said. “Our defense, 
and effort was there this weekend. What 
excites me the most was how relentlessly 
my teammates played.”
The Panthers play their home opener 
at Pepin Gymnasium on Saturday, Nov. 
23 against Emmanuel.
By Damon Hatheway
U
M
A
S
S
A
IC
N
ortheastern
U
C
O
N
N
U
. A
lbany
B
oston C
ollege
S
tony B
rook
28-12
37-12 37-7
93-6
78-22
31-10
57-3
MCRC Dominates Opponents 
MCRC
Opponents
“As the game went 
on, it became obvi-
ous how critical it 
was to limit their 
second chances ... I 
was locked in on do-
ing whatever I could 
to give us the best 
chance at winning,.”
Anna Van kula ’16
Foward
Panthers Squashed in Facility Opening, 
Recover with 9-0 Sweep of Stanford
Down by a score of 3-1 with under a 
minute to play in the NCAA Regional 
final against Skidmore on Sunday, Nov. 
17, Anna Kenyon ’16 jabbed in a goal and 
hope sprung into the throats of every 
Middlebury supporter in the three-
hundred person crowd.  Thirty seconds 
remained now and the Panthers charged 
forward as one, harassing for the ball 
and flinging it toward the 
cage.  The ball knocked into 
a retreating defender less 
than five yards away before 
time expired, awarding 
Middlebury one final corner 
play to send the elimination 
game into overtime. 
Off the stick of Catherine 
Fowler ’15, NESCAC Player of 
the Year and exactly the clutch 
shooter for the moment, the 
ball threaded through traffic 
but missed outside the right 
post by just a pair of inches. 
So, Middlebury completed 
its tremendous season 16
NESCAC champions and 
just one win away from 
contending among the NCAA 
Final Four. 
“I am so proud of our team,” captain 
Ellie O’Brien ’14 said. “From the first day 
we made it clear that everyone would 
contribute, and we had so more much 
fun and more success because of that.”  
The final nail-gnawing minutes of the 
Skidmore game bore zero resemblance 
to the Panthers’ high-flying first half 
against Utica on Saturday, Nov. 16 in 
which the team scored five goals in the 
first 11 minutes of play.  
Bridget Instrum ’16 powered by a 
defender on her backhand and cut across 
the goalmouth for the first tally. Minutes 
later, Katie Theiss ’14 slid a behind the 
back pass to Fowler who slapped it right 
to the guiding stick of Kenyon.  Instrum 
then scored another unassisted beauty, 
this time coming off a strong hit from 
atop the offensive arc.  Kenyon grabbed 
her second goal too, lunging headfirst 
into the net to chase down a wide shot. 
Finally, Theiss attracted a cluster of 
defenders before dishing down to Alyssa 
DiMaio ’15 for goal number five. 
In the second half, young Panthers 
Bea Eppler ’17, Olivia Jurkowitz ’17 
and Lily Taub ’17 entered the action 
with encouraging effectiveness.  Fowler 
scored on a textbook give-and-go with 
O’Brien, Instrum tallied her third goal of 
the day, and Pam Schulman ’17 finished a 
loose ball to round out the 8-0 drubbing. 
Utica came close to scoring on a 
penalty stroke, but Goalie Emily Knapp 
’15 extended her thin 
stick in catlike fashion 
to block the point blank 
shot.
Another charming 
national anthem sung 
by players Mary Claire 
Ecclesine ’15 and Cassie 
Coash ’15 introduced 
Sunday’s affair against 
Skidmore, and the 
Panthers brimmed 
with a champion’s 
confidence.
Red hot Instrum 
made the score 1-0 for 
Middlebury just two 
minutes into the game, 
speeding a one-timer 
inside the near post 
off a well-practiced 
backhand pass from Fowler.  Unlike 
Utica a day earlier, the Thoroughbreds 
splashed awake within three minutes 
and bounced in the equalizer off a waist-
high stick in front.  
For 12 minutes the teams jostled 
back and forth underneath drizzly gray 
clouds.  Fowler drilled the post on a long 
hit, and Kenyon lifted one from in close 
that nearly passed over the stacked pads 
of the Skidmore goalie.  Middlebury 
then conceded a corner penalty and a 
low turf-burning shot from Skidmore at 
the top of the arc skittered in for the go-
ahead goal. 
The Middlebury faithful perked up 
several times before halftime, seeing a 
chip from Instrum soar just wide and 
later a strong wrister from Kenyon strike 
the foamy blocker of the Skidmore goalie 
just before the break. 
In the second half, pressure mounted 
on the Panthers who attacked persistently 
but failed to unknot Skidmore’s tight 
defense.  After earning four consecutive 
corners, Middlebury conceded one and 
Skidmore scuffed a rebound past Knapp, 
who was knocked over backward by a 
Skidmore player on the play. 
The clock wound down but the ever-
cheerful Middlebury bench urged with 
all its might.  
“There was such a vibe, such a wave 
of energy pushing us forward,” DiMaio 
said. “The way we came from behind 
again just shows what amazing character 
this team has.” 
Coach Katharine DeLorenzo subbed 
out Knapp to add speedy attacker 
Lauren Berestecky ’17 with six minutes 
still remaining on the clock, showing 
her faith in Meredith Rowe ’14 and the 
Panther defense to deny any more shots. 
The heroic final surge of the season, 
with a clutch goal from Kenyon and the 
team earning one last corner, whipped 
the spectating crowd into a mix of elation 
and unbearable nerves.  When the shot 
that seemed destined for goal missed 
by so little, sticks, gloves and troweled-
out hearts dropped to the turf while the 
Middlebury fans wilted with empathy. 
Captain Deidre Miller ’14 reflected on 
the wild finish.
“Everyone pulled together and played 
flawlessly for that final minute, given the 
situation.  It was really cool to actually 
come back and have that last chance,” 
she said. 
Every sport involving balls also 
involves their bounces, and in the end 
Middlebury wound up just one bounce 
short of continuing its NCAA run on 
Sunday.  The team will miss the talent 
and leadership of seniors O’Brien, 
Rowe, Theiss, Hannah Deoul ’14, Miller 
and Hanna Kahn ’14 next season.  The 
intangible quality that defined the 2013 
team was its ability lean on its bench and 
enjoy the game at its most demanding 
moments.  Should the returning players 
preserve this unique competitive spirit, 
their top-quality talent will make next 
year’s team another one worth watching 
for every thrilling moment. 
In the first match in the Middlebury 
Squash Team’s new facility, the 17th-
ranked Panthers played host to the 
fifth-ranked Rochester Yellowjackets. 
Unfortunately, the contingent from 
Upstate N.Y. put a damper on the 
facility’s inaugural match, soundly 
defeating the shorthanded lineup 
Middlebury sent out, 9-0. 
Missing a number of upperclassmen, 
Middlebury was able to get a very talented 
first-year class some exposure to high-
level collegiate play. One such matchup 
was between Andrew Cadienhead ’17, 
who drew Rochester’s All-American 
sophomore Neil Cordell at the second 
slot. While Cadienhead failed to take a 
game from Cordell, he demonstrated 
an impressive array of creative shots in 
addition to excellent court coverage. 
Similarly, Ben Krant ’17 played a solid 
match at the seventh position; while 
losing all three games he played against 
Rochester’s Aria Fazil, Krant, a tall player 
who used his length to great advantage, 
connecting with balls seemingly out of 
reach. While the end result left much 
to be desired, the first-years put on a 
promising showing.
The lone Panther to win a set on 
Friday was Henry Pearson ’17, playing 
out of the number nine slot.
Andrew Jung ’16 played Rochester’s 
top man, but fell in straight sets.
Saturday, however, boded better for 
the Panthers, as the men’s side split a 
pair of matches in action at Williams’ 
facility. The first match of the day 
saw Middlebury sweep Stanford 9-0. 
Middlebury’s Parker Hurst ’14 won his 
first match of the current campaign 11-
5, 11-3 and 11-5 over Stanford’s Parker 
Odrich in the top slot. Also of note was 
Krant, continuing his solid play over 
the weekend, allowing his opponent 
onlythree points over the course of three 
games. 
Will Moore ’14 and Cadienhead 
rounded out the top three for Middlebury, 
also sweeping their opponents.
In truly dominant fashion, the 
Panthers did not drop one single game 
over the course of nine matches. 
Later that day, however, the Panthers 
faced another steep challenge in playing 
University of Western Ontario, ranked 
ninth nationally. Middlebury was not as 
successful against its counterparts from 
London, Ontario, with the Panthers 
dropping seven of nine matches. 
The squad’s two victories came from 
sixth man Wyatt French ’17 (11-9, 11-8, 
11-5) and Krant (5-11, 11-4, 11-7, 11-7), 
playing in the nine slot.
However, despite the final score, 
against such a high quality opponent, the 
Panthers played admirably. All matches 
were close, with several that could have 
gone either way. Against a team such as 
the University of Western Ontario, the 
outcome, while far from preferred, was 
encouraging, nonetheless. 
While the mark of 1-2 over the 
weekend may not be superficially 
appealing, Robert Galluccio ’15 believes 
the team had a productive weekend, 
despite the lopsided score due to the 
caliber of the opposition. 
“Rochester and University of Western 
Ontario are some of the best squads in 
the country, and for us to go out there 
and compete, regardless of the outcome, 
can only make us better,” Galluccio said, 
while adding that he would have liked to 
see a more favorable outcome. 
With competitive matches against 
teams such as Williams and St. Lawrence 
on the horizon, the men’s squash team 
looks to use this weekend as a building 
block for the rest of the season. 
The women’s team, meanwhile, 
opens its season Saturday, Nov. 23 at 
Hamilton in a matchup of the 12th- 
and 20th-ranked teams in the country, 
respectively.
|  november 21, 2013 22 sports
Field Hockey Ousted in NESCAC Regionals
By John Wyman
the middlebury
great  eight
8
Women’s Basketball
Room for improvement but 
the season is young.
1
RANKING TEAM
Alex’s Assertions
2
Men’s rugby
Be there on Saturday. It’s 
gonna be huge.
Women’s Soccer
They’re really good this 
year. Like really good.
3
Field Hockey
A heartbreaking NCAA loss 
but a great overall season.
4 
Cross Country
Big things are going to 
happen at  the NCAA 
championship this week.
5
Women’s Hockey
Life goes on without Lauren 
Greer ’13.
7
Men’s Hockey
I could have used some more 
goals from them for my 
editors’ pick last week.
6
Men’s Basketball
Solid openers for the young 
Panthers.
By Stephen Etna
“There was such a 
vibe, such a wave 
of energy pushing 
us forward. The 
way we came from 
behind again just 
shows what amaz-
ing character this 
team has.”
Alyssia DiMaio ’15
Midfielder
Anthea  von viragh
Alyssa DiMaio ‘15 adds to the 8-0 slaughter of the Utica Pioneers by burying this 
loose ball in the goal during Middlebury’s Sweet Sixteen victory on Saturday.
The Middlebury women’s soccer team 
continued its dream season with a NCAA 
regional championship win, defeating 
Bridgewater State 5-0 on Saturday, Nov. 
16, and Endicott 2-1 on Sunday, Nov. 17.
On Saturday, Middlebury established 
their dominance early, putting Bridgewater 
on the back foot from the outset. Strong 
Panther pressure forced the Bears out 
of possession and to make mistakes. 
Bridgewater wasn’t able to replicate the 
same kind of strong defense, mistiming 
tackles and allowing Middlebury free 
pockets of space.
Middlebury would be left to rue missed 
opportunities as the Panthers, despite 
the back of the net. In particular, Scarlett 
defense, beating the back line with her 
power and speed. In the 22nd minute, Ali 
Omsberg ’15 played a ball to open up space 
for Kirk, but Bridgewater keeper Kerry 
Condon slid to challenge the Panthers 
striker before she could get a shot off. Just 
minutes later, Julie Favorito ’14, recently 
crowned NESCAC Player of the Year, found 
herself with the ball in front of the net after 
a lofted pass into the box, but she could 
manage only a tame shot to the goalkeeper.
Middlebury found its breakthrough 
free kick from Molly Parizeau ’15 into the 
box. Kirk was able to head the ball from 
Gildner ’15, who tucked the ball into the 
corner with a cool volley.
doubling their lead in the 42nd minute. 
After great play down the left hand side 
by Katlyn Casey ’15, Gildner tempted the 
keeper out of position before playing a pass 
Woroch ’17. Woroch acted fast to pull off 
a shot that was almost cleared by a Bears 
the post into the goal.
Despite a 2-0 lead, Middlebury came out 
in the second half hungry for more goals. 
They didn’t have to wait long, as their lead 
Moria Sloan ’15 played a great feed from 
unmarked, with her shot slipping past the 
Middlebury continued to cut 
Bridgewater open with ease, increasingly 
Woroch got her brace in the 66th minute, 
placing the ball between the keeper’s legs 
from Kirk’s endline cross. Amanda Hotvedt 
’17 rounded off the scoring for Middlebury 
by converting a penalty kick in the 70th 
goals.
With four different goal scorers in the 
game, a stark contrast to last season, head 
coach Peter Kim is happy with how his 
team is progressing.
“It’s much more indicative of our style 
that there are more goal scorers this year,” 
Kim said. “It also shows how good our team 
chemistry is that we have more players 
contributing in big ways.”
advantage in the game, with Elizabeth 
Foody ’14 making one save in 68 minutes, 
while Kate Reinmuth ’17 made no saves in 
2 minutes of play.
Riding high, Middlebury entered the 
Regional Championship game against 
controlled the tempo early with Endicott 
not able to get a touch on the ball.
The score didn’t remain goalless for 
long, as 14 minutes into the game the 
Panthers earned a corner kick after Soroka 
played a ball down the left hand side and 
Kirk pressured the defender into kicking 
the ball out. Sloan stepped up to place an 
inch perfect corner into the box that Kirk 
nodded into the back of the net.
The Panthers seemed to come alive after 
their goal, with numerous chances going 
wanted. In the 20th minute, Kirk seemed 
trapped on the endline with pressure from 
a defender, but with fancy footwork, she 
managed to swivel to loft a pass that Carter 
Talgo ’15 who couldn’t quite connect with 
it. Favorito came close just minutes later 
after ripping a shot from outside the box 
after a short free kick from Sloan. Robinson 
had the last real chance in the game after 
turning and drilling a powerful from the 
of the Endicott keeper.
Middlebury came out in the second half 
and continued to dominate the game, albeit 
at a slower pace. The Panthers continued 
knocking on the door, but couldn’t quite 
cash in on a second goal.
Kirk almost got on the board again in 
the 65th minute when Sarah Noble ’14 
sent a bouncing ball towards the goal. Kirk 
and Endicott keeper Katie Donnelly both 
challenged for the ball, but missed it as 
away on the goal line. 
With 19 minutes left in the game, 
impressive jumping volley, but was denied 
by offside.
goal after impressive solo work from 
forward battled with a defender on the 
right hand side and with a quick burst of 
pace and step-over found herself with just 
enough time to let loose a curer that nestled 
into the top left hand corner.
Gildner almost got a second in similar 
fashion just minutes later after speeding 
through the Endicott backline, but after 
losing her balance she could only manage a 
tame shot at the onrushing goalie.
An Endicott consolation goal in the 
nervous last few minutes for the Panthers. 
After LeeAnn Card sent a pass along the 
end line, Foody was only partially able to 
stop it before Selby McLenithan bounced 
on the loose ball to smash it into the net. 
Endicott almost looked like challenging 
again with just two minutes left, but a shot 
from Madison Missinne sailed over the 
crossbar.
Despite the win, tri-captain Favorito is 
sure not to let the team get ahead of itself.
consensus that we should have dominated 
the Endicott game more than we did,” 
Favorito said. “But in the end the win was 
all we needed to get to the sweet sixteen so 
the team is very excited to have made it this 
far.”
Middlebury has won the right to 
host the NCAA sectional game against 
falling to Misericordia in the NCAA 
Regional Championship game last year, 
Kim is looking for a different result.
“I expect a really strong team, at least 
as strong as last year,” Kim said. “I felt 
we outplayed them and especially outshot 
them, but sometimes soccer is a tragic 
game, and sometimes it beats you. We feel 
strong going into this game and we know 
it’s going to be a good one.”
 november 21, 2013 | 23SPORTS
High Flying Women’s Soccer Scores Seven
By Alex Morris
panther sc0reboard
Men’s Basketball vs. Baruch 
field hockey  vs. Skidmore 
men’s Rugby vs. Stony Brook
women’s soccer vs. Endicott
women’s hockey vs. Bowdoin
Great performance in the Rotary 
Tip-Off at F&M. Two wins over two 
squads capable of being Top-25s.
Who’s ready for some rugby? Penn 
State will be in VT this Saturday.
This championship-hopeful goes 
down in a shocker at home. But have 
no fear, they’ll be back in 2014.
The women’s soccer squad, too, 
hosts a huge game this weekend. 
Misericordia will play the Panthers 
on Saturday in the NCAA Sectionals. 
Clean sweep of the Mules for 
Middlebury. They beat Colby twice 
to go 2-0.
96-89 W 
3-2 l
57-3 W
2-1 W
4-0 w
Anthea  von viragh
Jamie Soroka ’16 nets the third goal of the game after a through ball from Moria 
Sloan ’15. The Panthers blanked the Bears with a score of 5-0 on Saturday, Nov. 16.
OVER
I’ve got the MCRC Feury (get 
it?). Also, Penn State’s Feury is 
sidelined. Big hit for PSU.
KATIE SULLIVAN ’15
She netted one versus Colby, and 
there’s more where that came from.
Owen Teach (83-85, .494)
Damon Hatheway (131-112, .539)
Joe macdonald (17-19, .460)
Over/Under: 3.5 tries for the MCRC 
on Saturay against Penn State
Who will lead the women’s 
hockey team in scoring in its two 
games against Trinity?
at this weekend’s Hoopsville 
Classic?
#4 Baylor at #10 Oklahoma 
State (-6)
OVER 
Look at all those pretty graphs!
HANNAH BIEAWSKI ’15
Much like Ms. Bielawski leads the 
hockey team in points, I lead the 
sports section in correct editors’ 
picks. 
OVER
Love to see Midd representing the 
game of my homeland (kind of...).
HANNAH BIELAWSKI ’15
I can feel Damon’s smugness a 
mile away after going back on top. 
Don’t worry, my wit will carry me 
through.
1-1
Let’s move on.
BAYLOR
Baylor, who are 10 point favorites 
are getting six points? Avoid 
Vegas for a while, O.
1-1
St. Mary’s is too big a test right 
now. In other news, the name 
“Hoopsville” really makes me sad.
BAYLOR
A lot of outside consultation was 
put into this choice.
BAYLOR
This team would be no match for 
MCRC, though.
1-1
I think St. Mary’s hands the 
young team will only get better with 
experience.
BAYLOR
right?
editors’ picks
OVER
To say that I am excited for this 
game is an understatement.
HANNAH BIELAWSKI ’15
I too am concerned about this 
smugness raining down on me.
2-0
Someone has to make a bold 
prediction.
Alex Morris (18-18, .500)
sports November 21, 2013 | 24
DAVID 
vs.
GOLIATH
Maddie Dai
With a spot in the national championship game 
on the line, MCRC will host Penn State, the 
largest university in the country, on Saturday. 
See Page  21.
