November 29, 2012 | Vol. 111 no. 10 | middleburycampus.com
LOCAL COALITION 
HELPS MIGRANT 
FARM WORKERS
PAGE 6
CCSRE SCREENING 
INSPIRES ISRAEL /
PALESTINE 
DISCUSSION
PAGE 15
AS YOU LIKE
IT LIGHTS UP 
WRIGHT THEATER
PAGE 16
in
sid
e
A number of groups of students performed in the annual International Student Organization (ISO) 
Cultural Runway show on Saturday, Nov. 17 in the McCullough Social Space. In the scene above, stu-
dents satirically demonstrated many common Russian stereotypes based on their experiences abroad.
Jessica Munyon
RUSSIANS DRINK VODKA?
The event was planned in light of the recent court case Fisher v. University of Texas, which is now 
lauren davidson
COLLEGE WEIGHS IN ON AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
College revamps 
orientation trips
By Isabelle Dietz
Gaza violence incites discussion
By Isabelle Stillman
Students protest 
Shell spokesman
By Bronwyn Oatley
After many adaptations to 
-
ing from MOO to OINK, the 
College has arrived at a new, 
expanded program titled Mid-
dView. The name is recycled 
from the original version of Mid-
dView, temporarily shelved be-
cause of the recession after its 
The main difference between 
OINK, which has been the Col-
lege’s orientation program for 
the last four years, and Mid-
dView is that MiddView will be 
orientation that comes with no 
privilege comes from joint fund-
ing provided by the College and 
the SGA. 
said Derek Doucet, director 
of outdoor programs and club 
sports. “It will differ in scale, and 
in the scope and breadth of trip 
offerings. The most important 
distinction is that it will be in-
tentionally integrated in the Col-
Instead of happening sepa-
rate from orientation like OINK, 
with students leaving on trips 
the weekend after classes begin, 
next year MiddView will happen 
at the end of orientation week. 
Themes and discussions intro-
duced at the beginning of orien-
tation will continue through the 
MiddView trips.
“The primary goal is to help 
Doucet. “They carry with them 
all kinds of hopes, dreams and 
anxieties, and the trips program 
will provide a peer group they 
can lean on in what can be a very 
challenging time.
“It will also provide an in-
valuable opportunity for them 
to connect them with older stu-
the new academic, cultural and 
physical landscapes that will be-
come their home for their time 
Along with the program’s ex-
pansion and required participa-
tion come a variety of trips, the 
hope being that this will let every 
Three categories of trips will be 
offered next year. Wilderness 
exploration trips will be similar 
to the outdoor trips currently of-
fered by OINK and will include 
activities such as backpacking 
and canoeing. Vermont explo-
ration trips will explore the cul-
tural aspects of Vermont as op-
posed to the physical; they might 
entail looking at organic farming 
or contemplative practices in 
Vermont. The third category for 
trips will be community engage-
ment trips, which will be service 
trips this year, and the new pro-
gram hopes to more than double 
that number next fall.
“It gives new students a chance 
to realize problems that they 
might not otherwise hear about 
in Vermont, such as hunger and 
Engagement Coordinator Ashley 
experience what communities 
need, with the hope that they will 
choose to stay involved in civic 
engagement throughout their 
Middlebury career. They also will 
be able to meet other students 
who are interested in community 
J Street U Midd held a student-
led discussion on the recent Gaza-
Israel violence on Monday, Nov. 19. 
J Street U Midd is the Middlebury 
chapter of J Street U, a student or-
ganization for pro-Israel, pro-peace 
Americans.
Street U Midd, moderated the dis-
-
dents and one professor.  
Part of Kaufman’s reasoning for 
holding the discussion was concern 
that many students have been in-
formed about the recent violence 
students present also expressed 
concern regarding students’ reliance 
on biased news sources.
“This is a really loaded topic for 
Cohen ’15, who participated in the 
discussion. “You have to know 
what’s going on and what’s hap-
pened in the past to comment on it 
conversation needed to be opened 
up based on what he perceives to be 
a prevalent anti-Israel sentiment on 
campus. 
 “I think there are students on 
students, but not exclusively, that 
feel uncomfortable with the rheto-
that’s why the tension and anger are 
Kaufman opened the discussion 
with all participants introducing 
themselves and describing in one 
-
voiced in the room, setting the tone 
for a serious and emotional conver-
sation.
The single professor in atten-
dance, Instructor in Arabic Ahmad 
Almallah, then opened up about his 
views on the controversy. Almallah 
-
rently has family members living in 
severe frustration with the Ameri-
said that the media neglects to ac-
knowledge Palestinian lives, and 
added that the general language 
surrounding the violence greatly 
disturbs him.
Almallah left the discussion soon 
after his statement.  
Amid some tension in the room, 
Kaufman attempted to put bound-
aries on conversational etiquette to 
encourage respect. 
“The point of this conversation is 
Amidst a growing conversa-
tion about ethical investing at 
the College, several students 
demonstrated at a talk given 
by Olav Ljøsne, senior manager 
for international operations for 
Shell Oil, at an event co-spon-
sored by the Vermont Council 
on World Affairs (VCWA) and 
the Rohatyn Center of Global 
Affairs on Thursday, Nov. 15.
The talk was the second in a 
local series co-sponsored by the 
VCWA, which brings hundreds 
of international speakers to 
the green mountain state every 
year.
The first of the two events 
was a panel discussion held 
on Wednesday Nov. 14 at the 
University of Vermont. While 
the event was well attended, a 
group of protestors repeatedly 
interrupted the speakers, forc-
ing the organizers to cancel the 
panel shortly after it began.
The group of nine who pro-
tested at Wednesday’s talk, 
reportedly affiliated with the 
Rising Tide Vermont (a Burl-
ington-based activist group), 
read letters which had allegedly 
been written by Nigerians who 
have been affected by Shell’s 
operations in the Niger Delta, 
according to the Burlington 
Free Press.  
At the College, Ljøsne was 
permitted to speak unimpeded 
but had his remarks bookended 
by the protests of several stu-
dents.
Dr. Gail Stevenson, executive 
SEE J STREET, PAGE 4 SEE MIDDVIEW, PAGE 2
SEE STUDENT, PAGE 3
On Nov. 6, the College announced its 
decision to suspend its school abroad in 
Xalapa, Mexico. The program, which was 
based at the Universidad Veracruzana 
in Xalapa, will not accept students from 
next semester onward, unless the deci-
sion to suspend the school is reversed. The 
suspension of the Mexico program elimi-
nates the only Spanish language C.V. Starr 
School Abroad Latin American location in 
the Northern Hemisphere.
Acting Dean of International Programs 
Paul Monod cited low enrollment as the 
primary reason for closing the program. 
Only one student opted to study abroad in 
Mexico this academic year, and the pro-
gram has seen an average of only 2.7 stu-
dents per semester over the past eight se-
mesters. For comparison, the Middlebury 
C.V. Starr School in Argentina sees an av-
erage of 18.375 students per semester and 
the school in Chile has an average of 15.5 
students per semester. The College has de-
cided that the few students who choose to 
study in Mexico are not enough to sustain 
the costs of the program. 
Monod suggested that reports of drug-
related violence in the region might have 
contributed to the program’s unpopularity. 
“It’s unfortunate to have to close any 
site abroad, but Mexico was a special case,” 
said Monod.  “Reports of drug violence in 
that country have saturated the media in 
the United States, which seems to have 
discouraged students from applying for 
the program.  There was no sign that this 
situation was going to change; in fact, it 
appears to have worsened in the last year 
or so.”
The Middlebury School Abroad in Gua-
dalajara, Mexico was closed last year after 
reports of violence prompted the U.S. gov-
ernment to issue a travel warning, but the 
Xalapa program remained open as it was 
deemed safer. 
Alan Sanders ’13.5, the only current 
student who studied abroad in Xalapa last 
violence in the area. 
“There were police patrols, and that was 
the extent of the violence that I saw,” Sand-
ers noted. “There were a couple of shoot-
ings while I was there but they were very 
much in isolated areas of the city that the 
school was not anywhere close to.”
While Spanish language students still 
have plenty of options in considering 
studying abroad locations — the College 
has programs in Spain, Argentina, Chile 
and Uruguay — there are certain draw-
backs to eliminating the Mexico location. 
Mexico was the only Spanish-speaking 
Latin American country available to stu-
dents at the College who wished to study 
abroad in the Northern Hemisphere. Uni-
versities in the Southern Hemisphere fol-
low a different academic calendar, with the 
fall semester beginning at the beginning of 
August and the spring semester ending in 
the middle of July. 
For students at the College who have 
summer obligations and jobs back in the 
states, this calendar rules out locations like 
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay.  Students in 
the international and global studies or in-
ternational politics and economics majors, 
region and are required to study abroad, 
now must travel to the Southern Hemi-
sphere and adhere to that calendar if they 
choose to focus in Latin American studies.
Students studying Spanish and Latin 
American cultures still have many op-
International Programs maintains that the 
there was nothing unique about the curric-
ulum offered at Unversidad Veracruzana 
in Xalapa. 
As an international and global studies 
major with a focus in anthropology, Sand-
ers disagreed.
“The archeology program is really good, 
because they’re right in the middle of 
where the Olmec civilization used to be,” 
said Sanders. “So there’s a lot of archeo-
logical dig sites around the city and it’s a 
very culturally rich part of the world. So 
they have a lot of opportunities for anthro-
pologists.”
Sanders expressed his disappointment 
upon hearing the news of the program’s 
suspension.
“I think that Mexico has such a vibrant 
culture that is misrepresented in the me-
dia in the United States,” Sanders added. 
“We share a 2,000 mile border and it’s so 
important to our politics, I think its really 
important that Middlebury students get 
past the rhetoric that is involved in politi-
cal discussions around Mexico, and that’s 
really only accessible through living there.”
Over the past three years, the world has 
the European Union. Countries previously 
associated with vacational paradise, such as 
Greece, Spain and Italy, have seen their bor-
rowing costs soar and even faced the possi-
bility of default.
In exchange for emergency bailouts to 
have imposed severe austerity measures on 
their citizens. These austerity measures have 
been wildly unpopular and so far resulted in 
little economic success. 
In Spain’s case, the national government 
is facing one additional challenge: keeping 
the country together.
In the northeastern parts of the country, 
the long-simmering nationalist sentiments 
of Catalonians have moved to the forefront 
of their political dialogue. This past Sunday, 
Catalonia held regional elections widely 
seen as a litmus test for the viability of fu-
ture secession.
With 50 percent of the ballots counted 
by Sunday night, incumbent Regional Presi-
dent Artur Mas’s party won a plurality, lead-
ing in 48 out of 135 parliamentary districts. 
Combined with three other parties advocat-
ing Catalonian independence, the separatist 
faction is poised to control approximately 84 
seats in total.
These preliminary results showed a 
slightly weaker performance for the sepa-
ratists than what many say is needed for a 
serious secessionist movement. President 
Mas’s party will almost certainly fall short 
of a parliamentary majority and the sepa-
ratist bloc will likely not attain a two-thirds 
supermajority.
These regional elections came almost two 
years before originally scheduled. President 
Mas called them in response to massive sep-
aratist demonstrations. On Sept. 11, a crowd 
of more than 1.5 million Catalonians swelled 
the streets of Barcelona, Spain’s second larg-
est city, demanding secession from Spain.
These secessionist sentiments are hardly 
new as Catalonia uses its own language and 
sees its culture as unique from that of the 
rest of Spain. However, the separatist move-
ment has been exacerbated by what many 
Catalonians see as a losing marriage with 
Spain. 
The region generates tremendous wealth 
for Spain, with its car factories, banks and 
tourism. Catalonians, especially in the mid-
dle of the Eurozone crisis, think that they 
government than the contributions they 
make in taxes. Many believe that the region 
Regional President Mas is a recent con-
vert in the secessionist movement. Prior to 
the separatist fever that struck in Septem-
ber, Mas was in favor of gaining more re-
gional autonomy via negotiations. However, 
during the course of this campaign, he has 
promised to hold a referendum on indepen-
dence within this upcoming parliamentary 
term.
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has said 
that the national government will not allow 
an independence referendum in Catalonia. 
In 2008, the Spanish national government 
successfully appealed to the constitutional 
court to cancel a non-binding referendum 
on independence in Basque country, an-
other northeast Spanish region with a long 
history of secessionist agitation.
The national government is backed by 
the 1978 Spanish Constitution, which states: 
“The Constitution is based on the indissolu-
ble unity of the Spanish nation, the common 
and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards.”
Even if Catalonia falls short of secession, 
these regional elections are another sign of 
in maintaining domestic stability. The youth 
unemployment rate continues to linger 
around 54 percent, while the European Cen-
tral Commission predicts the Spanish econ-
omy to contract 1.4 percent per year in both 
2012 and 2013. A general strike in protest of 
budget cuts all but shut down the country on 
Nov. 14, the second such event this year.
BY DANNY ZHANG
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| november 29. 20122 NEWS
The program organizers hope that 
these service trips will increase student 
involvement in community projects and 
student community organizations and al-
-
tion in high school service organizations 
to such organizations at the College.
“I graduated in 2006, and I still re-
member the people I went on my orienta-
tion trip with and those core relationships 
I made before classes even started,” said 
Calkins.
Next year students will leave Friday 
morning of their orientation week and 
spend the following three days and two 
nights with their MiddView group. The 
program coordinators are looking for 
between 100 and 120 volunteer student 
leaders for these expanded trips.
Posters will go up to recruit students 
and the link for the student application, 
due Jan. 30, will be go/lead.
become contributing members of the 
campus community, to launch their col-
lege experience in a meaningful way and 
to help broaden their sense of community 
to the areas surrounding Middlebury” said 
Shannon Gair ’13, an orientation intern 
working on MiddView.
The coordinators are looking for lead-
ers who are enthusiastic about the trips 
and who will be able to facilitate discus-
Many students seem optimistic about 
moving the orientation programs so they 
are a part of orientation week.
“I really liked my OINK trip, but I 
would have preferred to have had it dur-
ing orientation” said Gair.
This is a common theme among those 
who experienced meaningful OINK trips 
Upperclassmen who volunteered with the 
Mountain Club to go on these trips had to 
-
lege to participate.
“I wanted to go on an OINK trip, but I 
didn’t sign up in time. I would have pre-
ferred if they were during orientation and 
everyone participated” said Amy Pickens 
’15.
“The OINK program as a whole was 
probably the best part of my orientation 
experience,” said Emily Sarich ’16. “If I 
could change anything about the expe-
should be part of orientation. I know a lot 
of people had to miss out on the trip be-
cause they had too much work to do the 
-
tastic experience for me and I would love 
as much as I did.”
MiddView alters orientation timing
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Students enjoyed the rolling mountains of Vermont on a MiddView trip in 2008.
file photo
College suspends Mexico school
By Kelsey Collins
*Xalapa
“I still remember the 
people I went on my 
orientation trip with and 
those core relationships I 
made before classes even 
started.”
ashley calkins ’06
community engagement coordinator
As I sat at the local café, sipping a glass 
of wine and staring up at the cathedral, I 
couldn’t help shake that despite the fact 
that I was doing all the same things as 
the French people around me, I still felt 
like I stood out as an American tourist. I 
have always considered myself partly Eu-
ropean; I have a British passport and my 
friends mock me for my British sayings. 
Secretly (or not so secretly) I loved it. It 
made me a bit different back in Middle-
bury, but coming to France I needed no 
help feeling different and in fact feeling 
completely un-European. 
While at first my American accent 
gave me away, that’s by far not the only 
reason why I found it hard to become a 
French student here. For a start, everyone 
here eats huge amounts for every meal of 
the day. Not many girls my age still play 
sports, and sometimes I feel like swim-
mer shoulders are a huge disability. With 
often two bags and my shoulders (which 
my host sister comments on at least once 
a day), it is hard to fit myself into the jam 
packed tram and I often dream of the 
days when my morning commute was 
from Hepburn to Proctor.  
With professors, friends and fam-
ily constantly telling me to become im-
mersed in the culture, for the first month 
here I was really easily discouraged by 
the fact that I constantly felt just a little 
bit out of place. I have made great friends 
here, however not all of them are actually 
French, which only added to the fact that 
when out at a bar I feel like all eyes were 
on us (and not in a good way). 
However, I have come to realize that it 
might just be me. I wasn’t expecting the 
culture shock when I got here. It is France 
after all. I’m not in a country completely 
unfamiliar like friends who are studying 
in Egypt or in Kenya. I think that be-
cause of this fact, I never even thought 
about the fact that France is not like the 
U.S. and that while I’m more at ease than 
people studying in non-European coun-
tries, it doesn’t mean that I can expect to 
be treated the exact same way I am in the 
U.S.   
So slowly I have begun to look at my 
daily insecurities in a new light. Maybe I 
feel squished on the tram because there 
are 100 people in a space made for 60, 
and maybe people are looking at us be-
cause they are just interested in why 
there are foreign-sounding people in a lo-
cal bar, rather than looking down on us. 
I have come to accept and appreciate the 
fact that I’m American. My French is bet-
ter now so people don’t necessarily notice 
right away that I’m American. Instead, I 
tell them that I am, and after the obligato-
ry quick political talk about the last elec-
tion, we go on to talk not about our na-
tionalities but about ourselves. Through 
this, I’ve accepted that yes, it was a bit of 
a culture shock at first, but that it is pos-
sible to immerse oneself and still be for-
eign at the same time.
In fact, I think that I am even more 
proud and thankful to be an American 
now that I have lived abroad. I know that 
everyone talks about how much time they 
have to reflect on who they are as a per-
son and really discover themselves while 
they are abroad. As many who know me 
can tell you, I’m not really big into self-
reflection or self-discovery, but without 
thinking, I have realized that I am much 
prouder and appreciate much more my 
American heritage. While I haven’t had 
one singular moment of complete self-
awareness and discovery, I am thankful 
that I have had this experience to reflect 
and discover my real patriotic nature. 
overseas
briefing
BY ALEX EDEL ’14
Bordeaux, France
november 29, 2012 |  3        News
director of VCWA, initially introduced 
Ljøsne, noting the speaker’s 20-year ca-
reer with Shell and diplomatic service 
with the Norwegian Embassy in Iraq, 
Saudi Arabia and Iran.
Shortly thereafter, two students — 
Anna Shireman-Grabowski ’15 and Jay 
Saper ’13 — approached the podium and 
presented the Shell executive with a fake 
honorary degree “of Humane Letters” 
from the College.
The two students satirically praised 
Ljøsne for “greenwashing” Shell’s cor-
porate activities in a manner “consis-
tent with the practices of Middlebury 
College.” In their comments they voiced 
a critique on the College’s own “green-
washing” activities, referencing specifi-
cally the College’s management of its 
$881 million endowment.
“The global community has seen how 
effective you have been in justifying hu-
man rights violations such as using dead-
ly force to repress a growing movement 
in protest of Shell,” they said, referring 
to the oft-criticized record of the Dutch 
petroleum company in the Niger Delta.
“Middlebury has recently been ac-
cused of investing unethically — in com-
panies like Shell — so we look to you 
now, more than ever, as we try to restore 
our reputation without actually changing 
our practices,” they said.
The two students were dressed in 
graduation gowns and made their re-
marks as “Pomp and Circumstance 
March” played in the background, hav-
ing been switched on by another student 
at the side of the room.
Director of Rohatyn Center of Global 
Affairs, Tamar Mayer permitted the stu-
dents to finish, before re-inviting Ljøsne 
to the microphone.
“Thank you for welcoming me here, 
it’s been a very good day, a very interest-
ing day,” Ljøsne said.
“I also must say thank you for a very 
special welcome,” he said, referencing 
the two students who had taken their 
seats, “but I must say that the premise is 
something that I don’t accept.
During his presentation, Ljøsne spoke 
of Shell’s positions on transparency, sus-
tainable development and the “nexus be-
tween water, food and energy.”
“We need to reduce the CO2 emis-
sions,” he said, “At the same time … we 
need to cover demand globally.”
audience members push for
answers
In the question and answer session, 
students and faculty asked Ljøsne point-
ed questions, referencing Shell’s human 
rights record, current Supreme Court 
case and corporate responsibility, before 
demonstrations occurred again.
During the session, the tone of the 
room shifted back and forth between 
students for and against the demonstra-
tions.
Janet Bering ’13 prefaced a question 
on arctic drilling by stating that she was 
pleased that the executive had visited the 
College, knowing that, “many students 
were excited to come and to ask ques-
tions respectfully.”
Visiting Assistant Professor of Geog-
raphy Kasy McKinney, then asked Ljøsne 
to reflect upon his personal experience 
working in Nigeria for five years as part 
of his 20-year career with Shell. She 
called the contemporary situation in the 
Niger Delta, a “tragic situation, in which 
Shell has played a major role.”
“Nigeria is an extremely complex so-
ciety,” Ljøsne responded. “It’s underde-
veloped, [in a] tragically underdeveloped 
area of the world … the history of Nigeria 
is a complex one, and a very violent one.”
In his answer, Ljøsne spoke of gov-
ernment corruption and conflicts be-
tween communities, and stated that he 
believed that oil companies are “losing 
between $5-8 billion per year” in prod-
ucts that are stolen and illegally chan-
neled into markets.
“Do you think that Shell is able to take 
any responsibility for what has happened 
[in the Niger Delta]?” McKinney pressed.
“Shell is not taking responsibility for 
what is happening in Nigeria,” Ljøsne 
said. “We take responsibility for what we 
are doing, what Shell is doing.”
Shortly thereafter, Amitai Ben-Abba 
’15.5 and Sam Koplinka-Loehr ’13.5, two 
of the students of the self-titled Dalai 
Lama Welcoming Committee, a group of 
students who served as the respondents 
in the recent public hearing for viola-
tions to the College Handbook, came to 
the center of the room to interrupt the 
question and answer session.
“Everything being said here is a lie,” 
said Ben-Abba. “We are surrounded by 
this deception … We are lying to our-
selves … This person is whitewashing 
corporate war crimes against humanity. 
Are you hearing this noise?”
Scott Rowland ’12, a student member 
of the audience, then interrupted Ben-
Abba.
“You’re the one making noise, and 
you’re an embarrassment to this col-
lege,” he said. “This is ridiculous.” To 
this, several students clapped.
Both Ben-Abba and Koplinka-Loehr 
fell to the floor in a visual representation 
of the deaths of the Nigerian people.
The question and answer session 
came to a close with an inquiry by one 
student about the hypothetical impact of 
colleges and universities divesting from 
fossil fuel companies.
“I don’t know if the campuses around 
the world are invested in Shell or in any 
of the other oil companies,” Ljøsne said. 
“The impact is very difficult for me to say 
anything about.”
discussion continues after
lecture
Following the conclusion of the event, 
reactions were as polarized as the per-
spectives of the many who had partici-
pated in the dialogue.
Bree Baccaglini ’15, a student in McK-
inney’s “Geographic Perspectives on In-
ternational Development” class, reflect-
ed on the event.
“The thrust of what we learned [in our 
class] was that Shell has destroyed Ni-
geria and its people,” she said, “and that 
there is a whole lot of rhetoric, which we 
just heard about, that kind of covers a lot 
of this up as sustainable development, 
and as the Niger Delta’s problem. That’s 
what we read and that’s what I buy into 
more than the corporate ‘throw your 
hands in the air’ kind of approach.
“I thought that [the corporate rheto-
ric] would speak for itself … I agree with 
what [the student protestors] were say-
ing but I wouldn’t want to lend my voice 
in a circumstance like that,” added Bac-
caglini.
Baccaglini concluded that, “Perhaps 
for people who didn’t know about this, it 
was instructive to have the opposite side, 
but I think that people who have any sort 
of background or any previous interest 
[would have known what Ljøsne was go-
ing to say].
Rowland, the student who interrupt-
ed the student demonstrators, was much 
more critical of the protest.
“Unfortunately for the protestors, 
their behavior drew our focus away from 
the content of Mr. Ljones’s presenta-
tion, and onto themselves. Today we are 
debating the student’s actions and not 
the content of Mr. Ljøsnes speech,” said 
Rowland.
“Apparently the value of learning from 
someone with an alternative viewpoint is 
lost on some of my peers,” he said.
Bering, who had thanked Ljøsne for 
coming to speak at the College, echoed 
Rowland’s remarks.
“I thought the students’ actions were 
really frustrating and inappropriate be-
cause it is rare on the Middlebury cam-
pus that we get to hear the perspective of 
an oil executive, and that perspective is 
not taught in our classes,” she said.
“By protesting him, [those students] 
didn’t allow for students who were genu-
inely interested in global energy issues 
to have a genuine conversation about 
more than just Nigeria,” added Bering.
Ashley Sandy ’11, director of interna-
tional visitors at VCWA, explained that 
she was nervous before the event, having 
just witnessed the first of two discussions 
shut down at UVM, but was pleased the 
majority of students “listened respect-
fully” and that Ljøsne was able to speak.
“At Middlebury it was clear that stu-
dents had done their homework. There 
were a number of students with varying 
perspectives and many of them asked 
valuable questions of Mr. Ljøsne. I think 
that they definitely benefitted from be-
ing able to discuss their issues with him. 
I was disappointed that a similar discus-
sion wasn’t able to take place at UVM be-
cause of the behavior of the audience,” 
said Sandy.
“The students did their research. A 
few students might have called him a liar 
but they allowed him to speak, which is 
the only way to have constructive dia-
logue,” she said.
“As a VCWA representative I was ner-
vous that Mr. Ljøsne might not be able 
to speak,” continued Sandy, “As a Midd 
alum at the end of it, I was very proud.”
According to Mayer the talk had 
been planned for eight months, and was 
scheduled with the intent of continuing 
to bring speakers with a diverse array of 
perspectives to campus.
“This is a place where everyone can 
speak,” she said.
Student protests garner mixed responses
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Anna Shireman-Grabowski ’15 and Jay Saper ’13  presented Shell Executive Olav 
Ljosne with a fake honorary degree “of humane letters” from the college.
greg woolston
4 NEWS
college 
shorts
Amherst students distribute 
t-shirts calling for higher 
awareness of sexual assault
A provocative t-shirt distributed at Am-
herst’s homecoming weekend last week has 
reignited controversy surrounding sexual as-
sault on its campus, coming in the wake of an 
open letter written by a sexual assault victim, 
Angie Epifano, printed in the school’s stu-
dent newspaper on Oct. 17.  
As an effort to keep campus-wide conver-
sation alive in response to Epifano’s letter, a 
group of students handed out t-shirts to stu-
dents and alumni in attendance at the home-
coming athletic events.
 The front of the shirt features Lord Jeff, 
Amherst’s mascot, gripping a broom in one 
hand and lifting a rug, accompanied by the 
words, “Amherst: Sweeping Sexual Assault 
Under the Rug since 1821.” The back of the 
shirt reads, “Silence has the rusty taste of 
shame. We will be silent no more. Demand 
zero tolerance for sexual violence now.”
A petition was circulated alongside the 
t-shirts calling for the administration to un-
dertake greater initiatives to prevent sexual 
assault on campus. The students handing out 
the t-shirts expressed fear that meaningful 
progress would cease as soon as media cov-
erage surrounding Epifano’s open letter dies 
down, and hoped that the t-shirts would help 
keep discussion alive.
 — The Amherst Student 
University of Vermont 
students protest talk by Shell 
representative
On Nov. 14, University of Vermont (UVM) 
interrupted a presentation at the UVM cam-
pus by Olav Ljosne, senior manager of inter-
national operations for multinational petro-
leum giant Royal Dutch Shell. Ljosne was 
speaking on a panel discussion titled “Big 
Oil in the Niger Delta,” during which he was 
joined by two co-panelists, UVM Professor 
of Political Science Greg Gause and Visiting 
Professor at the UVM Law School Benja-
min Sovacool, who manages Vermont Law 
School’s Energy Security and Justice Pro-
gram.
Rising Tide Vermont is a climate justice 
organization based out of Burlington, Vt. 
Nine activists stood up throughout Ljosne’s 
presentation, rendering it impossible for him 
to speak. The activists shared testimonies of 
Nigerians living in the delta to protest Shell’s 
role in the destruction of Nigerian ecosys-
tems and communities through its extraction 
activity and relationships with Nigeria’s vari-
ous military dictatorships. 
-
ing their remarks, followed by members of 
the audience as well as some of the present-
ers. The event was postponed and the police 
were called, though no arrests were made. 
 — Burlington Free Press
| november 29, 2012
told the group. Together, the participants 
agreed to focus on respect, assume good in-
tentions in others’ comments and use “I state-
ments” — avoiding generalizations such as 
“we,” “they” or “you.”
The group then viewed a timeline of the 
recent violence published in an article from 
The Atlantic. Breaking off into groups of two 
or three, participants discussed the inception 
of the violence. Many students believed the 
timeline was essentially pointless; regardless 
of who started the attacks, several students 
agreed that the continuing violence must be 
stopped. 
However, certain students did express 
strong feelings that one side or the other was 
more to blame for the current state of the dis-
pute. 
Turning the discussion toward U.S. in-
the U.S. Department of State statement on 
Gaza Rocket Attacks, which includes the state-
ment, “We support Israel’s right to defend 
itself, and we encourage Israel to continue to 
take every effort to avoid citizen casualties.”
One student believed that the U.S.’s focus 
is not playing the role of peacemaker if Ameri-
can policy unilaterally supports one side, he 
argued.
A number of students agreed that the U.S. 
has noted Hamas as the aggressor, but the im-
plications is that Palestinians as a whole must 
bear the brunt of the punishment.
Arguments arose over the nature of Hamas’ 
charter, which was read aloud during the con-
versation. Some students believed it contained 
terrorist and anti-Semitic ideologies. Others 
contested this reading, saying the language 
frames the issue so negatively that to hold a 
real discussion one must look past wording 
and consider the facts.
Kaufman voiced opposition to a ground 
operation and a desire to raise awareness for 
diplomatic pressure.
Prompted by this discussion, one student 
raised the issue of the power dynamic in the 
room during the conversation, imploring peers 
to consider the history of the situation, namely 
the 45-year-long occupation of Gaza. When 
another participant asked for his permission 
to pose a question, this student communicated 
-
swer. Tensions rose and Kaufman asked the 
group to remember the initial ground rules.
Emotions and tensions rose once more 
killings surfaced. Some students denied that 
of desperation and defense.
At several points throughout this discus-
sion, Kaufman reined in emotional commo-
tion by recognizing the rising frustrations in 
the room and reminding participants to re-
member others’ good intentions. 
Discussion then turned to the place of 
history in the issue, when some students ad-
vocated for the focus to concentrate only on 
the present, while other students argued that 
history and the present situation could not be 
separated. 
“People come into these things with all dif-
ferent sorts of facts,” said Zieve-Cohen. “Ev-
eryone here who said anything is speaking 
based on their own reading of history.”
When the term “concentration camp” was 
used by one student to describe the occupa-
tion of Gaza, several participants spoke out 
fervently, asking him to rephrase with less of-
fensive wording.
The discussion ended with the question 
of whether the issue is at gridlock or whether 
something can be done. Kaufman used the 
opportunity to describe J Street U’s online pe-
tition for President Obama to call for a cease-
Though Kaufman formally concluded the 
event, almost every student stayed to continue 
conversation with others. 
“I’m hoping that more conversation like 
this can challenge this two-sided issue,” said 
Kaufman. “I think it’s non-productive to make 
it an issue of sides.”
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
J Street U discussion exposes tensions
On Monday Nov. 12, Community Council 
met with Administrative Programs Coordina-
tor Ellen McKay and Mark Stefani, assistant 
professor of psychology, about stress on cam-
pus. Both McKay and Stefani spearheaded 
the Stress Committee.
Since its 2007 creation, the committee has 
focused on examining causes of student, fac-
ulty and staff stress, as well as possible solu-
tions for a seemingly rapid increase in stress 
levels.
“From the beginning, the goals of the 
committee were to try to come to some un-
derstanding of what was driving student 
perception of very high levels of stress,” said 
Stefani. “And perception is reality in this case, 
because our students are very stressed, and 
we wanted to look at what was causing that.”
During the 2010 and 2011 academic years, 
the committee received funding from the 
Sloan Foundation to sponsor programs de-
signed to help members of the community 
gain a better sense of work-life balance. Last 
year the committee merged with the Optimal 
Health Committee on campus, which was es-
tablished for faculty and staff, and now shares 
a budget with them to put on activities, work-
shops and sponsor speakers on stress man-
agement.
On the agenda this year is to continue to 
sponsor yoga and meditation classes. The 
committee is also interested in bringing in Cal 
Newport, a computer science professor from 
Georgetown University, who would speak on 
how to get the most out of your time while 
still operating at a high performance level. 
These activities aside, the Stress Commit-
the exact cause of student stress has proven 
more challenging. The committee took on the 
task of looking at academic syllabi from the 
past 20 years in search of the answer to what 
exactly is causing stress.  
the causes of stress,” said Stefani. “Is it that 
workload has increased or are syllabi more 
challenging? The general consensus was that 
workload had not increased dramatically over 
the past 20 years, but student involvement in 
Doug Adams, associate dean of students, 
among students is at an all-time high.
“How do you do more while actually doing 
less?” asked Adams. “And the willingness to 
say ‘no’ to certain activities and opportunities 
is a hard life choice to start making.”
Members at the meeting also discussed the 
-
aged correctly and that the College should 
not discourage hard work or extracurricular 
involvement. However, they said, there is a 
limit to both of those things.
Professor of Film and Media Culture 
Leger Grindon cited the nature of students at 
a school like Middlebury as part of the prob-
lem.
“You’re caught in a tough dilemma,” said 
Grindon. “Because anyone who is ambitious, 
which most of our students are, experience a 
lot of stress. And stress can be positive and 
create high levels of performance, but I think 
it is about stress management.”
Student Co-Chair of Community Council 
Barrett Smith ’13 agreed with Grindon’s sen-
timent.
“Middlebury in the last 20 years has been 
at the forefront of small liberal arts colleges,” 
said Smith. “As a result of that, a lot of our 
students come from the top 10 percent of 
their high schools and want to assume that 
position right away when the get here. And 
isn’t that process an inherent part of being an 
elite institution?”
The Stress Committee seemed somewhat 
at a loss for what had changed in student cul-
ture and work habits that caused such high 
levels of stress. Though the Stress Commit-
more demanding than they were 20 years 
ago, some members of the community have 
discussed the possibility that students are 
being asked to do unreasonable amounts of 
work.
“In a meeting a few years ago, my col-
department had a conversation about what 
is a reasonable amount of work to ask from 
students,” said Grindon. “Multiple members 
in the meeting felt that they should assign 
more than what they thought was reasonable 
for students to complete so some very diligent 
students would approach this expectation 
and the rest would fall on a curve downwards, 
but it would create an ambitious environ-
ment. I don’t think there is a standard among 
our faculty about the reading that should be 
required.”
The consensus of the committee seemed 
to be that stress could be mainly attributed 
to increases in extracurricular involvement, 
as well as student culture that facilitates an 
environment of academic excellence.
Dean of the College Shirley Collado 
thought that the work students have to do in 
order to get to a prestigious college helps to 
explain how those habits continue once they 
arrive at Middlebury.
“Our students come here after being de-
velopmentally on a treadmill for years and we 
are asking them to un-do the coaching and 
molding that has taken place for years in life,” 
said Collado. “Some kids have been coached 
for years to get to the ‘Middleburys’ of the 
world and now we ask them to try new classes 
and new things. And I think developmentally 
that is very hard to undo.”
The Stress Committee will continue to 
examine stress on campus and offer media-
tions, which will be reviewed by Community 
Council.
In meetings on Nov. 12 and Nov. 26, 
prioritized agenda. At the top of the list of is-
sues to address are sexual assault on campus, 
communication and the social house review 
process. The council has already met with 
members from KDR, Xenia and Tavern in an 
effort to get to know the philosophies of the 
respective houses before the review process 
begins.
community council update
Council discusses stress at the College
By Claire Abbadi
Rita Pfeiffer ’15 and Friends
Nashville-native Rita Pfeiffer ’15
will be joined by a group of
Middlebury students to perform 
originals and covers.
FRIDAY 9 - 11 P.M.
51 MAINHAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
Friday Night Trivia
Come to Crossroads and test your 
knowledge — winners get Grille
FRIDAY AT 8 P.M.
Kat Wright and the Indomitable Soul Band
Get ready to move to the deep, sultry grooves 
of rising vocalist Kat Wright and the all-star 
Indomitable Soul Band.
SATURDAY 10 P.M. - 12 A.M.
51 MAIN
Zumba
Come take a study break 
and dance the calories 
SUNDAY 4 P.M.
MCCULLOUGH SOCIAL SPACE
Come take part in this three-day series: 
Hawaiian Luau Atwater Dinner
Bring your grass skirts and
coconut bikinis and come to the 
Midd ID holders.
TUESDAY 6 P.M.
MONDAY 7 P.M.
BIHALL 220
TUESDAY 4:30 P.M.
AXINN 229
Rolando Bonachea: “Dinner Conversation 
WEDNESDAY 6 P.M.
RAJ CONFERENCE ROOM
Advertisements 5NOVember 29, 2012 | 
!
designed specifically for recent college graduates, 
Bryant University’s one-year MBA prepares you for leadership positions in 
corporate, not-for-profit, and government organizations. If you are entering 
a career in accounting, Bryant offers a full-time Master of Professional 
Accountancy (MPAc) degree for those who want to sit for the CPA exam.
the bryant one-year mba
Full-time day program for all majors
 Gain credentials and experience that 
distinguish you in the job market 
Benefit from real-world practicum and 
consulting opportunities
Fast track your career, with no professional 
work experience required
Specializations in:
  Global Supply Chain
  Global Finance
  International Business
the bryant mpac
Full-time day program for accounting majors
Meet the 150-hour requirement for CPA 
licensure
Complete your program in two terms: 
summer/fall, summer/summer, fall/
spring or spring/summer
Pursue a tax concentration with summer/
fall or summer/summer schedule
as a bryant graduate, you will join a powerful  
network of alumni that includes accomplished professionals across the country and 
around the world. Bryant’s College of Business is one of only 5% of colleges and universities in 
the world accredited by the AACSB International -  
The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business.
Visit www.bryant.edu/gradschool to learn more.
Graduate School of Business
260 COURT STREET 
MIDDLEBURY, VT  05753
802-388-5400
M-F 9-7 | SAT 9-6 | SUN 9-5
SUPERCUTS IS ALL ABOUT 
CUTS THAT ROCK!
1-800-SUPERCUTS | supercuts.com 
LIKE US ON FACEBOOK TO LEARN ABOUT SPECIALS! 
WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/SUPERCUTS.OF.MIDDLEBURY
WANT TO WORK FOR THIS GUY???
Have any interest in getting a level B job on campus? !e Middlebury   
Campus is looking for a new o"ce manager for spring 2013. Pay starts at 
$9.20/hour. Please email qpro#er@middlebury.edu if interested!
JOIN OUR PACK
WRITE FOR THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE INTERESTED, EMAIL CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
H A V E  A N  A W E S O M E  R E S E A R C H  P R O J E C T ? 
K N O W  A  P R O F E S S O R  D O I N G  S O M E T H I N G  C O O L ?
WANT TO SHARE YOUR OPINION ON SCIENCE AT MIDD? 
LET US KNOW! CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
WRITE US A LETTER! THE CAMPUS 
ACCEPTS OP-EDS WEEKLY. SEND 
SOMETHING TO  
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
HAVE A THOUGHT? 
WANT TO COMMENT? 
On Nov. 17 hundreds of Mexican mi-
grant farmers congregated at the Unitar-
ian Universalist Church in Middlebury; 
some waited for passport photos to be 
printed, some received flu shots from 
the Open Door Clinic, some read flyers 
distributed by WomenSafe, some chatted 
with friends but most sat patiently wait-
ing for their new passports. While many 
individuals attended the annual event, 
which is hosted by the Vermont Migrant 
Farmworkers Coalition, to receive health 
screenings and gather winter clothes, the 
event had a second purpose as well — the 
Mexican Consulate was visiting to issue 
passports and matriculate identification 
cards to the workers. 
The Mexican Consulate visits Ver-
mont once or twice a year — usually in 
Middlebury, although recently in Plain-
field as well — to offer Mexican farm 
workers the opportunity to receive doc-
uments from their home country. The 
consulate visits these areas due to their 
higher concentrations of migrant work-
ers, though Mexican farmworkers are lo-
cated throughout the state and in parts 
of upstate New York and New Hamp-
shire. Therefore some workers travel 
great distances to attend this one-day 
event, relying on employers, but mainly 
volunteers for transportation since most 
migrant workers do not qualify for driv-
ers’ licenses. 
Immigrant labor in Vermont is not 
a new development. For over a decade, 
Jamaican workers have provided the 
bulk of labor for apple harvest in the fall 
months and Mexican workers have been 
a stable part of Vermont’s dairy industry, 
tending day and night to the milk pro-
duction cycle. What separates Mexican 
laborers from other immigrant laborers, 
however, is their status; seasonal work-
ers, such as those from Jamaica, can re-
ceive H-2A visas, which permit workers 
to legally fill temporary agricultural jobs, 
assuming that they will not adversely af-
fect employment opportunities for do-
mestic laborers. The nature of dairy 
farming denies laborers the opportunity 
for such visas, as dairy farming is a year-
round operation and demands full-time 
employment.
Herein lies the problem for many 
Mexican migrant farm workers. Since 
they are unable to secure work visas, 
some illegally travel thousands of miles, 
from Mexico to Vermont, to find work on 
dairy farms. Faced by the constant threat 
of deportation, the demanding nature of 
dairy farming and the reality of no le-
gal rights, Mexican workers are forced 
to remain hidden, trapped on the farms 
where they work.
Many activist groups, such as the 
Vermont Migrant Farmworkers Coali-
tion, have been formed to help these un-
documented workers find resources and 
feel a part of a community. This coalition 
has existed over a decade and is made 
up of committed volunteers — students, 
doctors, social workers and others — 
who work together to serve the needs of 
migrant farmers and promote awareness 
of issues they face in Vermont.  
According to Cheryl Mitchell, co-
head of the Vermont Migrant Farmwork-
ers Coalition, today’s migrant laborers 
suffer from a variety of problems, high-
lighted by immigration and legal issues.
“Obviously the major challenge 
is immigration status,” Mitchell said. 
“They cannot get a green card status. We 
have been talking about [immigrant sta-
tus] ever since I have been involved, so 
at least 10 years, and it has never passed. 
For people not to have legal status while 
they’re here is very difficult.”
Additional problems have become 
less urgent in recent years. Mitchell com-
mends the efforts of health and social 
service providers, who have addressed 
health needs, distributed clothing and 
provided transportation for doctors’ vis-
its or trips to the grocery store. A loom-
ing concern, however, is the state of the 
current dairy industry in Vermont.
“The other big issue is the fragility of 
farming,” Mitchell reflected. “The whole 
agricultural sector right now is fragile, so 
if the farms go under then the workers 
are here with nothing to do. It used to 
be that if somebody [wanted] to come up 
and [wanted] a job we could call around 
and see who [was] hiring. Not so many 
people are hiring anymore because the 
farms are going out of business.”
While this issue raises significant 
concern for migrant and domestic la-
borers alike, lack of transportation re-
mains a more immediate problem for the 
well being of undocumented workers in 
Vermont. Some farmers provide trans-
portation for the laborers, but most re-
ceive help from volunteer groups, such 
as Amistad or Juntos — a Middlebury 
College student volunteer group. Due to 
this reliance, farm workers rarely feel 
self-sufficient and many feel trapped. 
Migrant Justice, with backing from the 
Vermont Migrant Farmworkers Coali-
tion and other allies, has assumed an 
advocacy role for migrant laborers and is 
lobbying for workers to have the oppor-
tunity to obtain driver’s licenses. 
Danilo Lopez, a former migrant 
worker and a leader of Migrant Justice 
is working hard to get this legislation 
passed.
“We want the members of our com-
munities to have access to everything 
— to basic needs, such as being able to 
get driver’s licenses,” Lopez explained 
through translator Danny Loehr ’13.5, a 
student board member of Juntos. “But 
it is not just about having a license and 
being able to drive. It is about being in-
dependent — being able to do what we 
need to do when we need to do it and not 
always being dependent on others.”
Migrant Justice was formed three 
years ago as a response to the unmet 
needs of migrant farmers in Vermont, 
but only gained traction following the 
tragic death of a young worker on a dairy 
farm in Fairfield, Vt. on Dec. 22, 2009. 
Since its creation, Migrant Justice has 
achieved many of its goals by creating a 
family-like atmosphere for the migrant 
community that lends support to work-
ers and informs them of their rights while 
raising money for the release of detained 
workers. Over the past year Migrant Jus-
tice has worked with the migrant com-
munity to develop a list of five initiatives 
they hope to achieve, and presented the 
list to Governor Peter Shumlin.
This list includes better access to 
health resources, a bias-free policing 
policy, improved labor and living con-
ditions, access to driver’s licenses and 
immigration reform that removes the 
federal government’s “Secure Commu-
nities” program. In spring 2012 Ver-
mont implemented the federal program 
“Secure Communities,” which allows 
state police to contact the Department 
of Homeland Security with questions 
regarding immigrant status. According 
to Lopez, migrant communities call this 
law “Insecure Communities,” as the pro-
gram has made immigrants more wary 
of going to state officials with problems 
or complaints for fear of being detained 
or deported. While “Secure Communi-
ties” remains in effect, Migrant Justice 
has been successful in implementing a 
bias-free policing policy, restricting ra-
cial profiling. 
Despite the group’s successes, mem-
bers of Migrant Justice are not satisfied 
with their progress. 
“In the past year I have been really 
impressed; a lot more people have got-
ten involved and we have really gotten a 
lot done,” said David Santiago, a current 
farm laborer and member of Migrant 
Justice.  “But of course there is always 
more to do … Our final goal is to be com-
pletely independent.”
While members of Migrant Justice 
and the Vermont Migrant Farmworker 
Coalition feel optimistic that during the 
upcoming year Senate Bill 238, which 
would allow undocumented workers to 
obtain driver’s licenses, will be passed, 
many in the state are not so support-
ive. Critics of the proposed legislation 
believe that affording Mexican labor-
ers the freedom to drive gives them un-
fair privileges. Additionally, many do 
not want to grant illegal workers rights 
that legal guest workers would not have. 
These considerations have been taken 
into account and the bill has been highly 
revised. As of now, advocates must wait 
until the beginning of the term, in Janu-
ary 2013, to introduce the bill to lawmak-
ers.
The average migrant farmer stays in 
Vermont for two to three years, working 
to save up money to send home to help 
his family. Since many workers have 
dreams of starting their own businesses 
upon their return to Mexico, much of 
the money they make goes into savings. 
When they feel they have saved enough 
money, passports are the key to their 
successful return home. The annual Mex-
ican Consulate visit, therefore, is vital for 
many workers who are not in possession 
of passports or official documents.
Lopez attends each of the Consulate 
visits, hoping to reach out to more mi-
grant workers and get them involved. 
“We want to have a community that 
can organize and understand [migrant 
workers’] rights and be able to work 
more justly in Vermont, “ said Lopez. 
“We do not want to be [invisible] mem-
bers of the Vermont agricultural system, 
but rather recognized hands of the farm-
working system.”
Beyond greater access for workers, 
the goal of Migrant Justice and migrant 
farm laborers at large is to be recognized. 
“The most important thing we want,” 
Lopez said, “is to show we are humans, 
not dairy machines.”
This recognition comes with cul-
tural change — one that is vital for the 
hundreds who help run Vermont’s dairy 
industry. 
local
Migrant workers gather for 
Courtesy of VtDigger
Mexican migrant workers operate the industrial milking system at a Vermont dairy.
passports, allies push for rights
By Anna Stevens
Courtesy of Julia Doucet
A nurse explains health issues to a migrant laborer at Middlebury’s Open Door Clinic.
The town of Middlebury has always been 
known for its small, homegrown feel. This at-
mosphere has been cultivated over the years 
by the many locally owned businesses that 
bring quality goods to Addison County. 
Until 2002, however, those looking for 
the convenience of bulk shopping had the op-
tion of Ames, a large department store that 
operated where Hannaford’s now reigns in 
a plaza entering the town on Route 7. When 
the store went out of business at the begin-
ning of the millennium, however, many citi-
their goods at an affordable price without 
having to drive to Burlington, Rutland or 
Fort Ticonderoga. 
As a result of the loss of Ames and the 
boom of Wal-Mart and other such stores, 
concerns have arisen in Middlebury about 
the possibility of big-box stores moving in 
and ruining the atmosphere of the town. The 
situation has become more and more com-
plicated as citizens voice their opinions sur-
rounding the restriction of retail store size in 
Middlebury.
Ben Wilson, president of the Better 
Middlebury Partnership and assistant direc-
tor of prospect research at the College, has 
been invested in this issue and underlines 
the importance of understanding the back-
ground story.
“In 2005, the Middlebury Business As-
sociation got a petition together to amend the 
zoning,” said Wilson. “They got over 1,100 
signatures to put a 50,000 square-foot limit 
in the zoning.”
At that point in time, the zoning was in-
deed amended and has been enforced ever 
since. Ames was 50,000 square-feet, as is 
the current Hannaford’s store. The Better 
Middlebury Partnership was acting on a con-
cern born from the eruption of super-stores 
such as Wal-Mart and Target. 
The issue has arisen again because the 
same language used in zoning has been ap-
plied to drafts of the new town plan, created 
the zoning in that once approved, the town 
plan becomes law. The zoning can never ex-
ceed it – it acts as a ceiling that would ensure 
that retail stores would be restricted to a rea-
sonable size, regardless of any changes made 
to zoning policy in the future. 
This language was consequently re-
moved because citizens present at initial 
public hearings did not want the restriction 
in the document. 
“This is nuanced in the sense that people 
have different reasons for not wanting it in,” 
said Wilson. “It wasn’t a block of people who 
want one thing or another; people have all 
different reasons for arguing against it.”
Reasons for being against the restric-
tion ranged from not wanting to seem anti-
business, to believing the town plan should 
be a visionary document and not include 
something already taken care of in zoning, to 
wanting to have large superstores in the area. 
The select board, hearing these com-
plaints, took out the provision. The subse-
quent drafts of the town plan have not in-
cluded the 50,000 square-foot bar. However, 
the issue is still pertinent because of the push-
back against removing such language. There 
are fears amongst the other faction of citizens 
that without the restriction in the town plan, 
a superstore could move in and change the 
feel of Middlebury, create unfair competition 
for smaller stores, and eliminate the intimate 
and quaint feel of the town.
Robin Scheu, Executive Director of Ad-
dison County Economic Development Cor-
poration and Middlebury resident, under-
stands the predicament and the need to come 
to a solution that works best for the area. 
“It could be a great thing for Addison 
County if done well,” said Scheu. “As long as 
things are fully discussed, we’ll make good 
decisions.”
Beth Corey, owner of Red Clover Farm 
Market on Route 7 in Middlebury, sees both 
sides of the issue.
“I wouldn’t want our town to turn into 
a town with box stores,” said Corey, “but a 
moderate sized Target would draw people in 
and help the community. I don’t think it nec-
essarily means that we’re going to have “su-
per” anything – I don’t think anybody wants 
that.”
As both a resident and small business 
owner, Corey has a relatively unique posi-
tion. She doesn’t want too much competition 
or her business won’t survive, but also with 
to travel to get items at the best prices. Over-
all, however, Corey is in support of leaving 
the language out.
“I lean more towards not having the 
cap,” said Corey. “I don’t want to see strip 
malls and box stores in Middlebury more 
than anyone else, but one reasonably sized 
Her customers are loyal, and she sees 
that as a testament to the mentality of 
Middlebury residents in general. Having a 
convenient place to get items ranging from 
baby strollers to senior citizen appropriate 
clothing would not necessarily mean a drop 
in sales for local stores because of the dedi-
cation shown by residents. It is also worth 
considering the possibility that a convenient 
retail store such as Target would draw people 
from surrounding towns into Middlebury, 
new customers to local stores.
Although opinions about the retail store 
restriction are varied and it has caused con-
tention among people all over Addison Coun-
ty, communication remains the focus of the 
discussion. 
“I think it’s important to talk,” said Wil-
son. “You can’t have a community where you 
aren’t listening to the other side. We should 
walk in our neighbors shoes for a bit and 
understand that both sides clearly love this 
town.”
The Better Middlebury Partnership will 
be facilitating those conversations in the 
upcoming months, in the hopes to come to 
a consensus about what is best for the town 
of Middlebury. At this point in time, it is un-
clear as to what the result will be but with 
the cooperation of businesses, citizens and 
the planning commission, all voices will be 
heard as the town strives to simultaneously 
maintain the feel of the town and promote 
economic growth. 
By Devin MacDonald
 | november 29, 2012 Local 7
Middlebury residents debate language of town plan
24
Wildlife biologist gives 
talk in Brandon
On Friday, biologist Ben Kilham will 
discuss his experience raising orphaned 
black bears in Lyme, N.H. The free talk, 
which will be held at Otter Valley Union 
High School, is sponsored the Staying 
Connected Initiative which will begin the 
evening with a presentation about local 
wildlife.
NOV. 30, 7 P.M. - 9 P.M.
Local 
lowdown
Christmas Bazaar in Bristol
Can’t wait for Christmas? Come to the 
Bristol Federated Church on Saturday 
morning to meet Santa, enjoy a hot lunch 
and some afternoon tea, and get some 
last-minute shopping done. The event 
will also feature delicious baked goods, a 
silent auction and Christmas decorations.
For more information, call 802-453-2379
DEC. 1, 8 A.M. - 3 P.M.
By Liia Koiv-Haus
Sheldon Museum Holiday Open House 
in Middlebury
This years holiday open house will exhibit 
the work of local woodcarver Peter Pad-
ua, two Grandma Moses prints and an-
tique winter photographs. The event also 
features holiday activities, carols, electric 
Visit www.henrysheldonmuseum.org or 
call 802-388-2117 for details
DEC. 2, 12 P.M. - 6 P.M.
Vermont farmers have a lot at stake in 
the drafting of the 2012 farm bill, which is 
expected to include a record number of bud-
get cuts due to the current state of the econ-
omy. The farm bill, which is renewed every 
-
islation since the years of the Great Depres-
began receiving subsidies.
Vermont dairy farmers are struggling 
as a result of the record drought last sum-
mer, among other factors. Though grain 
belt farmers were directly impacted by the 
drought, the cost burden was passed on to 
dairy farmers, who are forced to pay a higher 
price for grain in order to feed their animals. 
Now these same farmers face the risk of los-
ing the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) 
safety net they have depended on for years. 
This past September when the 2008 
Farm Bill expired, dairy policy leaders in 
the Senate and House pushed for an interim 
budget plan to serve as a temporary safety 
net until the new Farm Bill passed. This ini-
tiative at the national level was led by Sena-
tors Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Bernie Sand-
ers (I-VT), as well as Representative Peter 
Welch (D-VT). However, they were unable 
to divert attention from other priorities in 
Congress and as a result, commodity farm-
ers dependent on the federal government 
Many in Congress agree that it is unfair 
to put farmers’ lives on hold and continue to 
push for action. 
“The farmers already confront enough 
uncertainty running their businesses. When 
we let farm programs expire without enact-
ing a new farm bill, it needlessly compounds 
that uncertainty and it is irresponsible,” ar-
gued Leahy in a speech this month on the 
-
ers and underprivileged urban classes are 
suffering as a result of this delay, which has 
also put funding for federal nutrition and 
food stamps programs on hold. 
“Vermonters, like tens of millions of 
people across the country, depend upon 
these programs [when] they are struggling 
to put enough food on their table during 
these very tough economic times,” Leahy 
added.
called the Food, Conservation and Energy 
Act of 2008) has expired, Congress is still 
will be called the Agriculture Reform, Food 
and Jobs Act of 2012. This $500 billion farm 
bill is currently deadlocked in Congress dur-
ing the post-election lame duck session. 
“The challenge for the current farm bill 
is that many conservative Republican mem-
bers in the House want to see federal gov-
ernment spending cut substantially, which 
means cuts to programs and interests,” 
pointed out Stafford Professor of Public 
Policy, Political Science and Environmental 
Studies Chris Klyza. 
— a representative from urban Philadelphia 
may have voted for the Farm Bill in the past 
because of food aid for her constituents. 
If that aid is cut, why should she vote for 
drought aid for western ranchers?” Klyza 
proposed.
Many conservatives in Congress are 
pressing for budget cuts all around. The 
Democrat-led Senate passed their version 
of the bill in June, proposing budget cuts of 
around $35 billion over the next 10 years. 
While this proposal was enough to appease 
Senate Republicans wary of government 
spending, the Republican-led House has 
still been unable to reach a compromise. Up 
until early this month, representatives had 
the excuse of being distracted by campaigns 
for reelection, but now the only remaining 
obstacle is gridlock. 
Gridlock usually refers to clashing par-
tisan interests, but in the farm bill debate 
it is actually regional interests that are pre-
venting compromise. The recurring farm 
bill debate is unusual in that it actually tran-
scends political party divisions. 
Democrats and Republicans alike from 
districts with agriculturally-dependent 
economies tend to push equally for gener-
ous subsidies. Similarly, other conservatives 
the local foods movement: to eliminate ex-
cessive subsidies for wealthy farmers who 
don’t actually need them. Back in 2008, 
President George W. Bush vetoed the Farm 
as it guaranteed aid to farmers with a gross 
income of up to $750,000. The overwhelm-
ingly Democratic Congress overrode his 
veto. 
Some point out that there is an incred-
ible amount of antiquated logic embedded 
in the farm bill. Josh Slotnick, farmer and 
professor at the University of Montana who 
lectured at the College earlier this week, 
pointed out the injustice in our food system. 
“If you want to sell your bike on Craig-
slist, you are the one who sets the price,” 
said Slotnick. “For growers of commodity 
crops, they don’t have that privilege. The 
buyer sets the price. You’re dealing with a 
whole different realm.”
Gradual cutback of subsidies would 
work in the favor of commodity farmers in 
the long run, gradually giving them more 
autonomy and stability over their incomes. 
by putting them on a more level playing 
of commodity crops. 
In recent years, concerns over the im-
pact of dwindling natural resources and in-
creasing demand due to rising population 
have pushed conservation issues into con-
sideration under the Farm Bill. Support for 
local, sustainably grown food was also grow-
dampened this support.
Native Vermonter Hillary Chutter-
Ames ’13 emphasizes how farms are “the 
key to maintaining a sustainable local food 
system and building strong communities.” 
According to Chutter-Ames, they are “a vi-
tal part of the social and economic fabric of 
Vermont.”
With the uncertainty of the upcoming 
bill, this social and economic fabric — and 
farmers’ livelihoods — remain at stake. 
Courtesy of Boston.com
Vermonters worried by 2013 Farm Bill 
 8 advertisements   | November 29, 2012
 
Private Musical Instrument  
and Voice Lessons: 
 
Sign up for Winter Term  
Monday, December 3 – Friday, December 7 
Mahaney Center for the Arts upper lobby 
 
 
Get Money Get Paid
WANTED: OFFICE MANAGER FOR 
THE CAMPUS, B-LEVEL POSITION
For more information contact qproffer@middlebury.edu
WANT TO WORK FOR THIS GUY???
Have any interest in getting a level B job on campus? !e Middlebury   
Campus is looking for a new o"ce manager for spring 2013. Pay starts at 
$9.20/hour. Please email qpro#er@middlebury.edu if interested!
WOULD YOU 
LIKE A TASTE 
OF...
JOURNALISM?
THE CAMPUS SEEKS 
WRITERS FOR ALL 
SECTIONS. EMAIL 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
JOIN 
US —
WRITE FOR 
THE CAMPUS
COVER SPORTS, 
NEWS, LOCAL EVENTS 
AND MORE
SINCE YOU’RE  
INTERESTED, EMAIL 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
On Thursday, Nov. 15, Olav Ljosne, 
senior manager of international opera-
tions at Royal Dutch 
Shell, came to campus 
to speak on a variety of 
topics, including the fu-
ture of energy demand 
-
ing oil. Both students 
and members of the 
A. Jones ’59 (RAJ) Con-
ference Room to hear the talk, titled “Meet-
ing Future Energy Needs.” Unlike the day 
before at the University of Vermont, where 
a group of climate justice activists inter-
rupted Ljosne to the extent that his presen-
tation could not proceed, those in atten-
dance at the College did allow for Ljosne 
to speak during his allotted time. However, 
the talk was not without interruptions. Be-
fore Ljosne began, two students presented 
him with a fake diploma while graduation 
music played, congratulating him for en-
gaging in “multiple human rights violations 
consistent with the practices of the Middle-
bury College endowment.” During the 
question period at the end of the talk, two 
other students became agitated, accusing 
Ljosne of being a liar, before falling to the 
applause from some members of the audi-
ence when, in response, he told his peers 
that they were embarrassing the College 
and should stop. 
The question we ask ourselves in light 
of these events concerns the status of free 
speech on this campus. To what extent are 
students willing to tolerate such behavior 
as was exhibited by the protesters, some of 
whom are members of the Dalai Lama Wel-
coming Committee (DLWC)? Clearly, opin-
which these students expressed themselves 
to be entirely consistent with the severity of 
the topic at hand, which dealt in part with 
accusations against Shell of human rights 
violations in Nigeria. Others, however, 
consider such behavior offensive and dis-
respectful, not only to Ljosne, who made 
the effort to come to campus, but also to 
those in attendance who wanted to learn 
more about Shell’s position and engage in 
sincere, constructive dialogue. 
It seems clear that the protesters 
at Thursday’s meeting aimed to spark 
thoughtful discussion around Shell’s prac-
tices. Though many on campus may agree 
with the criticisms raised by this group of 
students, their actions, ironically enough, 
appeared to inhibit dialogue to a far greater 
degree than to facilitate it. As in the after-
math of the false press release sent out by 
the DLWC, once again the student body 
is left deciphering the actions of a small 
group, as opposed to critically analyzing 
the content of the issue at hand. Substan-
tive discussion regarding Shell’s oil prac-
tices in Nigeria is largely absent from the 
current dialogue on campus, replaced with 
chatter about the drama that unfolded at 
Thursday’s talk. Certainly, the dialogue 
that ensues such protest cannot be entirely 
controlled by the protesters themselves; it 
is up to the students to decide whether or 
not they will focus on the critical issues. 
However, protesters do have the ability to 
project an inviting manner, engaging more 
students and promoting a more productive 
dialogue. 
The current reality shows the paralyz-
ing effects resulting from protest that po-
larizes a portion of the student body. Activ-
ism that engages many groups of people 
is not necessarily weak activism; in fact, 
throughout history, the most successful 
movements demonstrate that there is great 
strength in numbers. The efforts of a small 
group, however worthy they may be, will 
ultimately fail unless they solidify a broad-
er following by appealing to more people 
and including those with slightly different 
-
ucating students on the issues before a con-
troversial speaker arrives will help to fa-
cilitate constructive dialogue. While some 
of the activists at Thursday’s meeting hold 
forums each Friday to discuss issues with 
the college community, how inviting are 
such events to others who feel intimidated 
by the group’s aggressive tactics? Further, 
activists should look to diversify how they 
communicate, expanding beyond the spac-
es they establish; it shouldn’t matter what 
platform or forum is used — a productive 
conversation can happen anywhere, from 
Proctor tables to Middblog, and should not 
take place solely on their terms. 
Taking a step back, we see that the 
real issue here is not between Middlebury 
students and a visiting representative from 
Shell. Certainly, students owe guest speak-
ers who come to campus a certain degree 
of respect, even if they disagree vehemently 
with that speaker’s opinion. For the most 
part, protesters at Thursday’s meeting did 
allow Ljosne to speak. 
The crux of the issue, then, is the re-
lationship between the protesters and 
their peers — the rest of the student body. 
Middlebury students are bright, incredibly 
passionate people who bring different skills 
and perspectives to the table. As members 
of a small college community, we are some-
what surprised to see those with whom we 
attend class and interact on a daily basis 
challenge authority in such an overt man-
ner. Protest does not necessarily have to be 
loud and dramatic to be effective; taping 
their mouths during Ljosne’s talk, showing 
solidarity by dressing in one color or pick-
eting outside the RAJ are alternate meth-
ods that might have been less polarizing 
and more effective. The reason we remain 
focused on the methods and drama of the 
situation instead of the content of the mat-
to the type of constructive, inclusive discus-
sion in which all can voice their opinions 
and contribute. 
Free speech on campus has many di-
mensions — it implies an atmosphere that 
encourages collaboration and open ex-
change of divergent ideas, as well as toler-
ance of others. In this case, we must toler-
ate those who protest a visiting speaker, 
as well as acknowledge the right of the 
speaker himself to express his ideas, and 
the rights of other students to speak their 
minds. Just because others choose not 
to show their frustration as dramatically 
as the protesters does not mean that they 
do not care deeply about the issues. Some 
students, for example, asked questions 
protesters’ satirical performance overshad-
owed, and potentially dissuaded, those who 
wanted to ask pointed questions in a more 
traditional manner. Further, receiving a re-
ply one does not agree with — a reply that 
appears veiled in corporate rhetoric — may 
be incredibly powerful in itself; Middle-
bury students deserve the opportunity to 
be critical listeners, and hearing a stock 
response from a Shell representative may 
send a stronger signal to the student body 
than any amount of interruption. 
Learning, progress and development 
of a consensus takes place in a welcoming 
environment, such as that of a Middle-
bury classroom in which professors and 
students alike are respected instead of 
ridiculed. Though classrooms may be bet-
ter suited for discussion than action, we 
must bring these practices of dialogue into 
the real world. Instead of utilizing divisive 
tactics not conducive to constructive con-
versation or the inclusion of others, we as 
students should identify our common in-
terests and join together to promote the 
type of change many of us hope for. Un-
doubtedly, the work we could accomplish 
together far exceeds that which we achieve 
as separate entities. 
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
decided by the 
editorial board.
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful dia-
logue on substantive issues. With this in mind, The 
Campus reserves the right to deny publication of 
all or part of a submission for any reason.  This in-
cludes, but is not limited to: the making of assertions 
based on hearsay; the relation of private conversa-
the use of vulgar language or personal attacks. Any 
segment of a submitted article that contains any of 
the aforementioned will be removed before pub-
lication. Contributors will be allowed to reference 
prior articles published in the Opinions section or 
announcements for the public record. If a reference 
is made to prior articles, the submission will be con-
sidered a letter to the editor.  The Campus will not 
accept or print anonymous letters. The opinions ex-
pressed by contributors to the Opinions section, as 
well as reviews, columns, editorial comics and other 
commentary, are views of the individual contribu-
the newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submissions 
at 800 words or less. Submit works directly to the 
Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@middlebury.
edu or via the paper’s web site at  www.middlebury-
campus.com. To be considered for publications, 
submissions must be received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The 
Campus reserves the right to edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic year, 
-
located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury College. 
The Middlebury Campus is produced on Apple Ma-
cintosh computers using Adobe InDesign CS5 and is 
printed by the Press Republican in New York. The 
advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the following week’s 
issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury Campus, 
Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 
05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. Please ad-
dress distribution concerns to the Business Director. 
First class postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
The nuances of free speech on campus
opinions
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kathryn DeSutter
MANAGING EDITOR
Michelle Smoler
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Quinn Proffer
NEWS EDITORS 
Jess Berry, Bronwyn Oatley, 
Kelsey Collins
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Joanna Lyons, Carina Guiterman
SPORTS EDITORS 
Tom Clayton, Damon Hatheway,
Owen Teach
LOCAL EDITORS 
Conor Grant, Isaac Baker
FEATURES EDITORS 
Lauren Davidson, Stephanie Roush, 
Joshua Kruskal
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Deirdre Sackett, 
Santiago Azpurua-Borras, Ben Anderson
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Jessica Munyon,  Jiayi Zhu
DESIGN MANAGER
Ian Stewart
DESIGN EDITORS
Olivia Allen, Marea Hatheway
ONLINE MANAGER 
Greg Woolston
ONLINE EDITOR
Leah Pickett
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR
Charlotte Gardiner 
By Dylan levy
It’s beginning to 
look a lot like 
Christmas ...
A recent op-ed (“Divestment creates positive, so-
cial change”) argued that divestment is a valuable tool in 
-
-
-
noted this, the author suggested 
-
vesters decide to sell — as long as there are non-ideological 
-
-
-
nies are accountable to governments and not to sharehold-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
the entire divestment movement — should recognize that 
-
-
Auditorium, but through the class-
-
-
-
er than name-calling, protests and 
accusations, let’s see a concrete mod-
-
-
-
lenge traditional assumptions about men 
Atlantic 
-
ture as an “en-
progress” — one 
-
-
-
-
seen a radical change in its social scene in the 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
10 opinions November 29, 2012 | 
“ In their rush to 
condemn oil companies, 
many activists do not 
appear to grasp the 
fact that their proposed 
divestment will have 
A Canamerican’s perspective 
take care
Caroline Kahlenberg 
’14 is from Bethesda, Md.
from the 
galway 
green 
Mohan Fitzgerald ’14 
is from Toronto, Canada
-
-
-
Entonces.
-
-
-
-
-
important human right — the highest moral 
good — and turning it into a meaningless 
Freedom in American has become in-
-
-
and important insights about capitalism —
-
-
even care to describe these conditions, be-
-
-
-
-
-
to educate themselves and to live in moder-
-
grams, the intuition is to eliminate govern-
-
recognized that 
-
-
-
-
-
it means operating an accountable govern-
-
-
-
reader 
op-ed
Max Kagan ’14 is 
from Freeport, Maine.
11opinions| November 29, 2012
“Such a long long time to be gone 
and a short time to be there”
setting ants 
on fire
Michelle Smoler ’13 
is the managing editor 
from Westport, Conn.
This past week we kicked off the holiday 
season with Thanksgiving, which despite its 
most questionable history, has always been 
for me less about its origins and more an 
excuse to bring the family together to eat, 
drink and be merry. 
The holiday season itself, unfortunately, 
can be a divisive 
topic. The abun-
dance of lights, 
songs, food and 
family is mired 
in questions and 
concerns. To 
what extent are 
holidays exclu-
sively religious? 
Are gifts about 
giving or obligation? Is it cynicism or real-
ity to view the whole shebang as a capital-
ist explosion intended to manipulate the 
masses into mass-consumption? Or should 
our celebrations be undertaken with a full 
heart and genuine feeling? If we’re open to 
it — is love really all around us? I choose to 
subscribe to this latter interpretation. I think 
there is something truly nice about having a 
time of year dedicated to showing affection 
for loved ones in an atmosphere of warmth, 
music and cheer. Thanksgiving in particular 
has always been for me a time to appreciate 
family, away from the hubbub of the follow-
ing weeks. 
While I am fortunate enough that my family 
is able and willing to come together to eat, 
eat, eat and argue over who takes longer to 
play in Scrabble, this is not necessarily the 
case for everyone. Some families are sepa-
rated either physically or emotionally. And if 
relation is just a technicality, an accident of 
fate, and we do not necessarily share genes 
in common with the people we love and with 
whom we celebrate, then it might be neces-
Despite my joy at being reunited with 
my blood-relatives over break, I couldn’t 
help feeling a weight of sadness at being sep-
arated from my Middlebury family. While 
my friends here have only recently entered 
my life, for the high density of time spent in 
their company, I might have known them 
forever. We dine, party, work, fall apart, 
build ourselves back up — in short, discover 
who we are — together, and provide each 
other with support from the beginning on-
ward. 
we know it the spring will be upon — and 
then behind — us. As a senior, I am not only 
impressed by the gravity of the future that 
awaits me, but also at the thought of what 
I might be losing. Moving forward is es-
sential. I will not be leaving my Middlebury 
the world alongside me, but to what corner 
of what continent time will only tell. I fear, 
and I’m sure others share in this fear, that 
the end of my college career will see the per-
manent end of my college family. 
It would be easy to say this fear is mis-
placed. That if I care for my friends as much 
that we are coming of age in a time where 
maintaining contact across oceans is at 
its most convenient, so there should be no 
problem in preserving these important self-
But there is something to be said for 
proximity. While our college friendships 
-
type — different from childhood friendships, 
which seemed to come about incidentally 
— it occurred to me the other day that my 
entire college experience was shaped by my 
members of a relatively small community 
I am constantly surprised as to how many 
students, even in my graduating class, with 
whom I have never seen, met or spoken to. 
It’s all about location. And as we dive in to 
our futures, that in length and breadth will 
think that maintaining our college relation-
ships will be simple. 
Perhaps the college family, like the best 
kind of memory, will always persevere as 
through time it may grow weaker and be 
revisited less often. Only time will tell and 
truthfully, dwelling on the unfortunate po-
tential dissolution of great friendships is not 
constructive. I’ve probably gone too far into 
realities that need not be confronted at this 
time. So instead, in the spirit of the holidays, 
be a downer but a necessary reminder to 
sessions and put aside the end-of-semester 
angst to enjoy each other. Our time together 
The five-fingered virtues of minimalism
I made the switch to Vibram FiveFin-
gers and minimalist running footwear 
after pulling a hamstring last spring, and 
since making the change, I’ve had the lon-
gest stretch of injury-free running I’ve ever 
had. It was a relatively mild hamstring 
pull — something not terribly uncommon 
in runners — but still kept me off the pole 
vault runway for nearly two months. The 
from not being able to jump, was that no 
one was really able to tell me what caused 
it. After looking for ways to make my life 
of running and jumping somewhat more 
healthy, I eventually found myself think-
ing that maybe less really could be more. 
What I found was that running inju-
ries may not be an inherent risk associated 
with the activity, and may be more directly 
caused by the way we run. Research from 
Harvard’s Skeletal Biology Lab has sup-
ported the growing concern that modern 
running shoes, with thick cushioning and 
motion control technologies that allow us 
to run with a heel strike, have caused us to 
stray away from the way our bodies have 
evolved to run — on the middle or ball of 
legs are subjected to impact forces of up 
to three times the weight of the body upon 
heel strike, the same forces that common-
ly give rise to shin splints and stress frac-
tures. Running with a forefoot strike, as is 
often used while running barefoot, results 
in experienced impact forces seven times 
less intense than what the legs are sub-
jected to while heel striking because it uti-
systems of the foot arches and lower legs. 
Looking to Kenyan distance runners as 
exemplary, the Harvard researchers con-
cluded that we don’t need a lot of shoe to 
stay healthy runners; that excess of shoe 
underneath us may be the cause of the 
problems. 
The take-away here shouldn’t really 
be running-related (important note: it 
took me almost four months to transition 
to a barefoot running style; muscles and 
tendons need LOTS of time to adjust for 
the change). If anything, the study should 
prompt a reevaluation of how much we 
think we need. For the past 30 years, run-
ning companies have been telling us that 
we need more shoe, but the Harvard Lab’s 
research points to the contrary. In precise-
ly the same way, the consumer culture we 
know and love maintains with an almost 
religious fervor that we never really have 
enough. There’s always another reason to 
go out and buy — and retailers would like 
to have us believe that the best means of 
more stuff and support the economy, be-
cause that seventh storage unit sure won’t 
of the University of British Columbia and 
Harvard Business School, respectively, 
say no. Their research done on the inter-
section on wealth and happiness shows 
that greater material consumption seldom 
leads to increases in happiness. Research-
ers at Princeton have found that up until 
about $75,000, the average mood report-
ed by American households did increase 
as income went up, but no trends were 
-
ton also point out that research has shown 
that people in other countries all over the 
world gain great-
er satisfaction 
spending money 
on others than 
they do spending 
on themselves. 
Rethinking 
how much we 
need to be happy 
could have serious implications on not 
just consumption, but the health of our 
communities and strength of our interper-
sonal bonds. If we’re less concerned with 
what extra we need to have, then we can 
expend more energy on what others need. 
If we use less energy personally, then what 
we have will go that much further before 
we hit some kind of crisis. The capacity to 
use more in no way predicates a necessity 
-
cess.
In the aftermath of Black Friday, 
Small Business Saturday, The Sunday that 
-
ber Monday, take a moment to ponder at 
what point it became acceptable to waste 
hours of our lives waiting in line to spend 
our livelihoods on things that probably 
won’t make us any better off. More often 
than not, less will probably feel better — I 
Earth between my toes and underneath 
my soles.
green
piece
Julian Macrone ’14 is 
from Clifton, N.J. 
I left the U.S. this Thanksgiving break. France granted me access into their country 
sans glitch. I glided through their customs saying my bonjours, mercis and je suis amer-
icaines in all the right places, and so what if they lost my suitcase. 
Fast forward through some crepe consumption, oui-oui-ing and 
the Mona Lisa and I’m at the Philadelphia airport, which I’ve now 
decided to be the worst airport in the world, but maybe it’s just the 
most American airport in the world. 
mistakenly reported stolen, a mistake I could understand because it 
was actually my passport card that I had reported missing this past 
summer after a particularly frivolous and forgetful day at a music fes-
tival. The fat jarhead man at the secondary inspection desk wouldn’t 
hear any of this. His blue latex-gloved hands told me when I could 
approach his desk, when I had to sit down and that my passport now 
belonged to them. Jarhead-glovehands then shooed me out of his of-
Once I got to the front of the initial security check line I had to 
explain the whole ordeal to some more jarheaded personnel who then 
redirected me to another guy, this one with slightly more hair and a 
mustache. In addition to having more hair than his coworkers, he 
also seemed to have more understanding that his job did not entitle him to a power trip 
big enough to compensate for an entire childhood of being bullied. But then he winked 
and told me he had to put his “number” on my boarding pass before I could proceed. I 
was thankful for the hairy misogynist because he let me skate by, but what if I had stolen 
my passport? Did I really just sail through the globe’s prickliest security check with a 
photocopy of a stolen passport because I was an innocent-looking 
girl? Maybe some feminist wore off on me 
in France, but for a second I wished I had 
actually stolen my passport and he would be 
the guy face-palming himself when U.S. Air-
into Lake Champlain because some French 
terrorist under the name of Meredith White 
hijacked the plane. 
 I stood behind my American kinsman 
sporting their recent tropical vacation-wear with funky corn-rows 
and their loose parenting style with their kid pawing around on 
arches of the security check that loomed ahead, it was like being at 
the foot of the 21st century’s Statue of Liberty. Welcome to Amer-
ica, the TSA gates say. The airport personnel serve as our modern 
day militia. They constitute our seemingly bygone civilian army, 
How did we become the police capital of the world? With a mas-
terpiece of a constitution and a Statue of Liberty, it seems to be 
the inevitable fate of our ambitious young nation who bit off more than it could chew. 
passports. Our security reveals our insecurity. 
An encounter with the civilian army of the 21st century
reader 
op-ed
Meredith White ’15 
is from San Francisco, 
Calif.
“ I was thankful for the 
hairy misogynist because 
he let me skate by, but 
what if I had stolen my 
passport? Did I really just 
sail through the globe’s 
prickliest security check 
with a photocopy of a 
stolen passport because I 
was an innocent looking 
girl?”
HAVE AN OPINION? 
WEIGH IN TODAY
VOICE YOUR OPINION @ MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM
OR SEND AN OP-ED OR LETTER TO THE EDITOR TO 
CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
The Middlebury Campus| november 29, 201212 13features
In the fall of 1994, Middlebury’s President Emeritus John McCardell Jr. and the College’s Board of Trustees insti-tuted the “One Percent for Art” policy. This policy sets 
aside one percent of the cost of any capital project — includ-
ing the construction of new buildings and the renovation of 
existing campus infrastrcture — that exceeds $1 million in 
cost. These funds are used for the purchase, installation and 
maintenance of works of art publicly displayed on campus.
Familiar works of arts including “Frisbee Dog” in front 
of Voter Hall, “Smog” in front of McCardell Bicentennial 
Hall, and “Solid State Change” next to the Franklin Environ-
mental Center at Hillcrest were all purchased using funds 
set aside as a result of this policy. The policy’s aims include 
developing and completing the identity of the institution as 
well as enhancing the aesthetic and educational mission of 
the public arts on campus.
The One Percent funds are managed by the Committee on 
Art in Public Places (CAPP).  The committee is comprised 
of faculty members, students, administrators and trustees of 
the College.
The CAPP is responsible for both evaluating and approving 
gifts of art that are intended for public display at the college, 
as well as purchasing new works art. In all instances, a ma-
jority vote of CAPP members is required for any work to be 
accepted as a gift or purchased using One Percent funds.
Since the economic downturn, the College administration 
has suspended the One Percent for Art policy. Currently, the 
maintenance of public art pieces already on campus is still 
supported by the One Percent funds. No new purchases, how-
ever, have been made in the past three years.
Richard Saunders, director of the Museum of Art, serves as 
chair of CAPP. He said that as College finances improve, he 
hopes the One Percent suspension will soon be overturned.
“Even though the One Percent purchase policy is presently 
suspended, we do hope that this prohibition on purchases 
will be rescinded soon.  But I do not know when this might 
happen,” Saunders said.
“I believe  the [One Percent for Art Policy] is one of the 
best initiatives the administration has ever put in place,” said 
Audrey Tolbert ’13, one of the student representatives serving 
on the CAPP. “Even under the current suspension of these 
funds for the purchase of new works, the policy still forces 
us to take into consideration the visual environment we are 
curating on our campus.”
“So Inclined,” a public sculpture constructed by Patrick 
Dougherty in 2007, was removed last year. The nine towering 
interconnected cones made of red maple saplings and grey 
dogwood branches sat at the entrance to the Kevin P. Mah-
aney ’84 Center for the Arts. So Inclined was conceived as a 
temporary installation, and was intended to be removed once 
the structure became unstable. 
The discussion regarding whether the CAPP’s madate to 
maintain campus art includes ensuring the presence of tem-
porary art has been raised in recent CAPP meetings, follow-
ing the removal of So Inclined. 
If the replacement of now-removed temporary art counts 
as maintenance, then the CAPP might consider acquiring 
other temporary art to replace So Inclined regardless of the 
suspension of the One Percent policy, according to Saunders.
“Since art in public places is a part of the identity of the 
institution, they should represent different programs of the 
college,” said Pieter Broucke, professor of the history of art 
and architecture. “It will be nice if we have more arts that are 
internationally focused.”
Broucke mentioned that he incorporates a walking tour of 
campus art in public places for teaching purposes in some of 
his classes. “These are fabulous pieces that we can learn a lot 
from,” he said.
Eliza Garrison, professor of the history of art and architec-
ture, said that while most students are aware of some of the 
art on campus, some pieces are more prominent than others.
 “For example, ‘Smog’ near Bi Hall is probably being seen 
a lot by the science students, while the Joseph Beuys’ ‘7,000 
Oaks’ right next to the [Axinn Center at Starr Library] isn’t 
even really easy to see,” Garrison said. 
Due to the freezing of One Percent funds, studio art major 
Dylan Redford ’14 is looking for an alternative way to pro-
mote public arts on campus. 
“The public art on campus is stuck in this stagnant state 
where students don’t recognize Middlebury’s public art as 
meaningful or intentional,” said Redford, who is also a mem-
ber of the CAPP. “Most of us have learned to just ignore 
these public works. I would like to start placing more tempo-
rary public art around campus that changes year after year, 
which would force students to recognize the works and be 
asked to evaluate its placement and meaning on campus.” 
Redford said he thinks the administration will reverse the 
suspension once the student body shows enough interest in 
public art.
LOVE
L’Art d’Ecrire 
(The Art of Writing)
The Frisbee 
Dog
Solid State Change
Perhaps one of the more obscure pieces of public art at Middlebury, “Solid State Change” by Deborah Fisher, 
arrived on campus in 2007. The piece is unique in form 
and serves as a source of conversation for anyone pass-
ing by. While it appears to some observers as melted tires 
leaning against the wall of Hillcrest, there is more than 
meets the eye. Solid State Change is representative of the 
metamorphic bedrock beneath Middlebury, which goes 
hand in hand with the interdisciplinary nature of Hillcrest; 
a building that houses the environmental studies depart-
ment. Middlebury was the first college in the United States 
to offer this major encompassing geology, geography, 
economics, political science, biology, chemistry, physics, 
religion and philosophy. “[The sculpture] didn’t initially 
strike me as art, but now that I look closer I do understand 
how it represents the topography of Vermont,” said Colin 
McIentyre ‘15.
Resting, or rather jumping, in front of Munroe, “The Frisbee Dog” is a piece that features prominntly on the 
College’s main quad. Created by Patrick Villiers Farrow, 
and arriving on campus in 1989, the piece is derived from 
a story of five Middlebury alumni, who claim to have been 
the first ever to throw and catch a discarded pie tin while 
changing a flat tire in 1939. Throwing a frisbee became 
a frequent activity behind McCullough after that, and 
thus came the inspiration. “I love passing by that piece, its 
great,” said Michaela Colbert ’12.5.
For most, “L’Art d’Ecrire” is a focal point upon enter-ing the double doors of the Davis Family Library. The 
piece was crafted by Matt Mullican and installed in 2005. 
Through using only primary colors juxtaposed with black, 
Mullican’s works create a visual language within an imagi-
nary world. For this piece specifically, the artist chose to 
use yellow because it was the medium that would best 
transmit the wide array of images he chose to portray in 
the grids. The images include the alphabets of myriad lan-
guages, charts of the heavenly bodies and some references 
to the College itself. 
Nestled behind the CFA, LOVE, standing six feet tall and six feet wide draws a lot of attention as 
its primary colors, red and blue, contrast the natural 
colors that come with the ever changing seasons of 
Vermont in a beautiful way. Created by Robert Indiana 
in 1973, and donated to the college in 2000, the bold 
design has appeared not only in the form of a sculpture 
but as a greeting card, jewelry design and a US postage 
stamp. “I like seeing such a famous, recognizable piece 
of art on campus,” said Gina Puchinelli ’15. LOVE has 
evolved into an ageless icon eliciting a series of differ-
ent emotions from different viewers. 
ART ON CAMPUS
Written by Jiayi Zhu and Gabriella Gutman  Design by Olivia Allen and Marea Hatheway
7000 Eichen 
(7000 oaks)
Often overlooked while pacing quickly to and from class is the “7000 Eichen” (7000 oaks) sculpture by 
Joseph Beuys that was placed between Starr Hall and 
Axinn Starr library in 1998. The work of Beuys consis-
tently contrasted the young tree with the inanimate 
stone illustrating how organisms exist in a permanent 
state of flux. His belief was that art not only has an aes-
thetic function, but that it also serves as a form of social 
studies. Specifically within the context of our campus, 
the tree and the basalt, viewers of the piece become con-
nected with viewers of the same piece around the world, 
creating a large community. “Most people have a hard 
time understanding this piece, its significance and how 
well-known Beuys himself is, but it’s amazing that the 
College has it,” said Adrian Kerester ’15.
This fall, the College announced 
the launch of MiddCORE Immersion, a 
new summer leadership and innovation 
program to be based at Sierra Nevada 
College (SNC). MiddCore Immersion, 
which will closely resemble the College’s 
existing winter term MiddCORE course 
and curriculum, will run its inaugural 
month-long session from June 17 to July 
12 of summer 2013.
MiddCORE, which first started as 
an intensive winter term class five years 
ago, aims to build leadership, commu-
nication and entrepreneurial skills and 
insights to create opportunities and ex-
pand networks for its students. 
MiddCORE is part of the Project on 
Creativity and Innovation in the Liberal 
Arts (PCI) at the College, which seeks 
to develop productive environments on 
campus in which students can exercise 
creativity, innovation and risk-taking. 
Over the past five years, PCI has grown 
significantly in its number of programs, 
and the scaling up of MiddCORE to in-
clude a summer program is the most re-
cent development in a growing portfolio 
of PCI initiatives. 
Under Jessica Holmes, the current 
MiddCORE director and associate pro-
fessor of economics, the MiddCORE pro-
gram has expanded over the past year 
to include a paid summer academic in-
ternship at the College, a semester-long 
workshop series on campus, and an ad-
ditional winter term course at the Mon-
terey Institute for International Studies. 
In summer 2013, MiddCORE Im-
mersion will run its inaugural four-week 
program at Sierra Nevada College, lo-
cated near Lake Tahoe in Incline Vil-
lage, Nevada. The course, which will cost 
$9,500 per student, is open to current 
students and recent graduates of any 
college or university, with an enrollment 
limit of 60. According to Holmes, ap-
plications will be reviewed by members 
of the MiddCORE staff, and applicants 
will be assessed based on indicated cre-
ativity, drive and ingenuity that is dem-
onstrated through recommendation 
letters, written responses to “rather un-
conventional essay questions” that ac-
company the application and students’ 
transcripts.
“The stars were aligned to consider a 
[MiddCORE] expansion,” wrote Holmes 
in an email. “First, after fielding calls 
from several other institutions interest-
ed in establishing a MiddCORE program 
on their campus, it quickly became ap-
parent that we had a unique niche and 
an enviable program.” 
Sierra Nevada College was identified 
by MiddCORE’s CFO Patrick Norton as 
an ideal establishment for the summer 
program, and was selected because of 
its small size, picturesque setting and 
its west coast location, which allows for 
a new network of possible mentors who 
would perhaps be unable to travel to 
Vermont for the winter term course.
In its mission to cultivate future 
leaders and inno-
vators, MiddCORE 
relies heavily on its 
mentors — a group 
of carefully chosen 
individuals that in-
cludes CEOs, entre-
preneurs, business 
owners, artists, ac-
tors, political lead-
ers and doctors — 
who have a proven 
record of accom-
plishment in their 
fields and are will-
ing to help students develop strengths in 
leadership and innovation.
“I would love to see more faculty 
and staff get involved in MiddCORE,” 
Holmes wrote. “The only prerequisite is 
a strong willingness to engage with stu-
dents and an appreciation for the impor-
tance of developing strengths in leader-
ship and innovation.”
The decision to expand the Mid-
dCORE program and make it available 
to non-Middlebury students was made 
without consulting most members of the 
faculty. The Faculty Council, which in-
cludes the Educational Affairs Commit-
tee that oversees the general direction 
of the college curriculum, did not play 
a role in the creation of the new sum-
mer immersion course, and its members 
were purportedly unaware of the launch 
until the College’s press release.
“Speaking personally ... I see the 
merit in making the theory-praxis con-
nection systematically,” Sujata Moorti, 
secretary of the Faculty Council and 
professor of women’s and gender stud-
ies, said of the program. “However, as 
Middlebury sets 
up credit-grant-
ing programs, 
we as a commu-
nity need to dis-
cuss what this 
means for our 
understanding 
of a liberal arts 
education.”
The deci-
sion to create a 
summer Mid-
dCORE program 
stemmed from 
the recognition 
that the time-
intensive nature 
of the College’s 
winter term 
course may have prevented some stu-
dents from taking the class. Also, aside 
from attracting additional students from 
the College, the CORE team hopes that 
the summer program will draw a diverse 
group of highly motivated students from 
around the world. 
Ernie Parizeau, a six-year winter 
term MiddCORE mentor, former ven-
ture capitalist and current Babson pro-
fessor who will be one of the Immersion 
mentors this summer, sees benefits to 
students in the expansion of the pro-
gram. 
“Expanding the program to Sierra 
Nevada College on Lake Tahoe seems 
like a great opportunity to me,” wrote 
Parizeau in an email. “It is close to west 
coast mentors in Silicon Valley, San 
Francisco and Los Angeles. Mentors 
from the west coast 
could open doors 
for students in-
terested in ca-
reers in fields with 
significant west 
coast presence 
like technology 
or entertainment. 
Further, opening 
the program to 
students outside 
Middlebury offers 
a great opportu-
nity for cross-fer-
tilization and networking.” 
Emma Kitchen ’14, a winter term 
2012 MiddCORE student agreed that 
inviting non-Middlebury participants 
to apply to MiddCORE Immersion will 
bring benefits to the program. Kitchen 
also founded Concussions Speak, a web-
site for athletes to share their concussion 
stories to raise awareness about athletic 
injuries, after first pitching the idea to 
her MiddCORE peers. 
“I think [the new program] will be 
a great way for MiddCORE to attract 
more students that want to make use of 
their summer … [and] a great way for 
the students to utilize a whole new set 
of awesome resources out on the west 
coast,” wrote in an email. “Taking Mid-
dCORE was the best decision I’ve made 
at Middlebury.” 
Holmes and the CORE team have 
discussed several possibilities for fur-
ther future expansion, but also acknowl-
edge the rapidity of recent developments 
and the program’s current limits. 
“We have [had] tremendous growth 
for 2012,” wrote Holmes. “That said, 
with additional donor funding, I can 
imagine expanding the MiddCOREplus 
internship program to more students 
and multiple cities, but the real con-
straint there is funding.” 
While the program has some compe-
tition in the Dartmouth Business Bridge 
Program at Tuck and the BASE program 
at Berkeley College, MiddCORE Im-
mersion seeks to fill an untapped niche 
in the market for college-level summer 
programs. “
MiddCORE is different in sever-
al ways [from its competitors],” said 
Parizeau. “It makes great use of expe-
rienced mentors from businesses, non-
profits, government and various other 
non-academic institutions.  It focuses 
the learning on highly immersive, expe-
riential exercises that drive learning by 
doing.” 
MiddCORE Immersion at SNC is ac-
cepting applications for its 2013 course 
through a rolling admissions process. 
For more information about MiddCORE 
and its programs, visit http://middcore.
middlebury.edu.
14 features | november 29, 2012
I’ve reached that point in the year when I reflexively refer to my dorm room as “home.” It still feels strange 
to say, but over Thanksgiving break I re-
alized that I missed Middlebury in a way 
that can only be described as homesick-
ness. 
This insight made me feel guilty, as 
if I was somehow betraying my relation-
ship with my childhood home. I know 
this isn’t the case in reality, but I still 
feel odd whenever I use “home” to talk 
about here.
 Then again, I spend more time here 
than there. Now, “there” is a place I see 
during holidays and vacations. It’s a 
place where I don’t have very much to 
do when I visit. I can see old high school 
friends, at least the ones I’ve stayed in 
touch with, but conversations inevitably 
circle back to high school. There’s almost 
no new material to talk about.
 “There” is a place filled with an 
abundance of old memories, but with 
little opportunity to form new ones. It’s 
kind of sad, but it’s a part of growing up.
 For me, it’s as if time stopped back 
home the moment I left to come to col-
lege. My hometown stopped seeming like 
the real world once I came to school, and 
now it’s frozen that way.
 On the other hand, time here moves 
very quickly. There’s always so much – 
usually too much – happening, and once 
it’s over and you’ve moved on to the next 
thing you have to do, you think back and 
wonder where all that time went.
 This sort of flies in the face of special 
relativity. The faster something moves, 
the slower that time is meant to pass for 
it. Instead, life here would seem to defy 
the laws of physics. Things here are very 
fast indeed and time doesn’t seem to be 
slowing down at all.
We exist here at Middlebury within 
some form of temporal anomaly.
Weekdays seems to drag on and on, 
until the the week ends and you realize 
how fast it’s all gone by. Then, the week-
end seems to end sooner than it began.
 There’s kind of a reverse Doppler 
effect going on as well – as we move for-
ward in our little local bubble of space-
time, things seems wide open before us 
(perhaps not during finals week, though; 
good luck to all of you). When we look 
back we’re amazed by how much we’ve 
already done. Think of how fast this se-
mester has flown by.
 Maybe “home” has more to do with 
quantum mechanics than with physics 
on a macro scale. Maybe “home” only 
functions so long as we’re there to ob-
serve it.
 If we could somehow isolate “home,” 
placing it in an allegorical box, wherein 
we could not observe it, would it contin-
ue to be “home,” or would it change into 
some unobservable non-home state? 
Could it be both “home” and “not-home” 
simultaneously? 
 If we approach this paradox from 
the angle of deterministic causality, 
could we really assume that our being 
home makes home “home?” In other 
words, is “home” really where the heart 
is? Or, can we claim the inverse, saying 
that home is “home” irrespective of the 
observer, and by incredible coincidence 
we happen to be present at the singu-
lar four-dimensional coordinate in all 
of space-time which happens to display 
“home”-like properties?
 I’ll mull over these questions during 
winter break, and get back to you with 
my findings.
 Good luck with finals, and may the 
force be with you! (Fun fact: my home-
town is called Newton.) 
All work     no playand
By josh Kruskal
WINNERS&losers
THANKSGIVING
Great food followed by 
shopping riots – what’s not 
to love?
WINTER BREAK
We can’t wait, though we 
must say the home stretch 
has never felt longer.
SNOW
Middlebury and cupcakes: 
both better with frosting.
SNOW
Now is the winter of our 
discontent – get insulated.
REGISTRATION
Alarm set. Laptop charged. 
The 7 a.m. struggle begins.
FINALS WEEK
Time to get that 
participation grade up!
MiddCore expands to summer program
By Anna Chamby
“[] -
eral other institutions interest-
ed in establishing a MiddCORE 
program on their campus, it 
quickly became apparent that 
we had a unique niche and an 
enviable program.”
 
 Jessica Holmes
 Middcore director
Courtesy of Middcore
The MiddCORE Immersion program is located near scenic Lake Tahoe.
15featuresnovember 29, 2012   
By virginia johnson
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Bedroom Briefs--
Forget Baghdad
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Israeli Cinema: East/
West and the Politics of Representation 
-
Aladdin  Ali Baba 
and the Forty Thieves 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Film prompts discussion of Arab-Jew identity
D i s t r i b u t i o n
R e q u i r e m e n t s
Course:
Instructor:
Other Courses Taught:
Department:
Credits:
Format:
Note: Professor Tiger is cur-
rently on academic leave. 
Look for “Celebrity” to be 
offered again during the 
2013-2014 academic year.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
By Leah Sarbib
By Stephanie Roush
Courtesy of Rebecca Tiger
As You Like It 
arts sciences
Check out the upcoming 
dance performance!
Page 17
don’t
miss
this
Jupiter String Quartet
Every so often a performance leaves us in awe of its 
of balance and expression. The same can be said of 
Jupiter String Quartet’s performance. This prize-win-
ning quartet is in high demand around the globe. The 
program includes a variety of music.
11/30, 8 P.M., 8:00 PM, MAHANEY CENTER FOR THE ARTS
Two major problems of rhetoric occur 
when a contemporary director chooses to 
put on a Shakespeare play. One problem 
concerns the comedy itself; what an audi-
ence found funny 400 years ago may fall 
flat today. But, surprisingly, this particu-
lar issue rarely plagues Professor of The-
ater and Women’s Gender Studies Cheryl 
Feraone’s As You Like It. A mix of Ben 
Orbison’s ’13 well-timed physical humor 
as Touchstone and Christina Fox’s ’13.5 
intentionally over-articulated lines as Ro-
salind served to enliven a cliché comedy. 
The second rhetorical problem (and 
this unfortunately presented greater, 
though not crippling problems for this 
performance) concerns the language. No 
matter how well the actors speak and 
understand the lines, an unfamiliar au-
dience must pay extraordinary attention 
in order to understand plot and jokes. 
Despite these actors’ competent locution 
of Shakespeare’s English — Sarah Lusche 
’13 as Celia performed particularly well 
in this regard, speaking the lines with 
both fluency and comprehension — de-
manding this extra attention for two and 
a half hours seemed excessive, especially 
for a generation and audience so accus-
tomed to constant entertainment. Here, 
I do not condemn difficult and time con-
suming works of art; rather, I expect a 
greater reward at the end of such work. 
And quite frankly, Shakespeare’s often-
interchangeable comedies do not quite 
provide that recompense. 
The plot of the comedy involves 
brotherly conflict, an exiled Duke, a court-
and-forest opposition, a woman dressing 
as a man and a ridiculous amount of mar-
riages. Sound familiar? 
The strengths of this solid perfor-
mance did not lie in plot. Nor did they lie 
in an artistic unity of set, plot and cos-
tumes. The set of this rendition struck 
me as rather beautiful in its simplicity: an 
abstract single metal 
chair that changed, 
later, to a swing, and 
scores of white um-
brellas floating from 
the ceiling jellyfish-
like, reminiscent of 
Magritte paintings. 
But this design unfor-
tunately added noth-
ing to the thematic 
interpretation and 
was, at times, daz-
zling to the point of 
total distraction from 
the play.
This went double for the fascinating 
costumes, co-designed by Artist-In-Res-
idence Jule Emerson and Annie Ulrich 
’13. The beautiful three-piece suits, vin-
tage dresses and capes all suggested an 
early 1900s Edwardian silhouette, but, 
again, this had nothing to do with the 
plot. They were, however, impressive.  All 
of the costumes adhered strictly to a pal-
ate of beige, cream and brown, with dark 
green and copper accents, but somehow 
they seemed elegantly profuse, a kind of 
bland near-decadence that was unified 
rather than needlessly restricted by the 
colors.  For such a limited color scheme, 
the sheer abundance of various outfits 
was miraculous. 
But it is too bad that more was not 
done to marry the text of a comedy with 
World War I and Dada costume and set 
design; post WWI disillusionment can-
not and does not 
speak with what is 
fundamentally, by 
definition, a com-
edy.
Speaking of 
dissonance, one 
should also note 
the unnecessary 
plethora of sing-
song in this play. 
Moments when 
characters sud-
denly broke into 
dance or song felt 
divorced from the 
play, separate in an almost alien-like 
manner. Aside from this being highly 
confusing, I found the singsong point-
less, never once working with the notion 
of revelry which we are supposed to feel 
in the forest scenes. And how, I ask, can 
one take singsong seriously in a play any-
more? Television has satirized this to a 
point at which it’s impossible to enjoy it 
smirklessly. This criticism comes despite, 
again, formal beauty in the singing, and 
a stunning orchestration of such a large 
group of people. 
What did hold the play together, 
though, were some of the smaller details: 
Oliver de Boys’s (Teddy Anderson ’13.5) 
eerily realistic black eye and dirtied suit, 
the blood on Orlando de Boys’s (Jake 
Connolly ’13) arm and the acting itself. Al-
though Fox seemed to struggle in the ear-
with her actions, her later scenes, often 
when paired opposite Connolly, were riv-
way of suddenly and dynamically switch-
ing from romantic and swooning to for-
perfectly. Connolly played his part, react-
ing to such dynamics, with sincerity and 
believability to counter her volatility. 
That is not to mention Daniel Sauer-
milch’s ’13 sassy, haughty interpretation 
of Duke Senior, which was unexpected 
and somehow perfect. Orbison’s Touch-
stone, mentioned surpa, was also unex-
pected, funny not just in lines but in body 
humor. Though Touchstone became shrill 
at times, Orbison’s physical humor, par-
ticularly mimicking Charles the Wrestler, 
was masterful.
So despite some odd directorial 
choices that felt at best arbitrary and at 
worst deliberately dissonant, As You Like 
It was well set-designed, well-acted, well-
costumed, all elements struggling against 
the blandness that is a Shakespeare com-
edy. 
Fall Dance Concert
This choreo-lab features the works of emerging dance 
artists at the intermediate and advanced levels, the 
annual Newcomers’ Piece, choreographed by Penny 
Campbell, and a new work for the Dance Company of 
Middlebury by Visiting Assistant Professor Catherine 
Cabeen. Tickets $12. 
11/30 - 12/1 8:00 P.M. MAHANEY CENTER FOR THE ARTS
Vanek Trilogy
Senior theatre work of Noah Berman ’13, Isa-
bel Shill ’13 and others. The Vanek Trilogy is 
a series of short plays written by Vaclav Havel. 
The plays explore the tension created when two 
a harsh environment. 
11/29 - 12/1, 8:00 P.M., HEPBURN ZOO
“All the world’s a stage,
And all the men and women 
merely players:
They have their exits and 
their entrances;
And one man in his time 
plays many parts...”
 William Shakespeare
“As You like it”
All the world’s a stage...
By Michael Gaffney
AJM
RIGHT: Connolly delivers a kick in the tightly-choreographed wrestling scene of As You Like It, in which Orlando soundly defeats Charles (Jack Markusen ’13.5). 
Environmental chemistry is a broad 
-
-
-
-
-
-
ily interested in organic (hydrogen- and 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
science sp   tlight: costanza-robinson lab
By Will Henriques 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
To the Lighthouse
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
necessity echoes another long standing 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Fall Dance Concert highlights diversity 
alan kimara dickson
By Alan Sutton
alan kimara dickson
-
November 29, 2012 |  arts SCIENCES17
Jiayi Zhu
Beginning today, the evocative Vanek 
Trilogy will run in the Hepburn Zoo Nov. 
29 to Dec. 1. The show is the senior thesis 
production of Noah Berman ’13 and Izzy 
Shill ’12.5, who act in the show alongside 
Adam Milano ’15. Paula Bogutyn ’13.5 is di-
recting the show for an independent proj-
ect.
The show came to Berman and Shill’s 
attention upon the death of the author, Va-
the Soviet regime. After the fall of com-
munism, Havel was elected president of 
Czechoslovakia, a satellite country to the 
USSR. In addition to his political power 
and activism, Havel was also a playwright, 
and when he died in 2011, his plays gained 
a surge of acclaim. 
As its name suggests, The Vanek Tril-
ogy is a trilogy of one-acts. The acts are not 
part of one singular play — rather, they are 
unique works unto themselves. However, 
the three acts are connected by the char-
acter Vanek, a semi-autobiographical per-
-
der a communist regime in Eastern Europe. 
The Trilogy allows both the characters and 
-
veillance and a tyrannical government, 
and documents the dehumanization that 
happens under an oppressive regime. Ac-
cording to Shill and Berman, “each scene 
himself either with his boss, friends or an 
old mentor that straddles the line between 
camaraderie and manipulation. The idea of 
the secret police, which were characteris-
tic of the Communist totalitarian regime, 
is abstractly present in all acts, as is the 
thought of collaboration.” 
Shill and Berman both “hope that this 
performance … will bring you closer to the 
and will make you think about those of 
us less fortunate than we — those who are 
living still in constant fear under various 
authoritarian regimes around the world.” 
The show is intended to raise questions 
about the meaning of freedom, as well as 
life without freedom.  
Bogutyn noted that to direct the play, 
and the region was necessary. Working 
around Vanek’s “moral sterility,” she said, 
“made our process very interesting and 
In her director’s note, Bogutyn writes 
that “it has been very important to me to 
present the region Eastern Europe in a dif-
ferent light, dig deeper, overcome the ste-
reotypes and often shallow understanding 
of what it means to be Czech, Slovak, Hun-
garian, etc. … From the very beginning of 
the process I wanted to emphasize how po-
litical these three plays are, alongside their 
artistic value, reach below the accentuated, 
often comic absurdities of living under a 
socialist regime and show the different re-
ality.
However, Bogutyn said that the 
strength of The Vanek Trilogy lies in the 
fact that it is not a morality play. Many of 
the other characters in the play are not ac-
tivists or strong of mind. Rather, Vanek is 
the only one portrayed as a moral hero. Au-
-
ciate easily with Vanek, but rather with the 
supporting characters who do not question 
the government so ferociously. 
Shill hopes that the show will “illumi-
nate some issues that the West hasn’t re-
our modern lives in a democracy, as well as 
on the efforts of the human rights activists 
of our time.
b0oking it
BY MICHAEL GAFFNEY
go/obo
2013 Winter Term 
Workshops
deadline to register  
is 12/9
Times and dates vary
purchase online
once upon a riddim
saturday
12/8
mccullough social 
space
$6 for students
Bus tickets
Break Buses
NYC, BOSTON
Burlington
(AIrport, Bus station)
Both Flesh and Not collects 15 of David Foster Wal-
book reviews published between 1988 and 2007. Al-
though most of these essays do not demand to be read 
in the same way that essays in Wallace’s earlier collec-
tions do — this reader recalls fervently reading “Getting 
Away…,”  “A Supposedly Fun Thing…” and “This Is Wa-
ter”  —  there are a number of gems in this collection that 
are thought-provoking and great reads.
above, fall into two separate but never totally distinct 
-
says that more or less feature a giant eyeball, as Wallace 
-
one such essay: “Democ-
racy and Commerce at 
the U.S. Open.” 
-
plores the 1995 U.S. 
Open, and he frequently 
deploys his character-
hear the sun combusting,” and the typically dark humor: 
Wallace, looking up from the bottom of a stadium, sees 
stands “so vertiginously steep that a misstep on any of the 
upper stairs looks like. It would be certain and hideous 
death.” He writes in this essay with frequent contractions, 
sprawling footnotes, and an absence of a single guiding 
thesis. This style amazes the reader because it displays 
the structure not only of Wallace’s mind but also the way 
the world sometimes feels overwhelming and abundant. 
Wallace describes this feeling as “Total Noise” in “De-
ciderization 2007 — A Special Report,” which falls into 
the second category of essays, which like “This Is Water” 
are generally serious and overtly philosophical. Begin-
ning as an introduction to Best American Essays 2007, 
-
cide what to represent, veers into a discussion of practi-
cal philosophy about what it means to have freedom and 
be an adult in the contemporary U.S.A, where other “De-
ciders” are constantly choosing what ideas we should be 
Wallace writes, consists of “acuity and taste in choosing 
in the postmodern condition’s pre-chosen reality because 
one can still learn to winnow and triage, to have the free-
dom of choice.  
Flesh and Not” represents a marriage and perfection of 
these two kinds of essays; although still a catalogue, this 
essay eschews the humor Wallace relies on in his other 
essays in favor of a more serious and reverent tone. At 
-
don match between Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer, and 
-
ible about Federer. 
For Wallace, Federer interrupts the “dogma” of pow-
minutia of tennis and Federer’s game, and although this 
might be less interesting for a non-tennis-loving reader, 
a more general sense of aesthetic awe. 
As for the other essays in this collection, many will 
only interest those particularly captivated by Wallace’s 
David Markson’s Wittgenstein’s Mistress illuminates 
the novel in the most interesting and intricate way. This 
review in particular shines a great deal of light on Wal-
Importance of Terminator 2,” though somewhat dated, 
observes the trend, only now fully realized with Michael 
Bay, for post T2 -
noring plot. 
collection, “Just Asking,” considers a post 9/11 problem 
-
lection, which is full of essays that ask readers to think 
so deeply and profoundly. Although this collection rarely 
essay is, in Wallace’s words, a “quantum of information 
and a vector of meaning.”
Recommendation: For Wallace fans, this is a great 
read and a neat and clean way to carry around essays 
that most have already read. If you’ve never read Wallace 
before, though, I recommend reading A Supposedly Fun 
Thing I’ll Never Do Again instead. I can almost guarantee 
it will make you want more.
both flesh and not
David Foster Wallace
Fall Dance Concert
Friday-Saturday
11/30-12/1
seeler studio 
theater
$6 for students
Upcoming play evokes a life devoid of freedom
By Deirdre Sackett 
courtesy
Vaclav Havel was a Czech playwright and dissident who penned The Vanek Trilogy.
November 29, 2012  | arts SCIENCES18
November 29, 2012 |  arts SCIENCES19
this week on wrmc 91.1 fm
THIS MIDD LIFE WITH ELEANORE BENNETT AND SARAH MARCUS
MONDAY 11 A.M. - 12 P.M.
PRANK MAMIS WITH LIZZY DURKIN AND CLAIRE SMITH
TUESDAY 11 A.M. - 12 P.M.
PUSH N SHOVE WITH CRYSTEAUX SUN
WEDNESDAY 2 - 3:30 P.M.
MIDDLEBURY RADIO THEATER OF THRILLS AND SUSPENSE
SATURDAY 6 - 8 P.M.
the 
reel critic
BY DEIRDRE SACKETT
After 50 years, he’s still got it.  
is the latest in the James Bond series, and 
it does not disappoint. Released on the se-
ries’ 50th anniversary, the movie follows a 
rather dramatic premise: after an opera-
tion involving Bond and sidekick Eve goes 
retirement, and aspects of her past come 
back to haunt her — with big consequenc-
es.  
I’ll go ahead and say it right off the 
bat: there is no true “Bond girl” in this 
movie. Yes, there is a sexy woman whose 
with Bond is at 
a casino bar, 
but she is by no 
means a tradi-
tional femme fatale. Rather than tantaliz-
ing the audience with seductive women or 
cool gadgets, it is Bond’s loyalty to his em-
ployer, M, that is the driving force behind 
the movie. 
Daniel Craig returns for a third round 
— this time, he plays an aging Bond. Af-
ter being injured in the beginning of the 
movie, Bond’s recovery and return to ser-
vice becomes a major plot point. It is obvi-
ous that the physical demands of the job 
to undertake — the combination of injury 
-
while, Judi Dench’s M is again the sharp 
and sassy leader of the secret intelligence 
service M16, but she too faces aging issues 
alongside Bond. Rather than focusing on 
beautiful, young espionage, the movie ex-
plores how these two staples of the series 
deal with their respective aging woes and 
their loyalty to England. This is seemingly 
made worse by the arrival of M’s new bu-
reaucratic boss, Mallory (played by Ralph 
Fiennes). 
The movie was also unique for a Bond 
of M16, particularly in how it deals with its 
employees. This glimpse within the secret 
service revealed a disturbing truth. Essen-
tially, M16 treats its agents as disposable 
tools rather than human beings — they are 
mere playthings to be used to form agree-
that being a glamorous agent has its price. 
The true highlight of  was its 
villain, Raoul Silva, played by Javier Bar-
dem who was a living example of this ter-
rible reality. A former lackey of M16, Silva 
fell victim to the service’s dispassionate 
view of its agents. When he fails to take his 
own life after being betrayed by the ser-
vice, he swears revenge against M instead, 
creating one of the most memorable and 
chilling Bond villains in the series’ history. 
For instance, Silva’s introductory scene 
contains an eerie monologue, with the 
tone of voice and subtle mannerisms that 
immediately recall Heath Ledger’s “Joker” 
in . 
Despite the more serious plot, the 
movie still delivers its trademark thrills. 
a car chase, a train battle and a rooftop 
motorcycle chase — you read that right. 
-
ons. 
The visuals in the movie truly paint 
as a beautiful piece of art, comple-
imagery. The introductory sequence, with 
its kaleidoscopic, bloody imagery, was 
complemented by Adele’s haunting vocals. 
of city lights causing confusion as to who is 
-
tiful sequence involved glimmering, color-
ful Chinese dragons on a river. 
One unsuspecting highlight came 
near the end of the movie. Without giving 
too much away, the ending of  more 
resembled  than a Bond mov-
ie. I’ll just leave that to the imagination for 
those who haven’t seen it just yet. Com-
bine that with a memorable last-minute 
character appearance and big explosions, 
and you’ve got one of the most entertain-
ing movies of the year. 
skyfall
WHAT DO YOU WANT TO SEE HERE? 
LIKE US ON 
PAPER?
Like us on 
Facebook
Follow us on 
twitter
@middcampusGet Money Get Paid
WANTED: OFFICE MANAGER FOR 
THE CAMPUS, B-LEVEL POSITION
For more information contact qproffer@middlebury.edu
00010101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000
10101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010
10100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101
00000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001
01011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010
11110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101
00100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001
00100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001
01010111101010100100101010101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010
11110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101
00100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001
00100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001
01010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010
10111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111
01010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010
10100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001
00101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001
01010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101
01010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010
10101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010100101111101
00010101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101
01010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010
10100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000
00101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001
01011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111
10100100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101
00100100101010111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101001001001010101111010101001001
01010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101
01010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010
10101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010
10101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101
01011010100101010101010101001011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101
00100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001
01010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010
10101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010
10101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101
01010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111110101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100
10010101010101010101010101101010010101010101010100100101000010111110100010101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100
10101010101010101010101101010010101010101010100100101000010111110110101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010
10101010101010101101010010101010101010100100101000010111110100010101010100000101011110100100100101010111101010100100101010101
01010101010101101010010101010101010100100101000010111110101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101
01010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010
10101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010
01001010000101111101000101010101001010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010
10111101010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111
01010100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010
10100100101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001
00101010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001
01010101010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101
01010101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010
10101010101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010
10101011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101
01011010100101010101010101001001010000101111101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101
00101010101010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001
01010101010101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101
01010101001001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010
10101001001010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010
01001010000101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010
01010000101111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100
00101111101000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001
01111101101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111
01000101010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011
01010101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010
10101000001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010
00001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010000
01010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010000010101
11101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010000010101111
01001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010000010101111010010
01001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010000010101111010010010
01010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011011010101010000010101111010010010010
10101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010000010101111010010010010101
01111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010000010101111010010010010101011110
10101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010000010101111010010010010101011110101
01001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010000010101111010010010010101011110101010010
01010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010000010101111010010010010101011110101010010010
10101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010000010101111010010010010101011110101010010010101010
10101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111010001010101010
00001010111101001001001010101111010101001001010101010101010101010110101001010101010101010010010100001011111011010101010000010
Do you like multimedia? Read blogs? Listen 
to podcasts? The Middlebury Campus is 
looking for a team of online contributors 
to put their web-savvy skills to use 
producing online-only content for the 
Campus website. 
Email campus@middlebury.edu if you’re interested.
 20 advertisements   | November 29, 2012
dominated the second half, scoring 69 
points after the intermission as Lynch 
had 13 of his game-high 27 points on 
six of six shooting in the second half. 
Albert Nascimento ’14 had 14 points, all 
of which came in the final 20 minutes, as 
the junior from Governador Valadares, 
Brazil finished with four field goals on six 
attempts and sunk five of six free throws. 
Wolfin and Merryman each added 14 
points as well while Thompson, who has 
scored in double digits in every game 
so far this season, had 10. The Panthers 
shot a scorching 76 percent from the 
floor in the second half and 65 percent 
for the game, while out-rebounding 
Green Mountain 50-27.
Middlebury then traveled to 
Plattsburgh State in a meeting of 
unbeaten teams. The visiting Panthers 
got off to a slow start, scoring just 24 
points in the first half and went into 
the locker room trailing by five — their 
first half-time deficit of the season. The 
Cardinals extended their lead to nine 
early in the second half, dominating 
the offensive and defensive glass while 
disrupting the Panthers’ offensive sets 
with heavy pressure on the perimeter. 
The visitors whittled their way back, 
taking a 39-38 lead on a Merryman three-
pointer with 13:43 remaining, the team’s 
first lead since the 12:34 mark in the 
first half. Following back-and-forth play 
that saw eight lead changes in just over 
six minutes, the Panthers took the lead 
for good on a jumper from Jensen with 
6:08 remaining. Lynch and Thompson 
then combined to score 20 of the team’s 
next 22 points as Middlebury clung to a 
tenuous lead that oscillated between two 
and seven points. The Cardinals went 
to a full-court press down the stretch 
defensively while catching fire from 
beyond the arc, offensively, at one point 
scoring 12 consecutive points courtesy of 
the long ball. Thompson iced the game 
late, however, extending the lead to seven 
with two free throws with 59 seconds to 
play, which he followed with a jumper 
at the 34 second mark to send the lead 
back to five with 34 seconds remaining. 
He finished the contest with 23 points 
and seven rebounds — both game highs 
— while Lynch added 19 points on six of 
eight shooting from the floor and seven 
for eight from the line. Kizel was the only 
other Panther to register double-digit 
points with 13, nine of which came in the 
second half. Wolfin, meanwhile, added 
seven assists though somewhat offset by 
his six turnovers. Middlebury once again 
struggled on the glass — a concerning 
sign without Ryan Sharry ’12 anchoring 
the middle of their defense — allowing 
11 offensive rebounds to the Cardinals 
while being outrebounded 28-21 overall.
The Panthers returned to Pepin 
Gymnasium for their home opener 
against Southern Vermont (0-4). 
Middlebury opened the game on a 33-
11 run en route to a 54-27 halftime lead. 
Lynch was nearly unstoppable in the low 
post once again, converting seven of nine 
attempts from the floor for 17 first-half 
points. 
“Offensively I’m just trying to find 
the best shot possible,” Lynch said. “Not 
necessarily settling for [a shot] when 
there’s a defender on me, kicking [the 
ball] out and reposting and trying to get 
that single coverage when sometimes 
there’s a shorter guy guarding me.”
Kizel and Merryman each added eight 
points of their own, as each went two-
for-two from beyond the arc. The story 
of the game, however, was Middlebury 
center Jack Roberts ’14 who scored a 
career-high 18 points on sinking nine of 
10 shots. Roberts was equally dominant 
on the defensive end, swatting a game-
high four shots. 
“His aggressiveness and his ability to 
catch some of the passes that the guys 
laid up for him were the key,” Brown 
said. “Jack missed a portion of last year 
that interrupted [his] progress, but I see 
him growing and growing each week in 
practice and in our games.”
“Jack played great,” Lynch said. “I 
think the most improved thing with him 
since last year is that he’s keeping the 
ball up high instead of bringing it down. 
He’s 6’9’’ and no one is touching that ball 
and he just puts it right on the rim.
Merryman joined Lynch and Roberts 
as the only other Middlebury player to 
reach double digit points as the California 
native buried a third three pointer in the 
second half from well behind the arc, 
demonstrating the extent of his range. 
Merryman’s ability to stretch the floor 
will be a key to the team’s success in 
conference play when points inside the 
paint are harder to come by.
The Panthers return to action Sunday, 
Dec. 2, when they travel to Providence, 
R.I. where they will square off with 
Johnson and Wales. 
november 29, 2012| SPORTS
editors’ picks
Thompson named MVP of tip-off tournament
21
CONTINUED FROM 24
Owen Teach (43-50, .462)Damon Hatheway (81-67, .547)Tom clayton (26-19, .577)
Who will win Middlebury men’s 
basketball -20 @ Johnson and 
Wales?
Who will lead the men’s hockey 
team in points this weekend?
How many goals will the 
women’s hockey team allow in 
two games against Trinity?
How many sets will the men’s 
and women’s squash teams 
combine to lose in four matches 
this weekend?
Who will play Notre Dame in the 
National Championship game?
ALABAMA
And then Alabama will graduate 
to the NFL.
MIDDLEBURY -20
The Wildcats will be tough 
on their home court, but the 
Panther offense shows no sign 
of slowing down.
THOMAS FREYRE ’14
The sentimental favorite. He’s 
due for a big weekend.
THREE
One goal each for the Father, 
the Son and the Holy Spirit.
MIDDLEBURY -20
Without an elite scoring threat 
like Lamonte Thomas, Johnson 
and Wales won’t be around long 
in this one.
MIDDLEBURY -20
The Wildcats are a weak team 
in a weak conference. Pretty 
weak.
GEORGE ORDWAY ’15
The super sophomore is going 
to have a breakout season.
MATT SILCOFF ’16
leading the Panthers in 
scoring this year.
TWO
Annabelle Jones ’15 will record 
season.
FIVE
Number of wins = 2.
ALABAMA
Nick Saban’s teams play 
at a different level in the 
postseason.
GEORGIA
The ’dawgs will upset #3 
Alabama this weekend in the 
SEC title game. Or so I’ve 
been told by ESPN ...
FIVE
Just a few here and there.
FOUR
Sweeps across the board and a 
tight 5-4 victory over a tough 
Navy team.
TEN
Pure conjecture. No wonder 
I’m so far below .500 with 
questions like these.
a year ago, the 14th-ranked Middlebury 
men’s squash team opened up its season 
at the M.I.T. Round Robin Tournament in 
Boston on Saturday, Nov. 17. The Panthers 
dismantled a trio of opponents, sweeping 
M.I.T. and Northeastern 9-0 while only 
dropping one match to NESCAC foe 
Wesleyan, the 23rd-ranked team in the 
country in an 8-1 win.
matches under our belt this season,” 
said Spencer Hurst ’13. “I think everyone 
was happy with how we played and now 
it’s time to keep the good performances 
rolling.” 
Jay Dolan ’13 played in the top spot 
his Middlebury career, defeating all of 
his opponents in straight sets. Dolan had 
no trouble in his match against M.I.T., 
taking down his Engineer opponent in 
straight sets: 11-7, 11-2 and 11-2. Against 
Wesleyan, Dolan won 11-7, 11-6 and 11-
9. He followed that with another sweep 
against Northeastern winning the sets 11-
5, 11-2 and 11-3. In fact, the Panther men 
won all but four of 27 matches in straight 
sets marking a dominant opening showing 
for the team.
In the women’s bracket at the M.I.T. 
tournament, meanwhile, the 11th-ranked 
women’s team managed a clean sweep with 
three 9-0 victories. Middlebury defeated 
Wellesley, Wesleyan and Northeastern. 
Sophomore Charlotte Dewey ’15 anchored 
the lineup for the women’s team, 
in her Middlebury career. Dewey dropped 
just one set in her three matches — the only 
set lost by any member of the team. After 
convincing performances last week, both 
teams now sit at 3-0 in the early going with 
NESCAC play around the corner.
The men’s team hosts Navy and Drexel 
this Friday and Sunday while traveling to 
Dartmouth to play Bowdoin Saturday. The 
women, meanwhile, play just one match 
this weekend when they host Drexel on 
Sunday, Dec. 2.
While both squads have dominated 
their opposition, they will face tougher 
competition in the week ahead.
“Everyone played pretty well for our 
was a solid way to start of the season but 
we are going to have a tough weekend with 
Navy, Bowdoin and Drexel.”
The match with Navy will mark the 
third time in two years the teams have met. 
The Panthers and the Midshipmen split 
the series last year as the Panthers won the 
regular season meeting 5-4 before Navy 
exacted its revenge, knocking Middlebury 
out of team nationals by the same score.
NESCAC play begins in earnest for 
both the men’s and women’s teams in 
the new year when both teams travel to 
Williamstown, Mass. for the Williams 
Round Robin Tournament on Jan. 5.
Squash teams start season with trio of victories
By Gabe Weissmann
jiayi zhu
Captain Nolan Thompson ’13 stretches 
for one of his two offensive rebounds in 
the Panthers win over Southern Vermont.
Coming off a 21-4-3 record, a NESCAC 
championship and a trip to the NCAA 
In the third period, the Panthers took 
performances so far this season,” said co-
stressed the importance of the team 
| november 29, 201222 sports
Women’s hockey opens season 3-1
By Mary Claire Ecclesine
By Alex Morris
panther sc0reboard
men’s hockey @ Colby  
women’s basketball  vs. Bates  
Men’s squash vs. Wesleyan
Men’s Basketball @ Green Mountain
women’s hockey vs. Colby
5-2 w 
59-48 w
8-1 W
117-81 W
5-1 W
First-years come up big in the 
team’s season opening win at 
Colby. 
The squash team downed its 
Women win consolation game 
Classic.
The men put up “video game 
minded encounter.
Women’s hockey outscores 
Colby 8-3 in homestand. 
File photo
File Photo
The Middlebury swimming & diving 
team opened its season on the road at 
Connecticut College on Saturday, Nov. 17, 
taking on both the host school and Tufts. 
While the men fell to both opponents, the 
women defeated the Jumbos but fell just 
short of the host Camels.
Both teams had been training hard 
nine practices each week in addition to 
weight training.
“I think the weight room, dry-land [and] 
CrossFit element has made some people 
sore,” said head coach Bob Rueppel. “We 
had a really great practice on Thursday and 
then Friday they were hurting a little bit, 
but they have to deal with that mentally.”
Given the rigorous early-season 
schedule, Rueppel had modest expectations 
competition.
“We don’t expect to swim super-fast 
right now,” he said. “We’re tired. We’ve 
been doing a lot of work. It was really neat 
to see everyone race. College swimming 
dual meets are really about racing.”
Nevertheless, Middlebury athletes on 
both sides managed top performances. 
For the women, Jamie Hillas ’15 (100 
breaststroke and 200 IM), Maddy Berkman 
’13 (one and three-meter diving) and 
Maddie Pierce ’16 (200 backstroke) each 
won individual events, while both the 
200 medley relay and 200 freestyle relay 
third in the NESCAC a year ago — by a 
score of 159-134. The women fell to Conn. 
College 149-138.
“On the ladies side, we had some nice 
surprises,” said Rueppel. “Some people 
the way, get the jitters out. We look at the 
big picture. I was more concerned with 
performance.”
For the men, the points were a bit 
in the 100 breaststroke. The 200 free relay 
of Bryan Cheuk ’16, Ethan Litman ’13, Mike 
Overall, the men were defeated by both 
Tufts and Conn. College, falling 183-104 
and 179-99 respectively.
“On the guys’ side, we knew it was going 
this juncture of our training, and the guys 
were much more competitive than last 
year,” said Rueppel. “It was really a lot of 
fun. I was pleased overall.”
Rueppel was optimistic about the return 
men’s team this season.
“Ian was a beast this weekend,” he 
said. “He’s been incredible with his rehab, 
getting back into it this year, buying into 
the new system. Having a guy like that, 
which we didn’t have last year, you have a 
guy that sets the tone on a relay.”
After a weekend without competition 
over Thanksgiving break, the team returns 
to the pool with a new perspective on how 
they will need to improve.
“We’re looking at two more solid weeks 
“We want to build on what we’ve done in 
know we’ve been training on a really high 
level, but we’ve got to keep wanting more. 
What really matters is what you do in 
February.”
Both the men and the women return 
to competition on Saturday, Dec. 1, when 
they host Amherst. The Lord Jeffs were 
runners-up on both sides at NESCACs a 
year ago, and will provide tough early-
season competition for the Panthers.
“For the girls, I think we can compete 
think they know it,” said Rueppel. “They’ve 
already been talking about it. Having the 
comfort of home, I think our men can get 
out and really race.”
november 29, 2012| 23SPORTS
by the Numb3rs
1
31
125
The number of combined games lost by both 
the men’s and women’s squash teams after 
six matches betweeen the two.
The number of seconds remaining in the 
game when Norwich scored the game-
winning goal to beat the men’s hockey 
team.
The number of shots on goal for the women’s 
hockey team in a 3-2 loss to Plattsburgh. The 
Cardinals attempted just 18 shots on goal.
The number of points the men’s 
basketball team has scored in the 
second half of its last two games.
The number of career points scored by 
National Field Hockey Player of the Year 
Lauren Greer ’13 — an all-time school 
record.
7
177 
8
swimming and diving
The women faired decently. 
The men ... well, it’s early.
1
RANKING TEAM
Owen’s Outlook
2
men’s basketball
Picking up right where they 
left off. 4-0 and rolling.
cross country
Strong showing at NCAAs is 
3
women’s hockey
The reigning NESCAC champs 
handled Colby twice at home.
4 
men’s hockey
A pair of one-goal games vs. 
5 Men’s rugby sevensHeaded to Texas A&M for a 
7
women’s basketball
A 2-2 start for a team looking 
6
squash
Both teams sit at 3-0 after 
dismantling the MIT tourney.
the middlebury
great  eight
Swimming and diving teams split 
with Jumbos, drowned by Camels
By Fritz Parker
Katelyn Barclay ’15 (Pittsford, NY), a member of the women’s alpine ski team and 
economics major, previously attended Burke Mountain Academy. She has traveled 
through Europe, New Zealand and South America seeking snow and learning about 
different cultures. Barclay mostly focused on speed events during high school, including 
the Downhill and Super-G races. She was number one in the country in both speed 
events for 15-17 year olds and attended US Nationals. She also dominated the eastern 
transferred her speed talent into the more technical events and raced in the Giant 
Slalom and Slalom in NCAA competition.  Last season, Barclay broke into the top ten in a 
few runs, placed 10th at the Middlebury Carnival Giant Slalom, and also had few top 15s. 
What are 
your goals 
for this 
season?
What was 
memory of 
the sport? 
What is your 
most recent 
stand out 
memory?
1
3
2
My goal this season is to make NCAAs at Middlebury, which 
means achieving multiple top-10s and improving my consistency.
When I was six, I raced in my first race called the Love Joy race 
at Hunt Hollow in New York. The race was every Sunday and in-
cluded all age brackets from six years old to adults like my dad. 
The youngest would race first and [older skiers follow sequentially 
thereafter]. The youngest racers would follow behind their mother 
or father starting half way down the course. I followed behind 
my dad because I had never trained before. [Within seconds,] I 
straight-lined past my dad. My dad was trying to catch up to me, 
but I kept going around the gates and even a couple of times I 
skied between the panels because I thought that was another way 
to go. That was my first ski race.
Last season when we were at Sunday River for the Bates Carni-
val, nobody knew when the second run start was. I showed up 
really late for my start. Apparently, I was supposed to be in the 
gate and Stever, my coach, looked so angry. He stomped on my 
skis and bindings before I reached him in the start. He threw my 
[training] skis over the fence, snapped my boots into my bind-
ings [on my race skis], buckled my boots and [pushed me into the 
start gate.] I had to ski right away [without any preparation or 
course report] and it was my best run of slalom all year. It was a 
really big rush of adrenaline. 
Why do you 
love the sport?
How has life 
as an athlete 
helped you as a 
student?
What has been a 
pivotal moment 
in your career so 
far?
6
5
4
Skiing has taught me the meaning of hard work and time management 
because ski racing is a really mental sport that takes a lot more focus 
than most sports. You only have two one-minute runs to do everything 
you need to do. You have trained for hours, days and years for these 
two minutes; there was a lot of work that led up to this race.  In school, 
it’s similar; it’s all about how much time you put into it. I can always 
succeed if I put the work in and I want to do well.
When I was in eighth grade, I had to write essays to my parents to 
convince them to let me to go to Burke Mountain Academy. I wrote 
essays to my teachers so they would let me go. I had to convince 
everybody that I really wanted to ski and that I could still succeed 
if I went to a ski academy by making it work with my academics.
I love how fast you can go. I love the adrenaline you get when 
you are racing down the hill. It’s the most frustrating sport in the 
entire world [due to] all the variables like the weather, the course, 
the hill, the snow conditions and the racers. Every run is different. 
Every time it can be an amazing run or a terrible run, but when it’s 
an amazing run it’s the best feeling ever.
Interviews with Middlebury’s 
Student Athletes
By Christine Schozer
 
40The lead for the Thunder at halftime of their game against the Bobcats, Monday 
First-years lead men’s hockey team
four games has shown that.”
Beaney echoed his player’s 
remarks. 
“Playing back-to-back nationally 
ranked teams was a huge challenge,” said 
Beaney. “The only way I could be happier 
is if we had won the game versus Norwich. 
Even after the game was tied at four, we 
had three good chances to score. One 
bounce of the puck and we could have won 
it. We will come out of this with a much 
better understanding of what to do to close 
games out like that.”
The previous weekend against Colby 
and Bowdoin, one of the biggest stories in 
the successful NESCAC contests was the 
Silcoff, Neugold and Riley Dickie ’16 all 
have three points or more after four games. 
The form of the team’s younger players 
encourages both Beaney and Brown.
“I think that we all knew a huge part of 
our success this year would be dependent 
on how quickly the younger guys were able 
weekends have shown that they had no 
problem doing so,” said Brown. “They’ve 
been putting pucks in the net up front, and 
logging some heavy minutes in the back as 
well. Having four lines that the whole team 
really trusts out there in any situation is a 
huge advantage for us.”
playing pivotal roles,” added Beaney. 
“However, these guys have stepped up in 
even strength, penalty-kill and power play, 
and when you can get point production it’s 
with creating the competitive attitude that 
permeates the team right now.”
Middlebury opens its home schedule 
against Connecticut College and Tufts this 
weekend, Nov. 30 and Dec. 1, at 7 p.m. and 
4 p.m., respectively, in front of what will be 
“I think this week will be interesting, 
how we practice and how we prepare,” said 
Beaney. “We need to be excited to play at 
home in the NESCAC.”
CONTINUED FROM 24
Just two weeks into regular 
season action, the 11th-placed 
Middlebury men’s hockey team 
has already seen its fair share of 
adversity. The now 2-1-1, 1-0-1 
in the NESCAC, Panthers battled 
16 and 17, to defeat Colby 5-2 and 
tie Bowdoin 4-4 before suffering 
a last-second 5-4 loss at the 
hands of perennial rival Norwich, 
currently placed second, in the 
Northern Shootout on Saturday, 
Nov. 24. Middlebury also defeated 
seventh-placed Plattsburgh 3-2 
hosted by Norwich, the Panthers’ 
opening-round game against 
the Cardinals offered some 
redemption for Middlebury, who 
was defeated 7-0 by Plattsburgh 
last January. Despite being down 
Derek Pimentel ’15 connected in 
the second period on a rebound 
year to tie the game at one. First-
year Evan Neugold ’16 then 
converted a goal after shaking a 
Plattsburgh defender to push the 
sealed the game with a goal in the 
third period for Middlebury, who 
held on for a 3-2 win.
Coach Bill Beaney remarked on 
“We didn’t know how we 
would match up against a top-
minutes of the game were played 
at a pace that we were not used 
to, but fortunately we stayed 
with it and from the middle of 
that we played as well as, if not 
better, than Plattsburgh. It was 
builder that we could play with 
one of the best teams in the 
The next day against Norwich, 
the Panthers found themselves 
trailing 2-1 late in the second 
period before Matthew Silcoff ’16, 
the Tournament, scored his third 
of the season on the power play. 
seconds later to give the Panthers 
a 3-2 lead heading into the third.
After a scoreless run of 
scored at the 12:22 mark to 
extend Middlebury’s lead to 
4-2. Unfortunately for the 
Panthers, a controversial holding 
penalty at the 13:51 mark saw 
the Cadets convert on a chance 
and subsequently head to the 
power play, a sequence Beaney 
favor of Norwich. 
The Cadets scored again in 
the dying moments of the power 
play to knot the contest at 4-4. 
Then, in the waning moments 
of the third period, Travis Janke 
of Norwich intercepted the puck 
and found Colin Mulvey, who 
scored his second goal in just 
under four minutes to clinch the 
left on the clock.
Despite the gut wrenching 
loss, Chris Brown ’13 says his 
team is looking forward.
Tourney gave us a great snapshot 
of where we are at this point in 
was heartbreaking, but we’re 
going to take the positives out 
of this weekend and use it to get 
better. We’re happy with our 
effort, and I think we grew as a 
team big time this weekend. This 
group can really go somewhere, 
The fourth-ranked men’s 
basketball team has opened the 
season with five wins, including 
a strong performance in the 
captains Nolan Thompson ’13 
named NESCAC Player of the 
Week, lead the team in scoring, 
averaging 16 and 14.5 points per 
game, respectively. Thompson, 
meanwhile was named the Most 
Tournament, while sophomore 
Hunter Merryman ’15 was 
named to the all-tournament 
team. Merryman, who hails 
from San Marino, Calif. is one 
of the leading candidates for the 
sixth man role, having shown 
great scoring touch early in 
the season, particularly from 
beyond the arc where he leads 
the team with eight made threes 
on just 13 attempts.
“Hunter has had a terrific 
said head coach Jeff Brown. “His 
ability to shoot the three ball 
and [make] plays going to the 
basket is a great contribution to 
this team. I expect he’ll be one 
of those sixth-man [guys] where 
he’s going to score a lot of big 
The Panthers opened their 
season in Annville, Penn., edging 
Tournament. Five different 
players recorded double-digit 
points for Middlebury with 
Thompson and Merryman 
leading the way with 13 points 
and Jake Wolfin ’13 had 12 
and 10 points, respectively and 
In the championship game 
the next day Middlebury pulled 
being out-rebounded 42-26. 
Thompson led the way once 
being named the tournament’s 
more, making five of his eight 
attempts. Merryman stretched 
the floor for the Panthers, 
shooting four for six from 
beyond the three-point arc. 
Swing-man James Jensen 
’14, who had four steals in the 
opening round, recorded 14 
points and a team-high five 
rebounds. While the offense 
found its rhythm in the second 
half, defensively the Panthers 
failed to contain Dutchmen 
forward Danny Brooks who 
wreaked havoc in the post, 
torching the Panthers down low 
for 30 points and 13 rebounds. 
Middlebury did just enough to 
length before going on a 24-
12 run to seal the victory, and 
the championship, after the 
Dutchmen closed within three 
points midway through the 
second half. 
Tuesday, Nov. 20 the team 
their first regular season 
College. The Eagles gave the 
Panthers all they could handle 
in the first half, taking a 33-32 
lead late in the half. Middlebury 
responded, however, going on 
at the break. The Panthers 
The Middlebury men and 
women’s cross country teams 
topped off one of their most 
successful seasons to date in the 
Nov. 17 NCAA Cross Country 
Championship. 
Cross Country Championship 
Course in Terre Haute, Ind., the 
College, as well as NESCAC rivals 
Bates and Tufts, among other 
teams. Meanwhile the women 
Hopkins as well as NESCAC rival 
Williams College who placed fourth 
in the race. The Middlebury women 
were just two points away from 
College. 
“It was very exciting for the 
men’s team to break the top 10 
as this is only the third time that 
the men’s team has even made it 
women as well had a strong day, 
Captain Jack Davies ’13 led the 
NCAA championship in program 
history. 
“I think the coolest part about 
nationals was for about an hour 
and a half after the race, there was 
a timing error, and I wasn’t in the 
12th without me, as the number 
one runner, and that’s better than 
we did last year. It shows that we’re 
a super-deep team and we’ve got a 
Davies, who was named an All-
racers with a time of 24:57 in the 
eight-kilometer race — the best 
history. The other top performers 
for the men included Patrick 
The Middlebury women were 
led by Panther standout Addie 
overall in the 277-women race. 
race with a time of 21:14.70, just 21 
was followed by 62nd, 124th, 127th 
like her teammate Davies, received 
NCAA All-American honors for her 
performance in the championship 
race and for her racing throughout 
the fall season. 
sophomores on both the men’s 
and women’s teams speak to 
Middlebury’s depth this season. 
 “This past season was totally 
about the team for both the men 
“There have been some great 
individual performances and 
highlights but it always is about 
the team’s accomplishments. The 
teams relied on each other, raising 
The teams now looks to next 
season, when they will need to 
Americans Tousley and Davies. A 
talented crop of underclassmen will 
keep them in contention, speaking 
to the tremendous strides the 
program has made. Davies points 
to the work of Wilkerson.
“If you look at the progression 
of where this team has come, say 
over the last ten years since Coach 
Wilkerson got here … in Nicole’s 
42 teams at regionals, and in the 
span of ten years since she’s been 
here she’s taken us to regional 
sports      november 29, 2012 | 24
Fourth-ranked Panthers 
tip-off season undefeated
By Owen Teach
Courtesy oF Robert steele
WOMEN’S HOCKEY 
OPENS WITH 3-1 
HOMESTAND
PAGE 22
SWIMMING AND 
DIVING COMPETE AT 
CONN. COLLEGE
PAGE 23
Cross country teams 
at NCAA tournament
By Gabe Weissmann
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
By Damon Hatheway
jiayi zhu
SEE THOMPSON, PAGE 21
SEE FIRST-YEARS, PAGE 23
