December 1, 2016 | Vol. 115 no.10 | middleburycampus.comStudents Petition for a ‘Sanctuary Campus’College Commits to Protecting Students in Danger of DeportationBy Ethan Brady firm where Berger is a partner, News Editor advises clients on legal routes un-der President Obama’s Deferred Middlebury College moved Action for Childhood Arrivals to increase its support of current (DACA) program, an executive and prospective students who are immigration policy that allows living in the country illegally, ac- certain immigrants to the United cording to a statement released States who entered the country by Laurie L. Patton over Thanks- as minors to receive a renewable giving break, in an emphatic re- two-year period of deferred ac-buke of President-elect Donald J. tion from deportation and eligibil-Trump’s promises to end illegal ity for a work permit. The federal immigration. government has estimated that The statement on Nov. 23 the DACA program provides tem-came a week after about 400 stu- porary resident status to about dents, faculty and staff staged a 728,000 young people.“walk-out” in front of Old Cha- Beginning with next year’s ap-pel protesting Trump’s proposed plicants for the class of 2022, the mass deportations and urging ad- Office of Admissions will evalu-ministrators to take direct action. ate applications from prospective In the statement, Patton said students living in the country ille-that the College will “not volun- gally under its need-blind admis-tarily share” student records with sions policy, which applies to all federal or state law enforcement domestic applicants. The College officials in deportation efforts. will commit to meeting the full “We will take every legal mea- demonstrated financial need, as sure to support our undocument- determined by Student Financial ed students as we continue to live Services, of students admitted un-up to our principles of educational der this effort.access and inclusivity,” Patton The Office of Admissions has said. reviewed applications in the past The College will continue to from prospective students living provide pro bono legal assistance in the country illegally, but did so to students with questions about on a need-aware basis. About a their immigration status through dozen such students are currently the office of International Student enrolled at the College, according and Scholar Services. Dan Berger, to an estimate given by Bill Burg-an immigration lawyer in Massa- er, vice president for communica-chusetts, will come to campus for tions.two days to host an information U.S. Immigration and Customs session and hold individual meet- Enforcement (ICE) issued a mem-ings with students. The informa- orandum to its agents in 2011 tion session will be Dec. 2 in Dana stating that certain enforcement Auditorium at 5 p.m. and individ- actions should not occur at “sensi-ual appointments will be schedule tive locations,” including schools, the next day between 8 a.m. and hospitals and churches, without michael o’hara1 p.m. prior approval. The policy, which Over 400 students, faculty and community members stood in front of Old Chapel as part of the nation-Curran & Berger LLP, the law SEE COLLEGE, PAGE 2 wide “walk-out” in support of the “sanctuary campus” movement. cohort of vermont schools issue SGA and SFS Review statement supporting inclusivity Financial Aid ProcessBy Will DiGravio dents may also have misconcep-By Caroline Agsten all backgrounds to the Green with other institutions. News Editor tions or unanswered questions News Editor Mountain state. “We will continue to work with about the process. We, the undersigned, con- other institutions to advance the The Student Government As- “[After] hearing things from President of the College Lau- demn any acts of unlawful goals of diversity, equity and in- sociation (SGA) has partnered various students, I [realized] peo-rie L. Patton joined 25 of Ver- discrimination, violence, and clusion in higher education. To with Student Financial Services ple don’t really understand what’s mont’s higher education leaders intimidation that target differ- that end, I have joined with other (SFS) to conduct a survey of the going on. [I decided] we should in signing a joint statement sup- ences in national origin, race, college and university leaders in student body to learn more about do something about that and this porting diversity, equity and in- sex, gender, religion, disability, signing three statements in re- student experiences with the fi- is the first step,” Toy said. clusiveness in Vermont. Signed or political viewpoint across our cent days that affirm our highest nancial aid process. The SGA worked alongside by Governor Peter Shumlin and nation. Such acts run counter to principles as an institution.”As worded in an email to stu-Governor-elect Phil Scott, the the rights and freedoms upon SFS and the College’s Office of Presidents of Bennington Col-which our country was found- dents, the goal of the survey is Assessment and Institutional Re-full statement reads: lege, Champlain College, School ed and to the core values of the to “assess your feelings towards search to draft questions. After for International Training (SIT) Vermont has fought for cen- state of Vermont. Middlebury’s financial aid sys- drafting the survey, they sent it to Graduate Institute and the Uni-turies for freedom and unity, Vermont is committed to fos- tem, evaluate your satisfaction the Office of Assessment and In-versity of Vermont were among equity and openness. Vermont tering welcoming communities with the services SFS provides, stitutional Research, which made the signees. In addition to Ver-remains a beacon of hope and and an equitable, diverse, and and get feedback on our system’s sure that questions were worded mont’s higher education leaders, opportunity, community and inclusive society. strengths and weaknesses.” the Vermont Student Assistance in a way that accounted for proper shared humanity. Vermont was Last spring, SGA President Corporation (VSAC) and the Ver- methodological findings. All in-the first to commit to the aboli- In an email sent on Nov. 23 mont Business Roundtable also Karina Toy ’17 ran on a promise formation gathered will remain tion of slavery in our state con- from President Patton that out- signed the statement. to conduct such a survey. Toy said confidential. stitution and a leader in the lined further steps toward sup- This letter was one of the three that she decided to work on this “The survey, as it stands now, fight for marriage equality. We porting students in the country signed by President Patton in the issue after realizing how complex is mostly trying to measure stu-will continue to support all Ver- illegally at Middlebury, she intro- wake of the national presidential the financial aid system is, and dent-satisfaction with Student monters and welcome people of duced Middlebury’s joint efforts election. wondering how many other stu- SEE SGA, PAGE 2INTERVIEW WITH PROJECT PENGYOUVERMONT SENATOR LAND TRUSTS HOSTS PANEL ONPATRICK LEAHY STRIVE FOR US-CHINA RELATIONS SOCIAL JUSTICEPAGE 4 PAGE 11 PAGE 12inside
2 NEWS | December 1, 2016College Takes Stand against trump Patton SGA CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 When asked if the College would obey a is still in effect, specified arrests, interviews, federal court order requiring cooperation Named VP UPDATE searches and surveillance as off-limits. But with ICE officials, Burger said the College the memorandum specifically stated that “will always comply” with court orders.obtaining records and serving subpoenas “We are not above the law,” he said.By Ally Murphy are not covered by the policy.Some have doubted that Trump will fo- of American The president has wide latitude in en- cus his deportation efforts on nonviolent SGA Correspondent & Staff Writerforcing immigration law, meaning that children of immigrants who are studying in ICE’s policies can change depending on the U.S. Academy of how the Department of Homeland Secu- “We find it hard to believe that Trump rity, which oversees ICE, sets its priorities. will suddenly revoke work cards and DACA The Nov. 13 meeting of the Student from 750,000 high achieving students,” Government Association (SGA) began Trump is expected to select a secretary for Religionsaid lawyers at Curran & Berger LLP in with a discussion of a resolution to rec- this agency who shares his hard-line stance a notice on the firm’s website. “Perhaps ommend that the College administration on immigration. more likely is that he could stop DACA ex- By Hope Lengconstruct two-flag poles that students Lawyers for the Obama administration tensions. Moving to deport these students Contributing Writercould use to hang flags or banners. The used this executive authority as legal basis for delaying deportation of certain immi- would be another radical step — if they just flag poles would be located outside the grants, including children and those with- lose their DACA status, that would be aw- President of the College Laurie L. Athletic Center and McCullough Student out criminal records. But the next president ful, but we can advise them as we did pre- Patton has recently been appointed to be Center and be overseen by the SGA. Stu- would have the same authority to reverse DACA.” the new vice president of the American dents or groups wishing to use the poles that course. But student organizers of the walk- Academy of Religion (AAR).would have to seek SGA approval. Trump’s campaign website lists ten out protest on Nov. 16 are wary to believe The AAR consists of 9,000 teachers The flag poles are part of the SGA’s steps under immigration. He pledges to speculation that Trump will moderate his and scholars from North America and MiddSpeaks Initiative to create zones “end sanctuary cities” and “immediately agenda. from around the world. Founded in 1909 for self-expression on campus. Senator terminate President Obama’s two illegal “We look forward to continuing conver- by Professor Ismar J. Peritz of Syracuse Hannah Pustejovsky ’18 said that the executive amnesties” — referring to DACA sations with President Patton and other University, the AAR seeks the scholarly, resolution is an opportunity to “join peer and DAPA, Deferred Action for Parents of members of the administration to talk open and inclusive study of religion from Americans. Trump promised repeatedly about the ways that the college can continue institutions in facilitating difficult con- numerous perspectives and viewpoints. versations but also the different issues on the campaign trail to reverse President to work in solidarity with students on cam- The AAR has grown to be the largest in-that affect students here at Middlebury.” Obama’s executive orders granting tem-pus and members of our community,” said stitution of its kind.porary resident status to certain classes of Austin Kahn ’17.5, one of the organizers. President Patton’s position is part of She said that “nothing will make ev- immigrants. The plan also says that Trump Organizers believed that the College’s re- a three-year term. During the first year, eryone feel happy but this will facilitate, hopefully, constructive conversations.” plans to triple the number of ICE agents sponse to the walk-out was a necessary step she will serve as vice president. In the employed by the government. in protecting students who are in danger of second year, she will be president-elect. The senators passed the resolution 15-2. “This is what it means to have laws and deportation and in alleviating the concerns Then in her third-year, she will be presi-Senators then discussed the second to have a country,” the plan reads. of community members. dent of the AAR. The AAR dubs this suc-part of the MiddSpeaks Initiative: the In a 60 Minutes interview on Nov. 20, “In our view, Laurie Patton simply re- cession the “presidential line.”creation of an “aesthetically pleasing President-elect Trump said he planned to sponded to the huge public pressure dem- In addition to serving on the board wall” that would serve as a center for cre- immediately deport all living in the coun- onstrated by both the walk-out itself and of directors, President Patton will also ative spaces. The wall would be placed try illegally who “have criminal records” the letter signed by well over 1,500 stu- serve on the board’s executive commit-outside the McCullough Student Center after his inauguration next January. When dents, faculty, staff and alumni,” Kahn said. tee, as well as the AAR program commit-so that it would be ADA accessible. The pressed on his campaign pledge to de- “While we were definitely excited to see tee, of which she is will be serving for so many people willing to take time out of senators then changed the name of the port even those without criminal records, their daily activities, we would expect noth- a one year, ex officio term, overseeing initiative to MiddSpeaks Creative Space, Trump said that after securing the border, ing less during a time when there exist real over 150 program units. She will begin and continued to discuss the potential his administration would make a “determi-nation” on the remaining immigrants, who and unmistakable threats to the wellbeing her new position at the end of Novem-ramifications of constructing the wall. of marginalized people on our campus and ber, when the AAR holds their annual Senator Rae Aaron ’19.5 brought up number about 11.3 million according to Pew Research Center. in our country more generally.”meeting in San Antonio, Texas from the potential issue of people writing of- Nov. 18-22.fensive statements and images on the Jack Fitsmier, executive director wall. Senator Cohen responded that this of the AAR stated in a comment to the space is for people to start conversations SGA Solicits Feedback on Aid Process Middlebury Newsroom, “I have known on campus, and people are expected to Laurie for many years and I look forward to our work together. Laurie is uniquely hold themselves to community standards CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 will be sent to and analyzed by the Office of Assessment and Institutional Research, qualified to join the presidential line of everyday at the College. The senators Financial Services as an office and also the where they will be able to use student in- the American Academy of Religion. Her then passed the resolution 15-2. financial aid process,” SGA Chief of Staff record of excellent scholarship and ad-The Nov. 20 SGA meeting began with William Weightman ’17 said. “The ques- formation to better understand the survey’s findings. Toy and Weightman said that, ministrative expertise portend a won-updates and questions from senators. tions are [also] trying to drive at not just derful term of service for our Academy.”Senator Ou ‘19 mentioned that he had student satisfaction, but to see how stu- depending on the results of the survey, the Member volunteers, such as Presi-heard, in the coming years, the nature of dents understand the application process.” Office of Assessment and Institutional Re- dent Patton, who serve on board com-the Certified Residential Advisor (CRA) The initiative is just the latest example of search may make recommendations based mittees, task forces and juries work to position may be changing. In years, past, Toy and the SGA’s concerted effort to work on data-collected. further the AAR’s mission statement. the position is typically filled be a recent alongside College administrators to accom- Toy said that, once the survey results are As all previous Board Members, Presi-graduate. The senators voted to form an plish goals. compiled, the SGA will continue to meet dent Patton was elected to her position ad-hoc committee to work with members “We want to make the survey as legiti- and work with SFS to analyze student re- as an internationally recognized scholar of commons council to investigate that mate as possible so the findings can be use- sponses and, if necessary, work to address who has given several lectures on reli-decision. ful,” Toy said. student concerns. It is her hope that this Members from EatReal then gave a The survey is designed to capture both survey will be conducted yearly. “[Laurie’s] record of presentation about their proposal to quantitative data and anecdotal evidence. Students received a link to access in an reduce the amount of meat in the din- Because confidential information cannot be all-student email sent on Nov. 21. The sur-excellent scholarship and vey will be available until Dec. 2. administrative expertise ing halls by 30 percent over the next shared with SGA officials, the information three years, 10 percent each year. They portend a wonderful explained the logistics of such a move- CHRISTAL BROWN WINS FUNDING FOR ‘OPULENCE OF INTEGRITY’ term of service for our ment in addition to the rationale behind it. Rather than meat being removed al- Academy.”together, the reduction would be incor- Jack Fitsmierporated into various dishes. Their pre- aar Executive Directorsentation outlined the numerous ways people are able to incorporate protein in gion and interfaith issues. Previously, their diet. President Patton has consulted with the The club members also explained how White House on faith-based initiatives. meat production is the leading industry She holds two Fulbright Fellowships and in terms of environmental impact, and is a prolific author of several books and also has negative impacts within animal articles.and human rights. In addition, EatReal According to their website, the AAR’s believes that the College could utilize mission statement is as follows: “In a more humane, local and fair meat. If the world where religion plays so central reduction in meat were to occur, the new a role in social, political and economic funds could be used to invest in more events, as well as in the lives of commu-sustainable food, to reallocate funds to nities and individuals, there is a critical other protein sources, or to buy more need for ongoing reflection upon and high quality meat. Ultimately the deci- understanding of religious traditions, is-sion is up to dining. Senators decided sues, questions and values. The Ameri-to table the discussion of the issue until Brett simison can Academy of Religion’s mission is to their next meeting. Christal Brown, assistant professor of dance, is one of the 28 inaugural grant recipients promote such reflection through excel-from the New England Dance Fund. She will use the funding to exhibit her ensemble lence in scholarship and teaching in the performance piece, “The Opulence of Integrity,” inspired by the life of Muhammad Ali. field of religion.”
localSwastikas Found on Local Havurah HouseBy Rebecca Walker one instance of the hate that has manifest-Local News Editor ed itself in the nation after the results of the presidential election.On Monday, Nov. 14 swastikas were “In addition to the swastika’s particu-found on the Havurah House, the Addison larly gruesome associations with Nazi Ger-County Jewish congregation. Sarit Katzew, many and white supremacists, the incident the House’s Director of Education, first saw was also seen as yet another public expres-the graffiti on the front door when she ap- sion of acts of hate and bigotry toward proached the building to prepare for He- minority groups that have become more brew school that Monday morning. The prevalent in recent weeks,” noted Rabbi Ira graffiti consisted of Schiffer in an email two swastikas drawn to The Campus. in green. They were “In addition to the This incident later washed off by has made commu-Havurah leaders af- swastika’s particu- nity members doubt ter approval from larly gruesome as- their previous per-the police. ceptions of the state The Middlebury sociations with Nazi of Vermont, but has Police Department Germany and white also fostered a sense Vermont Diggerwas promptly in- of unity and support formed of the inci- supremacists, the inci- for those affected. On Monday, Nov. 14 swastikas were found on the Havurah House in town. dent, and officers dent was also seen as “Most of us view investigated the Vermont as a bu-graffiti. No suspects yet another public ex- colic, liberal sanctu-have been named ary, and to have an yet and Middlebury pression of acts of hate incident seemingly police are encourag- and bigotry toward representing hate ing anyone with in- in our town seemed formation to contact minority groups that to contradict that,” them. have become prevalent Sarah Dohan ’17, “Havurah was Middlebury Hillel the target this week in recent weeks.” co-president, said. for the first time that “While initially anyone can remem- rattled, the incident ber,” wrote Rebekah Rabbi Ira Schiffer only furthered my Irwin on Havurah’s belief in the good of website. “In some Associate Chaplain/Hillel Advisor humanity, as the re-respects this may be sponse to the graffiti considered an iso- demonstrated the lated incident, but compassion of our it is part of a pattern of malicious speech community members,” Dohan continued.and actions elsewhere in our community Outside of Middlebury, Havurah also and across our country. We will continue to services towns such as Addison, Waltham, be vigilant about and mindful of any acts of Bristol, Cornwall, Brandon and Bridport. ignorance or hatred.” According to its website, the Havurah A letter was sent out by the Havurah House serves as a “fully functioning house House to the parents of children in the of prayer, study and celebration,” which in-Hebrew school to inform them of the inci- cludes space for Hebrew school as well as a dent. The graffiti was also reported to the sanctuary and social hall.Anti-Defamation League and the Southern The ramifications of this incident clearly Poverty Law Center in efforts to continue extend beyond just the House and the town tracking hate crimes. of Middlebury. Students at the College have John Freidin, a member of Havurah, also been affected by the vandalism on the sent a comment to VT Digger about the Havurah House. Havurah Addison Countygraffiti and what it means for the commu- “We were incredibly shocked and con-nity. cerned to hear of the news of the swastika Hebrew School students, educators and parents created a sticky note mural to show “It is a horrifying incident that not drawn on the Havurah House in town,” support in response to the recent hate crime. merely causes pain, but tears at the fabric Andrew Holtz ’16.5, Co-President of of our community and beyond,” he shared. Middlebury College Hillel, said. “The Ha-vurah House and Middlebury Hillel have past week. Thank you to everyone who the greater Middlebury community. About The graffiti at the Havurah House is just always had a close relationship. We often stands with us against hate.” 250 Middlebury students and community celebrate holidays together, so when we Rabbi Ira Schiffer echoed this sentiment members attended this event.heard of the graffiti, we processed it as a di- and noted, “The responses of Hillel, the The Middlebury Area Clergy Association rect attack on our community.” College, the Havurah community and the has also planned a “Community Gathering Despite the pain, there have been some larger Middlebury community have been of Love and Hope” for Saturday, Dec. 3. marks of hope and light in the Jewish com- most heartening.” Attendees of this event should arrive at the munity in Addison County. On the Friday On the Saturday morning following Middlebury Green by 1 p.m. after the incident, Havurah of Addison the incident, Middlebury Hillel members  “It is important for us Jews to heed County’s Facebook page posted pictures took part in the Havurah House’s morning our ancestors’ warning of what can happen of messages of love and solidarity that had Shabbat service. Additionally, a Havdalah if we stand idle,” concluded Holtz ’16.5. “It been chalked outside of the House. service was hosted that Saturday night is our moral and cultural responsibility as The post read, “We so appreciate the in front of Mead Chapel and was open to a society to fight and defend for those who community support we’ve received this all of the College community as well as to might not be able to defend themselves.” The official pizza of the Middlebury CampusGREEN peppersHavurah of Addion County Facebook PageMembers of the community wrote mes-sages of hope to stand in solidarity with the Addison County Jewish Congrega-tion Havurah House. [802] 388-3164
4 Local December 1, 2016 |Burlington Becomes a Sanctuary CityBy Harry Cramer sues,” said Del Pozo in a statement.Super Senior Writer “It is important to send a signal to the members of our community that On Monday Nov. 28, the Burlington Burlington is not going to change,” said City Council formalized Burlington’s Knodell. “That they’re going to enjoy the sanctuary city sta- same access to city tus. services they have Choosing to be- “When the new ad- now — that we’re come a sanctuary not really with the city means that the ministration moves Trump program, if municipality does forward and they do you will.”not enforce federal When Mayor immigration law, things that are in con- Weinberger initial-and protects un- flict with what Burl- ly proposed adopt-documented immi- ington is and the vi- ing the label he grants. was openly critical The resolution sion of Burlington, we Seven Days Vermontof the immigration created a com- will stand up to it and Mayor Miro Weinberger fought to make Burlington a “sanctuary city” going forward.policy proposals mittee of three of president-elect councilors that we will resist it. And Donald Trump, federal funding once he enters the White set up. We’re going to do the job that is will review Burl- we will use every lever which he called House, the mayor has made clear that our job to do and that doesn’t get into ington’s policies that we can to ensure “unhelpful.” Burlington will not back down, at least people’s immigration status.”and present formal Trump has partly because the amount of federal Such action, Chief Del Pozo explained, solutions by Jan. that Burlington re- vowed to widen dollars Burlington currently receives is could undermine public safety by dis-9, 2017 that will mains the special place the scope of immi- “modest.” suading undocumented workers from ensure the city re- grants subject to Weinberger also sought to reassure contacting law enforcement if they’ve mains welcoming of this today.”    deportation to in- Burlington’s immigrants that the City been a victim of a crime, witnessed a and inclusive for clude those charged of Burlington had not abandoned them. crime or need emergency aid.immigrants. with an offense The designation, he insisted, would Although Mayor Weinberger saw In Burlington, Miro Weinberger but not convicted, merely be a formalization of the city’s room for cooperation with the incoming several prominent Mayor of Burlington suspected gang current immigration practices. administration on certain issues, par-public officials members and drug “What I want Burlingtonians to know, ticularly on child support and infrastruc-have expressed dealers and people and what I particularly want the im- ture investment, he doubled down on his their support for charged with immigration violations like migrants living in this community to initial proposition regarding immigra-the adoption of “sanctuary city” status. overstaying their visas. know,” Weinberger told Vermont Public tion policy.Last Friday, Police Chief Brandon del “Cities that refuse to cooperate with Radio, “is that you are living in the same “When the new administration moves Pozo and city council President Jane federal authorities will not receive tax- Burlington today that you were living in forward and they do things that are in Knodell vocalized their support for May- payer dollars, and we will work with before last Tuesday’s election. You are conflict with what Burlington is and the or Weinberger, who had floated the idea Congress to pass legislation to protect still living in the same city today that you vision of Burlington, we will stand up to on Thursday. those jurisdictions that do assist federal were living in before the election.” it and we will resist it. And we will use “We want to continue the relationship authorities,” Trump said while cam- “We are not going to turn Burlington every lever that we can to ensure that of trust we’ve built with the people who paigning in August. police, Burlington City officials into dep- Burlington remains the special place of need our protection by locally emphasiz- Although the president-elect has uties of the federal government,” Wein- this today,” he said.ing crime fighting over immigration is- warned that “sanctuary cities” will lose berger insisted. “That’s not the way we’re An Interview with Vt. Sen. Patrick Leahymy own line. When I first got elected, By Paul Donelon the majority opinion in Vermont was ContributingWriter in favor of the Vietnam War. No Ver-Senator Patrick Leahy (D) Vermont monter had ever voted against it. We had won re-election to his a vote in April eighth term in office on the Armed this November, re- “I’ve been quietly Services Com-ceiving 59.83 percent meeting with a num- mittee, where I of the vote. He is the ber of key Republicans was the newest ranking member of member, to de-the Senate Judiciary and a number of key termine whether Committee, and a for- Democrats. After the to continue the mer chairman of the war. And we had committee. Leahy is election, we’re going five consecu-now the most senior to try to put forward tive votes, each Senator in the United one lost by one States. Several weeks some good faith, confi- vote — final. I ago, during a visit to dence-building legisla- caught holy hell Middlebury, Leahy tion, an equal number in newspapers Leahy.Senate.govspoke with The Cam- and editorials. of Republicans and Today, if you Senator Patrick Leahy has been married to his wife, Marcelle Pomerleau Leahy, since pus about the phi-losophy of politicians, Democrats supporting asked about 1962.He has been an elected member of the United States Senate since 1974. Senate politics and his that, you’d say 41-year long Senate it, get it passed and see that was the a lot different here. People can just go consent, and they can vote ‘no’ if they tenure. if we can get back to right call. But up and talk to you — you can’t in larger want, but they have to vote. And it’s you have to use places. never happened. In fact, the last time we Middlebury Cam- What do the way it used to be.” your own judg- MC: As the ranking member of the Ju- had a presidential election year, it was pus (MC):you think a politi- Patrick Leahy ment ... Can you diciary Committee and former Chair- a Republican president, and the Demo-cian’s job should be make everything man, you’ve participated firsthand in crats were in charge of the Senate. It was for their constituents? Senator Vermont (D) right? No, but the confirmation process, with nominees Anthony Kennedy and we unanimously can you make ranging from Justice Sonia Sotomayor confirmed him, in a presidential year. Senator Patrick Well, it a lot better? to the blocked Robert Bork. Earlier this No, this has never happened before. It’s Leahy (SPL):when I first ran, I ac- Well, I’d say yes. year, Senate Republicans refused to call totally irresponsible and it’s wrong. tually quoted Edmund Burke, Irish par- MC: What do you think are the differ- a hearing of President Obama’s nominee MC: How do you think Congress has liamentarian, fairly conservative. But he ences in values between Vermont and Merrick Garland. Do you think Senators changed since you arrived back in 1975?said a parliamentarian owes constituents D.C., and how do you bridge that gap? should consider politics in their confir- SPL: Far more partisan, and I think that — and I’m paraphrasing it — their most SPL: Well I think most people have ba- mation of judicial nominees? hurts the Senate, and I think it hurts the diligent duties, but he reserves for him- sically good values. I think sometimes we SPL: They can consider whatever they country. And I’ve been quietly meeting self the conscience in how he votes. But hear things that make you think other- want but they should vote. This [refus- with a number of key Republicans and you do everything you can to help. You wise. But sometimes in D.C. they think ing to vote on the confirmation of Mer- a number of key Democrats. After the try to work and help in any way you can. on a much larger scale, and forget that rick Garland] is the most irresponsible election, we’re going try to put forward For example, if a Vermonter or someone larger scale doesn’t always work for us. thing I’ve ever seen in a Judicial con- some good faith, confidence-building else comes for help, we never ask wheth- There’s a provision called small state firmation. It’s never been done before. legislation, an equal number of Republi-er they’re a Republican or a Democrat – minimums on a lot of grants just so they The Constitution says that the President cans and Democrats supporting it, get it we don’t care. can reflect our needs. And they some- shall nominate, which the President did. passed and see if we can get back to the But in some things I have to pick up times don’t realize that bureaucracy is Then it says the Senate shall advise and way it used to be.
opinionsDisclaimer: Reader op-eds do not reflect the opinion of The Middlebury Campus editorial board. Strides Towards a Sanctuary CampusBeing at a small school in the middle happen. Noon that day, hundreds of stu- community for a common cause: support ed students as we continue to live up to of Vermont, sometimes it’s hard for Mid- dents, faculty and staff staged a walk-out for migrants and refugees. The rally’s our principles of educational access and dlebury students in front of Old Chapel to insist that Mid- turnout of over four hundred people even inclusivity.” She detailed what the Col-editorial to feel like they dlebury become a sanctuary campus. The earned it a mentioning in The New York lege’s efforts to aid migrant and refugee The editorial can make a dif- College community demonstrated our Times as the newspaper covered #Sanc- students would be, saying that the College represents the ference. On Nov. support for students living in the country tuaryCampus protests. What was most will never voluntarily provide students’ official opinion of 16, however, we illegally, and the administration recog- successful about the walk-out, however, information to the government; the Col-the editorial board saw that Middle- nized that display of solidarity. was how it appealed to the administration lege will look at students in the country of The Middlebury bury students As President Patton stated in her and how the administration responded. illegally as need blind in admissions from Campus. have a voice that school-wide email on Nov. 23, the #Sanc- By positioning itself right outside of now on; and lastly, that she has signed can make change tuaryCampus Walk-Out reaffirmed Mid- President Patton’s office in Old Chapel, three statements (a statement supporting dlebury’s commitment to work with stu- the #SanctuaryCampus attendees de- DACA, an open letter to President-elect dents who fear that their ability to stay Trump and a statement from educational at the College is in jeopardy. This fear editorial board “What was most suc-leaders in Vermont), all endorsing diver-stems from our country’s newly elected cessful about the walk- sity, equity and inclusiveness in school-EDITOR-IN-CHIEF leadership. Donald J. Trump has empha- ing. Ellie Reinhardt sized that his presidency will include a out, however, was how We as an editorial board are proud of MANAGING EDITOR crackdown on immigration; he has said Christian Jambora that one of his priorities will be to block it appealed to the ad-our student body and faculty/staff for at-tending the walk-out, and we are proud of BUSINESS MANAGER progressive immigration policies that ministration and how the College administration for respond-Julien Miller aid students who are in the country il- ing accordingly. However, we have ques-NEWS EDITORS legally, many of whom currently benefit the administration re- tions about what necessitated action on Caroline Agsten, Phil Bohlman, Ethan from President Obama’s executive order: sponded.” this issue, and comparative inaction on Brady, Will DiGravio, Eliza TeachOPINIONS EDITORS Deferred Action for Childhood Arriv- other issues. We encourage the College Hannah Blackburn, Erin Van Gessel, Sara als (DACA). This newspaper condemned to be equally vocal and active about the Hodgkins, Edward O’Brien Trump’s candidacy and the bigotry his Islamophobic actions that have taken SPORTS EDITORS campaign evoked. Thus, now that he has manded a response to this human rights place on campus, as well as the swastikas Will Case, Remo Plunkett, Andrew Rigas been elected, we support the student issue on our campus. And President Pat- drawn on Havurah house in town. None-LOCAL EDITORS body in doing all that it can to mitigate ton did not disappoint in how she ad- theless, we salute our chief, President Annie Grayer, Alessandria Schumacher, Trump’s bigoted words from becoming dressed the issue. As President of the Patton, as she allies herself and this Col-Rebecca Walker realities. College, she offered unwavering support lege with students in the country illegally. FEATURES EDITORS The walk-out was therefore an enor- for students in the country illegally. She It is comforting and a source of quasi-pa-Henry Burnett, Renee Chang, Charmaine mous success in our eyes. It effectively wrote in her email: “We will take every le- triotism when the country’s leader-elect Lam, Alex NewhouseARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS gathered members from all corners of our gal measure to support our undocument- has provided no such support. Toby Aicher, Finne Murphy, Dominick Tanoh, Elizabeth ZhouPHOTOS EDITORS Continued Support for JusTalksMichael Borenstein, Anahi Naranjo, Mi-chael O’Hara, Ivan ValladaresDESIGN EDITORS Classes of 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, we language, we called on allies from every part most important reason why we write to you Emma Hatheway, Julia Hatheway, Corde- are alumni from the classes of 2016, 2015, of campus. We met with clubs and sports today: to offer our support. None of us were lia Prouvost 2014, 2013 and 2012. We wanted to write to teams, freshman halls and special interest lucky enough to experience JusTalks as a CARTOON EDITOR you in celebration of a milestone: all of you houses, each of which added their input for program with the whole campus involved. Nolan Ellsworth have experienced a Middlebury where JusT- what JusTalks should look like and gave us ONLINE EDITORS their endorsement. We partnered with sup-Pyone Aye, Jerrica Davy, Elaine Velie COPY EDITOR reader Op-edportive professors and worked with their first-year seminars. We strove for something “ We have always con-Rachel Iacono, Emma Walker Alumni from the classes of 2016, fully integrated into the first-year experi- sidered JusTalks, and THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012 write in ence, because we envisioned a dialogue that Nathaniel Wiener, Sara Hodgkins about the value of JusTalks on campus. was inclusive of the whole first-year commu-more broadly, the proj-OFFICE MANAGER nity, organized each year by a new genera- ect of learning to connect Sarah Koenigsberg tion of student leaders.alks has existed in one iteration or another. However, we are not just writing to you across difference, a per-This has never been true before. In fact, today in celebration of this milestone. We petual process.’”The content written within the five years ago, JusTalks was just an idea know that much work remains, and we Opinions pages may cause emotional tossed around by a few students meet- wanted to thank you all in advance for com-distress. Please exercise discretion. ing weekly in the Ross basement, who felt mitting to that, in whatever small or large a And we see everyday the consequences of The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus strongly that as a community, we were not way you may choose. not having dedicated space in our lives to provide a forum for constructive and respectful doing nearly enough to learn from and un- Because much work will always remain. connect across differences with intention dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, and openness. We ask that you engage with The Campus reserves the right to deny publication derstand each other. Our analysis was that We have always considered JusTalks, and of all or part of a submission for any reason. This the failure to tap into the tremendous diver- more broadly, the project of learning to JusTalks, and we genuinely want to offer our includes, but is not limited to: the making of as- connect across difference, a perpetual pro- support in turn. These conversations will be sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private cess. JusTalks is not a destination: it is not challenging. We hope that as this year un-conversations; the libelous mention of unverifiable a fixed curriculum designed to homogenize folds, you won’t hesitate to reach out to us. events; the use of vulgar language or personal at- “JusTalks strives for... us. JusTalks is also not an echo chamber; it JusTalks has always been about listening to tacks. Any segment of a submitted article that con- is a peer-to-peer and peer-facilitated conver- each other on a deeper level than any of us tains any of the aforementioned will be removed those conversations, in-before publication. Contributors will be allowed to sation about who we are and how we might imagined possible. We would be remiss if we reference prior articles published in the Opinions tended to help practice seek to engage with one another in the face did not extend an offer to listen to all of you.section or announcements for the public record. If of inevitable differences. Think of the most a reference is made to prior articles, the submis- dialogue that is both un- honest, vulnerable conversations you have Ben Blackshear ‘12, blackshear.ben@sion will be considered a letter to the editor. The had at Midd — if they are anything like what gmail.comopinions expressed by contributors to the Opinions apologetically authentic, they were for us, some have left you feeling Rhiya Trivedi, ‘12, rhiyatrivedi@gmail.section, as well as reviews, columns, editorial com- fuller, and more connected to those around comics and other commentary, are views of the individ- and deeply open-mind-ual contributors and do not necessarily reflect the ed.” you, while others have left you frustrated, Matt Johnson ‘12 mdjohnson89@gmail.opinions of the newspaper. Submit works directly angry, resentful. JusTalks strives for the com to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@ best of those conversations, intended to help Elma Burnham ‘13, eccburnham@gmail.middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at www. practice dialogue that is both unapologeti- commiddleburycampus.com. To be considered for pub- sity of experience in our community—along cally authentic, and deeply open-minded. Carllee James ‘13, carllee.james@gmail.lications, submissions must be received by 5 p.m. lines of race, class, gender, religion, sexual- JusTalks is an offering to make that con- comSunday. The Campus reserves the right to edit all ity and disability—was leading to misunder- nection a more frequent phenomenon in Adina Marx-Arpadi ‘13.5, adinamarxar-submissions.The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the standing and pain. We knew that if we didn’t your time at Middlebury, often with people padi@gmail.comstudent newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub- address subjects of power and privilege in you never expected. President-elect Trump’s Alexandria Jackman’14, alexandriajack-lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. our community head-first, we would only election and appointments threaten to in- man@gmail.comPublication is every Thursday of the academic year, continue to suffer from intense disconnec- tensify xenophobia, white supremacy, mi- Hudson Cavanagh ‘14, hucavanagh@except during official college vacation periods and tion. We believed that creating space for sogyny, Islamophobia and prejudice more gmail.comfinal examinations. Editorial and business offices intentional, thoughtful and vulnerable dia- broadly. As a result, now more than ever, we Josh Swartz ‘14.5, joshbswartz@gmail.are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, Middlebury logue about how we all experience the world need spaces like JusTalks, where we can ex- comCollege. The Middlebury Campus is produced on Apple Macintosh computers using Adobe InDesign radically differently, would make us all more plore ways we might relate to each other on a Kate McCreary ‘15, kate.mccreary@CS5 and is printed by the Press Republican in New compassionate people, and help us make a deeper level, and in doing so, see each other gmail.comYork. The advertising deadline for all display and better Middlebury community. We wanted more fully and do less harm to one another. Alice Oshima ‘15, oshima.alice@gmail.classified advertising is 5 p.m. Friday for the follow- to hold the mission statement accountable, Since JusTalks is an ever-evolving space, coming week’s issue. Mailing address: The Middlebury as it declares that the College aspires to the responsibility of making the promise of Afi Yellow-Duke ‘15, ayellowduke@Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, Middle- “challenge students to participate fully in a JusTalks a reality will always fall to current gmail.combury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-5737. vibrant and diverse academic community,” students. This year, it falls to all of you, and Molly McShane ‘16, mollymcshane80@Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-ness Director. First class postage paid at Middle- and to “learn to engage the world.” particularly those students who have signed gmail.combury, Vt., 05753. In order to create the programming up for the Winter Term class to become Anna Chamby ‘16, anna.chamby@gmail.needed to acquire these necessary skills and student facilitators. And this is perhaps the com
6 opinions  |december 1, 2016 The Harmful Rhetoric of “Love Trumps Hate”On Facebook, sidewalk chalk in front are differently impacted by it. As white perpetuating systems of oppression. As who’ve all spoken at Middlebury in the of Mead, in conversation, Opinions sec- people, it is inappropriate to tell people white people striving to be anti-racist, it past three years.tions and in politicians’ televised na- of color to feel love for those who voted is important to not only locate the prob- Don’t ask to be educated by your peers tional addresses we’ve heard repeated to perpetuate the criminalization and lem of racism outside of ourselves, but — they are here to learn and it isn’t their rhetoric that tells us to act with “love, dehumanization of people of color. to also examine the ways that we are im- job to educate us — but listen when they compassion, understanding and em- If we, as privileged people, have ca- plicated in, perpetuate and benefit from pacity to feel love for the oppressor — and structural racism and white supremacy. reader op-ed in that, for ourselves — while simultane- We don’t have to stop loving our white ously holding that person and ourselves family members and friends, we have to “We, like many of you, Matea Mills-Andruk ‘18.5 and more accountable ... love away! But it is stop asking other people to. We have to have felt compelled to Sarah Koch ‘18.5 write in about harmful to ask that other people listen to push them and engage with them — and reactions to the 2016 election. or empathize with views that dehuman- in doing so, self-reflect and change our reexamine our politi-ize them. own practices and spaces that are op- cal agency, positional-pressive. ity and sense of purpose pathy,” and to “hope for unity.” While Pushing for an undefined “unity,” im-these messages of hope are intended “We have framed this plies moving toward an inequitable cen-after the election, and we to combat the racist, sexist, ableist, xe- ter. Our existing institutions (education- think that these are im-nophobic, queer-phobic, Islamophobic article around race and al, criminal justice, political) are already society we live in, their vagueness and whiteness because that is inequitable. To work for equity and portant impulses to no-insistence on positivity tone polices and justice we do not all need to come to the tice and act upon.”silences already marginalized groups. the discourse we have the center — we as white people must stand Identities are multifaceted and when most experience with, but behind the leadership of people of color talking about privilege it is difficult to focus on a single facet. In writing this we acknowledge that the and push other white people to do so as speak and read what they write. Check well. Unifying around equity and justice out Beyond the Green, check out JusT-article we oscillated between addressing arguments in this article — not unity itself — is the ultimate goal. alks, check out books from the Disorien-people with all types of privileges and ad- may apply to any privi- All this doesn’t mean that we think tation Guide (go/disorientation/) at Da-dressing white people. We have framed it’s better to retreat and disengage. We, vis library and the Alison Fraker Library this article around race and whiteness leged identities, not only like many of you, have felt compelled in the Chellis House. Take classes that because that is the discourse we have the whiteness.” to reexamine our political agency, posi- examine power structures. Also check most experience with, but we acknowl- tionality and sense of purpose after the out “Wonderbread: White Students for edge that the arguments in this article election, and we think that these are im- Racial Justice” meetings (at 7 p.m. on may apply to any privileged identities, It is also important to acknowledge portant impulses to notice and act upon. Thursdays in Gifford classroom), a space not only whiteness. Our intended audi- that calling on liberal white people to But in doing so, we are trying to work in for white people to interrogate our own ence is white people who want to be in feel love for ‘the Trump voter’ locates respectful solidarity with the people who whiteness. Ask yourself; “When and how solidarity with the people of color whom racism outside of ourselves. If we are have been fighting in these movements did I first realize I was white?” “How has Trump’s election has further marginal- saying we need to love the racist, misog- long before Trump became president structural racism benefited me?” “How ized and oppressed.  ynist, xenophobic, Islamophobic, queer- elect and those for whom justice move- do I perpetuate systems of oppression In addressing this audience, we want phobic “other,” we need to reexamine ments are fighting. that benefit me?”to clarify our own positionality as two who this “other” is. By calling to embrace To do this, we listen to and center We must place our compassion wise-white people who have started engaging the Trump voter — the “other” — we im- the voices of people of color and other ly. We must start with compassion for with the politics of race and ‘inclusion’ ply that the Trump voter is a figure com- marginalized communities, both local- the marginalized groups most affected and who are trying to learn. We view it pletely different from ourselves. ly — on campus and in the Middlebury by Trump’s election and unify in solidar-as an act of love to be held accountable Branding ourselves as “good liberals” community — and nationally, by follow- ity and support behind these commu-for the impact of our actions. who didn’t vote for Trump doesn’t mean ing figures such as Shaun King, Kimberlé nities. If anyone is obligated to engage The vagueness in the rhetoric of “love we are anti-racist, anti-classist, anti- Crenshaw, Van Jones, Ta-Nehisi Coates, Trump voters with empathy, it is those and unity” is harmful in that it tells ableist, anti-heterosexist, anti-xenopho- Reina Gossett, Alok Vaid-Menon and of us with privilege who must undertake people how to feel or react to this elec- bic. Just because we, ourselves, didn’t Janani Balasubramanian of Darkmat- this particular aspect of anti-racist work.tion, without acknowledging that people vote for Trump doesn’t mean we’re not ter, Angela Davis and Robin DiAngelo, Political DifferencesAs I am writing this, it’s been exactly 10 supports, it is the why they do so that mat-days since I sat in disbelief and watched ters most. Often, it is hard to overlook this Donald Trump win the presidential elec- why, to glaze over it because of the pas-tion. Like many of my peers, I’m still reel- sionate convictions that drive all of us. In the aggregate, the refusal to look more reader op-ed deeply into how people with contradicting Alex Rose ’17 responds to the viewpoints think and feel is dangerous. It makes us lose sight of maybe even the last presidential election results. bit of what makes us similar: that we share and are equally responsible for the same ing. I’m full of questions and a massive space in the universe.sense of uncertainty looking at the next I recognize that dialogue comes more four years of life and what this means for easily to some than others, for both cir-my country and all of the people in it. cumstantial and unavoidable reasons. One thing that has become absolutely Because of this, it is critical that dialogue certain of in this time is that people are start among those who can engage safely convicted and divided now more than ever. and with fewer risks, with the hope that With this division, I see a lack of dialogue. eventually those who have less ability to This is alarming. By dialogue, I mean con- advocate for themselves can contribute to versation — the exchange of ideas, opin- the conversation as well. We are incredibly ions, beliefs with the equal opportunity to lucky to exist in an incubator for dialogue both express and be heard. right now — college. We cannot forget to Dialogue between the like-minded is take advantage of this space — even though easy, comforting and often convenient. We it seems like we live in an ideologically surround ourselves with people who think dominant homogenous bubble. We need to and feel in the same ways we do, and take continue to challenge ourselves and each extra care to avoid interacting with those other to see beyond the bubble and recog-who don’t. I firmly believe, however, that nize that here too, there are many that feel dialogue with those who are dissimilar unable to express their opinions freely.from us is what brings about understand- Today, I listened to a podcast that made ing, the first step to progress. Sharing and me think about all of this. It made me think listening to the people in our lives that about dialogue, and it made me realize face different realities, endure unfamiliar how easy it is to remain divided, no matter struggles and are defined by diverse con- the side you’re on. It made me think about texts is what reminds us of at least one how dangerous division is, and how maybe thing we all have in common: our human- something so simple as a conversation may ity. This type of rare interaction; a conver- be a first step in moving our communities sation with the intent of recognizing and and country in the right direction.acknowledging how people make decisions I recommend giving it a listen: hand support their positions is the first step https://www.thisamericanlife.org/in beginning to tackle whatever lies ahead. radio-archives/episode/602/the-sun-No matter who or what each person comes-up
CARTOONSNolan EllsworthWin homerKAITLYND COLLINSURIEL ULLOA ADAN
8 features | December 1, 2016 December 1, 2016 | features 9Winter Workshops: J-Term, Play-TermLegos! - with Craig Calhoun ’18.5 A fun and informative Q&A to find out about a few of the winter workshops this Do It Yourself iPhone Repair Workshop - with Kyle Kuzman ’20Q How did you get the idea for your winter term workshop?   I had the idea for the “Legos!” J-Term workshop when I was thinking about college and cre- winter term!A ativity. College can be stressful despite, and often because of, continually creating things under QHow did you get the idea for your J-Term workshop?the rules of professors and mentors. Legos are a very simply, stress-free, and rule-free way to be    I’m a first-year here at Midd, and have been fixing smartphones and other devices for more than five creative and this workshop uses that to bring us back to pure, fun, uncomplicated creativity. A years. I’ve already fixed a lot of phones on campus, some multiple times, and I know there are always new broken phones around, especially on weekends. I hate having to charge people to fix their phones, More than 50 different and I know a lot of people spend hundreds of dollars on a new phone when they could fix theirs for Q Have you run this workshop before? If so, how was the experience? If not, why much cheaper. Knowing how to repair it yourself a great skill to have, something you can learn quickly did you decide to run a workshop this year?    I have not run a workshop before but I worked at summer lego camp for kids. The kids at offerings from students and and then use to fix other devices too like tablets, computers, and game consoles. A lot of people have A this camp had fairly free range to build whatever they wanted and it was my job to get them to College community been interested to know how I learned to do this, and how hard it really is. So I decided to teach a J-push them to reach new levels of creation. It was incredible to watch their innovation as they Term workshop on it!played; I want to bring that to college kids. members! Q Have you run this workshop before? If so, how was the experience?Q    I haven’t taught this in a formal setting before, but I’ve taught multiple people in the past, including What sort of activities will participants do in your workshop over winter term?   The participants will be given a space and tools (legos) to have a fun, creative time. They A a friend in Brazil who’s now very successful on his own and my two little brothers, who have gotten so can build anything they want, alone or in groups. I will suggest different projects if people have Registration open at good that they now steal my potential customers… I’m excited to teach people here how to repair their A builders blocks or want a challenge. Participants can experiment with stop-motion animation go/boxoffice until own phones and share what I know about this handy skill!using their creations. Legos have endless possibilities. Dec. 11! Q What sort of activities will participants do in your workshop over J-Term?Q    We’ll be opening up broken iPhones and learning to fix the basic replaceable parts: screens of How do you think winter term workshops enhance or improve the winter term course, but also cameras, charging ports and others. Everyone will have their own set of tools and a experience for students on campus?A   J-term workshops allow students to explore new and different things that they don’t usu-A practice phone to work with, the new parts, and will learn in the best way possible – by actually taking ally have an opportunity to experience. J-term is a great opportunity to get out of ones normal the phones apart and doing the repairs themselves. student life by trying new things and workshops fit perfectly in that theme. Calligraphy with Celia - with Celia Watson ’17Darkroom Workshop - with Sebastian Zavoico ’17.5 Q How did you get the idea for your winter term workshop?   I have always enjoyed practicing calligraphy as a creative way to write, decorate, and relax. I began learning calligraphy A when I was in Middle School. I am mostly self-taught but my Mom also used to write calligraphy -- she even did her own Q How did you get the idea for your winter term workshop? wedding program in an Uncial script! I also enjoy calligraphy because it really slows you down and makes you learn about    The workshop was never my idea, it's been something the presidents of the Darkroom Club have been run- the process of writing. It becomes especially useful when considering how common fonts are designed. I wanted to do a A ning for many years now - I think this is at least the 5th consecutive Darkroom Workshop! So I've just taken the J-term workshop that was practical, calming, but also fun and challenging for those looking to add or build a new element reins and am continuing the tradition. to their writing.Q Have you run this workshop before? If so, how was the experience? Q Have you run this workshop before? If so, how was the experience?    I ran this workshop last year and, surprisingly, found it to be one of the most profound experiences of my   Yes, this will be my third (and last!) year of running the workshop. Typically I find that we create a supportive environ-A time at Middlebury! It was really fun engaging everyone and making people excited to learn something complete- ment within the workshop. This isn't about who has the best handwriting, it's more about encouraging students to try ly new. It was even more exciting after the workshop, when the vast majority of the workshop decided to become A out new styles, shapes, and it's open to anyone regardless of experience. The most gratifying feeling is when a participant part of the Darkroom Club, and actually became the Club's most active members. I found it very rewarding to masters a stroke or flourish, or gets excited about a particular style.watch everyone grow in confidence and artistic skill through J-Term and then throughout the Spring semester.Q What sort of activities will participants do in your workshop over the winter term?Q What sort of activities will participants do in your workshop over winter term?   In the J-term workshop we learn a brief history of calligraphy and how it has evolved over centuries and used in certain    Participants in the workshop will learn four things over the course of the 4 weeks: (1) How to load film and A historical texts, such as the Bible or the Book of Kells. We also learn about calligraphic terms, how to hold the pen, spacing A take pictures in Manual mode, (2) How to develop film, (3) How to make a contact sheet (to see all your pictures of letters, and more. We spend the first 1-2 weeks learning the basic Italic script, a relatively modernised style that provides on your film) and (4) How to print a picture. This represents the very basics of Black and White Film photogra- a foundation for many calligraphic styles. We then look at the Uncial script, which is often associated with a Celtic aesthet-phy and the steepest part of the learning curve, from the material they learn in the class, it doesn't take too much ic, and also the Gothic script, which looks quite medieval.to get into more advanced techniques and processes to make their work really spectacular.Q How do you think winter term workshops enhance or improve the winter term experience for students Q How do you think winter term workshops enhance or improve the winter term experience for on campus?students on campus?    I like J-term workshops because they encourage students to continue learning outside of the classroom, and offer the A    It's not often you get to learn something completely new - and especially not from you fellow classmates. A opportunity to pick up a skill they may not receive in an academic setting. I also really enjoy the fact that anyone can take These workshops allow people to not only explore new interests but also develop strong connections with fellow or teach them, especially members of the Middlebury community. Last year a ITS employee (Information Technology Ser-students or members of the community. As J-Term is a time to slow down and focus on one class and have more vices) took my class which was a really nice way to connect with the various members of our community.time to do all those things you really didn't have time for before - and workshops are a phenomenal opportunity to open new doors and explore with other students.Tequila: History, Tasting & Mixing - with Ben Wells and Sara GiardHunter Education - with Wendy ButlerQ How did you get the idea for your winter term workshop?Q How did you get the idea for your winter term workshop?    I love tequila and think that most people don't know much about it's history and complexities as a spirit. Lots of our    I enjoy growing, hunting and gathering my own food. I started offering the hunter [education] course a few years A customers at The Marquis are interested in learning more about tequila. A ago and because of the locavore movement, I believed Middlebury students, faculty and staff would be interested. In order to hunt in Vermont and many other states, a certification course is required. Q Have you run this workshop before? If so, how was the experience?   I haven't run this workshop before, but as the GM of a Southwest restaurant in Boulder, CO, I hosted numerous te-Have you run this workshop before? If so, how was the experience? A quila dinners. We had over 150 different tequilas and mezcals on our bar, so we were constantly training and learning. Q    I have taught this course before and it's alway been a great success. I think it is safe to say that between the on- It is always rewarding to share a passion with people and watch them discover and enjoy something new. A line prerequisite course and the eight hour hands-on field day, it would be impossible not to learn something new! Q What sort of activities will participants do in your workshop over winter term?Q What sort of activities will participants do in your workshop over the winter term?    For activities we will be tasting a variety of tequilas and talking about the flavor palate changes through aging, as    On the 21st [of January] we will cover safe and responsible firearm handling, and by the end of the day, shoot A well as the effects of terroir on the end product. So, for example, tasting one brand that is unaged, then the same brand that is aged 6 months, and then aged 2 years. We will also taste tequilas that come from different regions of Mexico A rifles in a covered range as well use shotguns to shoot sporting clays. Compass and map, treestand safety and more. Possibly a demonstration in field dressing a whitetail deer. We usually have a Vermont State game warden join us and learn how and why they are different. Building on the flavor palate, we will talk about the how and why behind for a Q&A session during lunch. It's a very, very full day! mixing cocktails with tequila and also pairing tequila with food. And, of course, we will learn how to make a few differ-ent styles of margaritas.Q How do you think winter term workshops enhance or improve the winter term experience for students on campus? Q How do you think winter term workshops enhance or improve the winter term experience for stu-   Workshops are a wonderful way for students to experience, firsthand, an activity that can be completely new dents on campus?A to them. I'm a strong believer in mentoring so whether you're learning a new dance step or heading into the great A    J-term workshops are an amazing opportunity for Middlebury students to try new things without making a huge outdoors, it is great to have an "expert" reading to help. commitment. J-term is really a microcosm of the liberal arts experience.Design by Emma HathewayInterviews by Henry Burnett and Renee Chang Credit to:https://conceptdraw.com/a1340c3/p1/preview/640/pict--alpine-skiing-alpine-skiing.png, http://cdn-4.freeclipartnow.com/d/41550-1/sledding.jpg
10 features | December 1, 2016UR-STEM Kicks Off Peer Mentor ProgramBy Joana Salievska to participate in the organization. UR-STEM Staff Writer hopes professor involvement will encourage the development of supportive relationships Last spring, four students from the Col- between faculty and students. lege joined together to form a mentoring “UR-STEM hopes to increase our STEM program for students underrepresented in professors’ participation in our communi-Science, Technology, Engineering and Math ty,” said Lopez. “Sometimes professors can (STEM) fields. UR-STEM, the unique peer- hinder persistence in STEM.”based organization that has come of their ef- In her time at the College, Lopez has re-forts, kicked off Friday, Nov. 11, with a new ceived conflicting advice from her profes-mentor-mentee initiative that pairs upper- sors about her decisions to pursue STEM. classmen STEM majors with first-years and She has been told that a Spanish major sophomores considering careers in STEM- would benefit her the most and that it would related fields. be a bad idea to challenge herself further Rebecca Ambachew ’19, Paola Meza ’19, with STEM. Yuliana Lopez ’18 “This has moti-and Jessica Guti- vated me to create errez ’17 created this organization “UR-STEM will par-a space for stu-dents to believe in with the mission to ticularly help students themselves and the “normalize the par- from under-represented rest of their peers,” UR-STEMticipation in STEM Lopez said. “My From left to right: Yuliana Lopez ‘18, Rebecca Ambachew ‘19, Jessica Gutierrez ‘17 classes and careers, groups to appreciate that hope is that we can and Paola Meza ‘19, the four founders of UR-STEM who helped start the mentoring bridge the academ- start collaborating program.ic gap in students they are not alone in their more amongst each with different struggles in their course- other and the larg- through the sciences and onward to careers “Various upperclassmen expressed genu-backgrounds and work and that they can er campus com- in research, teaching or medicine.” ine interest in what the club had to offer and improve the retain- munity, and begin The organization is also working to in- how it would change the face of STEM at ment of underrep- overcome the difficulties to see more under- crease communication and peer support Middlebury,” said Meza. “It was also a great resented students inherent in majoring in represented stu- across socioeconomic divisions at the Col- opportunity to initiate a networking system in the STEM fields dents participating lege, according to Gutierrez. with underclassmen and the soon-to-be by providing sup- the sciences.”  and succeeding in “Last Friday, on Nov. 11, we kicked off alumni.” port systems and these disciplines.” our first wave of mentee-mentors, and it Sandwick believes the peer mentoring essential resources Roger Sandwick Professor of seemed to be a great success,” she said. “A program is important for the College’s con-for success.” Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry and Chemistry and Bio- total of 56 students are voluntarily part of tinuous work to admit students from under-“I have seen how chemistry Roger this newly mentee-mentor initiative. If you represented groups. far the support of ur-stem advisor Sandwick is one of ask me, that’s pretty good for a new organi- “Besides the tutoring that this group will my mentor and the the advisors to the zation and tells you that it is not just us (the perform, UR-STEM will particularly help connections I made group. Sandwick UR-STEM board) that want to improve the students from under-represented groups to in my summer immersion have helped me says his role is to assist the board and group STEM students’ relationship/community.” appreciate that they are not alone in their have a firm grounding in the science here at members whenever they need help, but also This “Study Buddy” mentorship program struggles in their coursework and that they Middlebury. Because of this, I am one step to spread the news of UR-STEM to his sci- will pair upperclassmen STEM majors with can overcome the difficulties inherent in closer to success,” said Ambachew. “For ence colleagues. Although there is work first and second years that are beginning or majoring in the sciences,” he said. other students who have not had this same to be done, Sandwick thinks the College is considering STEM majors. The organization has been well received access, it is more difficult not because they making strides forward. “The goal is to receive guidance from thus far. Pre-med advisors at CCI, faculty aren’t capable, but because for one reason or “I think Middlebury has turned the someone who has already gone through the and staff affiliated with the Anderson Free-another, they weren’t given the opportunity corner in its promotion of the sciences to process, whether it is picking classes, ex- man Resource Center and CTLR have all ex-or it was just a case of bad luck.” groups such as the students of color and the ploring internship/research opportunities pressed their support. The women who represent UR-STEM first generation students, [groups] whom we or improving study habits,” Meza said. “Even President Laurie Patton has given believe that every student should have the haven’t often seen in large numbers major in The group also has panels and discus- her support for a very simple reason: we opportunity to reach their full potential in [STEM fields],” Sandwick said. “We now see sions. Last spring, for the organization’s first share a common goal,” said Ambachew. “We STEM fields. UR-STEM is hoping to do this these students in good numbers sitting in event, UR-STEM hosted a panel of seniors all want to help students achieve their full by creating mentoring programs on campus. our introductory classrooms, and I want to who shared their experiences in STEM at potential and have every opportunity avail-The first step is to encourage professors see them be successful in navigating upward the College. able for them to do so.” COMMUNITY GATHERING SAVE THE DATE!OF LOVE AND SUPPORT SATURDAY, DEC. 3In response to recent local and national events, the Middlebury Area Clergy Association will facilitate a gathering to express love and hope for our community.* 12:30 pm - Gather at Mead Chapel and other houses of worship and prepare to walk to the Middlebury Green* Processions converge on the Green by 1:00 pm* Bring non-perishable food, winter clothing items or cash donations to be collected on the Green and donated to HOPE* Post-It Wall: Write messages of hope and love that will then become a rotating display around Middlebury* Brief remarks and music* Join hands in concentric circles and dance to celebrate our strong, united communityThis event is open to the public. We encourage participation regardless of religious affiliation. Feel free to arrive at the Green without coming from a house of worship.Please contact Ellen McKay at the Scott Center for Spiritual and Religious Life with questions.emckay@middlebury.edu
December 1, 2016  features11ThinkingBuddies Helps Students Connect in ClassBy Brandon Smith Moser said. “In my group, we were think- to know their classmates better has taught they were beforehand.”Contributing Writer ing about problems that Middlebury stu- me a lot about how to make this more ac- He also said that the organization is flex-dents face on a day-to-day basis, including cessible for students who suffer from these ible to allow it to cater to specific class dy-For some students, the prospect of mak- that Middlebury students think it’s hard to ridiculous schedules.” namics. “The model is pretty open. At the ing friends or even just connections in class meet other people in classes. From there, Moser also spoke about his own ex- end of the first sessions, it’s largely left up can feel daunting and frustrating. Thinking- that idea resonated with a lot of people and periences with the to the students to de-Buddies is a relatively new and growing or- I thought, ‘There is a sincere problem here inherently poor cide how they want ganization on campus that seeks to address and maybe there is something we can do to friendship-forming “It’s about creating to move on from this feeling and connect students through fix it.’” nature of classes and academic, human com- there,” Moser said. classroom relationships. The program has already gone through diagnosed the short He added that this The organization provides opportunities various trial periods in past semesters. semester lengths at munities on campus. And lets the connection-to catalyze new connections and merge the Moser recounted how the results from these Middlebury as being I sincerely believe that building process de-academic with the social. Its founder, J.J. tests have so far confirmed that the packed part of the problem. classes can be a really velop organically and Moser ’16.5, realized the flaw in the way that schedules of students at the College are one He emphasized some without the pressure classes at the College generally fail to pro- of the greatest obstacles to forging connec- of the drawbacks of great space for that.” and artifice of im-duce actual connections, even though they tions. compressing fifteen posed structure. clump people into the same room various “Some of the biggest issues that Think- weeks’ worth of class J.J. Moser ’16.5 “After their ses-times a week. ingBuddies tries to combat mainly [con- material into less. Founder of Thinkingbuddies sions, students have “[ThinkingBuddies] was inspired by cern] the economy of time we have at Mid- “Speaking on a felt very positive when I was doing MiddCORE, when we dlebury, [such as] this sort of impossible personal level, you about the direction were doing sessions around pinpointing problem about being so busy with classes go into your class- they see this going,” problems people have in everyday life and and extracurriculars,” Moser said. “Getting room and there’s people in your class that he said. Various trial groups having come looking for possible solutions to them,” students to put in a little more time to get you might be on a head-nod basis with, but out of the program. Some have formed reli-you don’t really get to know them,” he said. able study groups or friendships from their “Based on the fact that classes move at such experiences with ThinkingBuddies. a quick pace, there’s no time for icebreak- ThinkingBuddies is an effort at solving, ers in the beginning of the semester, and on a micro level, some of the problems stu-the most you get to know your classmates dents face. “Some of the harder problems through is by what kind of comments they of Middlebury won’t be solved by a small make in class.” program like this, but it’s a step toward that To enroll in the program, students must change,” Moser said. “It’s about creating first take a class that offers it. Then, they can academic, human communities on campus. either join in class or by emailing Thinking- And I sincerely believe that classes can be a Buddies directly. Moser believes that the really great space for that.” first few weeks of the program are most Ultimately, Moser concluded, Thinking-important, because students are in a new Buddies is all about “celebrating the diversi-environment and generally have more time ty of thought and student origins but at the to meet. same time using all our identities to form a “That would be when students get to- collective group identity.”gether outside of the classroom, with dinner To find more information, or if you being provided,” he said. “There’s a facilita- are interested in becoming involved with tor that helps them get to know each other ThinkingBuddies in the future either as a ThinkingBuddies through icebreaker games, questions, dia- participating student or as a facilitator, Students participate in Charades organized through ThinkingBuddies. It plans ice- logues and different activities to get people email Moser at jmoser@middlebury.edu breakers and community-building activities to help students make friends in class. a lot more comfortable with each other than or visit go/thinkingbuddies.Project Pengyou Holds Panel on U.S.-Chinese RelationsBy Sarah Asch dents who had studied abroad in China and cussing difficult topics relating to the US students will participate in Project Pengyou Senior Writer three were Chinese international students. and China.” events, regardless of their background or Project Pengyou, an organization that Emma Auden ‘17, one of the American Luong said that the recent presidential experience. works at high schools and colleges to en- students who spoke on the panel, believes election makes Project Pengyou’s mission “We want Middlebury students to know courage cooperation between the United that Project Pengyou helps establish vital more important than ever. that this club is not just for people of Chi-States and China, hosted a student panel connections between Chinese and Ameri- “This election has made me even more nese descent, Asian descent or Chinese event on Nov. 17 as part of Pengyou Day. can students. passionate about the work that Project speakers,” Scott said. “This club is for any-This was held in conjunction with the State “I think the work Project Pengyou does Pengyou does because, with this politi- one who realizes that the relationship be-Department’s International Education is important in breaking down cultural bar- cal climate, Project Pengyou can provide tween the US and China is incredibly im-Week, and Pengyou chapters at schools riers and humanizing people of other cul- much-needed opportunity to keep the hope portant and that it is crucial that we try to all over the country hosted events to raise tures, helping connect us with other people for aspiring young leaders to seek com- improve these relations to the best of our awareness about and learn how to rec- mon ground not only between cultures, but ability.” U.S. and Chinese re- ognize our differenc- within our own communities as well,” she Summing up the reason for Project lations. “I want to use my cross- es and similarities said. Pengyou’s existence, Luong wants students Ngor Luong ’19 cultural and global per- in a way that helps Scott also hinted at Project Pengyou’s to recognize the important role they can and Sarah Scott ’17 us better accept and plans for the coming months. The organi- play in international relations. In her view, founded the Middle- spective to build bridges understand one an- zation will hold several more events during progress toward greater intercultural un-bury Project Pengy- between two countries other,” Auden said. the rest of the school year. derstanding is dependent upon the efforts ou this semester and “I wish people could “We are planning to have career pan- of students.helped organize the that I care deeply about” see past national els, more student panels where students “U.S./China relations can’t be just built panel. Both Luong Ngor Luong ’19 boundaries and rec- who have studied abroad can directly talk by the politicians who live in DC and Bei-and Scott attended ognize human inter- to those who are planning to study abroad, jing,” she said. “That is why we encourage a leadership training co-Founder of Project Pengyou actions for what they topic-specific panels where we invite Mid- more interaction between the two coun-conference in Oc- are.” dlebury College professors to share their tries by actually talking to the people who tober to help them Audrey Fang expertise and opinion on a certain topic/ live there and trying to understand their start the club and work toward the nation- ’16.5, an international student panelist, crisis,” Scott said. “[In addition to] pro- culture, perspective and roots. We need to al organization’s wider mission to bring hopes that more students will understand fessional and academic events, we will start humanizing and putting faces of peo-young people into the conversation about the relationship between the U.S. and Chi- also host cultural events that include both ple on the stories we hear on the news or the U.S. and China. na in the future. American culture and Chinese culture.” historical events we read on our textbooks.”“Project Pengyou – ‘Pengyou’ means “I wish most people would pay more at- Looking forward, Scott hopes that more ‘friend’ in Mandarin Chinese–is a program tention to the US/China relations without of the Golden Bridges Foundation that is using too much generalization or being in-empowering and mobilizing a rising gen- fluenced by the existing stereotypes,” Fang eration of U.S.-China bridge-builders to said. bring about a world that embraces diverse According to Fang, cultural sharing as cultures and shared humanity,” Luong said. encouraged by Project Pengyou promotes She continued, “in 2011, the Golden understanding and acceptance. Bridges Foundation was invited by the U.S. “The biggest benefit of sharing cultures Department of State to strengthen US- is the kind of mutual understanding one China relations by building a global alumni would gain from that kind of commonal-network of Americans who had lived or ity,” she said. “From this kind of shared studied in China. The program was later knowledge more empathy can be gener-launched as Project Pengyou to connect ated. Consequently, there will be less mis-and train active global leaders who can har- understanding or hatred.”ness the extraordinary growth of China and Luong agreed. “I want to use my cross-lead us towards a more functional, mutu- cultural and global perspective to build ally beneficial and peaceful future for the bridges between two countries that I care United States and China.” deeply about,” she said. “My goal is to cre-At the student panel, Scott and Luong ate a platform for people to find common introduced the club and then six students cultural ground and start more dialogues spoke about their experience with U.S. and that are more empathetic, empowering, Sarah aschChinese cultures. Three were American stu- constructive and empowering when dis- Project Pengyou’s student panel discusses intercultural cooperation and education.
arts & s ciencesLand Trusts Strive for Social JusticeBy Elizabeth Zhou tional administrations have not yet taken on.Arts & Sciences Editor “The work is incumbent on cities, states, nonprofits, institutions of higher educations What is the link between rural spaces and individuals more than ever,” Jay ex-and urban communities, and what relevance plained.does this hold for social justice and sustain- Following Jay’s introduction, Gil Livings-ability work today? As globalization takes ton, president of the Vermont Land Trust, hold in ever more remote corners of the grounded the issue in a local story. He began world, the relationship between people and his speech with a candid observation.places once perceived as wholly separate “Frankly, I think it’s kind of ironic that a entities has become increasingly intercon- white guy is here to talk about an urban story nected and interdependent. On Friday, Nov. in a state that is 97 percent Caucasian,” Liv-18, students, faculty, staff and community ingston said.members gathered for a lecture and discus- Yet it is precisely the unexpected inter-sion aimed at unpacking this issue. Entitled section of the rural and the urban that makes “Land Trust Innovation in Service to Chang- land trust innovation an issue relevant to all, ing Urban Community Needs,” the talk was even to residents of a small college town in a part of the Franklin Environmental Cen- Vermont.ter’s year-long exploration of urban innova- A non-profit environmental organization tions and sustainable solutions. with a huge stake in local affairs, the Ver-The event began with an overview by Law mont Land Trust impacts over 10 percent of Professor and Conservation Attorney Jessica the state through conservation holdings. As Jay, who works to protect environmentally its mission statement articulates, “Whether significant lands in Colorado and the Rock these places are dairy or vegetable farms, for-Mountain West. She explained that the land ests or wetlands, sledding hills or swimming trust community is engaged in a dynamic spots, the Vermont Land Trust is working to new vision: to better understand community protect the land that gives Vermont its rural Pine Island Community Farmdynamics and more effectively serve diverse character and makes our state so special.” Pine Island Farm is operated by and for the greater Burlington refugee community.populations. The goal of this evolving, in- As part of the broader, pioneering move-novative work is to ment within land Africans Living in Vermont, and managed by ganization has had to adopt a slower pace of be responsive, re- trust administra-“We are taking on roles that a multicultural group of residents from the management, which better supports its mis-active and proac- tion, the Vermont Burlington and Winooski area. Multigenera- sion of community-based operations.tive to the unique may not have typically been Land Trust is ac- tional families raise goats, chickens and gar- To address the challenges that have aris-needs of each com- tively engaged in munity. viewed as our roles in the den crops on the land, representing coun- en thus far, plans are in the works to hire a communities where tries including Bhutan, Rwanda, Burundi, long-term intercultural coordinator, evalu-“We are taking land trust administration. they hold land, Somalia, Congo and Burma. Additionally, in ate if the current model of access and af-on roles that may fighting for social But it’s an opportunity to a model driven by affordability rather than fordability is sufficient and potentially grant not have typically justice at a time by commercial profits, approximately 350 direct ownership of Pine Island Farm to the been viewed as our take on a challenge and so- when residents goats are sold to refugee families in the area refugees.roles in the land need it most. each year. Livingston emphasized that within the trust administra- cial obligation.” To demonstrate The primary focus of this land trust proj- continuously evolving movement of land tion,” Jay stated. Jessica Jay this, Livingston ect is a sense of food security and perma- trust innovation, mistakes are inevitable “But it’s an oppor- pointed to the Law Professor and conservation attorney nency for new Americans, in contrast to the and difficulties are to be expected. In light of tunity to take on a case of Pine Island uncertainty and displacement that these in- the recent presidential election, however, an challenge and so- Farm, a Vermont dividuals have experienced throughout their unwavering commitment to social justice is cial obligation.” Land Trust holding lives. Judging by the growth in production crucial.Land trusts can that began as a con- on Pine Island Farm (for instance, the num- In his closing lines, Livingston articulated enhance public good by increasing access to ventional dairy farm and has since evolved ber of goats has jumped from 60 to 400), three questions that have and will continue clean air, shelter and green spaces for every- into a goat and vegetable farm operated by the partnership between the Vermont Land to inform decisions concerning the Pine Is-one. Often referred to as the “new frontier” and for the refugee community. Trust and the Association of Africans Living land Farm community: How is history mani-of conservation, the vision described by Jay How did this transformation come in Vermont has been successful. That is not fested in current ownership patterns? How requires that land trust administrators look about? The Burlington Refugee Settlement to say that the transition from a commercial is structural privilege embedded in the land at old property through a new lens and in- Program has concentrated hundreds of peo- to a community-managed system has been conservation community? And how do race, novate in response to changing community ple into one small area of Vermont. When devoid of challenges, however. power and privilege dynamics influence the needs, particularly in urban areas. This in- Pine Island Farm, a traditional dairy opera- Navigating the power dynamics within places where we work?volves the re-development or the un-devel- tion with highly productive soil and a variety a large organization, as well as the various The challenges accompanying the trans-opment of certain parcels of land. of wetland features, went up for auction in cultural perspectives that influence busi- formation of Pine Island Farm show that For instance, administrators evaluating 2012, the Vermont Land Trust purchased it ness styles, has been a work in progress for there are no easy answers to these questions. polluted properties may identify an eco- with the intention to “serve people who are all parties involved. Additionally, while the Through small but purposeful steps, how-friendly way to reuse a building or relocate not ordinarily beneficiaries — namely, indi- land trust administration is accustomed to ever, the work of social justice-oriented land it to a place where it will be better utilized. A viduals who fled violence or lives of exile to overseeing up to 80 conservation projects trust organizations may begin to make sense unique form of social entrepreneurship, this seek integration within the United States.” per year, such a high-speed cycle would not of these complexities, creating public good transformation within the land trust com- Now, through a six-year agreement, the support local leadership. As a result, the or- and opportunities for all.munity is an obligation that state and na- farm is leased at no cost to the Association of Play Explores Phone Sex and Urban LifeBy Sabine Poux “The three of us really wanted to do some ers’ fantasies. on ourselves?”Staff Writer theater this semester, but the right opportu- The line soon becomes successful, much to “This is a complicated play that reflects nity didn’t already exist anywhere,” Guarino the dismay of Mel’s boyfriend Jon. Jon insists how we all speak different languages of love What do you get when you cross three up- said. “Not willing to give up on the idea, we on financially supporting Mel, but Mel wants and all have different understandings of em-perclassman actors, a red prop phone and decided to create our own opportunity and to be independent, and she tries to reassure powerment,” Blake added. “Communicating gardening sex metaphors? You get Does This put the show together ourselves.” him that phone sex is not as bad as he thinks these contrasting views of success and love Woman Have a Name? — a short and en- The trio had the help of First Year Show it is. The couple’s relationship is called into is difficult but necessary in order to have ergetic play by Theresa Rebeck that follows director Rebecca Martin ’04.5, who acted as question, all the while Sarah and Mel learn healthy, interpersonal relationships — and two enterprising women who turn to phone consulting director for the performance. the ropes of their new business. who doesn’t want those!”sex to make some extra cash. The show was “My goal was to help them with their act- The show, while light and humorous at the Does This Woman Have a Name? was acted and directed by Matthew Blake ’17, ing,” Martin said. “A couple of them had nev- surface, is actually a source of deeper social Blake’s first show at the College.Paige Guarino ’18.5 and Mariah Levin ’16.5, er done a show before, so I wanted to teach commentary. The cast excitingly and master- “It was a special opportunity to have such and was performed in the Hepburn Zoo Nov. them the basics of acting and just guide their fully grappled with themes that ranged from a personal, active and engaged role in my first 18–19. process. I directed their acting but other than intimacy to occupational independence. show at Middlebury,” Blake said. “This pro-The project came about spontaneously that, they did all of the rest.” “I think it’s easy to see this as a play about cess has definitely inspired me to do more act-when Blake, Guarino and Levin auditioned Does This Woman Have a Name? follows phone sex, but there are underlying issues of ing. Acting allows you to live inside another’s for the First Year Show and were turned away the lives of two friends, Mel and Sarah, who power dynamics and whether it’s important mind and soul. It sharpens your empathetic because they were “too old.” They still wanted are struggling to get by in the city. To solve to take care of ourselves,” Levin said. “Espe- faculties and encourages you to see the world to pursue an acting project, however, which is their money problems, the duo team up to cially at this age, we’re getting to that stage through different eyes.”how they stumbled upon Does This Woman work a phone sex line, using their writing and where it’s like, do we rely on our parents, do Nothing like a show about phone sex to re-Have a Name? acting skills to create scripts and act out call- we rely on our significant others or do we rely ally dive headfirst into acting.don’t Getting Energy Use Down to a (Social) Panel Discussion in Recognition of World Video Screening: Compulsive PracticeScience AIDS Day To commemorate World AIDS Day and Visual AIDS 2016 miss This presentation will provide an overview of Professors will discuss the relationship between in- Day With(out) Art, Compulsive Practice will demon-the behavior-based projects that energy effi- come and HIV risk, the relationship of U.S. activism strate the place of technology, self-expression, critique ciency program administrators have undertaken to global AIDS programs and HIV/AIDS prevention and community in the many decades and the many expe-this through the Consortium for Energy Efficiency. strategies in the context of U.S. health disparities. riences of artists and activists living with AIDS.12/1, THURSDAY, 12:30-1:20 P.M., HILLCREST 103 12/1, THURSDAY, 4:30-5:30 P.M., RAJ CONFERENCE ROOM 12/2, FRIDAY, 12:15-1:45 P.M., MCA ROOM 125
December 1, 2016 | arts & SCIENCES 13New Professor Studies Human GenomeBy Sabina Haque resulting in strings of letters “A”, “T”, “G”, Contributing Writer and “C”. The sequencing discussed in the talk was mostly high-throughput, meaning While various science lectures make billions of DNA fragments simultaneously McCardell Bicentennial Hall particularly sequenced in a parallel fashion. The com-busy on Friday afternoons, not often are puting aspects of this work are associated the rooms quite as packed as room 104 was with the analysis of these DNA sequence on Nov. 11. Students and faculty squatted reads. After discussing the mechanics of on the floor, a delicate and excited hum the process, Linderman broadened the of people talking could be heard from the scope to demonstrate the clinical and com-hallway and individuals kept popping in mercial role that sequencing has come to and scanning for vacant seats. assume. He projects that within the next The talk, entitled “Full-Stack Genom- 10 years it is quite likely that several mil-ics,” was given by the recently hired As- lion individuals will have their genomes sistant Professor of Computer Science Mi- sequenced in some context or another. chael Linderman and was about his work As a self-described “full-stack genomi-in computational biology. Despite being a cist,” Linderman focuses on several areas faculty member of the computer science of genomic testing. Some critical ques-department, Linderman’s work provokes a tions he addressed in the talk included great deal of intrigue from people of vari- how to computationally interpret genetic ous disciplines. variation, how to His talk appealed “I have a lot of ideas. I am communicate the to a diverse cohort intrigued by the opportuni- clinical signifi-of students, hailing cance of such mu-from many of the ties to use computing skills tations, and how wings of McCardell Bicentennial Hall in biological applications...to analyze the health psychol-Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinaiand beyond. the most important thing is ogy and outcomes Michael Linderman was hired last year as a CS professor and researches genomics. At the start of data resulting his talk, Linder- coming up with an interest- from a role of ge- comes is promising, it is currently hard to was looking forward to implementing his man gave some ing question.” netic sequencing assess the benefits of various approaches. research interests at the College.brief background Michael Linderman in society. “Future efforts might attempt to test “I have a lot of ideas. I am intrigued information about Assistant Professor of Computer Science A highlight of more precisely the comparative effects of by the opportunities to use computing himself, as he be- Linderman’s talk such approaches,” Linderman said. skills in biological applications,” Linder-gan teaching at the was the work he Linderman said he was excited to work man said. “Also, health psychology and College at the start did at Mount Si- with students at the College, and he also outcomes work is particularly accessible of this academic year. He started in electri- nai Hospital on developing a course called mentioned some of the aspects of the Col- for undergraduates. The most important cal engineering and gradually progressed “Practical Analysis of Your Personal Ge- lege that already quite engaged with the thing is coming up with an interesting into the biological applications of comput- nome.” In this course, students had the field of bioinformatics. question.”ing. opportunity to get their own genomes “Well, there already is a strong bio- Linderman will be teaching an upper “It never felt like a switch – it just kind sequenced and spend the duration of the informatics presence at Middlebury. It level Computer Science elective called of happened,” Linderman said about the semester analyzing their own sequencing might be less visible, but still is quite sub- Bioinformatics Algorithms and the Senior subject. data. stantial,” Linderman said. “I am really in- Seminar this spring, and plans to teach He talked about how his interests slow- “Students were generally very enthu- terested in interdisciplinary experiences, CS150 and one of the 200-level courses ly drew him from hardware to software, siastic,” Linerman said. “The incorpora- and bioinformatics is a great instance of next year. and eventually found himself specializing tion of personal genome sequencing made that.” As for why Linderman decided to teach in bioinformatics and computational biol- them more engaged and motivated to put He mentioned that several students at Middlebury College, he listed a number ogy. in hours outside of class.” had come by his office and talked with him of reasons.He then set out to emphasize the rap- When asked in a later one-on-one in- about their overlapping interests, wheth- “I wanted to be at a more teaching and idly growing relevance of sequencing. In a terview about such educational practice s er they came from a more computational mentorship focused environment,” Lin-brief summary of genomic testing, he de- involving genome sequencing, Linderman background or were more oriented in the derman said. “Also, I was quite ready to scribed how fragments of DNA get read, replied that, although data on such out- life and social sciences. Linderman said he leave New York City.”Performing Arts Sp  TLight: Cellist Sophie ShaoBy Liza Sacheli Curtis, she continued her cello studies at Contributing Columnist Yale University, receiving a B.A. in Reli-gious Studies from Yale College and an Cellist Sophie Shao returns for her M.M. from the Yale School of Music. She ninth consecutive appearance on the Mid- is on the faculty of Vassar College and the dlebury College Performing Arts Series at Bard Conservatory of Music and plays 3 p.m. this Sunday, Dec. 4 at the Mah- on a cello made by Honoré Derazey from aney Center for the Arts. Shao is always 1855 and once owned by Pablo Casals.an audience favorite, and she must have Two-time Grammy nominee and Av-an endless supply of supremely talented ery Fisher Career Grant recipient, violin-colleagues, because she brings along a ist Jennifer Frautschi has performed with different group of virtuosic friends each the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra, the Ala-year. This year, it will be violinist Jenni- bama, Arkansas, Belo Horizonte, Chat-fer Frautschi, violist Dimitri Murrath and tanooga, Phoenix, Toledo and Tucson pianist Gloria Chien. Symphonies and the Rhode Island Phil-Their concert program will include harmonic. Born in Pasadena, California, three grand classical works: Beethoven’s Frautschi attended Harvard, New Eng-String Trio in C Minor, Schumann’s Pia- land Conservatory and Julliard. She per-no Trio No. 2 and Dvořák’s second piano forms on a 1722 Antonio Stradivarius vio-quartet. This is music to soothe the soul, lin known as the “ex-Cadiz,” on generous to stir the heart and the brain and to help loan from a private American foundation.you destress as you enter finals week. Born in Brussels, Belgian-American Winner of the prestigious Avery Fish- violist Dimitri Murrath has appeared at er Career Grant and top prizes at the Boston’s Jordan Hall, the Kennedy Cen-Rostropovich and Tchaikovsky competi- ter, Wigmore Hall, London’s Royal Festi-tions, Shao is a versatile and passionate val Hall, Kioi Hall in Tokyo, the National artist whose performances have been Auditorium in Madrid and Paris’ Théâtre described as “eloquent, powerful” by the de la Ville. His many awards include a New York Times and “deeply satisfying” 2014 Avery Fisher Career Grant, and hon-by the Washington Post. She has per- ors at the Primrose International Viola formed to critical acclaim throughout the Competition, First Tokyo International United States and around the world, at Viola Competition, ARD Munich Compe-venues such as the Smith Center in Las tition and a fellowship from the Belgian Vegas, Rose Studio at Lincoln Center, the American Educational Foundation. Watford Colosseum in Watford, England, The Boston Globe praised Steinway Neda Navaeethe KKL (Culture and Convention Cen- pianist Gloria Chien for “a wondrously Acclaimed cellist Sophie Shao will perform at the MCA at 3 p.m. this Sunday, Dec. 4.ter) in Lucerne, Switzerland; and Suntory rich palette of colors, which she mixes Hall in Tokyo, Japan. with dashing bravado and with an un- her orchestral debut at 16 with the Boston Don’t miss this world-class concert A native of Houston, Texas, Shao be- canny precision of calibration… Chien’s Symphony Orchestra. She is a prize win- right here in our backyard. To find out gan playing the cello at age six. At 13, she performance had it all, and it was fabu- ner of the World Piano Competition, Har- more information or to purchase tickets, enrolled at the Curtis Institute of Music lous.” She began playing the piano at the vard Musical Association Award, and the stop by either of the box offices in Mc-in Philadelphia. After graduating from age of five in her native Taiwan, and made San Antonio International Piano Compe- Cullough or the MCA or go/boxoffice. tition.
14 sports | december 1, 2016 Men’s Hockey Falls Twice in Overtime to Start the SeasonBy Claire Messersmith at the 2:11 mark, leaving the Panthers 4 goals in the next 14 minutes. This left man ’19 completed the comeback, tying Contributing Writer with a 2-1 loss. Colby took a 1-0 lead in Middlebury with a 5-2 loss. the game at 2-2 and forcing Norwich into the second period, on a power play goal “As a really young team against a vet- overtime. Despite the team’s impressive Owning one of the toughest Division that was rebounded past Middlebury eran team like Bowdoin, we went in and resilience, Middlebury fell to Norwich III schedules in the country, the young goalie Stephen Klein ’18. Klein had 28 played really well for probably 52 min- 3-2 on a late overtime goal.Middlebury men’s hockey team (0-4- saves on Friday night. utes,” Head Coach Neil Sinclair said. “I The Panthers opened right back up 0) fell short in its first four games of Coach Neil Sinclair commented on think we learned that we have the poten- against Plattsburgh State the following the season, but also showed why it has the team’s comfort level with both goal- tial and can play with anybody, which is day, battling back from another two-goal a promising future. Opening the season tenders, including with Brian Ketchabaw the goal.” deficit, with two goals in the second pe-away in Maine, Middlebury fell to Col- ’20, who played for the Panthers on Sat- Doherty, who scored the second goal riod scored by Vincent Gisonti ’18 and by 2-1 in overtime on Friday, Nov. 18, urday against Bowdoin. Saturday Nov. against Bowdoin, also commented on the Joey Piccinini ’20. Plattsburgh State, and then to Bowdoin 5-3 on Saturday, 26 against Plattsburg State, Klein had 40 young team’s learning curve. ranked eleventh in Division III entering Nov. 19. The Panthers then travelled to saves for Middlebury, a career high. “Both Friday and Saturday night we the weekend, scored 3 unanswered goals Plattsburgh the next weekend for two Trevor Turnbull ’20 scored his first put ourselves in positions to win, but we in the third period, leaving the game non-league games, where they lost to collegiate goal in the third period against weren’t able to close them out,” Doherty score 5-2.Norwich University 3-2 and Plattsburgh Colby that erased the one-goal defi- said. “That’s what every young team can “We’re young—we’re trying to find State 5-2 in the PrimeLink Great North- cit and forced the game into overtime. go through and I think we will be bet- our way, and our team identity,” Sin-ern Shootout tournament. Though the team played a great first pe- ter for it in the end. It takes a complete clair said. “We’re learning. ‘How do you Middlebury had two back-to-back riod, as noted by Sinclair, the Panthers 60-minute effort to win in this league close out a game when you’re up?’ ‘How game weekends with outcomes that al- “just couldn’t finish it out.” and when we put that together, we’ll win do close out a game when you’re in over-most mirrored each other, the team Middlebury played right with Bow- some hockey games.” time?’ Those are the things that come forced two Friday night overtimes after doin the following day, ending the sec- The following weekend at the Prime- with the season and are all part of the coming back from one-goal deficits, and ond period with a 2-1 lead, due to goals Link tournament in Plattsburgh, New process.”played impressive first and second pe- scored by Turnbull and Matt Doherty York, the Panthers faced Norwich Uni- The Panthers will have their home riods both Saturdays, yet suffered late, ’19. The remainder of the game saw versity on Saturday, Nov. 25. Middlebury opener this Friday, Dec. 2 against Con-unanswered goals in the final period of heavy scoring, which was opened up with trailed Norwich 2-0 until a power play necticut College (0-4) at 7 pm at Kenyon both Saturday games. a Middlebury goal by Danny Jacobs ’20. goal by Kamil Tkaczuk ’19 in the middle Arena and will host Tufts (4-1) the next In its first game of the season, Colby The Panthers had a 3-1 lead with 14:24 of the second period. A goal scored in the day, Saturday, December 3.edged Middlebury with an overtime goal remaining, yet Bowdoin answered with middle of the third period by Mark Ly-Women’s Basketball Wins Tip-Off ClassicBy Remo Plunkett 30 with 6:28 remaining. Again, Witten- maintained a lead of around 30 points Panther victory. Caveney led Middlebury Sport Editor berg mounted a rally, going 7-2 to tie the throughout the remainder of the game, with 15 points on 6-11 shooting, Kaufman game at 41 points apiece late in the third powered by three pointers from Colleen added nine and Kuntz chipped in eight quarter. Last minute scores from Alex Caveney ’19 and Kaufman in the second off the bench.The Middlebury women’s basketball Huffman ’19 and Betsy Knox ’20 gave half. The score ended at 74-39 after a 17- Through the first three games, team is undefeated (3-0) after picking Middlebury a narrow 45-41 lead at the 12 fourth quarter for the Panthers. Kaufman leads the Panthers in scor-up out-of-conference wins against Wit- start of the final quarter. Kaufman earned tournament Most ing, with 12.7 points per game. For her tenberg, Shenandoah and Johnson State. Sarah Kaufman ’18 got things going in Valuable Player honors, finishing with efforts in the first week of action, she The Panthers opened the 2016-2017 the fourth quarter with a three-pointer 15 points and five assists on the day. In earned NESCAC Player of the Week hon-season at the Rose City Tip-Off Classic, on the opening possession. Wittenberg addition, Caveney was named to the all- ors. Harrison, the NESCAC Rookie of the earning a 62-53 win over Wittenberg cut Middlebury’s advantage to two points tournament team for her 10-point per- Year last season, is averaging nine points on Saturday, Nov. 19 followed by a 74- with 3:26 remaining, however, the Pan- formance in the title game. As a team, per game and seven rebounds, while 39 performance against Shenandoah on thers scored the next six points to go up the Panthers shot 52.7 percent from the Caveney is Middlebury’s other double-Sunday, Nov. 20. The team returned to 58-52 with less than a minute left on the floor and maintained a 40-14 advantage digit scorer so far, with 10.7 points per Middlebury to face Johnson State on clock. Kaufman and Davis each made in rebounding. game.Tuesday, Nov. 22, beating the visitors by a pair of shots from the foul line in the The team returned to Middlebury The 3-0 Panthers return to action on a score of 62-34 to stay undefeated on closing seconds of play to notch the final to face Johnson State in the season Thursday, Dec. 1 on the road at Rensse-the season. score at 62-53 in favor of Middlebury. home opener in Pepin Gymnasium. laer with tip-off scheduled for 6:00 PM.The Panthers opened the season Following the win over Wittenberg, Caveney scored the first five points for This is the third straight season the against Wittenberg with a close first the team took to the court the following Middlebury to give the Panthers an 11-5 Panthers have started the season 3-0, quarter that ultimately ended in a 13-10 day against Shenandoah in the cham- lead after one quarter of play. Johnson but they haven’t won four in a year to Middlebury lead after both teams traded pionship game of the Rose City Tip-Off State cut the host’s lead to two with 3:56 start the season in six years. Middlebury scoring opportunities. Lily Kuntz ’20 Classic. The Panthers raced out to an remaining in the second quarter, howev- can change that if the team wins on notched a pair of three-pointers in the early lead, going up 14-2 in the first 4:43 er, Middlebury scored five of the last six Thursday.second quarter to give the Panthers a of play. Catherine Harrison ’19 was 4-4 points in the half to go up 18-12 heading The Panthers will open NESCAC play 23-15 advantage. Wittenberg responded on shooting and scored eight points dur- into the third quarter. in January when they travel to Wesley-with a 10-2 run that cut the Middlebury ing the run. The quarter ended 17-7 in The Panthers exploded in the second an on Jan. 6. They will return home on lead to 27-25 heading into the halftime favor of the Panthers. half, scoring the first 13 points of the Tuesday, Dec. 6 when they host Colby-break. The second stanza saw Middlebury’s third quarter to lead by a 31-12 margin Sawyer.Middlebury added to its lead in the lead increase, as another 14-2 run pro- with 7:16 remaining. The lead extend-third quarter off back-to-back field pelled the Panthers to a 37-15 advan- ed to as much as 30 points in the final goals from Maya Davis ’20 to go up 35- tage heading into halftime. Middlebury quarter, ultimately ending with a 62-34 editors’ picks Men’s Hockey: Women’s Basketball: CFB pick’em: CFB pick’em part 2: Who wins Will Midd (0-4) win its first Will Midd (3-0) continue Who wins the Big Ten the Pac-12 Championship game of the season against Conn. its undefeated season at Championship Game (no. 6 Game (no. 5 Washington v. College (0-4) on Friday, Dec. 2, or Rensselaer (3-3) tonight (tip at Wisconsin v. no. 7 Penn State) no. 9 Colorado) on Saturday, Tufts (4-1) on Saturday, Dec. 3? 6 p.m.)? on Saturday, Dec. 3? Dec. 3?CONN. COLLEGE YES Penn State The DawgsLook for them to get a dub Friday Between Rensselaer’s soft schedule Hoping for this to quiet the Big 10 The Buffs are a good story, but at Conn. College. While the Camels and the high level the team has people. If the committee is serious UW is just too good and heads to are last in the NESCAC in goals- performed at so far, the Panthers about its criteria, a PSU win keeps the playoff.per-game, they do lead in penalty will notch the win. the Bucks out.minutes-per-game.will case (52-33, .611)CONN. COLLEGE YES PENN STATE WASHINGTONWe played two nationally-ranked First time they’ll be 4-0 in six years. The Nittany Lions have been A win and they’re in.teams tough. It’s time for us to mowing teams down. If they win get of the schnide. this one, they have a shot at the playoff.Andrew Rigas (76-54, .585)FRIDAY YES WISCONSIN WASHINGTONI see the team improving to 2-4 this Momentum is on our side after a I like the Badgers for this one, but it Shout out to my dawgs weekend, starting with a win over strong 3-0 start to the season. should be a close matchup. @joersyshore @cheddywapConn. College on Friday. Remo Plunkett (94-69, .577)
december 1, 2016| SPORTS 15Swimming Without a Win After First Meets by the Numb3rsContinued from page 16 out the course of the weekend.” performance against Connecticut Col-Burke won twice individually as well, McGean led the way for the men once lege.” Made three-pointers for men’s basketball’s taking the 100 free (55.39) and the 200 more, winning the 500 free by more than The Panthers will return to the pool on Zach Baines ’19 in four games this season, free (2:00.23), while Caitlin Carroll ’20 10 seconds (4:50.25w) and the 1000 Saturday, Dec. 3, when they host Amherst 4 after making five all of last year.triumphed in the 1000 free with a time of free by more than 26 seconds (9:56.50). at the Natatorium.11:16.40. Charles Quinn ’20 also tallied a victory, “The big lesson we learned from the “Personally, I was pleased with our taking the 200 individual medley with opening weekend was that we need to fo- Abigail Nadler ’19’s time at performance on Sunday against Tufts,” a time of 2:02.55. The team of Brendan cus on racing, not on times. We are at our the NCAAs, good for a 15th Burke said. “Both the men’s and the wom- Leech ’19, McGean, Jack Dowling ’19 and best when we create a high energy envi-place finish and All-American honors. 21:02.6 en’s teams stepped up and raced despite Connor McCormick ’18 won the 400 free ronment and just have fun competing,” fatigue from Saturday’s meet and a tough relay by six seconds (3:19.28). Greene McGean said. It is always surprising how Women’s hockey defeated Trinity 2-1 week of training.” won the 3-meter diving event for the sec- quickly the NESCAC conference is im- in overtime twice in a row to open its season 2-0 last weekend. DeNunzio won the 1-meter diving title ond straight meet, this time with 255.07 proving, each new class of swimmers el- 2-1with 236.47 points. points. evates the competition to a new level and “We are exactly where we want to be at “I think the team showed a lot of men- this year is no exception. The training in- Swimmer Michael McGean ’17’s this point in the season,” said Burke. “This tal toughness on Sunday against Tufts,” tensity and team dynamics in the program margin of victory in the 1000-is the first time we’ve opened our season McGean said. “For Tufts, we focused on are incredible – the coaches and captains yard freestyle against Tufts last 26.13Sunday, Nov. 20.with a double header which is a challenge creating a high energy environment and could not be more excited about the re-in itself, but our spirits were high through- I think that helped us improve from our mainder of the season.Men’s Basketball ranked in preaseason coaches pollBy Phil Bohlman and floaters with his length and ath-News Editor leticism over an undersized Salem front court. His two makes on three attempts The men’s basketball team opened from three-point range were encour-their season by winning three straight aging for a roster lacking three-point before falling to Endicott last Sunday, shooting in their core rotation outside of Nov. 27. The Panthers began the year Matt St. Amour ’17, who struggled from ranked 24th in a preseason coaches poll, the field, tallying three points on one for their first appearance in the polls since 11 shooting.the 2014-2015 campaign. Throughout the game, Middlebury Salem State looked comfortable running in transi-They began the season with a 82-55 tion—every player seemed to have the win against Salem State in the 35th East- green light to throw deep outlet passes.ern Connecticut State Tip-Off Tourna- “During transition breaks is when I’m ment on Saturday, Nov. 18. feeling the most comfortable on offense,” They led from the 16 minute mark of Baines said. “Our play style is based on the first half. Zach Baines ’19 was a dom- pushing the tempo so when we develop inant presence on both ends of the court, a fast break opportunity, I’m one of the with a career high 22 points and a game- first out to hopefully receive an outlet leading three blocks in only 25 minutes. [pass] for a layup or dunk.”In a memorable first half sequence, Ba- Middlebury’s deep front court carried ines had a tip-in, three-point make and a the brunt of the scoring, as Adisa Majors block in the span of two minutes. He had ’18 and Eric McCord ’18 combined for free run of the post, converting layups 22 points. Jack Daly ’18, one of the Pan-thers’ primary ball-handlers, brought his the middlebury usual energy and defensive focus which notching nine points, 11 rebounds, six College Athletcsassists and five steals. Adisa Majors ’18 drives to the hoop against SUNY New Paltz in the team’s home great eight Middlebury met host Eastern Con- opener on Tuesday, Nov. 22. Majors finished with 16 points in the 94-64 win. necticut State in the tournament final on Sunday. In a much closer contest, St. RANKING TEAM Amour rallied from his disappointing game, pushing the ball in transition and The combination of Gull’s guard Ka-Case’s Court Saturday performance to lead all scor- going 10 for 10 from the free-throw line. mahl Walker, who finished with a team 1 women’s Hockey ers with 22 points, and four steals (St. The Panthers beat SUNY New Paltz high 28 points, and defense minded The fifth-ranked Panthers are Amour led the NESCAC in steals last in a 94-64 blow out in Pepin Gymna- guard Rob O’Brien, who hounded St. 3-1 and almost pulled an upset season) and guide Middlebury to a 83-74 sium for their home opener on Tuesday, Amour — he had three personal fouls over top-ranked Plattsburgh last win. The Panther’s interior defense was Nov. 22. The Panthers led from tip off in his five minutes played — sent En-Sunday. lacking in the first half. Coach Jeff Brown and never let go, ending the first half up dicott on a 25-3 run. The movement in experimented with a number of different 56-24. St. Amour was unconscious, scor- Middlebury’s offense, in the half court 2 Men’s Basketball big man lineups, with Majors, McCord, ing 27 points in 22 minutes, on an effi- and in transition, slowed with the loss of After a one-year hiatus, they Nick Tarantino ’18 and Matt Folger ’20 cient eight of 15 shooting from the field. Brown, who played only seven minutes were reintroduced to the national all seeing time on the floor. Folger was Coach Brown handed the game over to in the half due to foul trouble. The Pan-polls with a 3-0 start. the freshman Brown was most comfort- the bench in the second half, and all four ther’s defense compounded their prob-Women’s Soccer able playing – in a two minute span in of the team’s freshman saw the court. lems: in the second half they grabbed the first half he recorded a steal, block Middlebury continued to share the ball only seven defensive rebounds and al-3 They fell to Messiah in the Sweet and a fadeaway catch-and-shoot jump- effectively, assisting on 72 percent of lowed the Gull’s six offensive ones. Near 16 two weeks ago, putting a er from the baseline. His combination their field goals to New Paltz’s 56 per- the end of the half Middlebury started wrap on their best season since a cent. The Panthers lead the NESCAC in to play around Endicott’s defense on St. 2013 Final Four big. of size, skill and mobility was apparent when he took his defender off the dribble assists per game and assist to turnover Amour, who scored on a backdoor cut. In from the elbow and finished with a scoop ratio, no doubt due to the play of Brown the end Middlebury fell 93-89.4 Women’s BasketBall layup. and Daly—Coach Brown almost never After the loss, St. Amour was criti-The team is 3-0, off to its best “I think I can add some versatility to sits both at once. cal of the team’s performance down the start in recent memory and the front court because of my ability to Endicott stretch.heads to Rensselaer tonight for step out and shoot the three, as well as Middlebury ended its three game “We need to do a better job execut-a 6 p.m. tip. providing size on the inside to clog the winning streak at home against Endicott ing, keep the ball moving, setting solid paint, block shots and grab rebounds,” College. The Panther’s controlled most screens and continue our basic motion 5 Cross Country Folger said. “Right now I can come in the of the first half. With 18 points from St. offense,” he said. “In the 2nd half they Abigail Nadler ’19 finished 15th game and give the starters a rest while Amour and 12 from Majors, and hav- did a good job of getting us out of our at NCAAs and got All-American also supplying energy and scoring” ing assisted on 15 of their 18 makes, the stuff and disrupted our rhythm. Our honors. The Warriors stuck with the Pan- Panthers played their brand of excit- biggest problem was defensively where thers until late in the game. After Daly ing, transition heavy offense. In the half we didn’t get stops or rebounds so that 6 Squash fouled out Coach Brown added Folger to court, Brown kept the offense in mo- took away our transition offense which They look to keep the program’s the crunch time lineup of Baines, Ma- tion by driving into the lane, threading is when we’re at our best.”momentum going as they open jors, St. Amour and [Jake] Brown. With passes to Baines and Majors or kicking it Daly, the lone Middlebury ball han-the season this Saturday against three minutes remaining, an impressive out to St. Amour, who converted on open dler when Brown fouled out, scored a ca-Drexel. Middlebury defensive possession led to looks at the top of three point line. They reer high 22 points, to go with six boards a St. Amour steal who rewarded Majors headed to the locker room with a 48-36 and five steals. Majors put up 16 points 7 Swimming for running the floor with an assist for lead. on an efficient seven of nine shooting, Specifically Mike McGean ’17’s the easy transition layup. Baines and St. The second half seemed to be headed justifying his place in the starting lineup massive margin of victory at in the same direction when St. Amour as the Panther’s most consistent center.the Tufts meet Nov. 20. Amour sealed it with two three-pointers in quick succession. [Jake] Brown was earned an and-one on the first posses- “I’m really happy with the way this pesky on defense on one possession he sion. The Gull’s coach Kevin Beatencourt team competes,” St. Amour said. “We 8 Men’s Hockey clawed the ball away from the opposing called a quick timeout after another St. have an experienced group that learns They’ll turn it around. But this point guard early in the shot clock and Amour layup. His instructions on side quickly and is really familiar with the of-is their worst start since the finished at the other end. On offense he lines could be heard from the bleachers: fensive and defensive strategies Coach NESCAC began play in 1971. was the key to Middlebury’s transition do not lose sight of St. Amour (who had Brown teaches.23 points in 17 minutes at that point).
sportsSwimming opens SeasonMen’s and Women’s Swimming and Diving travelled to Con-necticut College and Tufts for their opening weekend.JOnathan DruckmanWomen’s Hockey starts strong, 3-1 Swim Falls to Conn, TuftsBy Sebastian Sanchez For the second-straight day, goal of the season after Jenna Mo- By Andrew Rigas won the one-meter diving event Senior Writer on Saturday, Nov. 19, Middlebury rotta ’19 sent a perfect pass from Sports Editor with 262.25 points, and Will found itself in another overtime the right point to the far post of the Greene ’19 earned the win in the bout against the Bantams. ice.While most of student body pre- In their first two meets of the In the 17th minute of the first The second period was high- 3-meter competition with 274.50 pared for and then had Thanksgiv- period, the Panthers struck first lighted by Elizabeth Wulf’s ’18 two season, the men’s and women’s points.ing break, the women’s ice hockey when they capitalized on the third goals. Wulf capitalized on two of swimming and diving teams “Our first meet against Con-played two games at Trinity Col- of three power plays against the the four power-players awarded both fell to Conn. College on necticut College last Saturday lege on Nov. 18-19 and then came Bantams. Captain Carly Watson to the Panthers, the first coming in Saturday, Nov. 19, and Tufts on was tough given the intensity of home to Kenyon Arena to host the ’17 converted on an assist from the 3rd minute as she redirected a Sunday, Nov. 20. The men lost our training and traveling the Panther/Cardinal Classic against Anna Zumwinkle ’20 to notch her shot on goal from Watson. Wulf’s 191-97 on Saturday and 173-121 Utica and top-ranked Plattsburgh day prior,” McGean said.first goal of the season. second goal occurred with 26.7 State on Nov. 26- 27. It was a week on Sunday. The women fell 173- The next day, the women In the 3rd minute of second pe- seconds remaining in the second filled with overtime thrillers, and 121 on Saturday and 156-144 on riod, Trinity tied the game, whip- frame as she lifted a loose puck came the closest to winning out the Panthers finished the stretch ping a shot past Lin Han ’20. At into the back of net from the left Sunday. of all four competitions, losing 3-1 to begin its season. one point, the Bantams had a five- circle. The teams travelled to New the meet in the last race of the On Friday, Nov. 18, Middlebury on-three advantage power play, Rachel St. Clair ’19 tallied her London, Conn. for their first day. Behind 145-140 to Tufts traveled to Trinity College to play but the Panthers were able to fend first goal of the season in the 4th meet of the with just the the Bantams in an opening NES- off the hosts and keep the game at minute after converting on a two- w e e k e n d . 400 free re-CAC series. Trinity leapt to an early “This is the first 1-1 heading into the third quarter. on-one break and a beautiful pass lead in the seventh minute of the Two first- lay remain-There were a total of eight shots from Sherman on the left side of first quarter, slapping a rebounded year swim-time we’ve opened our ing, the wom-on goal in the third period, seven the ice. The Panthers led 5-0 until puck behind the out-stretched arm by Middlebury and one by Trin- the 18th minute when a Utica for- mers and season with a dou- en’s team had and stick of Middlebury goalie, Ju- ity, and neither could score so the ward slipped a pass behind Neu- a first-year ble header which is a an opportu-lia Neuburger ’18. game went to overtime. burger to spoil the shutout. diver led the nity to win The Panthers failed to tie the It looked like the game would After the 5-1 win, Middlebury way on the challenge in itself, but its first meet game in the first period and head- end in a tie, as neither could score fought to keep their momentum w o m e n ’ s ed into the second trailing by one. our spirits were high of the season. in overtime either. Middlebury into the final game of the Classic side. Celia throughout the course The team of However, in the 12th minute Sid- had one last chance on the power against top-ranked Plattsburgh ney Portner ’20 sent a beautiful Ripple ’20 VanderMeer, play in the last minute of the game. States on Sunday, Nov. 27. pass through the neutral zone to won the 100 of the weekend.” S t e p h a n i e Kelly Sherman ’17 got the puck af- That would not be the case as Janka Hlinka ’18 who was cutting ter a scrum in the crease and put 56 seconds into the game, the Car- breaststroke Morgan Burke ’17 A n d r e w s toward the net and ripped the shot it in the net for the Middlebury dinals took advantage of a turn- with a time ’18, Olivia past the Trinity goalie to time to game-winning goal with just 1.1 over and scored to take a 1-0 lead. of 1:06.96 Mitchell ’20 the game 1-1. seconds remaining in the contest. Midway through the second pe- and the 200 and Morgan In the third period, the Pan- For the second straight night, the riod, Plattsburgh took a 2-0 lead. i n d i v i d u a l Burke ’17 lost thers took a 19-5 advantage of Panthers defeated the Bantams 2-1 Middlebury could not capitalize medley with a 2:16.13. Frances by fewer than three seconds as shots on goal, but none could find in overtime. on any opportunities that period, the back of the net and at the end VanderMeer ’20 crossed the fin- the Jumbos took the meet.On Nov. 26, the Panther/ but goaltender Han made a pair of of regulation the score remained ish line in 1:00.50 in the 100 In the opening relay of the Cardinal Classic kicked off as great saves to keep the game at a tied. Middlebury did battle with Utica two-goal difference. butterfly to finish first in that meet, the 400 medley team of Middlebury came out firing in College. The Panthers came out Maddie Winslow ’18 scored on race. Kacey Hertan ’20 finished VanderMeer, Claire Treesh ’19, the opening minutes of overtime, firing from the 1st minute. Port- a power play in the 5th minute first in the 1-meter diving event Burke and Ripple won with a challenging Trinity defensemen ner worked alongside the board of third period, but the Panthers with 228.37 points, and Elissa time of 4:02.25. VanderMeer tal-and putting pressure on the net. and passed the puck at the top of could not complete the comeback DeNunzio ’18 did the same in lied two more victories, winning The Panthers sustained the pres- the crease to find a cutting Shanna and fifth-ranked Middlebury fell the 3-meter event with 209.17 sure and in the 2nd minute of over- the 50 back (28.71) and the 50 Hickman ’19 who netted her first 2-1.time, Jessica Young ’18 deflected a points. fly (27.12), and Ripple added two goal of the season. Middlebury returns to action shot from Victoria Laven ’17 into On the men’s side, Mike Mc-The Panthers did not let up and next Friday and Saturday with a more as well in the 50 breast-the back of the net to complete the about eight minutes after the first two-game NESCAC series at Conn. Gean ’17 won the 500 free with a stroke (30.78) and 100 breast-win and tally her first goal of the tally; Hlinka scored her second College. time of 4:45.65 and the 1000 free roke (1:07.58).season. with a 9:49.99. Mike Chirico ’20 See Swimming page 15WOMEN’S MEN’S HOCKEY BASKETBALL WINS WITHOUT A WIN TIP-OFF CLASSIC AFTER FOUR PAGE 14 GAMESPAGE 14insidesports
