On Monday, Nov. 30, Interim 
-
-
-
and history.
-
dent.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
the administration had a position 
-
propriation. In response, Fernán-
“cultivating respect and re-
sponsibility for self, others and 
our shared environment” and 
“fostering a diverse and inclusive 
-
“As institu-
tions of higher education, we ap-
plaud the progress already made 
to promote clean energy and cli-
mate action as we seek a compre-
hensive, ambitious agreement at 
the upcoming United Nations Cli-
mate Negotiations in Paris. We 
recognize the urgent need to act 
now to avoid irreversible costs to 
our global community’s economic 
prosperity and public health and 
are optimistic that world leaders 
will reach an agreement to secure 
a transition to a low carbon fu-
ture. Today our school pledges to 
accelerate the transition to low-
carbon energy while enhancing 
sustainable and resilient prac-
tices across our campus.”   
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
dent stress and promote men-
-
ish and Interim Chief Diversity 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Students Discuss Appropriation, Race 
December 3, 2015 | Vol. 114 no. 10 | middleburycampus.com
TWO MEN 
INDICTED FOR SEX 
TRAFFICKING IN VT
PAGE 4
STUDENTS SLEEP 
OUTSIDE IN 
SOLIDARITY WITH 
VT HOMELESS
PAGE 8
NEW SKETCH 
COMEDY GROUP: 
MIDDLEBURY 
DISCOUNT COMEDY 
PAGE 12in
sid
e
by Caroline Agsten
News Editor
New Framework Tackles Stress
SEE “THE GRID”, PAGE 2
Middlebury Signs Climate 
Pledge with 200 Colleges
by Philip bohlman
News Editor
by Eliza Teach
News Editor
The Campus
Michael O’hara
SEE TOWN HALL, PAGE 2
| December 3, 20152 NEWS
By Nick Garber
Community Council 
Correspondent & Contributing 
Writer
Community
Council
Update
“The Grid” Focuses on Mental Health
On Nov. 9, Community Council reviewed 
its large list of potential solutions to student 
stress, discussing whether additional topics 
should be added. 
Several students agreed that the advising 
opportunity to engage with their advisors 
on subjects that are not purely academic, 
they said, would be highly valued. 
In addition, Public Safety Telecom 
Manager and Tech Support Specialist Solon 
Coburn, citing a recent New York Times 
article, mentioned the possibility of framing 
stress not simply as a negative emotion, 
but as a tool which can be utilized to one’s 
advantage.
On Nov. 16, the Council dedicated its 
meeting to the subject of faculty stress, with 
several professors sharing their thoughts on 
the issue.
(who has taught in the Department of the 
with another professor that certain measures 
to combat student stress may only increase 
the stress felt by faculty. Self-scheduled 
exams, she said, were one example.
“There is a very high percentage of 
cheating that goes on with self-scheduled 
exams,” she said. “So if you’re managing 
the anxiety about whether your students 
are going to be dishonest in taking it, or 
you’re spending the time following up on 
a dishonesty case, that’s a lot of time and 
an immense amount of stress for a faculty 
member.”
got here, I did a lot of self-scheduled exams, 
because I thought it was easier for students,” 
he said. “But after several cycles of honor 
code review committee reports, I could not 
in good conscience continue because of the 
incidence of cheating.”
“From a faculty perspective, when 
you encounter an instance of cheating or 
plagiarism… there’s nothing in my teaching 
career that has made me feel worse than 
that,” Johnson said.
Faculty also cited students’ frequent 
desire to see course syllabi during the 
summer before registration takes place. 
“Very often, a faculty member is planning 
on using the summer or late summer weeks 
to pull [a syllabus] together,” said Smith 
on several points, adding that “it’s more 
syllabus. It takes time to gauge what level 
the students are at, and you need a little 
changing some things.”
Laursen listed several additional sources 
of stress for many faculty, including 
advising, developing and preparing new 
courses, and maintaining a “rigorous 
schedule” of publication.
Johnson noted that the issue of 
publication was a common one, particularly 
when balanced with a professor’s 
responsibility to teach. “It used to be that 
when you were at a liberal arts college like 
this, it was all about teaching. Increasingly, 
at liberal arts colleges, you are expected to 
have a big record of publications, in addition 
to being the best possible teacher and being 
engaged in the community.”
This accumulation of “stuff,” Johnson 
felt, is what prevents the College community 
from “interacting with one another in low-
stakes, casual ways.”
Several students shared that this high 
level of faculty stress often deters them from 
“bothering” professors who they feel might 
be busy – a revelation which struck faculty 
as particularly disappointing.
“It breaks my heart when students say, 
said.
“The best part of my day is going into the 
classroom,” agreed Johnson. “If students 
are worried about approaching faculty 
because they’re worried about adding stress 
load to the faculty, that’s a real problem.”
on what had transpired throughout the 
year, particularly framed around student 
stress.
“We discussed what it feels like to not 
be able to get out from underneath the 
stressors of day-to-day life as students at 
Middlebury and what that brought to the 
were missing, and what students thought 
These talks on diversity and inclusiv-
ity paired with what was surfacing about 
student stress led to a sense of urgency on 
the part of the Board of Trustees that the 
administration needed to discuss these is-
sues and work to develop an action plan.
“We were asked by the Board of Trust-
ees to identify the areas in which we could 
have the greatest impact and to identify 
three ‘experiments’ that we could have on 
the ground in September that would ad-
dress some of the causes of student stress,” 
weren’t trying to collapse the diversity and 
inclusivity piece into the rest of the stu-
dent stress like a problem to be solved, but 
rather saw a great deal of overlap between 
the stressors that students brought with 
them when they came to the College or ex-
perienced as a result of being a student in 
a community that traversed between the 
realms of academic stress and issues of 
identity, community, student support and 
bias. 
In what started as a brainstorming ses-
sion with a white board and a great deal of 
buzz-words surrounding stressors across 
-
dez began to separate these words into 
three categories which naturally morphed 
into the three experiments requested by 
Whittington. 
“We started by seeing how those quali-
ties or stressors settled into three big cat-
egories, and then within each category we 
started to brainstorm both what was al-
ready happening, as well as what we could 
imagine happening this year and beyond,” 
from each of those big umbrella categories 
that we thought we could actually try to 
make happen this year.” 
slated for this fall couldn’t be the more 
substantial ticket items because they were 
out of sync, and thus not yet included in 
the budget cycle which starts every Janu-
ary. They furthermore planned to follow 
through with only the smaller agenda 
items because the whole community had 
yet to be involved in the conversation.
“It wasn’t meant to be, ‘here’s what is 
good for everybody, as we recognized the 
need for a much broader community con-
versation, which we have moved forward 
-
ing to be really thoughtful about which of 
the agenda items we felt were good, solid 
ideas to at least try, and which we would 
have to hold on until more people weighed 
in on them.”
Thus far this fall, “The Grid” has been 
presented to the Board of Trustees, the 
President Senior Leadership Group, the 
Middlebury Leadership Group, the Com-
munity Council and the entire Student 
Life Division. Students were shown the 
plan on Dec. 2 and faculty will be shown 
on Dec. 17. 
These discussions have involved a pow-
erpoint on the components of “The Grid” 
followed by brainstorm sessions in which 
small groups address what might already 
be happening on the small scale in order 
to gauge what efforts are already afoot, 
perhaps departmentally or in a student 
already in place, these small groups have 
then fed additional ideas into “The Grid.”
“One of the ironies of this is that as this 
grid grows, there is a danger of the thing 
itself becoming an overwhelming docu-
ment, which we are trying to avoid,” Smith 
with a thing that is supposed to be helping 
with stress!” 
One of the experiments slated to begin 
this Winter Term is a storytelling series 
called “It’s Not What You Think,” a space 
-
verse with students on past failures and 
the twists and turns of life. This is built 
about at a conference and is targeted to be 
a natural complement to existing story-
telling series such as “What Matters to Me 
and Why” put on by the Center for Social 
the need to identify and build upon such 
synergies within the community.
President of the College Laurie L. Pat-
ton reached out to the community earlier 
this week outlining a list of activities work-
ing to create a more inclusive community, 
including several objectives outlined by 
“The Grid.” One such measure they have 
taken is inviting the Posse Foundation to 
host three on-campus workshops — one 
for faulty and administrators and one for 
student leaders.
workshops will leverage Posse’s experi-
ence designing and facilitating interac-
tive experiences that explore and confront 
challenging sociopolitical issues facing 
higher education today.” 
In addition to these workshops, the Col-
hold four faculty-recruitment workshops 
designed to boost their goal of further di-
versifying the faculty.
generation students or students coming 
from high school backgrounds where hav-
ing some kind of summer preparation pro-
potential long-term objective is the addi-
-
tion will continue. 
“One of the important things we’ll need 
to clarify moving forward is how this con-
said. “What is a mechanism that allows the 
campus to own this conversation and for 
it to continue in a robust fashion so that 
people really think their good ideas are be-
ing recorded and acted upon?”
One such mechanism is slated to be 
a website welcoming community input 
to further the conversation surrounding 
these objectives. Such a platform would 
provide a space where new ideas can begin 
to take shape and form.
“We are beginning work on a website 
that will act as a hub for discussion and 
ideas around issues of stress, inclusiv-
ity, resilience, mind-body well-being and 
more,” said Vice President for Communi-
cations and Marketing Bill Burger. “Given 
the number of initiatives that are being 
considered and that are in place already 
across the institution, we felt it would be 
helpful to the community if we created a 
modest site to describe these efforts and 
invite suggestions and comments. I think 
-
tinue to evolve the site and our approach 
to it over time.”
While this project could potentially 
continue under a working group as a part 
of Community Council or some kind of hy-
She said, “We’ll need to see which 
things are really going to stay and what is 
the space for experimentation. The idea 
here is to keep things dynamic and open. 
what really works for Middlebury.”
Town Hall Forum Encourages Empathy
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
community committed to civility, open-
“[There’s] the argument that just because 
that we shouldn’t. I think of that as being ap-
plicable to free speech as well. We have the 
right to do all sorts of things, but maybe we 
shouldn’t — out of self respect and respect 
for our community,” Sargena said.
town hall discussion, in which attendants 
discussed the cultural symbolism of the 
sombrero.
“I think the discussion came down to: if 
a historical reason for that, then you really 
ought to question why you’re doing some-
Students wondered if College policy 
could be changed to mitigate offensive ac-
tions or statements. One member of the 
faculty responded that he believed includ-
ing controls on speech and dress in college 
policy is too subjective and would privilege 
certain voices.
amendment rights are not guaranteed at 
private organizations like corporations, re-
ligious groups or colleges. The College can 
design community standards or put restric-
tions on freedom of speech if it decides that 
is appropriate for its mission.
The discussion then moved to the issue 
of the ignorance of white students towards 
cultural and racial sensitivities. Multiple 
students noted that it was not the respon-
sibility of students of color to educate other 
students on their cultures. Others called on 
the administration to institute program-
ming, whether it be required reading or 
discussions during orientation week, that 
would encourage students to engage in what 
it means to live in a diverse community. 
Suggestions for how to self-educate were 
varied — while some students pointed to the 
internet and Google as a powerful tool for 
sensitivities and history, many professors 
in attendance emphasized the superiority of 
academic sources and the importance of us-
ing the faculty as a resource.
Nicolas Mendia ’16 shared his experi-
ence with confronting the student wearing 
the sombrero, but emphasized that this was 
only one of many incidents that had affected 
him this semester. He related the student’s 
resistance to take off her sombrero and her 
conviction that she was not culturally ap-
propriating, and that he had felt afraid upon 
realizing that he could have faced repercus-
sions for approaching the student had she 
felt threatened. 
“This was the third incident of racism I 
had experienced this semester,” Mendia 
said. “The Otter Nonsense ‘kissed her door-
man’ and the soccer team’s ‘Mexican jump-
ing bean’ posters were the two others. These 
incidents made me afraid. However small 
you see them, I spent the next few weeks 
scared because someone on this campus 
considered this behavior okay, not unlike 
the much worse incidents of targeted racism 
I faced in my community growing up.”
“So when you say, ‘You’re too sensitive’ 
or ‘have a thicker skin,’ I need you to under-
stand,  I am ex-
hausted. I have had enough. These incidents 
have been eating away at me all semester, 
made me afraid to go to class, made me an-
gry with myself and the strangers around 
me because I do not know whether you are 
the ones doing these transgressions. It’s in-
cidents like these that forced me to move 
off campus because I do not feel safe in this 
community anymore. I don’t want to be here 
anymore.” 
Once the space reached capacity, stu-
dents, staff and administrators were turned 
away, including Russell J. Leng ‘60 Profes-
sor of International Politics and Economics 
“It was a missed opportunity to build 
community that can easily be put right,” 
hold another meeting in a larger venue and 
encourage everyone to attend.  Gathering 
everyone together in this way is of the ut-
most importance.  It made me proud of who 
we are to see so many people show up yes-
terday.”
saying that he hoped that this would not be 
the end of the discussion and that he hoped 
to host another forum in the coming weeks.
In the aftermath of the devastating 
terrorist attacks in France and Beirut, 
the United States refugee resettlement 
program has come under intense scru-
tiny. The national dialogue surrounding 
resettlement has grown increasingly po-
larized, especially after President Barack 
Obama’s decision in September to admit 
an additional 10,000 Syrian refugees. 
With the 2016 gubernatorial elections in 
Vermont fast approaching, politicians on 
both sides of the aisle have weighed in.
Governor Peter Shumlin (D), who 
has already declared he will not be run-
ning for reelection, has expressed his 
support for accepting Syrian refugees 
into Vermont.
“You’ve got to stand up for what’s 
right,” Shumlin said. “I believe the right 
thing to do is for Vermont to say, to folks 
fleeing torture and terror, we are a wel-
coming state.”
Governor Shumlin has been very ac-
tive on Twitter in his support. In Novem-
ber, he posted videos and pictures of his 
meetings with refugees from a variety of 
countries. Vermont 
has a long histroy 
of refugee resettle-
ment. Since 1989, 
Vermont has re-
settled over 6,000 
refugees primarily 
from Bosnia, Bhu-
tan, Nepal, Burun-
di, Congo, Rwanda, 
Somalia and Sudan.
“Two days be-
fore Thanksgiving, 
I’m thankful for 
refugees who have 
come to Vermont,” read one tweet.
Ultimately, Shumlin claimed that 
those who hoped to stop refugee resettle-
ment were espousing values antithetical 
to what it means to be American.
“When people are dying,” said Shum-
lin in an interview with NPR, “when 
people’s lives are being threatened, when 
they’re getting in little rafts to escape 
wherever they were ... we don’t become 
the country that says, ‘We’re closing the 
borders. We don’t trust you, and we’re 
not going to let you in.’”
Although Shumlin’s support has 
drawn the ire of some Vermonters, in-
dividual states do not have the legal au-
thority to block refugee resettlement. Ac-
cording to the Refugee Act of 1980, the 
authority over refugee resettlement rests 
at the federal level. In 2012, the Supreme 
Court took up a similar case regarding 
immigration from Mexico, and ruled that 
individual states do not have the right to 
enforce unique immigration laws.
Historically, Vermont has allowed 
roughly 350 refugees a year to resettle, 
using a screening process that takes 
1,000 days.
Other candidates in the 2016 Ver-
mont Gubernatorial election have been 
less receptive. Two Republican candi-
dates, Lieutenant Governor Phil Scott 
and former Wall Street banker Bruce Lis-
man, have called for resettlement efforts 
to cease.
“I think it’s incumbent upon us to 
[cease resettlement efforts],” said Scott, 
“until such time as the federal govern-
ment can prove it is meeting its national 
security obligations; making sure that 
there is a rigorous process, to make sure 
that it’s just those peace loving Syrians, 
and others, that want to come into our 
states.”
Bruce Lisman, a fellow Republican 
candidate expressed a similar sentiment.
“It’s very tempting to see these pic-
tures and videos and say we’ve got to do 
something,” said Lisman. He urged that 
the state “take a step back” and consider 
the security ramifications of allowing Syr-
ians to resettle in Vermont. 
Sue Minter, one of two Democrat-
ic candidates for Governor, supported 
Shumlin’s call to 
welcome Syrian ref-
ugees.
“Keep Vermont 
compassionate and 
open,” read one of 
Minter’s tweets. 
“Thank you Gov-
ernor Shumlin and 
Representative Pe-
ter Welch for votes 
opposing intoler-
ance and standing 
up for refugees.”
Matt Dunne, 
a Democratic gubernatorial candidate, 
agreed. “I have to say that when I heard 
Phil Scott’s position on it, I was extremely 
disappointed.”
“I would have hoped that Phil would 
be someone who would not just fall in line 
with the right- wing Republicans in Con-
gress,” Dunne continued.
After facing this intense criticism, 
Scott toned back his statement – if only 
slightly.
“When asked what I would do, I 
probably should have gone a little further 
to explain that I don’t understand the sit-
uation and I certainly don’t feel like we 
can pause or stop the refugee program in 
its entirety,” he said. “But I do honestly 
feel the highest obligation of any govern-
ment is to ensure the safety and security 
of every citizen.”
Currently, the Vermont Refugee Re-
settlement Program (VRRP) serves as the 
only resettlement program in Vermont. 
No Syrian refugees have yet been reset-
tled, but the VRRP expects to bring Syr-
ian refugees to Vermont within the next 
year.
In fact, lost amongst the polemics 
of the debate are the specifics of the re-
settlement process itself, and the atten-
dant screening procedures. For Syrian 
refugees, officials 
say screening pro-
cedures are among 
the most stringent 
in the world.
First, refugees 
are screened by 
the United Nations 
High Commioner 
for Refugees (UN-
HCR). The process 
includes in -depth 
refugee interviews, 
reference checks in their country of origin 
and biological screenings. Only a small 
percentage of these refugees are viable to 
be resettled overseas, including survivors 
of torture, victims of sexual violence and 
targets of political persecution.
If a refugee passes this stage and is 
referred to the United States, they un-
dergo a strict process performed in coor-
dination with the State Department, the 
FBI’s Terrorist Screening Center, the De-
partment of Defense and the Department 
of Homeland Secu-
rity. Fingerprints 
are collected, back-
stories checked for 
accuracy and VISAs 
scrutinized. Of the 
applicants, approxi-
mately half will pass 
this two- year test.
Supporters of 
resettlement in Ver-
mont believe that 
these layers of secu-
rity are strong and 
that terrorists would 
not bother to infil-
trate such a secure system.
“No terrorist will wait four or five 
years in poor circumstances to come into 
the United States,” said Achraf Alama-
touri, an English teacher who left Syria 
in 2011 and currently works with the Ver-
mont Refugee Resettlement Program.
Amila Merdzanovic, speaking on 
behalf of the Vermont Refugee Resettle-
ment Program with WPTZ News, said that 
“Americans, Vermonters, need to trust 
the system because the system works.”
Nationally, these voices are in the mi-
nority. Thirty governors, of both parties, 
have called for the United States to cease 
the resettlement of refugees until security 
concerns can be addressed. In the North-
east, this includes governor Charlie Baker 
(R) of Massachusetts, Paul LePage (R) 
of Maine and Maggie Hassan (D) of New 
Hampshire. Notably, Governor Hassan 
was the first Democratic governor to call 
for resettlement to cease.
Rhetoric has also varied, with some 
governors more 
adamant than oth-
ers. Idaho Governor 
Butch Otter said that 
he would use “any le-
gal means available” 
to block Syrian refu-
gees from resettling 
there.
The issue has 
also been addressed 
by most presidential 
candidates. In an in-
terview with Fox News, Ted Cruz (R) de-
clared that “those who are fleeing perse-
cution should be resettled in the Middle 
East, in majority Muslim countries. Now 
on the other hand, Christians who are be-
ing targeted for persecution, for genocide, 
who are being beheaded or cruxified, we 
should be providing safe haven to them.”
Jeb Bush expressed a similar senti-
ment: “There are a lot of Christians in 
Syria that have no place now. They’ll be 
either executed or imprisoned, either by 
Assad or by ISIS. I 
think we should focus 
our efforts, as it re-
lates to the refugees, 
to the Christians who 
are being slaugh-
tered.”
Perhaps the most 
impassioned plea 
to resettle refugees 
came from Senator 
Patrick Leahy (D) of 
Vermont. In an open 
letter published last 
week, he called for his 
fellow Vermonters to 
reexamine their “knee- jerk” reactions to 
the refugee crisis.
“Intolerance has no place in this 
great and good country,” read the letter. 
“Accepting refugees is a part of our histo-
ry, our culture, of who we are, and it can 
be done safely with the proper screening 
procedures. This week, we give thanks 
for our freedom and for the American 
tradition of serving as a beacon of hope 
to those who are persecuted and in need 
of refuge. It would be a cruel irony if a 
terrorist attack in France caused us to 
abandon the American values embodied 
in France’s gift to America, the Statue of 
Liberty.”
local
Vermonters React to Syrian Resettlement
By Harry Cramer
Local News Editor
“No terrorist will wait 
four or five years in 
poor circumstances to 
come into the United 
States.”
Achraf Alamatouri
Employee of Vermont Refugee Resettlement Program
It would be a cruel iro-
ny if a terrorist attack 
in France caused us to 
abandon the Ameri-
can values embodied in 
France’s gift to Amer-
ica, the Statue of Lib-
erty.”
Patrick Leahy
Vermont Senator
“You’ve got to stand up 
for what’s right. I believe 
the right thing to do is for 
Vermont to say, to folks 
fleeing torture and ter-
ror, we are a welcoming 
state.”
Peter Shumlin
Governor of Vermont
Governor Shumlin strongly supports Obama’s call to increase Syrian resettlement.
Courtesy burlington Free Press
Rallies in favor of and in opposition to Syrian resettlement clashed outside the Statehouse.
Courtesy valley News
Last week, Gary Delima and Sharif 
Cargo, both age 26 of Brooklyn, NY, were 
indicted by a federal grand jury for vari-
ous charges of human trafficking in Ver-
mont.  
According to a statement released by 
the office of the U.S. Attorney for the Dis-
trict of Vermont, “Delima and Cargo are 
accused of recruiting, enticing and main-
taining two individuals referred to in the 
indictment as “Victim 1” and “Victim 2,” 
and using force, threats of force, fraud 
and coercion to cause them to engage in 
commercial sex acts between Sept. 2012 
and Sept. 2013.” In addition, Delima was 
accused of transporting a minor, referred 
to as “Victim 3,” to Vermont to engage in 
prostitution earlier this year. 
Delima and Cargo were first sus-
pected of human trafficking in July of 
2013 when law enforcement officials re-
sponded to a call in a South Burlington 
hotel and found the two men there with 
two women.  The 
police found evi-
dence of prostitu-
tion and narcot-
ics on the scene. 
In addition, they 
found that one of 
the women had 
been listed online 
earlier that day as 
an available es-
cort in the South 
Burlington area. 
Records from the 
website showed 
that Cargo’s email 
address had been 
associated with 
the email and 
other similar ad-
vertisements. 
This past February, police received 
another call from a South Burlington ho-
tel, where they found two women.  These 
women said that they were engaged 
in prostitution and that Delima had 
brought them here from New York for 
that purpose.  One of these two women 
was a minor, which would lead Delima to 
face worse charges, if found guilty of sex 
trafficking of a child.
If convicted of Sex Trafficking by 
Force and Coercion, both Cargo and De-
lima would face a minimum sentence 
of 15 years in prison up to a maximum 
sentence of life in prison, according to a 
statement by the U. S. Attorney’s District 
of Vermont Office. If found guilty of sex 
trafficking of a child, Delima could also 
receive ten years to a lifetime in prison.
The indictment of Cargo and Delima 
came just several weeks after U.S. At-
torney for the District of Vermont Eric 
Miller launched an anti-sex trafficking 
media campaign in Vermont in response 
to the rise in sex trafficking in the state 
in recent years. According to the Na-
tional Human Trafficking Resource Cen-
ter, they received 37 calls and reports 
of seven human trafficking cases that 
mentioned Vermont in 2014, which was 
up from the 17 calls and reports of three 
cases in 2012. As of June 30, they had re-
ceived 14 calls and three cases referenc-
ing Vermont.  
The media campaign led by Eric 
Miller consists of a website, ucanstop-
traffick.org.  The homepages reads, “U 
Can Stop Traffick – help end sex and 
drug trafficking in Vermont.”  The web-
site features the stories of three women 
from Vermont who were victims of sex 
trafficking and ended up abusing drugs. 
There is also a one minute public service 
announcement video and a list of avail-
able resources.  
Prior to this indictment for human 
trafficking, Delima and Cargo were also 
indicted back in 
March for distribut-
ing heroin and co-
caine in Vermont. 
This connection be-
tween the drug trade 
and human traffick-
ing in Vermont is 
not uncommon.  
Human traf-
ficking often begins 
with an addiction to 
heroin, cocaine or 
other opiates while 
under the control 
of their perpetrator. 
Once dependent on 
drugs, victims of hu-
man trafficking of-
ten turn to using sex 
as a means to make 
money to feed their 
addiction and to pay off drug debts.  Jas-
mine Grace, a survivor of sex trafficking 
and drug addiction featured ucanstop-
traffick.org, elaborated on this idea in 
her interview on the website.
“You become addicted to drugs, so 
now you don’t have an actual pimp over 
your head, you have a growing drug ad-
diction, so the only way to support that 
drug addiction really is to prostitute,” 
Grace said. “I didn’t realize that this was 
going to turn into a heroin addiction.”
Not only are victims of sex traffick-
ing drug abusers, many are also helping 
financially support drug dealers. 
“No one deals drugs alone,” said 
Geni Cowles, First Assistant U.S. Attor-
ney in the Vermont district. “For every 
dealer our office charges there’s a circle 
of people, charged and uncharged, who 
make that drug dealing activity possible 
and profitable.” 
Cowles said 75 percent of the people 
who support drug dealers are women. 
They provide support by giving them 
housing, cars and contact lists. Many 
women are also used to transport drugs 
or make minor deals. Cowles added that 
many of these women are also trafficked 
for sex. Of these women, Cowles articu-
lated that 60 percent were under 30, 
most were addicted to substances and 
one quarter were in a romantic relation-
ship with the dealer.
The current indictment of Delima 
and Cargo highlights the common trend 
that human and drug trafficking are in-
extricably linked. 
In light of this rising trend, public 
and private groups are working to re-
duce human and drug trafficking in Ver-
mont. In addition to the U.S. Attorney’s 
U Can Stop Traffick campaign discussed 
above, the Vermont Human Trafficking 
Task Force was formed in 2010. The task 
force included two representatives from 
Give Way to Freedom, a Vermont-based 
non-profit that works locally and inter-
nationally to end human trafficking and 
support victims. As a result of the Ver-
mont Human Trafficking Task Force, 
legislation was passed in 2011 that man-
dated training on human trafficking for 
law enforcement and gave the possibility 
of a life sentence.
Two New York Men Indicted 
3
Local 
lowdown
Local 4
Info Session on Communal Living
Has the end of the semester gotten you 
down? Are you sick of your roommates? If 
so, joining the 14-unit eco-village neigh-
borhood might be for you. There will be 
an information session on this project to 
and more. Coming to Bristol across from 
the town park, this project is expecting to 
DEC. 3 7-9PM 
Christmas Sleigh Ride in Bristol
Enjoy this two day event of festivities in 
Bristol. With arts and crafts, baked goods, 
everything you need to get yourself into 
the holiday spirit. Centered around the St. 
Ambrose Church, the holiday festivities 
will also include a silver tea event on Fri-
day and a visit from Santa on Saturday.
 
DEC. 4 1-5PM, DEC. 5 9AM-5PM
Library Tag Sale 
Looking for cheap holiday gifts or extra 
decorations for your room? Stop by 
the Lincoln Library to check out items 
donated for re-sale. This sale will include 
items such as necklaces, pins, earrings, 
purses and more. 
DEC. 4 10AM-4PM
Local News Editor
Eyes on the Land Exhibit
Co-organized by the Shelburne Museum 
and the Vermont Land Trust, this exhibit 
features the work of 13 Vermont art-
ists who were inspired by 15 conserved 
Vermont lands. Each work is a visual 
essay that entails the artist’s response to 
the protected places they depicted. The 
exhibition will be on display until Jan. 3, 
but do not miss your chance to check it 
out! All ages are welcome and tickets are 
free with museum admission. 
DEC. 3 12PM-5PM
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs 
Perform in Brandon
If you are looking to get your dose of 
Disney for the week, then this event is for 
you. Spearheaded by the youth drama 
program at the Brandon Recreation 
Department, this production is put on by 
Whitting schools. Tickets are $5, and free 
for children under four. 
DEC. 4,  7PM
 | December 3, 2015
Courtesy UCANSTOPTRAFFICK.org
“You become addicted to 
drugs, so now you don’t 
have an actual pimp over 
your head, you have a 
growing drug addiction, 
so the only way to sup-
port that drug addiction 
really is to prostitute. I 
didn’t realize that this 
was going to turn into a 
heroin addiction.” 
Jasmine Grace
Survivor of sex trafficking 
Courtesy Vt Digger
opinions
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus pro-
vide a forum for constructive and respectful dialogue 
on substantive issues. With this in mind, The Campus 
reserves the right to deny publication of all or part of 
a submission for any reason.  This includes, but is not 
limited to: the making of assertions based on hearsay; 
the relation of private conversations; the libelous men-
or personal attacks. Any segment of a submitted ar-
ticle that contains any of the aforementioned will be 
removed before publication. Contributors will be al-
lowed to reference prior articles published in the Opin-
ions section or announcements for the public record. 
If a reference is made to prior articles, the submission 
will be considered a letter to the editor.  The Campus 
will not accept or print anonymous letters. The opin-
ions expressed by contributors to the Opinions section, 
as well as reviews, columns, editorial comics and other 
commentary, are views of the individual contribu-
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the editor 
at 250 words or less, or opinions submissions at 800 
words or less. Submit works directly to the Opinions 
Editors, Drawer 30, campus@middlebury.edu or via 
the paper’s web site at  www.middleburycampus.com. 
To be considered for publications, submissions must 
be received by 5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves 
the right to edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the stu-
dent newspaper of Middlebury College, is published by 
The Middlebury Campus Publications. Publication is 
every Thursday of the academic year, except during of-
Campus is produced on Apple Macintosh computers 
using Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press 
Republican in New York. The advertising deadline for 
for the following week’s issue. Mailing address: The 
Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Middlebury College, 
Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business phone: (802) 443-
5737. Please address distribution concerns to the Busi-
Vt., 05753.
Stress and the Student Body
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
decided by the 
editorial board.
As the end of the semester draws near, 
a familiar topic bubbles to the surface of 
everyday conversation: stress. The student 
body, as a collective, is stressed. But we 
are less certain on 
precisely why students 
are stressed and how 
to combat it. The 
answers to “why” and 
“how” are numerous 
and multifaceted. 
One’s academic 
situation, social life 
and extracurricular 
engagements can all contribute to experiences 
of stress. The editorial board recognizes 
that this issue is complex and no solution is 
perfect, immediate or all encompassing.
We also wish to point out, however, 
that no solution will be successful without 
an ongoing dialogue between students and 
the administration. In the wake of Nathan 
Alexander’s suicide last spring, members 
of the administration attempted to address 
student stress and implement solutions 
through a project coined “The Grid.” Inclusive 
pedagogy training and increasing Parton’s 
counseling staff emerged as proposed 
initiatives. But these efforts were conceived 
over the summer and student input was not 
taken into consideration.
This is problematic. “Student stress” 
is inherently a student issue and we can 
offer insight into what that issue looks like. 
Without student input, the administration’s 
conversation has become single-minded. 
Likewise, when student stress emerged as a 
topic in a recent faculty meeting, the faculty 
voted to move into executive session and 
remove students from the room. The opinions 
that were voiced during the open portion of 
the meeting bear little resemblance to the 
sentiments voiced by students themselves. 
Some professors talked about how students 
overextend themselves in extracurricular 
commitments, causing stress; the reality is 
far more complex, as students could have 
told them.
Professors and members of the 
administration are largely out of touch with 
the stressors of today’s college students. 
Students have the added anxieties of applying 
for increasingly competitive internships and 
jobs, dealing with ever-rising student debt 
and managing the omnipresent role of social 
media in our lives.  While we recognize that 
the administration is now seeking student 
input, namely at “The Grid” meeting on 
Wednesday, this initiative should have 
occurred much earlier. One must understand 
a problem before devising a solution. In the 
case of student stress, the College jumped 
straight to a solutions-oriented narrative. 
Meanwhile, students have been leaders 
at combating this issue. SGA President Ilana 
Gratch ’16 proposed the creation of a peer-
counseling program, which would enable 
students to connect and work through 
everyday stresses and challenges in an 
approachable environment. Due to liability 
issues, the suggestion is facing pushback. We 
understand that formalizing students’ role as 
“counselors” could pose potential problems. 
But there are plenty of other student-led 
initiatives that deal with sensitive issues, 
including JusTalks, MiddSafe and Res Life. 
Thankfully, under the guidance of Barbara 
McCall, SGA will expand the Winter Term 
Workshop entitled “Student Support 
Network” this January. This course will train 
students to support their peers in a robust, 
substantive capacity. We appreciate this 
effort and hope to see it eventually formalized 
into a mentorship program between older 
and younger students.
stand on their own. We recognize the 
administration’s efforts to promote wellness, 
particularly through “The Grid.” Suggested 
solutions are varied, from mindfulness 
exercises in the short term to additional 
CRAs in the long term. 
In the meantime, what can we do? 
Policies and programs take time to implement 
and many of us will graduate before these 
plans come to fruition. But we can attempt 
to take control of our daily reality and of the 
ways we process and perpetuate narratives 
of stress. It often seems like we are engaged 
in a competitive “Work Olympics,” where 
everyone tries to one-up each other with 
how much they have on their plates. Stress 
becomes a humble brag; if you’re stressed, 
you’re high achieving.
This culture contributes to and heightens 
week approaches, let us make an effort to 
consciously avoid stress-related monologues. 
Let us not use our workload as a default line 
of conversation. By all means voice genuine 
concerns and seek help in times of trouble — 
there are resources and friends on campus 
who would be willing to lend a hand. But also 
remember that stress need not consume your 
daily reality; you are more than your stress. If 
you’re taking a much-needed break from your 
work, don’t spend it talking about your work. 
of Middlebury culture and college is one of 
the few times in our lives that we will have 
the time and space to learn to better manage 
stress and anxiety. The stressors that exist 
at Middlebury are also steeped in the world 
outside of the College. Let’s commit ourselves 
as a community to addressing this issue and 
to looking out for one another in the coming 
weeks.
Our Role in the Syrian Refugee Crisis
injustices and tragedies happening all over 
the world. There’s a feeling of helplessness in 
the way we discuss the problems of the day 
that are dis-
tant from our 
own homes. 
We usually 
just shake our 
heads in dis-
may and say, “This is awful, but there’s noth-
ing we can do about it.”
But sometimes you actually can do 
something about it, whether you know it or 
not. As Travis Sanderson ’19 pointed out in 
his op-ed from last week, “A Call for Con-
science,” we as students at an elite American 
college have an exceptional opportunity to 
do our part for Syrian refugees.
We attend a school with a rapidly increas-
ing $1.1 billion endowment. What can we 
do with that money to help Syrian refugees? 
Sanderson outlined two important things 
our school can do to help, but in case you 
missed it, I will summarize them below:
1. We can partially subsidize the tuition 
of Syrian refugee students at universities in 
the Middle East – such as the University of 
Jordan – with whom we already have a close 
partnership and a study abroad school.
2. We can offer scholarships and cover 
transportation costs for Syrian refugee stu-
dents to come to our campus.
easy, both for our administration and for the 
refugee students. We would have to do noth-
ing more than send money to the University 
of Jordan for the purpose of scholarships for 
refugees. As Sanderson points out, a year 
of tuition at the University of Jordan costs 
16,000 Jordanian di-
nars, or about $22,560 
USD, which means 
that paying for a quar-
ter of one student’s 
tuition would only be 
about $5,640 per year. 
Plus, there are already 
619,000 Syrian refu-
gees in Jordan. This 
option makes a lot of 
practical sense.
One might then 
is so much easier and 
cheaper, why even consider actually bringing 
a Syrian student here to campus? I argue that 
bringing even just a few Syrian refugee stu-
dents here would make a huge difference for 
the students, for us and for American higher 
education as a whole. The Syrian students 
would bring us their unique perspectives on 
violence in Syria and xenophobia abroad. We 
would provide them with safety, community 
becoming friends with these students and 
having them be a part of our close-knit com-
munity, we would all have a better under-
standing of refugees as human beings, rather 
than as statistics in a newspaper.
Most importantly, however, we would be 
setting an example for colleges and univer-
sities all across the 
United States. Middle-
bury is no stranger to 
setting examples for 
the rest of the coun-
try to follow. In 1823, 
we set an example 
institution to give a 
bachelor’s degree to an 
African-American. We 
set examples in lan-
guage instruction with 
our world-renowned 
language schools and 
our Doctor of Modern Languages degree. 
Today, we continue to set examples with our 
commitment to sustainability and becoming 
carbon-neutral by 2016. Middlebury is a pio-
neer among American institutions of higher 
-
come Syrian refugees to our campus. When 
we do so, hopefully other colleges and univer-
sities will follow suit.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Claire Abbadi
MANAGING EDITOR
Leah Lavigne
BUSINESS MANAGER
Wyatt French
NEWS EDITORS 
Christian Jambora, Eliza Teach, Phil 
Bohlman, Caroline Agsten 
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Kate Hamilton, Erin Van Gessel, Sara 
Hodgkins, Francesca Haass 
SPORTS EDITORS 
Joe MacDonald, Alex Morris, Emily 
Bustard, Andrew Rigas
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry Cramer, Alessandria Schum-
acher, Annie Grayer
FEATURES EDITORS 
Emilie Munson, Hye-Jin Kim, 
Jack Apollo George
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Elizabeth Zhou, Toby Aicher, Oakley 
Haight 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel Frank, Anahi Naranjo, Michael 
O’Hara, Anthea Viragh 
DESIGN EDITOR
Cordelia Prouvost
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Maggie Cochrane, Jerrica Davy 
COPY EDITOR
Sarah Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOST
Nathaniel Wiener
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR
 Nathaniel Wiener
VIDEO EDITOR
Jason Zhang
reader op-ed
Jeff Holland ’19 is from 
Cleveland, Ohio. “I argue that bringing 
even just a few Syrian 
refugee students here 
would make a huge 
difference for the stu-
dents, for us and for 
American higher edu-
cation as a whole.”
jena ritchey
opinions6                                            | DECEMBER 3, 2015
A liberal arts student trying to “lever-
age their privilege” by spending the summer 
working at a homeless shelter – a classic 
move for a 
s e l f - p r o -
claimed so-
cial justice 
warrior. But, 
when I ac-
cepted a position as a Shepherd Poverty In-
tern at John Graham Housing & Services I 
wasn’t thinking about the juxtaposition of 
working at a homeless shelter while attend-
ing a college with a $1.1 billion endowment. 
I was thinking about working in solidarity 
with low-income and homeless individuals 
because I believe that every person deserves 
-
one a safe place to lay their head at night is 
but also a human right.
Now, I’m not a “typical” student at Mid-
in my immediate family to attend a private 
college. I went to a public school where pov-
erty was rampant. Despite my working class 
background, I’ve never had to worry about 
my basic needs being met; I never fret about 
when I would eat next or if I’d have a home 
in which I could sleep unlike many of my 
peers in high school.
Having grown up in an economically-
depressed area, I have been hypersensitive 
to issues surrounding class and inequal-
ity for many years and this consequently 
piqued my interest during my junior year of 
high school in an internship working in local 
government, particularly in the area of social 
services. I ended up enjoying my job, and 
worked there on and off until I left my home-
town to attend college. Although I spent 
most of my time crunching numbers, I also 
spent a considerable amount of time listen-
ing to conversations regarding the delivery 
of services to low-income individuals. While 
many people engaged in conversations were 
lives, the majority of those in these discus-
sions instead viewed poverty as a product of 
laziness and entitlement. 
These sentiments were not just con-
most right-leaning areas, in my hometown, 
it is a common thought that a large portion 
of those who receive any type of govern-
ment assistance are “leeches on the system” 
who should just “go get a job”. Even though 
I cringed to hear these words knowing that 
some of my friends were dependent on gov-
ernment assistance, at the time, I was just 
a reserved adolescent who hadn’t really 
been immersed in another narrative. Thus, 
I thought that my feelings about everyone’s 
ones.
I couldn’t have been more incorrect. 
Fast forward more than a year to the 
-
rounded by the positive energy of a Vermont 
summer, I began working at John Graham. 
director oriented me with the shelter’s phi-
losophy. Its philosophy was one that was 
vastly different from which I was accus-
tomed. The Shelter believed that everyone 
—regardless of their background — deserved 
housing as a human right. Without meet-
ing this basic need, it’s nearly impossible to 
overcome addiction, seek employment or 
even be remotely healthy. Their food shelf 
did not have limits; when those we served 
needed food, we gave them what they need-
ed, whenever they needed it. We advocated 
for clients. We were not trying to give them 
a rigmarole about accessing services; we 
instead provided them with a service-rich 
environment in which they could thrive and 
become self-sustaining. 
Most importantly, however, individu-
als were treated like humans. Ensuring that 
each one of our clients knew that they were 
worth something made a noticeable differ-
ence in how successful they were. It seems 
like a simple concept that when individuals 
are humanized and treated with compassion 
they are able to more easily and quickly reach 
narratives today — particularly conservative 
ones — social programs are seen as unneces-
sary and wasteful. According to this school 
and end a “system of dependence” is with 
austerity — the rapid defunding and degra-
dation of vital social programs. This type of 
dehumanizing poor and low-income people 
is morally just. Cutting food stamps doesn’t 
force people to “work harder,” it causes re-
cipients to starve. Slashing Section 8 vouch-
ers doesn’t make people “get off the system,” 
it forces recipients onto the streets. And lim-
iting Medicaid coverage doesn’t “improve 
work ethics,” it causes people to die from 
treatable illnesses.
When I stepped off as an intern at the 
Shelter right before the academic year, I 
witnessed how successful people are when 
they’re treated with dignity and their basic 
needs are met. John Graham Housing & 
Services has it right. This is what they do ev-
former residents who are dying to tell their 
success stories. 
As a Middlebury community, we con-
stantly acknowledge the fact that we are 
such a privileged institution. Because we are 
in such a privileged position, the least we can 
do is to help to support our most vulnerable 
community members. This Saturday is the 
perfect opportunity to continue the success 
stories coming out of John Graham Housing 
& Service. On Dec. 5, the Shelter will hold its 
second annual Sleep-out to End Homeless-
ness. At 4 p.m., community members will 
gather for a candlelight vigil on the Middle-
bury Town Green followed by a light  sup-
per. Afterwards, community members will 
build an encampment by Otter Creek Falls 
to spend just one night in the cold that our 
homeless neighbors have to deal with daily. 
Perhaps one of the most important aspects 
of this event is the fundraising part. Please 
visit go/sleepout to make a donation or visit 
out fundraised enough to purchase a transi-
tional housing unit in Middlebury that has 
since housed multiple working families, vet-
erans and chronically homeless individuals. 
Please join me and other community 
members this Saturday for any parts of the 
event or consider making a gift to the Shelter 
so that it may continue the great work that it 
does to make our community the best that it 
can be. I hope to see you there!
———————
Dan currently works as a Service Coor-
dinator at John Graham Housing & Services 
and is on its Board of Directors. Please con-
tact him with any questions at dadamek@
middlebury.edu.
Sleep-out for homelessness
Reader Op-ed
Dan Adamek ’18
is from Herkimer, NY
Inviting Cultural Appropriation onto Our Campus 
To put it bluntly, Felly is the epitome 
of cultural appropriation and white privi-
lege. He takes the culture, the language, the 
style and the stereotypical criminality of 
black culture 
and uses it 
for aesthetic 
p u r p o s e s . 
His music 
continues on 
the tradition 
of musical 
blackface, in 
which white 
musicians culturally appropriate African 
American Vernacular English (AAVE) for 
their own personal gain despite not being 
connected to the culture. Felly, those who 
were responsible for bringing him here and 
those planning to attend his concert are un-
aware of the systematic racism black people 
face, and how even seemingly innocuous or 
reinforce discrimination.
For example, in addition to appropri-
ating AAVE, Felly appropriates Rastafari-
his video “Gorilla,” which is also featured in 
the link to his album, and he uses lines like 
“My inner being Rastafarian.” According to 
“an afro-centric religious and social move-
ment based in the Caribbean island of Ja-
maica. It stems from the roots of Rastafari 
in rising against the post-colonial oppres-
sion of poor blacks.” It is intrinsically tied 
to blackness and a sense of place, and the 
obstacles and violence black people face as 
a result of white supremacy. It is not smok-
to Bob Marley. Rastafarianism is black. It 
is exclusive, radical, politically charged and 
has been appropriated almost to the point 
of incoherency by white people who, despite 
what they say, seem to have no understand-
ing of how the labels and practices they pla-
giarize actually work.
The thing is, because Felly, and other 
white people, have privilege because of 
their race, they don’t really need to under-
stand how black culture or systematic rac-
ism works. For example, while black people 
and white people smoke marijuana at the 
same rate, black people are four times more 
likely to be arrested for it. Black people are 
also more likely to be incarcerated, and for 
a longer amount of time. And those black 
people are the lucky ones; the unlucky ones 
being Trayvon Martin, Mike Brown, Sandra 
right word though, since the exploitation 
and murder of black people serves to sup-
port white supremacy. But white people 
aren’t interested in appropriating that side 
of black culture – the pain, uncertainty and 
fear. 
Felly doesn’t seem especially interested 
in interacting with actual black people ei-
ther. There are few black people in his vid-
eos, and a quick scroll of his SoundCloud 
page reveals pictures of him hanging out 
with his white friends and singing to a ma-
jority white crowd. People of color general-
almost feels like playing “Where’s Waldo.”
Or maybe it’s because his hometown of 
Trumbull, Connecticut is 94 percent white 
any black people to associate with. But more 
likely it’s because black people aren’t “cool”; 
black culture is “cool.” Black sound is “cool.” 
Being a criminal, which in this country is 
synonymous with being black, is “cool.” The 
human beings who produced these things, 
who live these lives and who die because 
they can’t escape the same things Felly so 
Considering Middlebury College’s own 
history with appropriation, it’s no surprise 
that Felly was chosen as our visiting art-
ist. Diversity is more than just a word; it’s 
recognizing the cultural backgrounds of 
all of our community members and being 
cognizant of those when making decisions 
that affect our campus. People don’t rec-
ognize that what’s fun for them can be in-
credibly harmful to students of color. Some 
individuals cannot remove the features ap-
propriated for entertainment value once 
confronted with a racist reality. The bulk of 
the community wide conversations, like the 
ones before and after Thanksgiving Break 
concerning issues of inclusivity and appro-
priation, didn’t occur until after Felly was 
booked, but hopefully in the future people 
will be more aware of the implications of 
bringing certain artists to campus.
Voices on 
diversity
Elizabeth Dunn ’18 
is writing on behalf of the 
Institutional Diversity 
I was sitting here thinking about what I 
hoped to get out of this meeting and the idea 
of emotion has been a reoccurring theme for 
me. It’s been mentioned a few times in this 
meeting and every time we’ve gone around I 
hoped that 
we would 
latch on 
and delve 
a little 
deeper, but 
I still don’t 
think it’s 
been given 
its respects. 
And I am 
afraid to 
speak on it. 
I am afraid to say what I am about to say be-
cause of a number of different reasons, pri-
marily that on this campus emotional people 
are torn down: your rationality and intelli-
gence are questioned because you’re just this 
person who’s yelling or crying or swearing. I 
want to acknowledge this, so that you hear 
me when I say that that is the opposite of the 
case. When you come across someone who is 
angry or afraid, you should listen even more 
to what they have to say because you can 
deny intelligence or rationality but you can-
not deny someone’s lived emotions. I want 
to acknowledge some of the emotions I felt 
these past two weeks.
 Her response to me kindly asking why 
she was wearing that sombrero in Proctor, 
verbatim, was, “You know, I just really like to 
get turnt.” That hurt. It hurt to have someone 
look me dead in the eye and have them say 
a cultural artifact important to my heritage 
was nothing more than a prop for them to get 
drunk. Then when I tried to explain myself, 
to have her dismiss me by saying, “Oh no I 
got this in Canada for my birthday.” – but 
what you’re doing is cultural appropriation 
and it – “Oh no, it’s not cultural appropria-
tion, I’m not doing that. It’s totally okay.” She 
turned her back to me, dismissing any more 
conversation and I became furious. It was 
in that moment that I realized this was not 
an ignorant person; this was someone who 
was racist. You need to hear that. This was 
someone who was racist. This moment alone 
struck fear in me too: this girl could have very 
well come back at me, could have called Pub-
lic Safety and said I was being aggressive to-
wards her. Hear me when I say there is fear 
in even calling someone out on this campus, 
because the repercussions can be so much 
worse for People of Color. I’ve felt this fear 
many times before, especially throughout 
this semester.
This was the third incident of racism I 
had experienced this semester. The Otter 
Nonsense “kissed her doorman” and the soc-
cer team’s “Mexican jumping bean” posters 
were the two others. These incidents made 
me afraid. However small you see them, I 
spent the next few weeks scared because 
someone on this campus considered this be-
havior okay, not unlike the much worse inci-
dents of targeted racism I faced in my com-
munity growing up. This on top of me having 
to stop three belligerently drunk soccer play-
ers from trying to shit in the urinals in Proc-
tor and have them tell me that, “they won’t 
have to clean it up so it’s not their problem”. 
Please hear me when I say that however few 
or many, these people are in our community 
right now. And this is the baggage I held as I 
walked up to that girl in Proctor that Satur-
day night.
So when you say, “You’re too sensitive” 
or “have a thicker skin,” I need you to under-
stand, I have had my thicker skin. I am ex-
hausted. I have had enough. These incidents 
have been eating away at me all semester, 
made me afraid to go to class, made me angry 
with myself and the strangers around me be-
cause I do not know whether you are the ones 
doing these transgressions. It’s incidents like 
these that forced me to move off campus be-
cause I do not feel safe in this community 
anymore. I don’t want to be here anymore. 
On the worst days, I don’t even want to be liv-
ing. These events have had serious, dire con-
sequences on me, and the saddest part is that 
I’m not the only one. I need someone to hear 
me when I say that mine is one of too many 
narratives on this campus that share in these 
emotions. I need someone to understand that 
there are consequences to what you are do-
ing. There are consequences that you don’t 
see that are destroying People of Color on 
this campus. And I need someone to hear me, 
really hear me when I ask, is it going to take 
Student Transcript from Town Hall Meeting
READER OP-ED
Nicolas Mendia ’16
is from Chicago, IL 
Note: this piece is an 
edited and ammended 
transcription of the author’s 
speech at the Nov. 30 town 
hall meeting 
CARTOONS
nolan ellsworth
KAITLYND COLLINSWIN HOMER
Black Friday Champ
BOONE MCCOY-CRISP
BOONE MCCOY-CRISP
8 features | December 3, 2015
by Hye-Jin Kim
Features Editor
It’s no surprise there’s little over-
lap between winter-camping enthusi-
asts and Addison County’s homeless.
In our own community, there are those 
who will have no choice but to spend 
at least one frigid night outside this 
winter. While most of us are fortunate 
enough to lack first-hand experience, 
sleeping outside frankly sucks (unless 
there’s a $200 sub-zero sleeping bag 
involved).
Though homelessness in Addison 
County is not as obvious and visible 
an issue as it is in urban cities, the fig-
ures on rural poverty are troubling. 
According to the John Graham Shelter 
website, there has been a 54 percent 
increase in childhood homelessness 
in Vermont – the number of children 
rising from 785 in 2009 to over 1,400 
this year. More than 3,000 Vermont 
households were homeless and reliant 
on emergency shelters in 2014. 
In order to raise awareness and 
collect donations for Addison County’s 
homeless, the John Graham Shelter in 
Vergennes is hosting its second annual 
sleep-out on 
Saturday, Dec. 5 
at the foot of Ot-
ter Creek Falls 
near Marble-
works. For those 
willing to sleep 
outside, albeit 
more comfort-
ably than those 
who are home-
less, it is an 
opportunity to 
raise awareness and collect supplies 
for those afflicted by rural poverty. 
“The shock value of having to sleep 
in the cold can bolster people to action,” 
said Dan Adamek ’18, who currently 
serves on the John Graham Shelter’s 
Board of Directors. “And sleeping out-
side is not just about physically facing 
the elements. There’s the psychological 
fear of not having a safe, warm place to 
rest one’s head at night.” 
Participants from last year’s “Sleep-
Out to End Homelessness” raised over 
$30,000 for the John Graham Shelter 
– enough to purchase a transitional 
housing unit. The event will begin at 
4 p.m. with 
a candlelight 
vigil, followed 
by a light sup-
per at St. Ste-
ven’s Episcopal 
Church. Sleep-
out participants 
are asked to 
bring a bag of 
food, a box of 
diapers, toilet-
ries, hygiene 
products, clean-
ing supplies and a new quilt or set of 
sheets for the John Graham Shelter.
In the sleep-out’s inaugural year, 
40 participants raised over $30,000.
The money was used to buy a transi-
tional housing unit for homeless mem-
bers of Addison County before they can 
be placed in a permanent home. One of 
the residents of the housing unit had 
been homeless for over eight years. 
“We’re facing an unprecedented 
wait-list for people who want to get 
into homes,” Adamek said. He blamed 
stagnant wages and rising living costs 
for the increased demand, noting that 
the “vast majority” of people at the 
shelter and in transitional housing 
were working at least part-time.  
As of Sunday, over $20,000 has 
been raised for the John Graham Shel-
ter. Adamek said this year’s goal is to 
raise $30,000. So far, teams from the 
Porter Hospital nurses’ union, the 
Walden Project at Vergennes Union 
High School, and the College have all 
signed up for the event. 
Charlie Mitchell ’18 decided to at-
tend the sleep-out after volunteering 
at the Charter House in town. “I’ve 
witnessed that struggle [of homeless-
ness],” he said. “I’m signing up to have 
that conversation.”
The John Graham Shelter views 
homelessness as a community problem 
that requires a community solution. 
“I’m there to raise my own aware-
ness as much as anyone else’s with this 
experience,” Mitchell said. To donate, 
visit johngrahamshelter.org.  
Camping For A Cause: Shelter Hosts 
Sleep-Out to Combat Homelessness
How is it Still a 
(Midd) Thing? 
by Charlie Ascher
Senior Columnist
If you were to think of the most 
surefire way to make yourself look 
stupid what would it be? Answering a 
question wrong in class? Calling some-
one the wrong name? Pushing a pull 
door? Nope. Without a doubt it has to 
be opening the McCullough mailboxes. 
The McCullough mailbox locks 
have probably caused me more embar-
rassment than my mouth ever has — 
and that is saying something. How are 
these locks still a thing?
Mailboxes are so important here: I 
probably get what, seven letters a year? 
Two are pamphlets from the bookstore, 
four are holiday letters and the last is 
a cryptic newspaper clipping from my 
grandma. Big shout out to my grand-
ma for being the only person to make 
a college-aged male hum the “We Just 
Got A Letter” song from Blue’s Clues as 
he goes to open his mailbox.
Here’s the thing; when I finally fin-
ish humming Blue’s Clues songs and go 
to open my mailbox, I’m faced with a 
puzzle that would have caged Nic Cage 
in “National Treasure.” I have yet to 
check if the solution is hidden in the 
Declaration of Independence. Nothing 
cages Nic Cage … except for the Mc-
Cullough mailbox locks. 
If you have ever had to get mail 
out of your mailbox, you know what 
the problem is. Never had a problem 
opening your mailbox? Congratula-
tions, you’re a master lock picker. I am 
convinced that opening a Middlebury 
mailbox in one try is a miracle almost 
as great as breakfast for dinner.
It should be a straightforward af-
fair. All you have to do is twist a knob 
to three numbers, turn the knob one 
more time, and pull the door to you. It 
just never goes that easily. 
The mailboxes can smell fear. You 
double-check your mailbox combina-
tion because despite being a college-
aged student able to remember ob-
scure details about the mitochondria 
(the powerhouse of the cell!), you can’t 
for the life of you remember three one 
or two digit numbers. You then double-
check the instructions so there is no 
way you turn the knob the wrong way. 
Finally, you muster up the courage 
to make your attempt. After turning 
the antagonist wheel with a precision 
you last used entering your CRNs in 
Bannerweb, you pull the door only to 
be met with a thunk. 
Convinced that everyone in the 
mailroom is watching you, you feel 
like a miserable failure. That’s what 
the mailbox wants. Maybe it’s the fact 
that the locks spin in the opposite di-
rection of normal locks, or maybe it’s 
that finicky last turn at the end, but in 
any case, these locks are legitimately 
the worst.
I am utterly convinced that switch-
ing out the mailbox locks would de-
crease student embarrassment num-
bers by at least 37 percent. This is 
clearly a switch that needs to be made. 
It’s time for you to stop feeling like a 
failure and start feeling like Nic Cage. 
How are the mailbox locks still a 
thing?
“There’s the psychological fear 
of not having a safe, warm place 
to rest one’s head at night.”
  
Dan adamek ‘18
John graham shelter board of directors 
courtesy of john graham shelter
courtesy of john graham shelter
Participants from last year’s “Sleep Out to End Homelessness” raised over $30,000 for 
the John Graham Shelter in Vergennes — enough to buy a transitional housing unit.
People paticipating in this year’s “Sleep-Out” will camp at Marbleworks, near the foot of the Otter Creek Falls in Middlebury. 
9featuresdecember 3, 2015   
Carbon Countdown: Electricity Use 
Maintaining Large Carbon Footprint
Beyond emissions from heating and 
cooling, travel and waste, the College 
must address emissions from purchased 
electricity in order to reach its goal of 
carbon neutrality by 2016. When the 
Climate Action Plan (CAP) was adopted 
in 2008, electricity purchases accounted 
for only 2 percent of the College’s total 
had risen to almost 7 percent. Though 
this was largely due to a decrease in 
total gross emissions from heating and 
cooling, emissions from purchased elec-
tricity did rise from 676 metric tons 
of carbon dioxide 
equivalent in 2007 
to 864 tons in 2014.
The College 
uses about 22 mil-
lion kilowatt hours 
of electricity per 
year. Of this en-
ergy, 20 percent 
is cogenerated on 
campus by turbines 
connected to the 
central heating plant. The steam gen-
erated by the plant (from biomass and 
fossil fuel combustion) drives turbines, 
which generate electricity. The steam is 
then piped throughout campus to meet 
the heating and cooling demand. The 
remaining 80 percent of the College’s 
electricity is purchased from the Cen-
tral Vermont Public Service Corporation 
(CVPS). Because the combustion of bio-
mass is considered carbon neutral, it is 
this purchased electricity that accounts 
for the College’s net carbon emissions 
from electricity usage.
When the College purchases elec-
tricity from CVPS, it cannot control the 
source of the electricity or whether it is 
carbon neutral. Until 2013, the vast ma-
jority of Vermont’s power (70 percent) 
came from nuclear energy, which is car-
bon neutral. Much of the remainder of 
the state’s electricity came from hydro-
power, another source of clean energy. 
Most of Vermont’s nuclear power came 
from the Vermont Yankee nuclear pow-
er plant, which shut down in late 2014. 
Due to this, utilities have since had to 
purchase electricity from non-renew-
able sources. 
Green Mountain Power, which 
r e c e n t l y 
merged with 
CVPS, pre-
dicts that 
only 55 per-
cent of its 
fuel mix in 
2015 will be 
r e n e w a b l e , 
coming from 
nuclear and 
hydroelectric 
sources. The other 45 percent of its fuel 
mix will consist mainly of “system” pow-
er, which comes from various sources, 
including fossil fuels. In calculating car-
bon emissions from purchased electric-
ity, the College must factor this in.
To help reduce net emissions from 
electricity, the CAP recommended con-
servation as well as investigating alter-
native energy sources, such as wind and 
solar power. 
In 2012, well after the CAP went 
into action, the College installed a small 
143kW demonstration solar system near 
McCardell Bicentennial Hall, which 
consists of 34 solar trackers. In total, the 
system produces about 200,000 kilo-
watt-hours annually, which is only one 
percent of the College’s total electricity 
consumption. According to the College’s 
website, the electricity generated by this 
system is enough to power Forest Hall 
throughout the year. 
Though solar power could be used 
is not currently feasible for large-scale 
power generation. Because of the rela-
-
els, the College would need a huge solar 
system to meet its energy needs. This 
presents multiple problems, including 
the physical infrastructure of the system 
and energy storage.
In order to further reduce net emis-
sions from electricity purchases, the 
College should continue to focus on re-
ducing electricity consumption. Signs 
they leave the room have become in-
creasingly prevalent on campus and 
help to encourage more sustainable 
is the sentiment that students are still 
largely unaware of the impacts of their 
lifestyle choices on sustainability.
Since 2007, carbon emissions due 
to purchased electricity at the College 
have risen by 188 metric tons of carbon 
dioxide, nearly 30 percent. Though only 
a small contribution to the College’s 
overall carbon emissions, reduction of 
electricity usage or a shift toward re-
newable energy sources will help the 
College reach its goal of carbon neutral-
ity by 2016.
1st place: 
“Coca-Cola Man” 
by Anthea Vita Von Viragh 
(Beijing, China)
“[This photo] symbolizes how West-
ern influence has impacted traditional 
China,” Von Viragh said. “I submitted 
this photo because of the vibrant col-
ors and the happiness this photo ex-
udes. Also, I like the reaction people get 
when they look at this photo. It’s usu-
ally light-hearted and happy.” She used 
a Nikon D800 to capture this shot. 
by Hye-Jin Kim
Features Editor
by Forrest Wallace
In order to further reduce net 
emissions from electricity pur-
chases, the College should contin-
ue to focus on reducing electricity 
consumption.
Wellness Tip 
of the Week
The Ideal Nap
Feeling too exhausted to do your work? 
Studies show that a quick power nap of 10-
20 minutes is the perfect length to get your 
energy back up. Longer naps can cause 
sleep inertia, or a period of grogginess and 
reduced performance caused by waking 
in the middle of deep sleep, although a 90 
minute nap goes through a full REM cycle 
so you can wake up feeling refreshed!
Mental Health News:
- Barbara McCall is hosting a Free Winter 
Term Workshop focusing on peer to peer 
support called Student Support Network. 
Be sure to sign up this week!
-Board games have been made available in 
Proctor Lounge by the SGA for student use. 
Connect with your friends over a game of 
Battleship: stress less, play more!
- On Monday, Dec. 7. there will be free 
massages in the Crest Room from 1:30 p.m. 
to 3:30 p.m. to promote relaxation.
-On Tuesday, Dec. 8, Crossroads will host a 
“Back to Childhood Night” from 4:30 p.m. 
to 8 p.m.
by Wellness Leaders
Study Abroad Photo Contest Winners 
80%
purchased from the 
Central Vermont 
Public Service 
Corporation
The College uses about 22 
million kilowatt hours of 
electricity per year. Where 
does it come from?
20%
cogenerated on 
campus
2nd place: “Firewood” by Noah Stone (Dho Tarap, Nepal).
This village sits at over 14,000 feet elevation, well above the Himalayan 
treeline. “Men and women travel for as long as three days to collect wood to burn 
in their homes,” said Stone. “It is a testament to just how difficult life can be in the 
remote reaches of the world.” He used a Nikon D5200. 
3rd place: “A View From Above” by Demetrius Borge (Tromso, Norway).
“The story behind this photo is one of multi-national experience,” said Borge, 
who traveled from Prague to Bordeaux to Amsterdan to Oslo before arriving in 
Tromso, “where I eventually hiked up to the backyard of the Airbnb I was staying 
at and took this photo … it was a nice culmination of my study abroad experience, 
both literally and physically.” Borge used a Canon Rebel T3i.
| December 3, 2015 10 Features December 3, 2015 |  11features
The Yearbook Question
1873
The Kaleidoscope 
is founded.
1881
Production of the 
Kaleidoscope halts.
1894Kaleidoscope 
The publication is now bound 
book, as opposed to the small 
1900 -
but under a new name: The Laurea. The 
2015
students decide to elimi-
nate the Kaleidoscope?
1909
under its former name, The Kaleidoscope. 
-
1960s-1970s The Kaleido-
editors opted to eliminate photo captions and student 
-
turbulence and chaos of the era.
1920
since 1909 in which the Ka-
leidoscope was not published. 
in World War One
33% 
Of students believe the 
yearbook is a good use of
the students activity fee 
19%
of respondents indicated 
that they would be interested
in a
 
paid position to help 
produce the yearbook.
82.6%
of respondents did
 
not
know that all graduating
 seniors are mailed a copy
 of the Kaleidoscope for free.
29%
Of students said that the money 
should be allocated to student
organizations and on campus 
activities instead
of students said
 a cheaper alternative 
should be found
20% 
 Kalei-
doscope was produced in 1873. Since 
-
and student interest in the publica-
tion has waned and waxed.
discussions on how little students 
few students want to participate in 
to evaluate current student opinion 
towards the Kaleidoscope
the Kaleidoscope has been one of the 
there has been little conversation 
the thousands of dollars it is allo-
-
book and administrators to address 
-
History
 Kaleidoscope was printed, 
students paid for a special edition 
Kaleidoscopes little 
-
-
appeared in the Kaleidoscope, but 
fewer than 100 students attended the 
-
this time.
Kaleidoscope’s production were 
Kaleidoscope was pro-
1873 to 1881, but then production 
stopped. The publication returned, 
now in bound book form, in 1894.  
assumed a new name, The Laurea, 
-
as The Laurea in 1901 but after that 
halted.
of the Kaleidoscope. Since 1909, the 
Kaleidoscope has been created and 
one: in 1920, World War One pro-
interrupt-
ed cam-
pus life 
as male 
students 
left the 
of the 
Kaleidoscope, the book was created 
-
press in Rutland, Vermont. Later, the 
-
were responsible for production. 
-
The Yearbook Today
Kaleido-
scope
of two to three unpaid students in 
-
munications. While certain elements 
photos and records from athletic 
-
the book.
 Editor-in-chief of Middle-
bury Magazine
Kaleido-
scope
them make important editorial deci-
sions.
 Unlike at schools such as 
-
Kaleidoscope 
other sources such as Athletic Com-
and Jostens, who takes senior por-
themselves to 
-
tos and other 
the book.
90 percent of 
their content, 
and editors col-
laborate with 
the staff of Jos-
Kaleido-
scope is in production with Jostens 
and editors review proofs of the 
book. Once approved, it is printed in 
 As the Kaleidoscope contains 
-
Uses of the Yearbook
            The Kaleidoscope
-
Kalei-
doscope is instrumental. The book 
-
ticular, create the class books distrib-
uted at the 25th and 50th reunions. 
Middlebury Magazine 
Kaleidoscope for 
its Then & Now section.
            One of the most important 
uses of the Kaleidoscope is as a 
For the archivists in Special Collec-
-
a second point of research to under-
courses, often visit Special Collec-
tions to examine the Kaleidoscope as 
well as other historical documents.
The SGA survey
Ka-
leidoscope
percent of respondents did not know 
Kaleidoscope for free.
            Student responses were mixed 
nine percent of students said that the 
-
ties, instead. Another 20 percent of 
students said a cheaper alternative 
students had no preference.
-
warm support for the Kaleidoscope, 
19 percent of respondents indicated 
-
books.
            Chair of the Finance Commit-
involved in discussions about the 
-
Changes this Year
Kaleidoscope have resulted 
Kalei-
doscope abandoned the job before the 
with the staff at Jostens. The 2015 
seniors.
of the Kaleidoscope
-
Kalei-
doscope
the hope was that someone would re-
-
-
-
-
editor-in-chief of the Kaleidoscope.
-
tions will allow student involvement 
Kaleidoscope
staff.
Kaleido-
scope
could help reduce the price of the 
Kaleidoscope.   
better future product.
-
have a smaller scaled down product 
The Future of the Yearbook
            Some administrators attribute 
students’ lack of interest in the Ka-
leidoscope
-
 Still, the rise of social media 
obsolete. Others 
counter with 
worries about 
media in the 
can be pre-
served.
been a little 
frustrated in 
our efforts to 
preserve social 
Kaleidoscope, the 
publication should be updated to 
-
tion?
and for [the Kaleidoscope] to be real-
-
Kaleido-
scope still has immense potential.
 He envisions the Kaleidoscope 
-
the pictures and the text that capture 
-
of students to edit 
to do that, then it 
 Some wonder 
-
-
tions.
The 
Kaleidoscope 
over the years
“Understandably, students today 
or very recent graduates don’t 
see a very great value in it. (...) 
It’s not nostalgia for them. It’s 
today.”
Bill burger
vice president of Marketing and communications
“We’re not looking for a 
year long solution; we’re 
looking for a solution that 
will build quality.”
aaron de toledo
chair of the finance commiittee 
arts Sciences
For years, the College has been home 
to a variety of bands, acapella groups, 
chamber music ensembles, improvisa-
tional comedy troupes and more. Wide-
ranging as the performance venues are 
on campus, however, there still remains 
much to be explored. This semester, the 
newly formed group Middlebury Discount 
Comedy, also known as MDC, is working 
to fill a niche that has yet to take hold in 
the College’s arts scene: sketch comedy.
As opposed to improv comedy, in 
which nearly all of the material is con-
jured at the spur of the moment during 
the performance, a sketch comedy show 
is made up of a series of short, pre-re-
hearsed scenes. Of the 20 people who at-
tended the open informational meeting 
for MDC at the beginning of the semester, 
twelve students returned with audition 
sketches, and have been official members 
of the group since then: Faraz Ahmad 
’19, Isabella Alonzo ’18, Liana Barron ’18, 
Dan Fulham ’18, Shannon Gibbs ’18, Al-
exander Herdman ’17, Marney Kline ’17.5, 
Sebastian LaPointe ’18, Peter Lindholm 
’17.5, Jack Ralph ’18, Greg Swartz ’17.5 
and Joseph Haggerty ’19.
Founded by Shannon Gibbs ’18, MDC 
is devoted to the creation and interpreta-
tion of completely original sketches. In 
putting together the group, Gibbs ex-
plained that she was mainly looking for “a 
team of writers who could act and actors 
who could write.”
Six members are theatre majors, five 
serve as main writers and one works as 
the technical director. Associate Profes-
sor of Theatre Alex Draper acts as the 
group’s faculty advisor. Providing guid-
ance in the production aspect of the show, 
he has helped set the stage for high-qual-
ity props, costumes and technical work.
Members of MDC view their work as 
a unique forum for humor on campus.
“This is a necessary outlet for com-
edy that I think has been missing from 
Middlebury and that we are more than 
happy to supply,” Swartz said. “We’ve 
become accustomed to certain formats, 
but there’s so much more out there that 
Middlebury as a school has not really em-
braced.”
“With sketch comedy, you can metic-
ulously craft what you want your product 
to be,” Dan Fulham explained. “Improv 
is awesome, but if there is some sort of 
point, you can focus what you’re doing a 
little more.”
For some artists, the pre-written and 
pre-rehearsed nature of sketch comedy 
not only provides a mechanism for more 
nuanced messaging, but also allows for 
more comfortable expression onstage. 
Most members of MDC have experiment-
ed with improv before, but found it to be 
incongruent with their natural perfor-
mance style.
“Improv is hard and scary, because 
you have a lot of pressure to be funny,” 
Alonzo explained. “So it’s impressive to 
watch the other groups do what they do, 
but at the same time, I’m very comfort-
able with scripted things, because I get to 
read it over and over and interpret it how 
I want.”
Besides starring in a few commer-
cials as a child, Ahmad ’19 had not taken 
part in any performance venues prior to 
joining MDC, but described his experi-
ence thus far as a “blast.” His integration 
into the group speaks to the accessibility 
that the sketch comedy format provides.  
That is not to say that the organiza-
tion has not encountered its fair share of 
challenges, however. In the crafting of 
completely original sketches, members 
have inevitably struggled with writer’s 
block.
As Kline explained, “It’s hard to get 
people over the edge to believe that they 
really can contribute something worth-
while. Coach Shannon has been really 
good at drawing this out from individu-
als.”
The subject matter behind MDC’s 
original sketches ranges from Atwater to 
the weirdly sexual nature of how humans 
pet bunnies to an existential candidate 
in the 2016 presidential campaign who 
makes his fear of death all too known to 
the public. Supplemented by brief one-
hit jokes in between sketches, MDC’s first 
show will premiere at 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
on Thursday, Dec. 10 in the Hepburn Zoo.
Through a healthy dose of “ran-
dom absurdity,” as Fulham put it, the 
group plans to deliver politically-charged 
sketches that address on-campus and 
global issues in a manner that is both silly 
and thought-provoking.
“I think that there’s not enough sat-
ire about Middlebury because we’re all 
so busy, so we don’t really put our ef-
forts into articulating our thoughts about 
school in ways more effective than whin-
ing in op-eds or to each other,” Kline said. 
“We think that humor is such a powerful 
tool for getting real, sometimes contro-
versial, opinions out into the public in 
ways that might enact change.”
“Although it’s a variety show, we all 
seem to have come together under this 
weird amorphous group statement,” 
Gibbs added. “Very post-modern, very 
Freudian, very odd. But it’s going to be 
really fun.” 
Middlebury Discount Comedy to Launch
By Elizabeth Zhou
Arts & Sciences Editor
Anahi Naranjo
Middlebury Discount Comedy will bring silliness and social commentary to their premiere show on Dec. 10 in the Hepburn Zoo.
Fall Dance Concert
This night of new dance works showcases the choreogra-
phy of emerging student dance artists at the intermediate 
and advanced levels, and the annual Newcomers’ Piece, 
choreographed this year by Maree ReMalia.
12/5, 8-10 P.M., MCA DANCE THEATER
This Oscar-nominated documentary unfolds the life 
-
ments providing evidence of mass indiscriminate and 
illegal invasions of privacy by the NSA. 
Middlebury’s Sound Investment Jazz Ensem-
ble celebrates the wisdom that “it don’t mean 
a thing if it ain’t got that swing” with a pro-
gram of contemporary jazz compositions 
don’t
miss
this
It takes a certain kind of daring to 
make the main characters of your novel 
two of the most gifted writers in history: 
William Shakespeare and Kit Marlowe 
(more commonly 
known to us as 
Christopher Mar-
lowe). Yet author 
Elizabeth Bear succeeds in this regard.
Like Shakespeare’s plays, The Strat-
ford Man 
with Ink and Steel 
and Hell and Earth containing the latter 
two. Though splitting up the story dis-
rupts the rhythm, many would consider 
the cumulative 900 pages to be too long 
for a single novel, so I understand the 
publishing decision.
Set during the reign of Queen Eliza-
beth I, the books open with the murder 
of Kit, a member of the Prometheus Club 
who provides services for the queen. Soon 
after, his roommate, Will Shakespeare, 
is deemed worthy of being Kit’s succes-
sor, for he writes 
plays that contain 
enough magic to 
keep England’s 
himself in the land of Fay, where he has 
been saved as a favor to Queen Elizabeth. 
Knighted by Morgana Le Fay, he drinks 
water that prevents him from returning to 
the mortal world for long periods of time 
and must transfer his loyalty for Queen 
Elizabeth to Queen Mebd. Yet in a world 
where “all stories are true,” each Queen 
represents each other and supporting one 
strengthens the reign of the other as well. 
Each act features quotes from both 
Shakespeare’s sonnet and Marlowe’s play, 
creating the illusion that 
the book holds a true, as-
yet-undiscovered history 
of the era. Bear concocts 
a wonderful blend of fact 
fairy tale and plays and 
mythologies, allowing 
the reader to discover the 
Arthurian legend again. 
She tries to be as histori-
cally accurate as possible, 
whilst cultivating the 
characters’ personalities 
beyond the myths that 
surround these historical 
The focus of both Ink and Steel and 
Hell and Earth is the relationship be-
tween Will Shakespeare and Kit Marlowe. 
Both are extremely likable characters who 
we instantly want to succeed, 
yet the dilemmas they face 
are truly tragic. The strength 
of the story lies in the gut-
wrenching heartache be-
tween Will and Christopher, 
the hatred, the jealously and 
anything to be with the oth-
er. It is these emotions that 
make the ending we all know 
-
cess. In pushing us to rethink 
everything we thought we 
knew about not only William 
Shakespeare but also Chris-
topher Marlowe’s suspicious death, The 
Stratford Man stands as a truly brilliant 
historical fantasy series.
By Abigail Walton
Contributing Columnist
The stratford man
b0oking it
Bear concocts a 
wonderful blend 
-
December 3, 2015| arts SCIENCES13
The College has welcomed seven new 
science and math professors in the last 
two years.
This year’s new professors are Assis-
tant Professor of Neuroscience Amanda 
Crocker, Assistant Professor of Biol-
ogy Jill Mikucki and Assistant Professor 
of Mathematics Albert Kim. Professors 
who came to Middlebury in the 2014-15 
school year include Assistant Professor of 
Physics Michael Durst, Assistant Profes-
sors of Psychology Mike Dash and Robert 
Moeller and Assistant Professor of Chem-
istry and Biochemistry Lesley-Ann Gid-
dings.
student interest in the sciences. Science 
enrollment increased by 6.9 percent be-
tween 2001 and 2012, and has continued 
to grow since then.
These new professors bring their 
unique research interests to the College, 
which include everything from medical 
technology to advanced ice drills.
Durst is developing the use of two 
photon lasers for biomedical imagery. 
This technique, which he describes as a 
much more advanced microscope, can 
produce extremely high resolution 3D im-
ages of tissue in real time. In a demonstra-
tion, he produced a real time 3D image of 
brain activity in a live mouse’s brain at a 
depth of one millimeter. Though the de-
vice is currently limited to depths on the 
order of a few millimeters, Durst hopes to 
improve the depth penetration through 
changing the shape of the lasers’ pulse 
and through incorporating nonlinear op-
tics.
His use of light and lasers for bio-
medical imaging follows in the vein of 
the team who won the 2014 Nobel Prize 
in Chemistry, who used a different tech-
-
cence microscopy,” to perform biomedi-
cal imaging. Durst says that he is able to 
get a deeper and better resolution image 
with his technique than the Nobel Prize 
winners, but that each one of his images 
takes a considerable period of time to 
produce. He is therefore working on com-
bining his research with a novel technique 
called temporal focus-setting, which he 
hopes will greatly reduce the time needed 
per image. Instead of capturing point im-
ages, this technique would allow the de-
vice to record activity in slices of tissue. 
As a long term goal, Durst and his team 
of student researchers aim to miniaturize 
their device (which currently takes up a 
several square meter table) to the size of a 
probe that can be inserted into the body. 
Colin Laurence ’17, who worked in Durst’s 
lab during the summer of 2015, asserts 
claims that this would be a “revolution-
ary” advance in imaging technology.
His research is extremely interdis-
ciplinary, both within physics and with 
other sciences. Within physics, his work 
combines elements of optics, electromag-
netism and quantum physics. He also 
brings in chemistry, biology and genetics. 
According to Laurence, most of this inter-
disciplinary collaboration will “happen 
later on, as right now [Durst] is just creat-
ing the tool.” He also draws on disciplines 
outside of the liberal arts, particularly 
engineering and computer programming. 
He and his research team build much of 
their equipment themselves, mainly for 
cost saving reasons.
microbiology, with special focus on mi-
crobiology in bodies of water underneath 
Antarctic ice-sheets (called subglacial en-
-
sons in Antarctica. This includes multiple 
years on the Whillans Ice Stream Subgla-
cial Access Research Drilling (WISSARD) 
-
istence of active microbial life underneath 
the Antarctic ice sheets.
cleanly sample a sub-glacial lake (to sam-
ple a lake without introducing biological 
or chemical contaminants), a feat also 
achieved in the WISSARD project. Mi-
kucki and her teams have devoted a great 
deal of their effort to avoiding contami-
nating the Antarctic environments that 
they work in.
“We want to collect our samples in 
a mindful way, as we know that we can 
potentially change the ecosystem just by 
we can be the most mindful, minimize our 
impact and make our impact transient,” 
Mikucki said. “I really want to know what 
is happening under the ice sheets and I 
do not want to accidentally see something 
practices for cleaning our instruments 
and samples.”
Though her drive to avoid contami-
nation is partially to do with needs di-
rectly relevant to her research, it also 
relates to her long-term goals, namely to 
including Mikucki, see Antarctic research 
as a staging ground for extraterrestrial 
research. The applicability of Antarctic 
research to the search for extraterrestri-
al microbial life in the solar system was 
“I think this work lends itself to 
the search for life on other planets, as 
Antarctica is an analogue in some im-
that they are cold and potentially really 
salty,” Mikucki said. “The other thing is 
that the mindfulness approach [to avoid-
ing contamination of the local ecosystem] 
is even more important on other planets, 
as NASA recognizes. My belief is that we 
have to be able to pull off clean sampling 
in Antarctica before we can send a probe 
or especially a manned mission to these 
other places.”
She also hopes that understanding 
what enables microbes to live in the cold, 
dark and often salty environments of sub-
glacial waters will help space agencies 
narrow their searches for extraterrestrial 
life. However, she is careful to note that 
we may be surprised by the adaptability 
of extraterrestrial microbes to live in situ-
tolerate.
-
crobes are able to deal with these extreme 
conditions, because that will help us in-
form our search for extraterrestrial life 
in ice-covered oceans,” Mikucki said. “It 
would be nice to have some clue of what 
we might be looking for so we can narrow 
our search.”
Indeed, Mikucki has personally col-
laborated directly with numerous space 
agencies. Her graduate work was fund-
ed by NASA, and she continues to work 
closely with NASA, including by working 
She has also used ice drills designed by 
the German space agency, in large part 
to test their designs before they are de-
ployed on extraterrestrial probes.
She has worked in several other 
projects across Antarctica, including at 
Blood Falls in the McMurdo Dry Valleys 
(so named because of the iron oxide that 
colors the waterfall bright red) and on 
the Antarctic Peninsula. She stresses that 
Antarctica is an extremely diverse conti-
nent, very much unlike the stereotype of 
it being a homogenous frozen wasteland.
“Antarctica’s a big continent; it is the 
size of the U.S. and Mexico combined,“ 
Mukucki said. “And there’s not just one 
type of lake in America, so we should ex-
pect a diversity of water systems below 
the ice sheets. For example, Blood Falls 
is really salty, and the water there is -7° 
Celsius, while Whillans is closer to fresh 
water.”
Not all of the new professors come 
from the traditional professorial back-
-
search. Kim, for example, was a data sci-
entist at Google before entering academia. 
He worked in Google’s ads department, 
analyzing which types of ad campaigns 
and ads worked most effectively. Working 
with Google’s data presented unique sta-
tistical problems, as Google’s datasets are 
far larger than datasets that most statisti-
cians work with.
“Google’s data set is so big that you 
have multiple sets of servers spread out 
-
nitely led to challenges to analyzing our 
data; we had to modify traditional statis-
tical methods to work on multiple serv-
ers.”
He continues to apply statistics and 
data science knowledge similar to what 
he used at Google in his research. His 
-
miology – the study of disease across 
geography – and he is devising methods 
to detect cancer clusters (locations with 
abnormally high cancer rates), including 
using advanced statistical techniques like 
Bayesian modeling.
However, he cautions that one should 
not infer from his research that certain 
locations are more cancer-prone because 
of geographical factors like contaminated 
water supply or proximity to power lines. 
A confounding variable, such as  low so-
cio-economic class and inaccessibility to 
rates.
“There’s two valid ways we can in-
terpret these data,” Kim said. “We could 
use this as a way to target public health 
interventions. Or we could control for the 
things that we already know cause spikes 
some new unexplained trend that we can 
investigate.”
Professors have many different rea-
sons for choosing to come to Middlebury. 
Both Durst and Kim emphasized the 
teaching-centric nature of positions at the 
College as the main factor in their deci-
sions to teach here.
“When I was a grad student I really 
enjoyed teaching; I taught my own class 
even though that wasn’t a requirement of 
grad students,” Kim said. “My plan was to 
work for a little while to get a little experi-
ence then to come back and teach. I was 
always aiming for a liberal arts college, 
not some big research institution.”
Professors are also excited by Mid-
dlebury’s emphasis on interdisciplinary 
research and collaboration. Durst, whose 
research is inherently interdisciplinary, 
is one example of this. Mikucki was also 
particularly excited by the prospect of 
interdisciplinary collaboration, citing it 
as a main reason for choosing to come to 
Middlebury.
“I found myself in my research work-
ing across disciplines; and the more di-
verse and farther reaching the collabo-
the more rewarding it has always been,” 
Mikucki said. “Being new to Middlebury, 
my outward impression is that this is a 
place that really works on interdisciplin-
ary collaboration. I felt like Middlebury 
was a place where you could really press 
the limits of conventional interdisciplin-
ary studies, and really reach out beyond 
the sciences and also do some creative 
and risky science.”
Seven Professors Join Science Faculty
By Ben Hawthorne
Contributing Writer
Middlebury College
Assistant Professor of Physics Micahel Durst will teach a class on biomedical imaging.
University of illInois at chicago
Micahel Durst researches two-photon laser imaging and its application to medicine.
In 2009, Lin-Manuel Miranda read 
Ron Chernow’s biography of Alexander 
Hamilton and was inspired deeply by his 
story. A few months later he read what 
he called Hamilton Mixtape at the White 
House Evening of Poetry, Music and 
the Spoken Word accompanied by Alex 
Lacamoire. 
Miranda was fascinated with the 
story of the maverick founding father 
who overcame seemingly insurmount-
able odds to champion the U.S. Constitu-
tion, found the New York Post and defeat 
competitors such as John Adams, Aaron 
Burr and others who did not want to take 
the risks he saw as necessary to help the 
fledgling nation. Miranda’s interest gave 
birth to a project of rare creativity and 
historical importance. In February 2015 
Hamilton-An American Musical, with 
music, lyrics and book written by Miran-
da premiered Off-Broadway, and in Au-
gust it made its Broadway debut.
In telling the under-appreciated 
story of Hamilton, Miranda assembled a 
cast made up of underrepresented minor-
ity American actors. The music itself is an 
astonishing eclectic mix of genres rooted 
by a phenomenal collection of hip-hop 
and rap numbers, which, alongside its 
unceasingly original production, deeply 
distinguishes itself from the majority of 
the other shows playing on Broadway. 
The show has received immensely posi-
tive critical acclaim and an unprecedent-
ed box office response. In September, 
Atlantic Records released a studio re-
cording by the Original Broadway Cast of 
the 46 original songs from the show. The 
result is a remarkably album that allows a 
glimpse of the incomparable show for all 
of us who don’t yet have the opportunity 
to see the show on the stage.
The soundtrack opens with “Alexan-
der Hamilton.” We are introduced to the 
eponymous hero when Aaron Burr asks 
us “How does a bastard, orphan, son of a 
whore and a Scotsman, / Dropped in the 
middle of a forgotten spot in the Carib-
bean by providence 
/ Impoverished, in 
squalor, grow up 
to be a hero and a 
scholar?” He may 
be asking us, but 
the musical intends 
to tell us in explicit detail the rise of the 
man. This first song works as one part 
historical lesson and one part soaring 
R&B piece that introduces the musical 
and lyrical themes that will be repeated 
throughout the soundtrack. This is a 
practice employed wonderfully by Mi-
randa, who introduces specific genres 
and melodies with different characters to 
ground them in their music.
The first act details the landing of 
Hamilton in New York where he meets 
Aaron Burr and becomes involved in the 
politics of the fledgling nation. The song 
“My Shot” is Hamilton’s first solo song 
and shows us his inner thoughts. Miran-
da, who plays Hamilton, is a formidable 
performer and he unloads in this song 
encapsulating the drive of the soon-to-
be-Federalists who rap about their need 
to create a truly free nation. Shortly after 
we are introduced to “The Schuyler Sis-
ters”: Angelica, Eliza and Peggy (two of 
whom will fall in love with Hamilton and 
provide a touching love story and deliver 
musical highlights throughout the play). 
In their introductory piece the sisters 
sing about “the Revolution happening in 
New York” and the need for Thomas Jef-
ferson to include women “in his sequel” 
to the Declaration of Independence. 
Following the expository pieces of the 
first act, “You’ll Be 
Back” is a brilliant 
song delivered by 
King George, who 
is quite sure that 
the silly American 
colonies will come 
crawling back when he sends “a fully 
armed battalion / To remind you of my 
love!”
The remainder of the first act deliv-
ers other brilliant songs including “Sat-
isfied”, a powerful ballad where Angelica 
delivers a toast at her sister Eliza and 
Alexander’s wedding realizing she wish-
es she could be beside Hamilton, and 
the hip-hop piece “Ten Duel Command-
ments,” which introduces the concept of 
a duel, which returns later in the play. 
But all of these songs lead up to “Non-
Stop” at the close of Act One, which is one 
of the standouts in the show. The nearly 
seven minute song details the non-stop 
pursuit of equality and reformed govern-
ment by Hamilton, and builds to a series 
of emotional crescendos that set-up the 
tribulations of Act Two, and encompasses 
the run of the musical themes in Act One. 
In Act Two, Miranda fully reveals his me-
lodic and lyrical talent. The second song 
of Act Two, “Cabinet Battle #1,” is a rap 
battle face-off between now Secretary of 
the Treasury Hamilton and Secretary of 
State Thomas Jefferson over Hamilton’s 
financial plan. Jefferson fights against 
the idea of the consolidation of state 
debt because Hamilton can’t “tax the 
South cuz we got it made in the shade,” 
but Hamilton retorts with his hot-headed 
and passionate beliefs by pointing out 
that most of the South’s economic base is 
gleaned from slave labor. The framing of 
the debate as a rap battle infuses it with 
energy and it has both striking and hu-
morous lyrics. Following up a few songs 
later, we hear “The Room Where it Hap-
pens” (my personal favorite song from 
the show) detailing the conversation be-
tween Madison, Hamilton and Jefferson 
to agree on a financial plan while ceding 
that the capital would reside in Washing-
ton D.C. The song is a daunting jazz com-
position that is bookended by themes of 
hip-hop.
To avoid any spoilers for those who 
do not know the remainder of Hamilton’s 
story, I will end my review here. Even 
outside of the context of the show itself, 
the songs of “Hamilton” are a remarkable 
feat of songwriting. It is an album that 
contemplates the way that history is told 
and who chooses what is remembered by 
the ages. Miranda has chosen a powerful 
figure to base his songs off, and his talent 
will no doubt make his brainchild a musi-
cal accomplishment for the ages. 
| December 3, 2015 arts SCIENCES14
for the rec   rd
Hamilton: 
An American Musical
By Devin McGrath-Conwell
Contributing Columnist
Walking into Wilson Hall at 7:15 
p.m. on Saturday, Nov. 21, I immediately 
chose a seat in the front section of the 
auditorium and began scrolling through 
old text conversations as to appear pop-
ular and connected while sitting alone, 
45 minutes early. Within 15 minutes, 
people on both sides began asking about 
the status of the seats directly next to 
me (“No, they’re not saved, you can take 
them, I don’t have friends”), and by 7:45 
p.m., the room was so full that we were 
asked to pack tightly into our rows in or-
der to accommodate the sizable number 
of students standing near the entrance 
who could not find seats.
The board of the 2015 Interna-
tional Students’ Organization (ISO) 
show, “Spectrum,” promoted the event 
as “Middlebury’s biggest and most di-
verse show,” and it quickly became clear 
why: There was not an empty chair to 
be seen and the air was buzzing loudly 
with excited pre-show chatter. After a 
few more minutes of scrambling to make 
sure everyone had a seat, Sarah Karerat 
’18, Maryam Mahboob ’18 and Thomas 
Gawel ’18 stepped onstage. All of the 
noise in the room quickly coalesced into 
a uniform body of screaming and clap-
ping. The hosts introduced the show as 
a celebration of our unique differences, 
identities and diversity – or, as Gawel 
said to hysterical applause, “a show 
about everything Donald Trump hates.” 
Soon, the curtains parted.
Celebrating the 20th anniversary of 
the ISO, “Spectrum” was the most di-
versified show that the group has ever 
preformed. This was reflected both in 
name and in the incredible variety of the 
night’s performances. Throughout the evening, afropella, Fijian Meke Dance, 
traditional Chinese lyric poetry, K-pop, 
Bollywood dance, Capoeira and many 
other distinct cultural art forms all took 
the stage, each doing their part to dem-
onstrate the full range of diversity pres-
ent at the College.
“Watching the show is perceiving 
different cultures through the eyes of 
these young performers, and for me, 
this is special,” Danilo Herrera ’18 said. 
“Middlebury College does a good job of 
raising important issues about diversity 
and bring them into discussion … I be-
lieve that the ISO show is an example 
of how art can affect and transform our 
perception of these issues in ways that 
political and social conversations can-
not.”
Karerat, Mahboob and Gawel all not-
ed the need for the show to be both enter-
taining and educational. Combined with 
their own diverse backgrounds, com-
munication amongst each other helped 
them to figure out what was appropri-
ate to say. The trio opted out of using 
pre-written comments, instead allowing 
their jokes and remarks to be situational. 
The ability of the hosts to respond to the 
performers in a genuine, non-scripted 
way helped to give the show a sense of 
improvisational lightness. At one point, 
the audience was told not to fear the 
“scary accents” of a Russian group be-
cause the Cold War was long over. The 
auditorium erupted in laughter, and a 
student behind me exclaimed, “It’s so 
not politically correct, and I love it!”
“Spectrum” was fantastically enter-
taining, with 139 energetic performers 
coming together to celebrate diversity in 
every sense of the word. The ISO show 
succeeded in both juxtaposing a myriad 
of art forms from many cultures and em-
phasizing the core values that exist in all 
of us, no matter our background.
Perhaps the embodiment of the 
spirit of the ISO came before the show 
actually started, however, when the au-
dience was asked to take a moment of 
silence for the recent tragedies in Paris, 
Beirut and other areas in the world ex-
periencing conflict or exploitation. For a 
minute, we all stood in quiet solidarity, 
fully aware of our differences but unified 
in an empathy that transcended cultural 
lines.
At the College, we truly are members 
of an international community, and the 
ISO show was proof that celebrating our 
diversity is also a way of recognizing our 
human similarities. After all, in Gawel’s 
words, “when it comes to K-Pop and Bol-
lywood, we all go bananas.”
By Cole Merrell
Staff Writer
ISO Show Celebrates Cultural Spectrum  
Michael O’Hara
Midd Masti closed out the show with an energetic performance of South Asian dance.
Michael O’Hara
Students put modern Japanese dance moves on display in an upbeat performance.
Performing Arts Sp    TLight
 
I am tired of the empty, easy-come-
easy-go gratification of most of the 
things I watch these days. Don’t get me 
wrong, sometimes all I want is two hours 
of slack-jawed vegetation, but recently I 
have been thirsting for more.
Middlebury’s event listing describes 
Clickshare as a play about “a group of 
employees at a popular news website 
who live and die by the viral content of 
their pieces. But when they break a story 
that’s bigger than anything they’ve ever 
seen before, their lives hang in the bal-
ance.” I am here to promise you that it is 
so much less melodramatic and so much 
more gratifying than such a description 
would suggest. Rather than hiding out in 
your room this weekend and putting on a 
unfulfilling movie that you will forget as 
you shuffle back from your post-credits 
bathroom visit, come down to the MCA 
and immerse yourself in a play that will 
leave you both stimulated and satisfied.
The playwright, Lucas Kavner ’06.5, 
is a Brooklyn-based writer, performer 
and comedian from Plano, Texas who 
possesses an incredible gift for what New 
York Magazine describes as “artfully un-
derwritten, unaffectedly colloquial and 
often uproarious dialogue.” Since gradu-
ating from Middlebury, Kavner has been 
filling newspapers, televisions, stages 
and websites with his evocative and crit-
ically acclaimed works.
Like the best of Kavner’s writing, 
both his major 2011 play, Fish Eye (a 
critic’s pick in Time Out and a featured 
work in New York Magazine’s Best The-
atre of the Year list) and his 2013 play, 
Carnival Kids (a critic’s pick of The New 
York Times), approach intimately perti-
nent topics with brilliant ingenuity and 
humor.
 According to one critic, Fish Eye 
“explodes the traditional chronology of 
romance and offers a modern take on the 
impossible exhilaration of love — when 
nothing means everything and every-
thing means nothing — and the entire 
world shrinks down to a single moment.” 
Meanwhile, Carnival Kids was hailed by 
The New Yorker as “a hilariously funny 
ode to slightly immoral and irresponsi-
ble losers.”
When asked what motivates his 
writing, Kavner stated that he likes 
“writing that doesn’t feel like it’s trying 
to be smarter than everyone else in the 
world” and loves “when even the most 
serious of plays with the most serious of 
topics manage to be hilariously funny.”
Most people would agree with Ka-
vner’s sentiment that he wants “more 
messy plays that don’t wrap up in a nice 
little package and you forget about five 
seconds later.” Clickshare is certainly 
one such play.
Onscreen, he has acted in or written 
for projects with Comedy Central, ESPN, 
VH1, ABC, Netflix and Dreamworks. His 
comedy videos have garnered millions 
of views online, and have been featured 
on the BBC, MSNBC, NPR and online in 
The New York Times, Huffpost, Time, 
Gawker, Vanity Fair and The Atlantic, 
among other places. 
When not writing for the stage and 
screen or acting, Kavner composes es-
says for The Washington Post, The Be-
liever, New York Magazine, The New 
Yorker, Slate, Dallas Morning News, 
The Billfold, Flavorwire and McSwee-
ney’s. Along the way, he also spent three 
years as a staff reporter and videogra-
pher at The Huffington Post.
Scrolling through his hundreds of 
articles and projects, I was most cap-
tured by The Days of Yore, a website 
Kavner co-founded in 2013 to host inter-
views with some of the most celebrated 
artists and writers in the country about 
their pre-fame years.
When asked what kind of theater he 
finds most inspiring, Kavner responded, 
“I love plays that don’t go where you 
think they will. I hate things that are too 
clean or overwritten or plot-heavy. Any 
time I see the writer’s writing onstage, 
when a character is too consciously well 
spoken, I immediately tune out. Early 
on, I tried really hard to always write 
to the left of what the characters really 
wanted to say, so when they say exactly 
what they’re thinking, it becomes star-
tling, rather than some over-eloquent 
norm. I also tend to love things I’d never 
think of writing myself … I like seeing 
plays about underdogs, about people 
whose stories aren’t getting told any-
where else.”
Although Kavner has not said where 
the vision for this particular work origi-
nated, Clickshare was first developed 
at the Middlebury Summer Play Labs. 
Taking place in August, the labs of-
fer students the opportunity to flourish 
creatively in a non-academic setting. 
Current students are paired with expe-
rienced alumni to develop ideas, gener-
ate art pieces and learn valuable career 
skills related to the theatre and film in-
dustries.
Kavner absolutely loves what he 
does, but if he could change one thing 
about theatre, it would be the cost of at-
tendance.
“We all say it,” he said, “but afford-
ability is just the biggest thing. If the 
people who actually love theater, who 
are active members of the community, 
can’t afford to see it, that’s such a pro-
found problem. The affordability thing 
ends up playing into so many other 
things, too. Because when only old, rich, 
white people can afford to see new plays, 
then the plays have to cater to the old, 
rich, white people. And that often leads 
to very boring plays.”
Luckily, the College has adressed 
the affordability problem. Tickets to 
Clickshare are only $6 for students, so 
show your support by walking down to 
the MCA this Thursday, Friday or Satur-
day (Dec. 3-5) at 7:30 p.m. or Saturday 
at 2:00 p.m. Friday’s performance will 
also feature a talk with Kavner, Theatre 
Professor and Director Alexander Drap-
er and the cast. You will not want to miss 
this hilarious and evocative play as it of-
fers a dark satire of Internet culture in 
the age of viruses, both real and imag-
ined. It was written by a Midd kid and 
directed by a Midd kid – it is only right 
for it to be attended by Midd kids. Visit 
go/boxoffice or stop by either of the box 
offices in McCullough or the MCA for 
tickets.
Courtesy Theatre Department
Written and directed by Middlebury alums, Clickshare will premiere this weekend.
By Connor Forrest
Senior Columnist
15arts SCIENCESDecember 3, 2015| 
Signs directed the way to the Bun-
ker in Freeman International Center 
as audience members made their way 
to the premiere of Roadkill, the senior 
work of Tosca Giustini ’15.5 and Leah 
Sarbib ’15.5. Running from Nov. 19-21, 
the devised play explores four differ-
ent friends’ connections to a girl named 
Lindsey McPherson, described by Gius-
tini as “a reflection of the other charac-
ters, their hopes and desires.” At various 
points throughout the play, each charac-
ter shares stories about their relation-
ship with this girl, all of which are sexual 
or romantic in some way. 
The story takes place in a world that 
producer and director Giustini called “a 
heightened representation of our me-
dia’s obsession with sex.” While the main 
action follows four friends, played by 
Kathleen Gudas ’16.5, Lorena Neira ’17, 
Will Lupica ’18 and Kean Haunt  ’17, on a 
road trip to New York City, the underly-
ing socio-cultural commentary unfolded 
through recordings created by Sarbib. If 
these recordings sounded familiar, it is 
because they were written and recorded 
in the style of their inspirations, which 
included the organization Christian 
Mothers Against Masturbation, literoti-
ca based on Harry Potter and the Death-
ly Hallows, an NPR segment and more. 
Sarbib referred to scenes featur-
ing the recordings as “unreality scenes,” 
since they offered “a good way to make 
the points that we couldn’t make with 
the characters and a good way to pre-
serve some of the work we did with the 
actors in rehearsal.” 
The set was cleverly constructed, 
with metal poles forming the car in 
which the majority of the play takes 
place. When four of the characters get in 
a car accident near the end of the show, 
the actors meticulously disassembled 
the metal pieces, transforming the skele-
ton into a wreck at their feet. Small white 
pieces of paper decorated the floor, en-
abling the performers to create a dream-
like atmosphere as they tossed them into 
the air. 
Throughout the show, Lindsey 
McPherson, played by Caitlyn Meager 
’17, represents and articulates taboos 
and myths of sexuality. From everyone 
else’s point of view, her character is all-
knowing and constantly in control. She 
has also caused her friends a great deal 
of frustration and anger, leading them to 
finally confront her at a club in New York 
City. In this way, the car ride becomes a 
space of empowerment for the other four 
characters.
For the audience, these confronta-
tions, while harsh, felt necessary and 
real. After all, these are people recogniz-
ing their hurt and claiming that they de-
serve better. But once Lindsey McPher-
son is left alone on stage, we are given 
the opportunity to see something softer 
and far more complicated, as she ends 
the play repeating, “I just want to be 
loved.”  
Last weekend’s performance of 
Roadkill succeeded in being both funny 
and poignant. Because so much of the 
content was drawn from media repre-
sentations in our lives and from the per-
sonal experiences of college students, 
the work was also vastly relatable for 
many viewers. 
In describing her influences, Sar-
bib wrote: “… the line between our real 
lives and our play lives often got blurry 
– we’d end up talking about the play all 
the time and things from our lives would 
inspire ideas outside of rehearsal ... I’ve 
been influenced by things I’ve seen and 
lived and this idea has been brewing for 
so long now that, with a few exceptions, 
it’s difficult to pinpoint what comes from 
where.”
By Rebecca Coates-Finke
Contributing Writer
Roadkill Tells Intimate Tale of Sexuality
Michael O’Hara
Four friends embark on a road trip in a story of empowerment and confrontations.
GREEN PEPPERS
Official pizza of the Middlebury Campus
ft
(802) 388-3164
law.cuny.edu/prospective
N
E
W FULL -T IME & PART-T IME,  EVENING
PROGRAMS AVAILABLE
You have the passion... we have the tools. 
Gain the skills to fight social injustice.
advertisements16                                            | december 3, 2015
On Saturday, Nov. 21 both the 
men’s and women’s cross-country 
teams competed at the NCAA National 
Championship at University of 
Wisconsin-Oshkosh in Winneconne, 
Wisconsin this past Saturday. It was 
a chilly day with highs in the upper 
20’s, but the Panthers made the most 
of it. Facing challenging conditions 
and competition, both the men and 
the women’s teams posted impressive 
finishes in the final meet of the season.  
On the men’s side, Sebastian Matt 
’16 earned All-American honors, as did 
Abigail Nadler ’19 for the women as they 
both finished in the top 35 places overall. 
The men finished 24th in a field of 32 
teams, while the women were eighth in 
a similar field of 32 teams. 
Nadler led the women’s 
team with a 28th place 
finish.
 “I just tried to stay in 
the lead pack and remain 
relaxed,” Nadler said. “I 
was struggling near the end 
but overall I’m happy with 
my race.  Everyone on the 
team put it all out there and 
we should be happy with 
that.” 
Adrian Walsh ’16 (53), 
Erzsie Nagy ’17 (94), Sasha Whittle 
’17 (142) and Katherine Tercek ’16 
(152) followed Nadler to complete 
the team scoring. Also racing were 
Nikki Schachman ’16 (187) and Emma 
DeCamp ’17 (216). Outside 
of the Middlebury team, 
Williams won the national 
championship and Abrah 
Masterson of Cornell 
College was the individual 
champion.
On the men’s side, 
Sebastian Matt ’16 finished 
as an All-American in 17th 
place.  Chony Aispuro 
’18 (92), Brian Rich ’17 
(137), Sam Cartwright ’16 
(229) and Kevin Serrao 
’18 (245) scored the rest of the points 
for Middlebury.  Conor Evans ’19 (253) 
and Sam Klockenkemper ’17 (267) also 
competed. For the men, Wisconsin-Eau 
Claire won the championship and Ian 
LaMere of Wisconsin-Platteville claimed 
the individual title.
Matt felt reflective after his final race 
as a Middlebury panther.
 “It was an incredible day,” Matt said. 
“Coming back from a draining regional 
race, we gave it our all.  It wasn’t the 
best race we’ve run, but it was the best 
race we could have run.  Mickey came in 
clutch, leading us from the beginning to 
the end.”
This wraps up the season for the 
cross-country teams, but shortly we will 
see many of them race out on the track. 
There will be many of the same match-
ups and it promises to remain exciting.  
The men’s basketball team has endured 
an up-and-down start to the 2015-2016 
campaign, compiling a 2-4 record in the early 
going. Center Matt Daley ’16 and guards Jake 
Brown ’17 and Matt St. Amour ’17 have served 
as the backbone of this young but otherwise 
talented roster.
The Panthers began their season with 
some tournament action hosted by Medaille 
College in the Western New York Knee 
and Orthopedic Tournament. Despite the 
comical name of the setting, Middlebury’s 
competition proved no joke, and the Panthers 
limped home with an 0-2 record. 
The opening matchup saw Middlebury 
pitted against a hot-shooting Baldwin Wallace 
squad on Friday, Nov. 20. The Panthers took 
Yellow Jackets exploded for 54 points in the 
second half and held a 24-point advantage 
that Middlebury eventually lost 97-87.
St. Amour was a bright spot for 
Middlebury, lighting up the scoreboard for a 
career-high 33 points on 7-17 shooting (3-6 
3PT FG) and an insane 16-20 from the stripe, 
and has been relied on early on to become the 
team’s go-to scorer.
“I am comfortable with it,” St. Amour 
said, “but there are a lot of other guys that can 
score so I don’t need to force it.”
start and tallied seven points, seven boards, 
four assists and two steals.
The Panthers fell again the following day 
to St. Lawrence University, 63-57. This time 
the damage was done early by the Middlebury 
opponents, as SLU led by 11 at halftime. St. 
Amour once again led Middlebury in scoring 
with 15. Forward Connor Huff ’16 did his best 
Charles Barkley impression, scraping up 12 
boards in 25 minutes off the bench.
with a 80-63 win at SUNY-New Paltz on 
Tuesday, Nov. 24 and were able to enter 
their short Thanksgiving break on a high 
note. Middlebury showed early on that they 
were the superior club to the now 1-4 New 
Paltz Hawks. Daley had 10 points and six 
half points — most of which came from the 
interior. Middlebury held the Hawks to 27 
points and 10 boards, and Brown and Daly 
nearly joined him with double-doubles of 
their own. Brown tallied 10 points and seven 
assists while Daly racked up nine points and 
eight dimes.
The Panthers were once again stymied 
in the opener of the University of Rochester 
Holiday Inn/Airport Tournament, losing 70-
55 to No. 25 Oswego State. Middlebury was 
from deep and 11-23 (47.8 percent) from the 
free throw line.
Oswego didn’t shoot much better 
percentages, but 25 makes on 39 trips to the 
line gave Oswego the advantage. St. Amour 
once again led the Panthers with 23 points 
and Daley snagged 11 boards, but their efforts 
were not enough to get a victory.
Middlebury did earn its second win of 
the young season with a consummate 103-
63 victory over in-state opponent Johnson 
State. The story of the game was a 60-20 
advantage for the Panthers in the rebounding 
department. The Panthers’ 27 offensive 
boards led to 28 second-chance points 
compared to just one for Johnson State.
Multiple players put up impressive stat 
lines. Daley earned his second double-double 
of the year with 15 points and 10 boards. St. 
Amour and Huff both scored in double digits 
with 17 and 10, respectively. Guard Bryan 
Jones ’17 scored a career-high 14 points, and 
guard Zach Baines ’19 set his own career high 
with ten points. Forward Nick Tarantino ’18 
(12 rebounds) and forward Eric McCord ’19 
(10 rebounds, nine points), both made big 
impacts off of the bench.
Middlebury suffered a heartbreaker, 68-
66, on the road at Rensselaer on Tuesday, 
Dec. 1. Brown’s career-high 20 points and 
Daley’s third triple-double were not enough 
to top 4-1 Rensselaer. The Panthers entered 
halftime down 33-24 after shooting just 
from beyond the arc, but chipped away after 
halftime and had a chance to win the ball 
game late. 
St. Amour tallied six points in a stretch 
of one minute and 38 seconds, shrinking 
With Rensselaer up 65-62, Daley grabbed a 
rebound off of a missed three-pointer from 
Rensselaer’s Tyler Gendron and pushed the 
ball up the court, but the Panthers’ turned the 
ball back over on a St. Amour charge in the 
paint. Rensselaer missed a jumper on their 
next possession, giving Middlebury hope 
once again. Brown then dropped in a two-
pointer off of an offensive rebound to tighten 
the score at 65-64. 
Both teams proceeded to make a pair of 
free throws, and Middlebury fouled to send 
their opponent to the line with six seconds 
to play. After Jonathan Luster missed the 
second of his free throws, the Panthers tried 
to get up the court for a chance at a game-
tying two, but were unable to get a shot off, 
closing the door on a possible comeback.
The Panthers are now 2-4, a disappointing 
start for a team with lofty aspirations, but 
there are bright spots to point out, both as a 
team an individually.
“It’s still really early in our season and we 
are still learning to trust each other with our 
plays and defensive rotations,” St. Amour 
said. Playing very good teams early, they 
have been able to expose our early season 
mistakes but the more we’ve worked together 
the better we have gotten.
“Jack Daly and [Connor] Huff have been 
very strong contributors so far, both offering 
Middlebury meets Johnson St. once again 
on Thursday, Dec. 3, and will open its home 
schedule with Castleton on Tuesday, Dec. 8.
December 3, 2015 | 17SPORTS
Men’s Basketball Searching for Answers with 2-4 Start
Before Thanksgiving break, men’s and 
women’s squash travelled down U.S. Route 
7 to Williamstown, Mass. for a tournament 
at Williams College on Saturday, Nov. 21. 
The Panther men and women were in action 
against Cornell Saturday afternoon, and 
the men’s squad also took the court against 
Western Ontario in a pivotal match for year-
end national tournament seeding.
For both the men and women, Cornell was 
going to be a tough match from the outset. 
The Cornell women entered the day ranked 
sixth in the country, while the Cornell men 
ranked 12th.
The women’s squad dropped all nine of 
their matches; although this seems like a 
tough way to start the season, the Panthers 
saw plenty of bright spots. Most notable was 
and Alexa Comai ’19, who were second and 
Kuijpers gave Cornell junior Rachel 
Scherman a very good match, even taking the 
respectively — she put up an impressive 
competitor ranked 28th in the nation.
Like Kuijpers in the second slot, Comai 
pushed Cornell sophomore Charlotte Knaggs 
before narrowly surrendering three games 
in a row. She dropped the second set and the 
decisive fourth set to Knaggs 11-6. The real 
turning point of the match was when Comai 
lost the third game 11-9, falling just short of 
a 2-1 lead that would’ve carried her into the 
fourth game.
“I felt strongest when I controlled the 
pace of the game and made [Knaggs] play 
my game instead of hers,” Comai said. “I 
thought the strongest part of my game was 
changing directions and moving her up and 
down the court ... to set up opportunities for 
... attacking shots.”
Moving forward into their tough schedule 
to come, women’s squash knows they are still 
in a good position for success this season.
Senior co-Captain Tiffany Hau ’16, who 
held the fourth slot on the ladder against 
Cornell, explained that the team has “never 
“such a physically demanding sport.”
“I think it’s great that we are able to play 
some of the stronger teams early on in the 
season because it prepares us for later on in 
the season when we play some of our closer 
rivals such as Bates and Williams,” Comai 
said.
The men’s squad did not fare much 
better than the Panther women against 
Cornell, with Wyatt French ’17 tallying the 
lone match victory for the Panthers. French 
clinched a win in four sets, winning three 
His three straight wins (11-6, 11-5 and 11-9) 
did not come easily, but French’s adjustment 
to a more patient pace allowed him a match 
Hanson.
well but I made a couple of bad decisions 
going for kill shots at the wrong time and 
hitting the tin,” French said. “In the next 
couple of games I decided to be more patient 
and really wait until the perfect opportunity 
to attack. I was able to control the pace and 
retrieve most of his attacking shots and he 
started to get impatient and hit some tins.”
Regardless of Middlebury’s performance 
against Cornell, the men’s match against 
Western Ontario held the most importance in 
regards to post-season seeding. The Panthers 
rebounded from their 8-1 loss to the Big Red 
with an equally decisive 8-1 victory over the 
19th-ranked Mustangs.
Once again, French led the way for the 
Panthers from the third slot on the ladder 
with a dominant three-set sweep (11-3, 11-4 
and 11-6).
“Defensive game and movement were 
“Williams’ courts are hot and fast, which 
really helped me execute my defensive, up-
tempo game.”
With solid performances from Henry 
Pearson ’17, Will Kurth ’18, Ben Krant ’17 
and Sam Giddins ’18 on the bottom half of 
the ladder, French’s continued improvement 
would sure-up the top of the Panthers’ lineup 
as the season continues to heat up.
“My defensive game has always been my 
strength, and to have a more well rounded 
game I need to attack more,” French said.
Head Coach Mark Lewis has implemented 
and his team strengthen their attacking game.
As a result of this training, French says he 
in [his] drops and volley drops” in the next 
few matches.
The Squash teams will head to Clinton, 
N.Y. to play at Hamilton College this 
Saturday, Dec. 5. Both squads face Hamilton 
at 2 p.m., and the men will play a second 
match against Hobart at 5 p.m.
the middlebury
great  eight
8
Swimming
Tough start to the season
1
RANKING TEAM
Rigas’ Reasoning. 
2
Field Hockey 
#1 without a doubt. Congrats!
Women’s Hockey
Tough loss to Elmira, but they 
looked dominant at home.
3
Women’s BasKetBall
Catherine Harrison ’19 won 
NESCAC player of the week. 
4
5
cross country
Eighth in the entire country is 
pretty good.
7
Men’s basketball
Johnson St. is a sign of things 
to come.
6
Men’s Hockey
Squash 
The men dominated no. 19 
Western Ontario.
“It wasn’t the 
best race we’ve 
run, but it was 
the best race we 
could have run.”
Sebastian matt ’16
Cross Country Finishes Season at NCAA Championship
By Jackie Kearney
Staff Writer
By Joe MacDonald
Sports Editor
By Will Case
Senior Writer
Squash Teams Split Opening Games
The Middlebury Panthers got their sea-
son off to a strong start with a 3-1 record. The 
team beat NESCAC rival Trinity twice, 5-1 
and 2-1, on opening weekend, then hosted 
the Panther/Cardinal Classic this past week-
end, where they fell to second-ranked Elmira 
College 3-1 and defeated Wisconsin-Stevens 
Point 3-1. Maddie Winslow ’18 led the way 
for the Panthers, tallying two goals and four 
assists in the four games and garnering NE-
SCAC Player of the Week for her play at the 
tournament.
On Friday, Middlebury scored three times 
on the power play on its way to a 5-1 win 
over Trinity in the NESCAC season opener. 
lead 3:43 into the game on a power play goal 
from the right point. The women soon found 
their momentum with a power play goal of 
their own. Carly Watson’s ’17 shot from the 
left point, though blocked, was put home for 
a rebound by Katie Mandigo ’16. The Pan-
thers struck again with the extra attacker at 
11:22, taking a 2-1 lead with a goal by Eliza-
beth Wulf ’18.
Leading 2-1 in the second period, the 
Panthers added to their lead when Mandigo 
saved, and Kelly Sherman ’17 added one on 
a breakaway.
into the third period to score Middlebury’s 
third power play goal of the night and seal a 
5-1 victory for the Panthers.
The next day, the Panthers again defeated 
the Trinity Bantams with a score of 2-1.
Just as in the previous night, Trinity took 
initial shot was blocked before Shelby Labe 
jumped on the rebound and scored to put 
her team ahead.
Winslow answered for Middlebury in the 
second period, shooting a wrister to the top 
left corner of the net.
The game appeared to be heading into 
overtime when Wulf broke free from a pack 
behind the net and gained some space. She 
quickly fed Anna Van Kula ’16 in front, who 
sent a shot into the back of the net for the 
game-winning tally with only 47 seconds re-
maining in regulation.
This past weekend, the Panthers hosted 
the Panther/Cardinal Classic in Kenyon 
Arena. On Friday night, they fell to second-
ranked Elmira by the score of 3-1 after lead-
ing midway through the second period.
one-timed a shot from the slot on the pow-
er play into the back of the net at the 16:38 
Elmira tied the game with an extra at-
tacker 12:48 into the second period.The 
Panthers went on the power play at the 7:36 
mark, with their best chance coming when 
Mandigo’s shot hit the pipe.
Elmira took a 2-1 lead with less than nine 
minutes remaining in the third period with 
a snipe of a shot into the top-right corner of 
the net, and the Panthers were unable to an-
swer the goal despite a power play opportu-
nity less than a minute later.
The Soaring Eagles gained some breath-
ing room as the power play expired when the 
puck bounced off the stick of a Middlebury 
defender, leaving a race down the ice. Wat-
son knocked the puck away, but the aggres-
sive Soaring Eagles slipped the puck into the 
goal.
Following an Elmira timeout with 3:22 
left, the Panthers pulled Dreher, but were 
unable to close the gap as Elmira took home 
the win.
“While we had a disappointing loss on 
Friday night, we felt good about how we 
played,” Mandigo said. “We competed all 
over the ice, and although we had a few 
breakdowns, overall we played well.”
On Sunday, the Panthers redeemed 
themselves with a 3-1 victory over Wiscon-
game of the Panther/Cardinal Classic in Ke-
nyon Arena.
when Jessica Young ’18 stuffed home a pass 
from Janka Hlinka ’18. Only 22 seconds lat-
er, the Pointers came right back and tied the 
game at 1.
Two minutes into the second period, Win-
slow dug the puck out of the corner, skated to 
the goal and sent a cross to Shanna Hickman 
The Panthers added an insurance goal on 
the power play in the third period when Win-
slow sent her wrist shot to the far side of the 
net, securing a 3-1 win for her team.
 “We had a good weekend battling some 
of the top teams in the country,” Mandigo 
said. “We have a young team, but everything 
is coming together nicely. We have high ex-
pectations for ourselves, but most impor-
tantly we are willing to put the hard work in 
for the outcomes that we want.”
With its pair of wins against conference 
rival Trinity, Middlebury sits atop the NES-
return to the ice this weekend for a two-game 
2) on Friday and Saturday, Dec. 4-5.
second ever NCAA Championship on Sun-
day, Nov. 22 on Washington and Lee’s Turf 
College of New Jersey 4-1 in Saturday’s Nov. 
ranked Bowdoin in the championship game 
on Sunday, Nov. 22.
“Our journey to the national champion-
ship really started with the tone set by the 
seniors and coaches at the beginning of the 
season,” Emily Miller ’17, the team’s start-
known ... from day one of preseason that our 
goal ... was to win the National Champion-
ship.”
Miller describes a memorable moment af-
ter the Panthers broke their three-year win-
ning streak by losing to Bowdoin in the NES-
CAC Championship.
“We were all standing together after the 
game, kind of sad, and one of our seniors 
[said], ‘Two words: national championship.’ 
[The loss] stung, and I think that ... spurred 
us to go on to be so driven and dominant in 
the rest of our games this season.”
game, where TCNJ defeated the Panthers 
before going on to win the national cham-
game at the four-minute mark after Shan-
non Hutteman ’16 redirected a penalty cor-
ner insertion her way. Just six minutes later, 
Annie Leonard ’18 tallied her team-best 24th 
goal off a pass from Grace Jennings ’19 to put 
-
ard moved into fourth place in Middlebury’s 
single-season record book. Twenty minutes 
later, Caroline Knapp ’18 sent in a rebound 
lead. TCNJ responded with a few good scor-
ing opportunities, but impressive saves by 
Panther goalie Miller and the defensive line 
led by Jillian Green ’16 kept the Lions score-
The Panther’s offensive line came out 
strong in the second half, and Schulman 
was able to send another ball past the Lion’s 
just over six minutes remaining in the match, 
TCNJ got on the board when Jaclyn Douglas 
redirected a shot past a diving Miller.
The Panthers held an 8-6 advantage in 
shots and 3-2 advantage in penalty corners. 
while Lions goalie Schlupp was credited with 
three stops.
With the win, the Panthers advanced to 
the championship game on Sunday against 
NESCAC foe Bowdoin. Top ranked Bowdoin 
had given Middlebury their only two losses of 
the season.
“To get to the national championship we 
had to beat teams that were ranked sixth, 
-
doin had to beat teams ranked fourth, eighth, 
and unranked,” Miller pointed out. “So [we 
think this gave us a bit of a mental edge over 
Bowdoin ... who came in undefeated, and had 
yet to play from behind all season.”
scoring opportunities by Bowdoin. Miller, 
though, made a kicking save to keep the 
corner of the game, Kelsey Mullaney had her 
by Miller. Immediately following the corner, 
the Panthers made a quick transition and be-
gan an offensive attack. A Bowdoin defender 
tipped a pass from Schulman, and Jennings 
collected the ball in the middle of the circle 
before ripping a shot past the Bowdoin goalie 
able to hold on to the advantage for the re-
half, for the rest of the game we were in a fa-
miliar position of having maintain the win, 
while they were in a new position of having to 
come from behind,” Miller said.
Early in the second half the Panthers were 
awarded four penalty corners in a three-min-
ute stretch, but were unable to capitalize on 
any of the scoring opportunities. Bowdoin 
drew a pair of penalty corners in the 59th 
saves to maintain the Panther’s advantage. In 
the 62nd minute, Bowdoin had another pair 
of scoring attempts, the best coming from Liz 
Znamierowski whose shot after a rebound hit 
the right post and bounced away. The Polar 
Bears were unable to convert any of their at-
held on for the national title.
in shots, while Middlebury held a 9-5 advan-
six saves in goal to earn her eighth shutout of 
the season, while Belitz made three stops for 
the Polar Bears.
Anna Kenyon ’16, Schulman and Lauren 
Berestecky ’17 were each named to the all-
tournament team, while Bridget Instrum ’16 
was named the tournament’s Most Outstand-
ing Player.     
|  December 3, 2015 18 sports
Women’s Hockey Stuns Reigning NESCAC Champs
Jennings Scores Only Goal of Championship Game
Men’s and women’s swimming and diving 
started their season on Saturday, Nov. 21, 
hosting Connecticut College and Tufts at the 
Middlebury Natatorium.
While both the men and women lost to 
Connecticut College (152-128 and 152-136, 
respectively), and the Panther men sustained 
a 176-112 loss to Tufts, the Middlebury 
women edged Tufts 151-149.
Isabel Wyer ’18 started the season off 
her a third place spot.
Sarah Bartholomae ’18 and Katie Corrigan 
back took both third and fourth place for 
the Panthers, and co-Captain Maddie Pierce 
(2:16.86).
Middlebury showed strength in their 
relays. Wyer (back), Liza MacCowatt ’19 
and Wyer touched the wall just .21 seconds 
(1:39.82).
Head Coach Bob Rueppel differentiated 
the program’s strategies for the men and the 
women.
“On the women’s side we’re hoping to 
build off of last season’s success: getting 
further along not only in the conference but 
on the national level,” Rueppel said. “One of 
my goals coming in [for the men is] to have a 
real solid foundation in the program.”
So despite the team’s overall losses, the 
eight different men’s swimmers who scored 
big in events throughout the meet helped set 
the versatile foundation that Rueppel talked 
about.
Stephan Koenigsberger ’16 and Bryan 
second (22.24) behind Cheuk, and Taylor 
for the Panthers.
breaststroke (2:14.33).
Michael McGean ’17 did well in long-
(9:51.71).
Cheuk, Brendan Leech ’19, McLaughlin 
of the day (1:27.24). Their splits of 22.12, 
in the 3-meter to take second in both events.
Amherst will host Middlebury this 
Saturday, Dec. 5 for what ought to be another 
fast meet.
Swim Teams Dive into Beginning of Season
By Nicole Roos
Staff Writer
17
18
2
24
by the Numb3rs
1:55.38 
Rachel frank
-
onds as the highest scoring Panther swimming in the event.
By Ethan Brady
Staff Writer
By Emily Bustard
December 3, 2015 | 19SPORTS
Men’s Hockey Opens Season with Mixed Results
The Middlebury men’s hockey team 
opened its new season, and the Neil Sin-
clair coaching era, by defeating Colby 4-0 
and tying Bowdoin 4-4 on Nov. 21 and 22. 
The following weekend, Nov. 27-28, the 
Panthers fell to Plattsburgh St. 5-4 and 
Connecticut College 1-0 in the PrimeLink 
Great Northern ShootOut.
Against Bowdoin in the season and NE-
SCAC opener, the teams looked even in the 
-
rance Goguen ’16 scored off a faceoff win by 
Evan Neugold ’16 with 5:19 remaining.
The Panthers added to their lead 11:21 
into the second period during Colby’s pow-
er play. Verrier circled behind his net to set 
up another Colby attack off of a Middlebury 
clearance, but misplayed it. Vincent Gisonti 
’18 beat everyone down the ice and wrapped 
the puck into the empty net.
“[Vinny’s goal] really sparked us,” Neu-
gold said. “After that, we really controlled 
the tempo of the game.”
Colby did have several chances to score 
-
minder Stephen Klein ’18 was stout all 
night, saving 28 shots — 26 of which came 
successfully killed three Colby power plays 
in the second period.
Middlebury dominated the third pe-
riod, outshooting Colby 15-2 and scoring 
twice more to secure the four-goal victory. 
-
ing Jake Charles ’16, last season’s leading 
career goal.
The 1-0 Panthers came out hot against 
Bowdoin the next day, building a 4-1 lead 
back in the third period to tie the game.
Just 4:12 into the contest, Brendan Mc-
Govern skated down the right side and beat 
Polar Bear goalie Peter Cronin.
After Bowdoin tied the game at one, 
Haggerty put the Panthers back in front 
with a shot to the top left corner off a feed 
from Braeden Quast ’18. Gisonti and Mc-
Govern made it a three goal lead by the end 
the season.
In the second period, Mike Sullivan took 
when he created some space for himself 
and snuck a wrist shot past Klein.
Off the opening faceoff of the third pe-
riod, Spencer Antunez scored just seven 
seconds in, making it a one goal game. With 
8:45 left in the period, Bowdoin’s Matt Ru-
binoff tied the game at four on a shot from 
the left circle.
“Unfortunately, we stopped playing the 
and they capitalized on a couple of mis-
takes,” Neugold said.
With a tie score, both teams had one 
power play, but neither could convert the 
man-up advantage into a game-winning 
goal. Klein and Nathan Colannino, who 
came on in Bowdoin’s net for Cronin, made 
several saves to keep the score at 4-4 and 
force overtime. Klein saved 29 of 33 shots 
on the day, while Colaninno stopped all 21 
shots in his direction.
The best chance for either side in over-
time came in the closing moments, when 
a blocker save on. The puck landed in front 
of the net and all skaters closed on it, but 
Klein came away with it and the referee 
blew the play dead to end the game in a tie.
The schedule didn’t get any easier over 
Thanksgiving break, as Middlebury trav-
round of the PrimeLink Great Northern 
ShootOut hosted by Norwich, falling 5-4 in 
a back-and-forth contest.
the Cardinals on Friday, Nov. 27, and did 
so quickly; Charles notched his second goal 
of the year just 39 seconds in. Plattsburgh 
responded less than four minutes later, 
but Middlebury regained the lead on Matt 
minutes later. The Cardinals responded 
with two goals from Jesse Neher and Cole 
break.
The game seemed to be slipping away 
from the Panthers in the second period, 
when Plattsburgh extended its lead to two 
by converting a Middlebury turnover.
However, the game was far from over; 
5:02 into the third period, Neugold sent 
a shot into the top corner of the net on a 
Middlebury power play, and Gisonti scored 
his third goal in as many games with just 
under seven minutes remaining in regula-
tion to knot the game at four.
regulation, the Cardinals’ Matt Quilty put 
the Panthers away for good on a power 
play goal, giving the Cardinals the 5-4 vic-
tory and ending the Panthers’ comeback at-
tempt.
“I’m really proud of the way we com-
peted  and the effort that all the guys gave,” 
Neugold said. “We didn’t get the win but we 
know we can play with the best teams in the 
nation.”
The loss pitted Middlebury against Con-
necticut College in the ShootOut consola-
tion game the following day, and after two 
periods of scoreless play, the Panthers were 
defeated 1-0.
start of the year in net for Middlebury, and 
Camel goalie Tom Conlin turned away 16 
minutes.
With 8:25 remaining in the third period, 
Jake Giordano beat the Panther defense 
and dished the puck off to Joe Birmingham 
This loss to Conn. College brought 
Middlebury to 1-2-1 on the season. How-
ever, since the tournament game did not 
count in the conference, the Panthers still 
have a 1-0-1 NESCAC record.
Men’s hockey will travel to Conn. Col-
lege on Friday, Dec. 4 for a chance to 
avenge their loss and then on to Tufts on 
Saturday, Dec. 5.
The Middlebury women’s basketball 
team has had quite the hot start thus 
far in the season. Going undefeated in 
the month of November, the team has 
beaten Oneonta State (60-38) on Friday, 
Nov. 20, Hartwick College (61-58) on 
Nov. 21 and Johnson State (57-52) on 
Tuesday, Nov. 24. The Panthers have 
relied on their underclassmen’s talent to 
win games in the absence of captain and 
most senior leader, Elizabeth Knox ’17, 
who is injured and hoping to return to 
the courts in January.
Middlebury began the season at the 
where they played the host. The Panthers 
ended the first quarter with a 14-9 lead, 
and did not look back.
Oneonta only hit 14 of their attempted 
75 shots (18.7 percent shooting), and 
grabbed 40 rebounds while Middlebury 
shot an impressive 41.7 percent from 
the field, going 25-60. The Panthers 
also grabbed 58 rebounds. Point guard 
Sarah Kaufman ’18 led Middlebury’s 
scoring effort, sinking 23 points total in 
the game. Catherine Harrison ’19 also 
helped seal the win in her impressive 
college debut: she knotted her first 
career double-double, scoring 12 points 
and grabbing 15 boards.
One day later, the team carried this 
momentum into their matchup against 
Hartwick College. Middlebury emerged 
victorious from the constant back-and-
forth that ended with a score of 61-58.
Harrison was the high scorer of the 
game, with 20 points and 9 rebounds, 
while Colleen Caveney ’19 had 12 points 
and went 6-7 from the field. Kaufman 
again scored in double-digits, racking up 
ten points total. Middlebury continued 
their shooting success going 24-50 from 
the field (48 percent).
Three days later on Tuesday, Nov. 24, 
the Panthers embarked on another road 
trip to face their local rival, Johnson 
State (JSU). Middlebury won what 
proved to be another close contest 57-52.
JSU cut Middlebury’s lead down to 
two with just under a minute remaining. 
However, the Panthers hit three foul 
shots and a layup to seal a five-point 
win. Kaufman led Middlebury again in 
scoring with 18 points, while Harrison 
scored 12. Eileen Daley ’18 scored 
five and recorded a career-high of 13 
rebounds.
After a very promising start to her 
Middlebury career, Harrison — who 
averages 16.0 points and 12.0 rebounds 
per game, and shot an 82.4 percentage 
from the floor (14-17) — was named the 
NESCAC Player of the Week.
The Panthers will begin to rev up 
their out-of-conference schedule as they 
face Skidmore on the road this Saturday, 
December 5th at 2 p.m. before NESCAC 
Women’s Basketball Unbeaten in Opening Stretch
Christmas is so close I can taste the 
peppermint mocha and hear Mariah 
Carey. 
CAVS
Something about hometown glory. If they beat them last year, they can 
MICHIGAN ST.
My friend from U. Michigan 
would be so ashamed of this pick.
editors’ picks
I think they’ll win, especially 
since this game will actually count 
towards the NESCAC standings.
CAVS
They have Lebron James.
IOWA
Their mascot is named Herky the 
Hawk, which is great.
Winning streaks seem to be a 
trend this year for Middlebury 
Athletics.
Emily Bustard (50-55, .476)
Joe macdonald (73-83, .468)
Alex Morris (79-76, .510)
Andrew Rigas (20-15, .571)
Can men’s hockey avenge their loss 
@ Conn College on Friday, Dec. 4?
CFB pick’em: Who wins the Big 
Ten Championship Game (No. 4 
Iowa v. No. 5 Michigan St.)?
NBA pick’em: Who wins, Lebron’s 
current team or his former team 
(Cavs @ Heat)?
Can women’s basketball 
continue its undefeated start @ 
Skidmore on Saturday, Dec. 5?
NO
I don’t like this matchup on the 
road for the boys. 
CAVS
Gimme more Dellavedova. Kid is a 
winner.
Common opponents mean nothing, 
Rigas. Read a book.
IOWA
Michigan St. shouldn’t be in this 
game. They needed the biggest 
miracle play of all time to beat 
Michigan.
The Panthers outshot Conn last 
game, they just couldn’t score. They 
will this time.
HEAT
Pat Riley has assembled yet another 
good team, this time without 
LeBron.
NO
Skidmore beat Hartwick by 17 and 
Midd only beat them by 3.
MICHIGAN ST.
I just think they’re the better 
team. 
By Andrew Rigas
Sports Editor
By Alex Deutsch
Staff Writer
Rachel Frank
Middlebury couldn’t seal the deal against Bowdoin, ending the game in a 4-4 tie.
sports December 3, 2015 | 20
WOMEN’S 
BASKETBALL 
REMAINS PERFECT IN 
FIRST GAMES
PAGE 19
CROSS COUNTRY 
FINISHES 
STRONGLY AT NCCA 
CHAMPIONSHIPS 
PAGE 17in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Against 
Middlebury Field hockey wins first national championship Since 1998
All odds
Courtesy Middlebury athletics
