December 5, 2013 | Vol. 112 no. 11 | middleburycampus.com
MEET THE COACH 
OF STATE CHAMPS 
MUHS FOOTBALL 
TEAM 
PAGE 5
STUDENTS PAINT 
PANORAMAS OF 
CAMPUS SCENERY
PAGE 14
LANGUAGES 
EVOKE EMOTIONS 
IN PENTECOST 
PERFORMANCE
PAGE 17in
sid
e
By Claire Abbadi
The International Students Organization held its annual cultural talent show on Saturday, Nov. 23 in 
McCullough Social Space. Above, a group of student perform a coordinated dance.
Shang Jiang
WORLD OF DANCE
Wax Lecture Stirs Controversy
By Eliza Teach
Poll Seeks Info 
on Attendance
By Emily Singer
A food survey sent to the stu-
dent body by the Student Gov-
ernment Association (SGA) on 
Oct. 28 has provided the SGA 
with concrete data based on 
1,219 student responses to help 
focus and forward the real and 
sustainable food movement on 
campus.
“We were basically trying to 
assess people’s willingness to 
support sustainable food initia-
tives on campus for the dining 
hall,” said Director of Environ-
mental Affairs for the SGA Jake 
Nonweiler ’14. “The purpose of 
the survey was to find some def-
inition of sustainable food that 
people agreed upon or wanted 
to work for.”
The SGA hoped to gauge stu-
dent opinion surrounding what 
real and sustainable food is. 
According to the survey, “real” 
food falls into one or more of 
the following parameters: hu-
mane, Fair Trade, ecologically 
sound or local. 
“Unfortunately for the dining 
halls purposes we can’t focus on 
all of the categories, so we really 
wanted to focus in on what the 
students considered sustain-
able foods to be and what was 
practical,” Nonweiler said.
Nonweiler found the dis-
crepancy between the student-
estimated amount of organic 
food in the dining halls and the 
real amount to be interesting. 
Just less than 75 percent of the 
1,219 survey respondents esti-
mated the amount of organic 
food to be above the zero to five 
percent range, when in fact the 
real amount is between zero and 
five percent. On a scale of one 
through five, with five signify-
ing ‘strongly agree,’ the average 
student response was a 3.33 in 
response to the statement ‘we 
need more organic food.’
According to Nonweiler, the 
goal of the estimation questions 
surrounding local and organic 
food were included to deter-
mine students’ perceptions of 
food in the dining halls and 
what that might mean for future 
initiatives. 
With regard to local food, 
most students believe than 10 
to 20 percent of food in the din-
ing halls is categorized as lo-
cal, which corresponds to the 
true proportion found in din-
ing halls. Given the aforemen-
tioned one to five scale on the 
topic of local food, the average 
response was 3.49 in response 
to the statement ‘we need more 
local food.’
“I wasn’t expecting an over-
whelming response of student 
desire for sustainable food,” 
SGA President Rachel Liddell 
’15 said. “I think that the sur-
vey shows a pretty moderate 
stance on the issue, however, I 
am impressed by the number of 
people who participated. Clear-
ly the real food movement as a 
significant following and a high 
profile on campus.” 
According to Liddell, the 
moderate responses have not 
given the SGA a clear jumping 
off point.
“It’s nice to have some more 
concrete information about 
what people care about and 
what’s important to them about 
dining, but I don’t have a num-
ber that justifies a broad sweep-
Hillcrest 103 was packed be-
yond standing room, with over 
100 in attendance, on Thursday, 
Nov. 21 when University of Penn-
sylvania Law Professor Amy Wax 
gave a lecture, titled “Diverging 
Family Structure by Class and 
Race: Economic Hardship, Moral 
Deregulation or Something Else? 
Amid signs proclaiming “racist,” 
Wax gave a 40-minute presenta-
tion followed by a heated question 
and answer session. 
Wax presented aggregate data 
on diverging family values focus-
ing on differences in birth rates of 
children born out of wedlock and 
overall marriage rates between 
whites and non-whites that she 
argues is caused by “differences in 
decision making style by class and 
race” and post 1960s “moral de-
regulation.”
Wax argued that low socio-
economic groups are more likely 
to make decisions based in the 
short term and to “think locally” 
while high-economic groups tend 
to think in the long term or “think 
globally.” She referenced what she 
calls a moral deregulation in the 
post-1960 U.S. as the point of di-
vergence, arguing that pre-1960s 
Americans abided by a uniform 
code of behavior that acted as an 
“equalizer” and once Americans 
began to self-regulate, different 
family patterns and patterns of be-
havior began to emerge. 
 “We got this fragmentation 
and distinct race and class based 
cultures and lifestyle diversity, 
widening social and economic in-
equality,” Wax said.
Many students prepared for 
the lecture’s sensitive material and 
Wax’s interpretation by carrying 
signs labeled “Racist.”  After seeing 
the signs, Wax proclaimed that, “It 
is easy to call people names, and 
it’s lazy, but what’s hard is to show 
why they are wrong. I don’t think 
at an institution of this caliber 
that’s how people ought to be re-
sponding, just with name-calling. 
Shutting down discussion is not 
the answer.”
A. Barton Hepburn Professor of 
Sociology Margaret Nelson noted 
that though she herself would not 
bring in signs labeled “racist,” the 
student sentiment at the moment 
 “I think students of color were 
being attacked and felt attacked,” 
Nelson said. “I think she was mak-
ing statements about people’s 
morality — saying most African 
Americans act in immoral ways in 
this society.”
Wax opened her lecture with 
background data, stating that over 
the past 60 years a “dramatic dis-
persion” in the U.S. population by 
socioeconomic status and race in 
During the week of Nov. 18, 
prior to Thanksgiving break, the 
Faculty Council, in consultation 
with members of the administra-
tion, sent a survey to all faculty 
with the goal of learning about 
pre-vacation attendance policies 
across the College.
Classes are typically held on 
the Monday and Tuesday before 
Thanksgiving, with vacation of-
Tuesday. A large number of stu-
dents do not attend classes on 
Tuesday, and sometimes Monday, 
due to travel plans. Airline tickets 
are less expensive and highway 
week than it is one or two days be-
fore Thanksgiving. Thus, students 
often choose to miss class in favor 
of more convenient travel options.
Professors choose for them-
selves whether to cancel class 
in the days before break. Due to 
varied policies and frequent early 
departures by students, the Fac-
ulty Council sent a survey asking 
about “their practices regarding 
the Monday and Tuesday before 
Thanksgiving, the reasons they 
have adopted such practices and 
current Thanksgiving schedule 
agreeable,” according to Associ-
ate Professor of Philosophy and 
Faculty Council member Kareem 
Khalifa.
Dean of the Faculty and Philip 
Battell Sarah Steward Professor 
of Biology Andi Lloyd consulted 
with Faculty Council members on 
the survey.
“Discussions of our calendar 
at Thanksgiving have been going 
on, at least informally, for years,” 
SEE PRE-BREAK, PAGE 4
SEE 1,219 RESPOND, PAGE 2
UPenn Law Professor Amy Wax, left, packed Hillcrest and provoked spurts of anger from stu-
dents and faculty members. Wax called the signs “lazy.” See page 8 for The Campus’ opinion. 
Rachel Frank
Students Demand 
Sustainable Food
SEE WAX, PAGE 3
On Friday, Nov. 22, approximately 
75 student-tenants who utilized the Old 
Stone Mill this fall to pursue their cre-
ative projects showcased their work at 
Crossroads. The Old Stone Mill facili-
tates student pursuit of extracurricular 
creative or entrepreneurial ambitions by 
providing students with office space and 
external resources.
Director of Programs on Creativity and 
Innovation in the Liberal Arts Elizabeth 
Robinson noted the diverse range of in-
terests at the showcase.
“What I absolutely love is the range of 
activity at Old Stone Mill,” Robinson said. 
“There are musicians, artists, writers, 
students using the kitchen to explore new 
kinds of cooking, as well as entrepreneurs 
and students starting new organizations.”
Jack Cookson ’15, a co-founder of Mid-
dlebury Foods, presented at the showcase. 
Middlebury Foods seeks to address the 
problem of food insecurity by providing 
community members with an easier way 
to access affordable and healthy foods.
During Middlebury Food’s inception, 
Cookson noted that Old Stone Mill pro-
vided a vital role in connecting its seven 
founders.
“We were using it as an office space,” 
he explained. “Finding food distributors, 
finding storage space and doing some 
initial marketing” was part of a normal 
workday made easier by the Old Stone 
Mill.
Linnea Burnham ’15 used her Old 
Stone Mill space to prepare the wool of 
sheep she had sheared for sale and knit-
ting at local markets.
“The Old Stone Mill is great because 
they’ve given me the space to do this,” 
Burnham said. “This is a very labor inten-
sive and messy process, and there is no 
way I would have been able to do it in my 
room.”
Others, such as Annie Bartholomew 
’17, presented work focused less on prof-
it and more on personal interest. Bra-
tholomew constructed a guitar that was 
featured at the showcase, and noted that 
the act of creating does not have to relate 
to a particular business or money-making 
project.
“I want to continue building guitars 
because I really like it,” she said.
President of the College Ronald D. Li-
ebowitz attended the showcase and noted 
that student projects in tandem with the 
Old Stone Mill are consistently impres-
sive.
“As always, we hope that the Old Stone 
Mill will be a generator of creative and in-
novative pursuits,” Liebowitz remarked. 
“I think that it’s filled that objective very, 
very well.”
Robinson explained that before the 
founding of the Old Stone Mill, many of 
these projects would have had difficulty 
finding space to flourish.
“One of the best things about the Old 
Stone Mill is how it gives students a 
nudge to be creative,” she said. “It says, 
‘we have space, what can you do with it?’”
Many projects that began at the Old 
Stone Mill have grown considerably since 
their inception: Quidditch, the Solar De-
cathalon teams and publications such as 
Middlebury Geographic have their roots 
at the Old Stone Mill.
The Old Stone Mill student board 
member Jake Nonweiler ’14 encouraged 
individual students or student groups 
with business or project ideas to apply for 
space during J-term. For more informa-
tion, contact oldstonemill@middlebury.
edu and go/osm.
A series of eight tiny, uninhabited islands 
in the East China Sea has been the source 
of rising political tensions between China 
and Japan in recent months. Known to the 
Chinese as Diaoyu and the Japanese as Sen-
kaku, the islands have been administratively 
controlled by Japan since the late 19th cen-
tury, except during the post-World War II 
American administration over Japan. China 
has claimed sovereignty over the islands 
since the Treaty of San Francisco was signed 
in 1945. China bases it claim on historical 
control over the islands that dates back to 
the 14th century.
Last week, the dispute over the sover-
eignty of the Senkaku Islands escalated 
once again with the unilateral announce-
-
-
coming aircrafts to a country must identify 
themselves over radio to that country’s au-
thorities. Countries with long maritime bor-
ders commonly use these zones to protect 
their national security interests.
-
cludes a large portion of the East China Sea 
-
rea and Japan. It also covers the airspace 
above the Senkaku Islands. In addition to 
requiring aircrafts bound for its national air-
space to identify themselves, China has also 
it will enforce the zone with military defense 
measures.
The announcement of an East China 
Korea, who perceive the move as part of a 
long-term strategy of the Chinese to extend 
its sovereignty claims. In a statement from 
the Pentagon last Monday, a US Depart-
ment of Defense spokesperson said that the 
United States Air Force would not obey the 
were backed by action a day later when two 
a pre-planned military exercise. The jets did 
not encounter any reactions from the Chi-
Later in the week, both South Korea and 
Beijing authorities. Similar to the American 
into no troubles from the Chinese. China 
responded later in the week by saying that 
they had monitored these aircrafts. The Chi-
nese military also sent planes to the zone for 
a show of force that it described as a harm-
less air patrol.
On Friday, the United States cautioned 
American commercial airlines to acquiesce 
government emphasized that this word 
of caution was for the sole purpose of pas-
senger safety and did not represent general 
American acquiescence to China’s actions.
In response to the threats of non-compli-
ance from its neighbors, China has pointed 
-
monplace, even among countries in the area. 
to China as 100 miles in some places. 
The rising of political tensions between 
China and Japan comes at a time when lead-
ers of both countries have taken a more na-
tionalistic stance in recent months. Prime 
Minister Shinzo Abe, elected in Sept. 2012, 
is seeking to amend the Japanese Constitu-
tion to make Japan less dependent on the 
United States for defense, while President Xi 
Jinping, who took over as Chinese Commu-
nity Party leader in Nov. 2012, has sought to 
rally the Chinese people around a spirit of 
“national renewal.”
BY DANNY ZHANG
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| december 5, 20132 NEWS
A collection of student artwork on display at the Old Stone Mill showcase. 
paul gerard
OSM Showcase Displays Student Work
By Harry Cramer
1,219 Respond to 
SGA Food Survey
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
ing change,” Liddell said.
While the survey responses proved 
inconclusive for Liddell, there is one 
specific food-related initiative she nev-
ertheless plans to pursue.
“I want to investigate really specific 
products that we can attack,” she said. 
“For example, although it is easy and 
cheap to buy coffee that was farmed in a 
really unsustainable, inhumane, and so-
cially irresponsible way, it is also totally 
possible to purchase fair trade coffee. 
Doing so would show our commitment 
to buy real and just food, and improving 
our coffee purchasing practices is an at-
tainable goal.”
While she claimed that being prod-
uct-oriented is a feasible way of thinking 
about Dining Services modifications, she 
admitted that it is an imperfect science 
at best. It does, however, involve taking 
immediate action rather than debating 
for a long time over what action should 
be taken.
“On the one hand this solution is 
highly imperfect and doesn’t solve the 
larger problem. On the other, it enables 
us to vote with our dollar for companies 
that we trust, applaud and want to suc-
ceed,” Liddell said.
After the survey is officially pub-
lished, Nonweiler and Liddell hope that 
statistics from survey results will be able 
to help the many student-led food or-
ganizations on campus to further their 
initiatives. Liddell also hopes to meet 
with Vice President for Finance Patrick 
Norton and Director of Dining Services 
Matthew Biette to begin discussing at-
tainable food-related goals. 
“The SGA’s purpose here is to say 
what students are saying about food is-
sues,” Nonweiler said. “So rather than 
small organizations trying to guess, we 
have a better assessment of more than 
1,200 students who said certain things 
about the food that we think is valuable.” 
Campus Sustainability Coordinator 
on the Food Committee and Food Clus-
ter leader Natalie Valentin ’15 stressed 
the importance of the survey to the Food 
Cluster in that the information it provid-
ed will be used for educational purposes.
“Knowing what misconceptions are 
out there is critical for educating people, 
and knowing what the general student 
population cares about is essential to 
creating a more inclusive movement,” 
Valentin said. “We have a wonderful col-
lection of students on campus who are 
really passionate about food, but it is 
easy to get stuck in a bubble of our own 
enthusiasm and ideas. Through the food 
survey, we wanted to give everyone else 
a voice.”
Nonweiler summarized one of the pri-
mary functions of the survey as testing 
whether a food movement is even valu-
able to begin with. 
Although Liddell stressed that many 
responses were moderate, the survey 
does show a trend of support for more 
sustainable food options. Just over 60 
percent of student respondents voted 
‘agree’ or ‘strongly agree’ in response 
to the statement ‘Middlebury College 
should make a written commitment to 
take an active role in creating a more 
sustainable, healthy, and fair food sys-
tem.’
“Every indication that we’ve gotten, 
especially with EatReal, is that this is a 
valuable movement and that it does have 
traction,” Nonweiler said. “It is becom-
ing more active, and more students are 
jumping on board.”
In collaboration with the Monterey Insti-
-
will provide students, faculty and staff from 
the College and MIIS with “increased access to 
the many academic, government, internation-
al, research and philanthropic organizations 
in the Washington, D.C. area.”
The 6,500-square foot space, located at 
1400 K Street, has two conference rooms, a 
large videoconferencing room and several 
East Coast branch of the MIIS Center for Non-
proliferation Studies.
how many different aspects of the institution 
can take advantage of it and consequently all 
that Washington has to offer,” President of 
the College Ronald D. Liebowitz said in the 
press release. “It will allow our institution to 
bring together students, faculty, staff, alumni 
and friends from all of our degree programs to 
enrich a particular course, a continuing educa-
tion program and much more.”
The videoconferencing facility will prove to 
be the center’s most vibrant element — allow-
ing students at the College, MIIS or C. V. Starr 
Schools Abroad to connect with government 
and policy experts without the time or cost 
spent on travel.
Fariha Haque, a former analyst in the Dis-
-
ly Childhood Education, has been named the 
director of Middlebury in DC. Haque noted 
that the facility could also be used by career 
for networking or recruiting purposes, either 
in person or by videoconference.
20, in which Associate Professor of American 
Studies Susan Burch presented her research 
on Junius Wilson, a man who spent 76 years 
in a North Carolina mental hospital during the 
Jim Crow era, yet had never been declared in-
sane by a medical professional.
Middlebury, 
MIIS Open 
By Emily Singer
december 5, 2013 |  3        News
Wax Challenges Notions of Family Structure
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Two weeks ago today, I met with the Fac-
ulty Educational Affairs Committee (EAC) to 
discuss internships for credit. We discussed 
different options to move forward on the is-
sue, seeking a compromise that would gain 
favor from both students and faculty mem-
bers. The Faculty EAC expressed reserva-
tions and offered ideas about academic cred-
it for summer internships.
First, they expressed reservations about 
the potential for students to use internship 
credits to substitute for a regular fall or spring 
class. Some EAC members believe that this 
would dilute the expected academic stan-
dards Middlebury has for students during 
the fall and spring semesters. This concern 
permeates discussions about internships for 
credit with faculty and students alike and is 
the fundamental question surrounding this 
policy. In my view, receiving credit for a sum-
mer internship does not dilute standards 
into our academic culture. Internships offer 
students the opportunity to explore areas of 
study unavailable on campus and to make 
connections between varied summer expe-
riences and on-campus learning. Accredited 
internships will not damage our academic 
integrity. Rather, they will enhance it.
The EAC posited a potential compromise, 
in which students who complete internships 
during the summer would earn credit toward 
the on-campus J-term requirement. Through 
this system, students could earn academic 
credit for internships without reducing the 
number of classes they take during Fall and 
Spring semesters, thereby maintaining the 
College’s current academic standards.
After discussing this option with the SGA 
Senate and members of the SGA Cabinet, 
I have concluded that such a compromise 
to students. Further, I do not view J-term as 
synonymous with the lesser. Many students 
-
istry, statistics, and Chinese during J-term, 
just like they do during the Fall and Spring 
semesters. Plus, courses taken during J-
term, although sometimes different in focus 
than classes during the Fall and Spring, offer 
rigorous learning opportunities for students. 
Only allowing students to use credits from in-
ternships for credit during Winter Term sug-
gests that there is a fundamental difference 
in quality between credit earned in January 
and credit earned during the rest of the aca-
demic year. I do not agree with that precept. 
As such, if internships count towards credit 
at all, they should count towards any credit 
throughout the year.
Another possible compromise we dis-
cussed with the faculty EAC is the incorpora-
tion of a capstone project into the accredita-
tion process for an internship. Students, after 
-
ister for an independent study during the fall 
semester. During that independent study, a 
student would work with their advising pro-
fessor to complete a capstone project. This 
project, which might take the form of a paper 
or a presentation, would serve as a learning 
opportunity for students and would bring the 
internship into its academic context. Because 
a student would complete most of the work 
of her credit during the summer, she would 
focus on the rest of her classes more intently.
Using an independent study to complete 
an accredited internship also enables pro-
fessors to continue using their summers to 
write, research, and plan for the coming year. 
If professors begin advising internships and 
directing projects during the summer, then 
the undergraduate academic calendar will 
stretch across the entire year. Currently, the 
College does not function on that model. Per-
haps, however, we should discuss options for 
students to earn a credit for internships dur-
ing the summer without extending their ef-
forts into the following semester.
Many students and faculty alike have ex-
pressed doubt about the quality of intern-
ships, and how a low-quality yet accredited 
internship degrades the worth of academic 
credits generally. I share this concern. How-
ever, the process of submitting the intern-
whom to work would weed out the unwor-
thy internships. Not all summer experiences 
would qualify for credit, and even those that 
pass initial review would require further re-
than anticipated, responsibility would fall on 
the student to seek academic credit through 
other avenues. The professor’s relationship 
with the student during and after the intern-
ship would ensure that this process occurs. 
This expectation may appear optimistic, but 
the act of trusting students to do the right 
thing and believing that they desire to learn 
serves an essential part of our community. It 
forms the basis of our honor code and it in-
forms the purpose of a liberal arts education. 
The assumption that students, given the op-
portunity, would shirk academic responsibili-
ties undermines our academic culture, which 
is the very phenomenon that the EAC wants 
to avoid. I want to maintain our academic 
integrity too; internships would not detract 
from that integrity, but would instead build it.
As always, if you have questions, com-
ments, critiques or criticisms, email 
me at sga@middlebury.edu. Good 
sga update
The Latest on Accredited Internships
By Rachel Liddell
family structure surrounding rates of mar-
riage, divorce, single parent families and 
multiple partners.
“What I mean by this dispersion is that 
upper middle class people, despite the an-
ecdotes that you may have heard, are liv-
ing fairly traditional, nuclear family lives,” 
Wax said. “Upper middle class families 
as people with a high-school degree or less, 
and now some college or less, their lives and 
families are increasingly disorganized.”
Wax went on to present a series of aggre-
gate data that outlined declining marriage 
rates among minorities, which indicated 
that family construction among blacks is 
on average characterized by higher divorce 
rates, higher rates of extra-marital father-
hood and multiple partner fertility.
“They co-habit, but they co-habit in a 
kind of merry-go-round fashion,” Wax con-
cluded. “[Having children out of wedlock] is 
a dominant norm in some communities.”
According to Wax, in 1962, out-of-wed-
lock birth rates and single parent family 
rates were much closer together by educa-
tion level and class. In the 1980s divorce 
rates among whites started to decline and 
is now 15 percent among white college 
graduates. Wax argues that marriages are 
becoming more stable among the white de-
mographic group. While the rate of out of 
wedlock births among blacks is now over 72 
percent.
Wax noted that most demographers 
agree that economic factors alone do not 
explain the decline in marriage with blacks, 
becase while their economic status of blacks 
has improved in the last period, yet marriage 
rates have continued to decline. 
“Black men marry less than white 
men, Hispanic men and Asian men to-
day controlling for employment, in-
come, for everything economic,” 
 Wax said.
Throughout the lecture, Wax begged the 
question of what contributes to that discrep-
ancy, asserting that the economically inse-
cure were not having children with multiple 
partners in the past like they are today, a fact 
through which Wax argued that economic 
factors cannot be the cause of this change in 
behavior.
“There is growing evidence of a kind of 
behavioral, cultural problem among work-
ing class men that is leading to educational 
failure, job failure and also the inability to 
maintain a family.”
“We are so committed to tolerance and 
non-judgementalism that we tolerate things 
that maybe we shouldn’t tolerate,” Wax 
continued. “Not by making them illegal 
or throwing people in jail, but by just even 
saying ‘you shouldn’t do that’ or ‘that isn’t 
good.’”
When asked by a student in the audience 
what some of these things were, Wax offered 
having a child out of wedlock.
In addition to the signs, her hypothesis 
was met with much opposition from both 
students and faculty members.
“Wax’s data displayed information that 
we already knew in terms of the construc-
tion of marriage in America and disparities 
between different racial groups,” Amari 
Simpson ’16 said. “But, I found it problem-
atic that she attempted to demonize certain 
racial groups without factoring into her 
research the social and structural determi-
nants to those peoples’ life decisions.” 
“There is not evidence [for her theory],” 
Nelson added. “There is data that shows 
there are different family forms by race/
ethnicity and class and there are a multitude 
of interpretations for those differences. But 
those alternate explanations were not given 
serious attention.”
Charles A. Dana Professor of Political 
Science Murray Dry, who sponsored Wax’s 
visit to the College,  said this lecture was a 
learning opportunity for this community. 
“I’m not trying to convert anybody. I want 
to bring people up here that have something 
thoughtful to say on a relevant subject,” Dry 
said. “The lesson for us at Middlebury to 
take is that it is okay to disagree. Don’t as-
sume that because someone disagrees with 
you on a subject on which you have strong 
views that there must be something morally 
bad about that person. That gets in the way 
of one’s education.”
Dry went on to mention that despite the 
different hypotheses on why we see the ra-
cial trends in family structure, what is im-
portant is not what causes these trends but 
what we can do about them.
“So maybe we don’t know exactly what 
the cause is but can’t we agree that it would 
be good if we could do something about it,” 
Dry said. “These results are alarming.”
 Most seemed to agree that the problem 
wasn’t with Wax’s aggregate data, but with 
the assumptions she made from that data. 
“The nature of the offense was not the 
data,” Nelson said. “It was the interpretation 
imposed on the data without any evidence 
that was the appropriate interpretation.”
Simpson went a step further.
 “I felt that the implication of her research 
will do nothing to help these people besides 
negatively distort academia’s perspective on 
this subject,” Simpson said.
Cooper and LaVoie
THURSDAY 8:00-10:00pm
Cooper and LaVoie play a great mix 
of acoustic blues and folk classics. 
1/2 priced appetizers w/ Midd ID.
Joe Moore Band
FRIDAY 8:00-11:00pm
The Joe Moore Band performs a 
wide variety of American rhythm & 
blues, funk, and jazz.
.
Mint Julep
SATURDAY 8:00-11:00pm
performing all the sweet and 
scandalous standards from the 
Golden Age of Swing and Jazz with 
MCAB: Trivia Night
THURSDAY 9:00-11:00pm
Bring your friends out for a night 
of fun trivia and FREE snacks! Win 
to check out the specials at Cross-
roads while you are there! This 
week is 50% off smoothies!
DMC Presents: 
the Showcase Mixer
FRIDAY 7:00-9:00pm
Come join DMC and meet perform-
ers who will be participating in the 
J-term showcase! Light refresh-
ments will be served.
Alec MacMillen and 
Kai Lee
FRIDAY 10:00pm-12:00am
Come check out two talented stu-
dents perform! All ages welcome! 
Beer and wine available for 21+ w/ 
2 forms of ID.
Karaoke
SATURDAY MIDNIGHT-2:00am
Sunday Night Football
SUNDAY 8:00-11:00pm
PANTHERS v. SAINTS
on the big screen and FREE pop-
corn. Come cheer on your favorite 
team and order our favorite snack 
at Crossroads or the Grille.
4 NEWS | december 5, 2013
IHH Event Planned for January
By Emilie Munson
It Happens Here (IHH), a student group 
that raises awareness of sexual assault at the 
College, announced that it will be holding its 
third annual storytelling event on Jan. 20 in 
the McCullough Social Space. 
Founded by Luke Carroll Brown ’14 and 
Margo Cramer ’12 in 2011, IHH works to pro-
mote conversations about sexual violence on 
college campuses and to empower survivors 
of sexual violence as educators by providing a 
forum for them to share their stories. Since its 
inception, IHH has hosted speakers and alter-
nate discussion forums on the issue of sexual 
violence on college campuses.
“Certain experiences with friends made 
clear to me just how enormous this problem 
was, both in prevalence and emotional impact 
on an individual,” Brown said. “This preva-
lence is due in large part to our collective in-
ability to acknowledge this problem.”
Brown hopes that continued IHH pro-
gramming will help reduce the stigma at-
tached to sexual violence so that students can 
discuss the issue more openly. 
“If one in three women on this campus 
were being mugged over the course of a year, 
we would have a response,” he said. “Sexual 
violence, because of the stigmas attached to 
coming forward about an experience, creates 
a really unique problem in that we can’t speak 
about it, and survivors have every reason in 
the world not to want to speak about it. So this 
faceless problem persists.”
Like the April 2012 IHH event, the story-
telling event in January will feature stories 
submitted by students affected by sexual 
violence, read by the survivors themselves or 
their peers.
Nearly a quarter of the student body at-
tended the event last April, according to 
Brown, who argued that such strong atten-
dance indicates student eagerness to address 
this issue. Brown hopes for similar attendance 
at this year’s event to further IHH’s goal of 
“shatter[ing] the silence” about sexual vio-
lence on college campuses.
Katie Preston ’17, a member of IHH, joined 
the organization “to bring these conversations 
[about sexual violence] to people who may not 
seek out these experiences — who are often the 
people who most need to hear this.”
Jordan Seman ’16, who attended the April 
event, is excited for the return of IHH and 
echoed Preston’s wish for diverse and in-
creased attendance. 
“I remember being shocked by how easily 
‘consent’ can be blurred on college campuses,” 
experiences in a way I hadn’t before. I really 
hope that this year there are a higher number 
of male attendees because I remember think-
ing that it could have made a bigger impact if 
more guys had been there to listen.”
After the Jan. 20 event, IHH hopes to di-
rect the interest in the storytelling event into 
follow-up conversations as well as a bystander 
intervention campaign. In the future, IHH 
hopes to bring sexual violence activists to cam-
pus as speakers and expand its group.
Brown and Cramer are also working to ex-
pand It Happens Here into a national move-
ment with the College chapter serving as only 
one campus within a broader network. IHH is 
currently working to establish programming 
at six other colleges across the U.S.
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Lloyd wrote in an email. “Faculty tend to 
point out that many students leave early, 
resulting in low attendance. Students will 
likewise point out that they leave early be-
cancel classes. [You can see] the feedback 
loop that could result … We decided to get 
a quick estimate of what’s happening this 
year in order to inform [future] decisions.”
Peer schools Amherst, Bates and Ham-
ilton hold a week-long Thanksgiving break, 
but most — Williams, Wesleyan, Bowdoin, 
Connecticut College, Trinity, Tufts and 
Colby, Swarthmore, Wellesley, Smith and 
Vassar, among others — all begin vacation 
at the end of the day on Tuesday.
Professors at the College who choose to 
cancel class before Thanksgiving do so of 
their own accord and choose to schedule an 
alternate class time if they deem it neces-
sary.
Dean of International Programs and 
Edward C. Knox Professor of International 
Studies Jeff Cason co-teaches a class with 
Professor of Economics William Pyle called 
Democracy, Development and Globaliza-
tion on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Cason 
and Pyle cancelled the class in anticipation 
of poor attendance.
“We decided to reschedule that Tues-
day afternoon class to Wednesday evening 
would get a better attendance during the 
did not reduce the overall number of class 
sessions; we simply readjusted our class 
meeting times to avoid the Thanksgiving 
week.”
Cason believes that a weeklong Thanks-
giving break makes sense and that it would 
be easy enough to extend the fall semester 
by a few more class days.
“We have shortened the exam time in 
recent years, so we could certainly manage 
a few more class days at the end, to give stu-
dents a longer Thanksgiving break,” Cason 
said.
Pre-Break 
Attendance 
Policies Vary
On Friday, Dec. 6, a coalition of student 
activist groups on campus will host a day of 
from the various student groups will set up 
stations in each of the three dining halls dur-
ing lunchtime with posters for students to 
write on: one will be a timeline intended to 
-
portant events on campus over the past year 
and the other will be titled “Middlebury’s 
organizers hope will be a place for fellow stu-
dents to write their wishes for the College’s 
future. 
Student participants running the stations 
include members of Divest Middlebury, the 
-
pens Here, MiddSafe, Arabesque and the 
Sunday Night Group. The event marks a re-
newed effort on the part of student organizers 
to foster more collaboration among student 
activists on campus, and to improve commu-
nication and align the actions of the separate 
groups to spur social change on campus.
The objective of the awareness initiative is 
to push the student body to consider the time 
sensitivity of the issues many of the student 
activist groups have been organizing around.
“How much longer are we going to wait 
until we will act?” Adrian Leong ’16, a mem-
ber of Divest Middlebury, said. “How many 
more natural disasters and years of extreme 
before we will divest from companies that 
warming crisis? How many more episodes 
of homophobia, racial discrimination, and 
sexual harassment do we need to see on cam-
pus before we will stand up and say, ‘enough 
is enough?’”
“Before we transition to the new year of 
past events that happened this semester and 
make wishes for the new,” he added.
and Atwater Dining Halls from 12:00 to 2:00 
p.m.  
“The College administration, as well as the 
student body at large, have a responsibility to 
listen to the voices of this coalition of student 
groups, and rethink the College’s priorities in 
this coming year,” Leong added.
By Kelsey Collins
ALL WEEK LONG
Special Food Deliveries
Keep an eye out for 
snacks in the Library 
and at BiHall!
Gaming at the Grille
Take a break with N64, 
Super Smash and Mario 
Kart!
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
FINALS WEEK EDITION
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10
Therapy Dogs!
Location TBD.
Chair Yoga Classes
Align your spine and 
breathe deep. No mats 
needed! 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
in the Library.
Massages
Unwind with a ten 
minute massage and 
Play-Doh in the Crest 
Room from 2-4 p.m.
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7-11
Meditation
Find peace and quiet 
in the Mitchell Green 
Room.
local
1 in 8700: Meet the Middlebury Union High 
Football Coach who Brought Home Victory
Dennis Smith led the Middlebury Union High School football team to a state championship 
victory. The high school team had an incredible season this year, finishing undefeated.
Courtesy
Carol’s Hungry Mind Cafe has j u s t 
By Olivia Jurkowitz
“If a kid is strug-
gling mentally or 
physically, I ask 
myself what am I 
as a coach doing 
wrong. I ask myself 
how can I differ my 
approach so that 
the kid will under-
stand easier.”
Dennis Smith
Middlebury union high school football coach
courtesy 
Smith ensures that the Middlebury Union High School players he coaches master the basics.
Coming off a huge state championship victo-
ry, Middlebury Union High School football coach 
Dennis Smith is grateful for many things. Every 
year, Smith and his players set the goal of being 
crowned state champions. In Vermont’s Division 
I, it is a difficult goal, but not out of reach. 
Smith believes in the value of hard work and 
drills his players in fundamentals every single 
practice. “Winning is not fun, winning is work, 
but winning a state championship is fun,” Smith 
said. 
From tackling technique to footwork, Smith 
makes sure his players are experts in the basics. 
Although Smith sets out to win the State Cham-
pionship every year, he doesn’t place all em-
phasis on that title, which is perhaps one of the 
reasons he is so 
successful as a 
coach. 
Smith knew 
that he had a 
special group 
of kids this year 
from the be-
ginning of the 
season. From 
merely an ath-
letic standpoint, 
Smith has never 
had a team that 
had so many 
players able to 
play both of-
fense and de-
fense. 
“We were 
the smallest 
team on the 
field every 
week, but we 
had the speed 
and quickness,” Smith said.
On top of the team’s work ethic and athletic 
ability, the team had strong leadership from not 
only the seniors, but also the underclassmen. After 
analyzing a team’s strengths, it is common to also 
assess their weaknesses. However, when Smith is 
asked about his team’s weaknesses, he takes a dif-
ferent approach.
“ I really look at myself when I see a weakness 
in our team,” Smith said. “If a kid is struggling 
mentally or physically, I ask myself what am I as 
a coach doing wrong. I ask myself how can I dif-
fer my approach so that the kid will understand 
easier.”  When Smith sees his team struggling, he 
looks at it as a coaching challenge rather than a 
weakness.
Smith’s interest in coaching as a career began 
during his time at Norwich University, where he 
majored in physical education. As a freshman, he 
played both football and baseball. He then decided 
not to continue football after his freshman year, 
but continued to play baseball throughout college. 
After college, Smith eagerly accepted a job at 
Middlebury Union High School, his alma matter, 
as a substitute teacher as well as a student coach. 
coaching job and have had it ever since,” Smith 
said.
Smith is not the only Middlebury Union gradu-
ate that caught “the coaching bug.” All nine coach-
es in the Middlebury Union High School program, 
which includes a freshmen, Junior Varsity and 
Varsity team, were graduates of the high school.
Although the coaches are divided into three 
at each level, they have all their meetings togeth-
er in Smith’s office. The coaching group is very 
close. In fact, according to Smith, his office re-
sembles more of a “hangout spot” than an office. 
Smith has a unique chair for each member of the 
coaching staff in his office and he even keeps a 
fully stocked fridge behind his desk. While the 
coaches did not all graduate the same year, they 
still share the bond of being Middlebury Union 
alumni.  
Another important Middlebury Union grad-
uate in Smith’s life is his wife. Smith and his wife 
attended the high school at the same time, but 
did not know each other. They attended different 
colleges; Smith graduated from Norwich and his 
wife graduated from the University of Vermont.  
They couple met after college when they 
both returned to their high school as substitute 
teachers. Smith and his wife now have three chil-
dren, two of whom attended Middlebury Union 
High School. 
Smith attributes his success in his coaching 
career to “good kids, good community, good as-
sistant coaches and a great wife.” 
Interestingly enough, all of Smith’s keys to 
success have originated in Middlebury, Vt. The 
town has given Smith many great opportunities, 
and Smith has given back tremendously, both on 
the field as an excellent coach and as a strong 
role model off the field. Middlebury Union High 
School is lucky to have Coach Smith at the helm. 
5
By Harry Cramer
Breakfast with Mr. and Mrs. Claus in 
Brandon
Even though this is a pretty  busy time 
of year for Santa Claus, he and his wife, 
Mrs. Claus, will travel all the way from 
the North Pole to have breakfast in Bran-
don at the Compass Music and Arts Cen-
ter. There will be pancakes and sausages. 
Tickets are $3. For more information, 
visit www.cmacvt.org.
DEC. 7, 9 AM – 11PM
Local 
lowdown
Local 6
“Broadway Direct” revue in Vergennes
There’s nothing like some feel-good 
Broadway music to put you in a great 
Broadway and off-Broadway acts. The 
show will be hosted by Bill Carmichael. 
Tickets are $20. For more information, go 
to www.vergennesoperahouse.org.
DEC. 6, 7:30 – 10:30 PM
Gingerbread House Exhibit Opening in 
Middlebury
Feeling that post-Thanksgiving holiday 
spirit and looking for a way to indulge? 
Check out the gingerbread house exhibit 
worry if you can’t make it this Friday; 
more information, go to www.vermont-
folklifecenter.org.
DEC. 6, 4 – 6 PM 
“1 Man, 1 Canoe, 750 Miles” presenta-
tion in Middlebury
If there is any chance you can take a 
break from reading day studying, this is 
just what it sounds like: Peter Mcfarlane, 
an Addison county resident, is presenting 
the experience he had last year paddling 
alone from Old Forge, New York, to Fort 
Kent, Maine at the Ilsley Library. For 
more information, call (802) 388-4095.
DEC. 9, 1 PM – 3 PM
The Alcoholic Side of Honey 
Tri-School Choral Concert in Vergennes
the tri-school choral concert. The concert, 
which will have orchestral accompani-
ment and will include a performance of 
Vivaldi’s “Gloria,” will feature members 
from Vergennes, Mount Abraham and 
Middlebury Union high schools. The per-
formance is conducted by Karen Jordan.
DEC. 5, 7 – 8:30 PM
Christmas Bazaar in Bristol
The holidays are just around the corner 
“Family Christmas Memories” bazaar at 
St. Ambrose Church in Bristol will do just 
that. There will be a craft shop, bake shop, 
miss it on Friday, the bazaar continues on 
Saturday.
DEC. 6 & 7, 1 – 5 PM
 | december 5, 2013
Although mead is not typically 
stocked in fridges around campus, Ricky 
Klein, head brewmaster of the new 
Groennfell Meadery in Colchester, Vt., is 
confident that Vermonters will embrace 
the alternative drink. 
Though it 
is not known 
by many, mead 
is one of the 
oldest drinks 
ever created, 
steeped in 
roughly 12,000 
years of sweet 
history. Mead 
is an alcoholic 
drink made 
from water 
and fermented 
honey.  Klein 
illuminated the otherwise mysterious 
process.
“The basic way to think about it is [as 
follows]: if it starts with grain, it ends up 
as beer, and if it starts as apples it ends 
up as cider, but if the fermentables start 
as honey, it ends up as mead,” Klein said.
Klein works alongside CEO Kathy 
Klein. He graduated from the College 
with focuses in religion and philosophy, 
but his interest in mead began during his 
exchange in Denmark. 
“Mead is all over in Norse mythology 
and popular culture there,” Klein said, 
“but I couldn’t find it to save my life.”
When Ricky returned to the United 
States, he sought to change that.
“My first batch was terrible, abso-
lutely horrendous,” 
he admitted. Despite 
this setback, he fused 
his brewing with his 
ongoing education by 
paying for his mas-
ters with the money 
he earned at a “home-
brew brewery consult-
ing business.”
It was during 
these formative years 
that Klein established 
his reputation at as 
“the mead guru.” 
Soon thereafter, he 
had a revelation.
“All of a sudden, I realized that I 
would much rather be doing this with my 
life than whatever I was going to do with 
my masters,” Klein said.
Klein and his wife then moved to 
Vermont, a state known for its pro-brew-
er legislation and culture. He has been 
working on the brewery almost full time 
since October, well over a year.
Although much of that time was 
spent wading through red tape and fix-
ing equipment, the Groennfell Meadery 
is now moving product to local bars. 
Klein has spoken with local restau-
rant 51 Main and plans to market his 
brews to students returning from the 
holidays this December. He added that, 
eventually, “we’ll be pretty much any-
where that you can buy hard cider.”
Despite its relative infancy, Klein 
hopes that the brewery will eventu-
ally grow to become the “Boston Lager 
of mead.” The meadery currently offers 
three different flavors. It has also experi-
mented with hopped meads and plans to 
institute a publicly elected seasonal draft 
to its selection.
Much of the reason for his mead’s 
commercial viability, Klein contends, is 
because of its comparatively low price 
point. Most meads cost upwards of 15 
dollars, a price steep even to Klein. 
“If anyone out there should be buy-
ing Mead,” he pointed out, “it should be 
me.” Groennfell meads are available for 
just $2.50, roughly the price of a craft 
beer.
Klein pointed out that, “There are 
about a hundred meaderies in the US, 
and you’ve probably never heard of any 
of them.” He hopes that soon Groennfell 
Meadery will change that.  
“There are about a 
hundred meaderies 
in the United States, 
and you’ve prob-
ably never heard of 
any of them.”
Ricky Klen, Groennfell Meadery
Ricky Klein, head brewmaster, works beside the CEO of the new Groennfell Meadery making the honey-based beverage.
Courtesy
opinions
Upon entering the room where 
Professor Amy Wax was scheduled to 
were brightly colored signs with a single 
word written on it: 
racist. Some students 
brought these signs in 
anticipation of a heated 
lecture, in part due to 
hype created both by 
MiddBeat and by other 
students on campus.
Amy Wax’s 
work is undoubtedly 
controversial. Her 
conservative approach to issues of race 
majority of the student body and some 
students who come from the discussed 
communities. By dodging questions and 
interrupting students, she exacerbated 
existing tensions. Nevertheless, we 
failed as a student body to combat this 
controversy with grace.
By preparing to attack rather than to 
engage, we failed to truly listen to what 
she was saying. And even if what she was 
saying was as offensive as we expected, 
without careful consideration of her 
evidence, we were unable to deconstruct 
her argument to our full capacity. It is hard 
to remain collected when presented with 
when someone hits so personally, but the 
ability to rationally respond to people with 
whom we disagree is a life skill that we 
are often not challenged to develop at a 
politically homogenous school. There will 
always be people who present opinions 
on our campus does not mean they go 
away; it just means they are not exposed 
to thoughtful opposition. Over the course 
of the semester, we’ve engaged in dialogue 
about what voices are and are not welcome 
here. In this instance, unlike with Chance 
able to engage directly, creating a dialogue 
that allowed us to pressure our guest on 
what we found offensive, rather than 
merely listening to what we objected to, as 
at the concert.
Though Wax was often condescending 
and dismissive of even the most thoughtful 
comments, we should have taken the 
higher ground. As a community of 
curious and engaged people, we missed 
an opportunity to intelligently critique a 
heavily researched academic presentation. 
By resorting to name calling, we trivialized 
our collective knowledge. As frustrating as 
her refrain that we did not have the data to 
cannot be combated simply with trying 
to humiliate her. A room of impassioned 
Middlebury students from a variety of 
academic background has tremendous 
potential to deconstruct a presentation 
that was clearly missing pieces, including 
a complete analysis of all variables like 
the socio-political factors that could also 
like Wax, who has decades of research 
under her belt, and this creates a volatile 
environment in which some of the well-
reasoned voices may remain unheard. In 
a situation that is as obviously charged 
as Amy Wax’s lecture, someone must 
step in and ensure certain voices are 
heard and some questions are actually 
answered. We saw this from Professor 
Dry, who called on a colleague he knew 
would have a thoughtful response, but 
we could have used more guidance in this 
discussion. Faculty sponsors should be 
more accountable for the direction of these 
lectures and, if it is heading in a direction of 
animosity, help guide the conversation. It 
still, however, falls on audience members 
to respond appropriately.
The solidarity felt in a room where 
some community members felt directly 
disrespected was powerful. Imagine how 
much stronger it would feel if we came out 
having taken the high road, emphasizing 
the contrast between her dismissive 
tone from our end.
editorial board 
The Opinions pages of The Middlebury Campus 
provide a forum for constructive and respectful 
dialogue on substantive issues. With this in mind, 
The Campus reserves the right to deny publication 
of all or part of a submission for any reason.  This 
includes, but is not limited to: the making of as-
sertions based on hearsay; the relation of private 
conversations; the libelous mention of unverifi-
able events; the use of vulgar language or per-
sonal attacks. Any segment of a submitted article 
that contains any of the aforementioned will be 
removed before publication. Contributors will 
be allowed to reference prior articles published 
in the Opinions section or announcements for 
the public record. If a reference is made to prior 
articles, the submission will be considered a let-
ter to the editor.  The Campus will not accept or 
print anonymous letters. The opinions expressed 
by contributors to the Opinions section, as well as 
reviews, columns, editorial comics and other com-
mentary, are views of the individual contributors 
and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the 
newspaper. The Campus welcomes letters to the 
editor at 250 words or less, or opinions submis-
sions at 800 words or less. Submit works directly 
to the Opinions Editors, Drawer 30, campus@
middlebury.edu or via the paper’s web site at 
www.middleburycampus.com. To be considered 
for publications, submissions must be received by 
5 p.m. Sunday. The Campus reserves the right to 
edit all submissions.
The Middlebury Campus (USPS 556-060), the 
student newspaper of Middlebury College, is pub-
lished by The Middlebury Campus Publications. 
Publication is every Thursday of the academic 
year, except during official college vacation pe-
riods and final examinations. Editorial and busi-
ness offices are located in Hepburn Hall Annex, 
Middlebury College. The Middlebury Campus is 
produced on Apple Macintosh computers using 
Adobe InDesign CS5 and is printed by the Press 
for all display and classified advertising is 5 p.m. 
Friday for the following week’s issue. Mailing ad-
dress: The Middlebury Campus, Drawer 30, Mid-
dlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., 05753. Business 
phone: (802) 443-5737. Please address distribu-
tion concerns to the Business Director. First class 
postage paid at Middlebury, Vt., 05753.
We are Better Than This
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kyle Finck
MANAGING EDITOR
Alex Edel 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sydney Larkin
NEWS EDITORS 
Emily Singer, Kelsey Collins, Claire Abbadi, 
Nate Sans
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Hannah Bristol, Zach Drennen,  
Jack Dolan
SPORTS EDITORS 
Damon Hatheway,
Owen Teach, Alex Morris, Joe MacDonald
LOCAL EDITORS 
Molly Talbert, Ilana Gratch
FEATURES EDITORS 
Jessica Cheung, Isabelle Stillman, 
Joe Flaherty
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Ben Anderson,
Emma Eastwood-Paticchio 
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anthea Viragh, Paul Gerard
DESIGN EDITOR
Olivia Allen
ONLINE EDITORS
Greg Woolston, Maggie Cochrane
COPY EDITOR
Dan Bateyko
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOSTS
Ian Stewart, Greta Neubauer
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
decided by the 
editorial board.
It’s that time of year again. The ‘jobs/
Questions like “is there any way Middlebury 
would give me funding for this?” and “Do 
they really mean 
econ majors 
only?” are once 
again popping 
into our heads 
as we scroll. 
The emails from 
home are growing 
increasingly pas-
sive-aggressive. 
Internship season is upon us.
If you’re a junior like me, you’re prob-
ably feeling a little extra tug of anxiety as 
you contemplate possible options for next 
to pad the résumé in anticipation of enter-
ing the real world. If you’re a senior, that 
anticipation might have boiled over into 
full-blown panic as you face the imminent 
reality of life after Middlebury. For all of us, 
the next several months feel like a personal 
crossroads, a chance to make or break our 
prospects for future success.
I think we’re right, but in a totally dif-
ferent way than you might expect.
For me and others that I’ve spoken to, 
this crossroads seems to have presented a 
pair of distinct options: pursue a traditional 
career – in law, journalism, consulting, 
whatever it is – or do something pro-social 
and thus risk what seems like a lifetime of 
underemployment and romanticized futil-
ity. Most I have heard from seem set on tak-
idealism on the backburner – at least in the 
short term – in order to gain skills or simply 
to ‘keep their options open.’ I think that, for 
many of us, that choice would be a mistake.
I don’t mean to imply that seeking a 
career in the business world is bad, nor 
that strategies of effective altruism and top-
down social change are necessarily unten-
able. What these paths often miss, however, 
is the undeniable power of occupation: the 
fact that what you do on a daily basis chang-
es you.
As much as you might think something 
like “I only want to be an investment banker 
for a few years, then I’ll quit and teach high 
school math” (as a friend of mine told me 
a few weeks ago), you might consider the 
relative dearth of banker-turned-teachers 
in assessing the possibility of that ever hap-
pening. More likely, I would wager, is that 
there are hordes of bankers out there who 
once made themselves that same prom-
ise. Again, that does not mean that none 
to manage money just as much as it does 
people to teach math, and anyone who truly 
wants to pursue such a career should go for 
it. For the rest of us who aren’t totally sure 
what we want, though, it means that we 
the choices that we make over the next few 
months, and where those choices are likely 
to lead.
The reason I decided to write this (and 
the reason that I, a 21-year-old college stu-
dent, feel licensed to dish out what looks 
like career advice) is that I don’t think this 
on how much I have changed in less than 
three years at Middlebury to see the power 
of occupation in action: it’s as if I have been 
constantly and subconsciously internaliz-
ing little snippets of the culture here. These 
changes have built over time and, at least it 
seems to me, will remain with me long after 
I leave Middlebury. In short, I have become 
a different person because of what I do here.
As this pertains to internships and 
the job search, I think we should all be in-
tentional about what we choose to do, and 
teaching in an underfunded school district 
– or doing market research for a private eq-
might be considering – on the people we are 
going to become and the decisions that we 
are going to make down the line. At the end 
of the day, delaying the opportunity to do 
what we feel called to do – pushing it back 
until we have  achieved some nebulous 
standard of wealth, success or power – 
really means reducing the likelihood of 
ever doing it. 
If you’re like me and internship 
season makes you feel a bit self-con-
scious about your lack of marketable 
skills, realize that the thoughtful ide-
alism that you have cultivated since 
arriving at Middlebury might be just 
the angle you have been looking for. 
-
tic than you are right now. Embrace it. 
Take advantage of the perspective that 
your education has given you and try to 
position yourself to become the sort of 
person that you really feel, deep down, 
that you should be.
notes from 
the desk 
Fritz Parker ’15 is 
a sports editor from 
McLean, VA
Don’t Delay Your Dreams;
They May Not Stick Around
amr thameen
opinions8 december 5, 2013 | 
Reconsider TFA
When simple solutions and pol-
ished narratives are applied to complex 
lurking beneath the surface. Such is the 
case for Teach for 
America (TFA), 
which presents 
itself as an orga-
nization that re-
cruits graduates 
of elite colleges, 
need” rural and urban schools. 
 Several of our friends and peers 
who we respect and admire and whose 
intentions we trust have become in-
volved in TFA as corps members, recruit-
ers or in other roles.  Our goal is not to 
members who are committed to teaching 
But, we believe that, as a whole, the TFA 
o r g a n i z a t i o n 
threatens pub-
lic education in 
to the desires 
of private in-
terests over the 
needs of Ameri-
can children 
whose commu-
nities have been 
impoverished 
-
nomic and soci-
etal structures. 
inexperienced college grads in schools 
where their presence would be better 
than no teachers at all. Since then, the 
public education landscape has changed 
-
ting laid off, often via massive school 
closings. But instead of adapting to its 
diminished need, TFA has grown to 
32,000 people and boasts assets totaling 
over $400 million. This huge amount of 
TFA claims, to further its work using 
-
occurred at the same time the Program 
for International Student Assessment 
American public school students outper-
form top scoring nations like Finland 
and Canada.
And it is time for us as a campus 
examine what is going on. Here are some 
-
ing” the teaching profession. TFA corps 
members, often entering classrooms 
80 percent of them leave the classroom 
and makes teachers into interchangeable 
commodities instead of long-term com-
TFA corps members continue in the edu-
into school administration, education 
often push the 
same agenda of 
privatizing pub-
lic education. 
As these 
TFA corps 
c l a s s r o o m s , 
veteran, union-
ized long-term 
teachers in 
both public and 
charter schools 
are being laid 
-
-
bers. And those TFA positions are often 
federal and state subsidies and grants, 
in addition to corporations invested in 
TFA’s privatizing methods such as Exx-
onMobil Foundation, JPMorgan Chase, 
who have bolstered TFA’s endowment 
TFA claims that it is challenging 
the status quo, but we believe that it is 
Instead of addressing societal and eco-
nomic structural problems that create 
neoliberal) approaches to education are 
Catherine Michna counters in Slate 
have been eliminated at the school where 
-
crumbling school building. We needed 
more professional development…Our 
a living wage. We needed the police to 
War on Drugs to end. We needed all 
these problems addressed.” Instead, the 
polished narrative of TFA and the corpo-
rate education reform movement conve-
-
ing for an increase in high stakes testing, 
charter schools, and interchangeable 
TFA corps members in schools across 
teaching profession, and undermine 
public education.
America and accepting positions in the 
learn about and get involved with educa-
Students Resisting Teach for America, 
Elma Burnham ’13 (Student Teachers 
Program) Fishers Island, NY/Stoning-
ton, CT
Luke Greenway ’14.5 Seattle, WA
Hanna Mahon ’13.5 Washington DC
Alice Oshima ’15 Brooklyn, NY
Molly Rose-Williams ’13.5 Berkley, CA
Luke Whelan ’13.5 Seattle, WA
Ally Yanson ’14 Naples, FL
Reader oped
Students Resisting 
Teach for America
“We challenge Middlebury 
students to reconsider 
applying for Teach for America 
and accepting positions in 
other ways to learn about and 
get involved with education in 
our country.”
Too often, our politics is corrupted 
-
of information 
bolster or refute 
an argument we 
-
ing to make. The 
danger of such 
an approach to 
simplistic. Literature, when it is read 
-
too), Othello is often politicized. Too 
-
ing about whether Shakespeare is racist. 
of this question and its attendant con-
versations dissuade us from considering 
-
als treat race. Although it provides no 
extent to which race matters. As it does 
so, it reveals that questions about race 
-
thing much greater, something universal.
For Othello himself, race is of utmost 
importance. He believes himself shack-
through the prism of his otherness. In-
results from his misinterpretation of the 
famous handkerchief to his own skin 
color. There are racists in Othello, but 
downfall. His death is the culmination of 
a series of communication and compre-
Othello. We recognize that his predica-
-
-
derstanding. Yet as much as we wish to 
put full blame on Othello’s nemesis, Iago, 
we are compelled to condemn Othello as 
well.
What to make of Iago? He frustrates 
a pure and incomprehensible evil, and 
the progressive does not want to believe 
Evil comes from somewhere. It can be 
explained. Or so we tell ourselves. Iago’s 
realness – his completeness as a char-
cannot discard him no matter how hard 
cause. So, without making a serious at-
tempt to solve Iago, we call him a racist 
and leave it at that. If he has no clear per-
sonal motive for bringing down Othello, 
Iago to our conception of what it means 
to be rational animal, we write off his 
central human element. Inexplicable 
evil is as much a part of man as ratio-
nal thought is. Our insistence on asking 
as childish as it is noble.
which come to 
form the basis 
of Othello’s un-
derstanding of 
events. Othello 
thinks his skin 
color is more important than it is, and 
thus makes it as important as Iago wants 
it to be. He regards race as though it were 
more than an observation. Thus, even 
-
-
ter as much as we think it does. Until we 
understand this truth, we can never be 
When liberals talk about race, we 
often overlook the problems Othello 
structural issues, we eliminate the pos-
-
traced to economics and politics. Wealth 
disparities and rights disparities cause 
things. Most of us acknowledge the real-
-
affairs is intel-
-
would do well 
to explore this 
d i s c o m f o r t . 
We desper-
smarter liberalism, one that accounts for 
afraid to acknowledge that culture mat-
ters, and can articulate an understanding 
of human nature which retains a sense of 
-
can be found in books like Othello. For 
the sake of the future, we should spend 
more time reading them.
“Ascribing conditions solely 
to structural issues, we 
eliminate the possibility of 
individual agency.”
Othello, Race, and Amy Wax
Citizen 
Kanye
Harry Zieve Cohen ’15 
is from Brooklyn, NY
maddie dai
|DECEMBER 5, 2013 9opinions
Eight Point Four
Ah, Thanksgiving: a time for giving 
thanks for friends, food and family; a 
time when we can put aside our differ-
ences and come 
to terms over 
pie and turkey. 
It is one of the 
most noble of 
traditions. It is 
also the week-
end when your 
little sister 
comes home from college and tells you 
that an online app based on reviews by 
women has judged you an 8.4.
She brought it up so innocently. 
Oh Andrew, have you heard of Lulu? 
You should really see this, you’re on it. 
Wait, wow, hang on, how could I be on 
something I have not even signed up 
for?  As it turns out, even millennials can 
For those of you still in the dark, “Lulu” 
is an app that rates men. That’s right – 
based on anonymous user reviews men 
are rated out of ten for categories like 
personality, ambition and looks. This 
is also done without the knowledge of 
poor, unwitting individuals like myself. 
If that’s the taste of vomit in the back of 
your throat, you are probably reacting 
similarly to me.
I am not going to point out the 
fairly obvious one-way street involved 
for yourself. What disturbs me more is 
that my privacy, my made up character, 
have made, has just been jettisoned into 
the Internet without me even knowing. I 
will concede that there is an opt-out but-
ton if you go the website. However, the 
only reason I knew this rating and pic-
ture combination existed was because 
my sister stumbled across it. Otherwise 
I would have passed on in blissful igno-
rance. 
There are some seriously messed up 
things here that we can point out and 
condemn. My character being boiled 
down to a number, preying on people’s 
ignorance, playing to gender binaries, 
the list can go on and on. It should go on 
and on too, if ever there was a reason to 
be royally ticked off I’d suggest now. But 
let us back up a little and address a per-
haps more overlooked issue in this mess. 
I am under the sincere belief this is 
just as damaging for women as for men. 
Like most of the social media world you 
can attach hashtags. Yep, a number was 
not enough to sum up my personality. 
We had to resort to hashtags.
One of my personal favorites that 
sat in my “good” box was #NotADick. 
(#NerdyButILikeIt and #CanTalkWith-
MyDad were close runner ups).  As a 
college male, I am woefully unprepared 
to assume what women look for in men. 
However, I know as a human being 
that #NotADick should not be a plus. 
Shouldn’t that be the norm?  Is that re-
ally a plus factor for someone?
-
ing and my various hashtags I am also 
profoundly insulted that I can be made 
into a number out of ten. I would like 
to think of myself as more than #No-
tADick, though I am sure many of you 
would disagree with that and I am sure 
you have very good reasons. The vague 
nature of this kind of thing gives no real 
you catch me at a particularly good or 
bad time?  How well does this reviewer 
honestly know me and what then gives 
them the right to assess my character out 
of ten?  At least for college applications 
we got to write a personal essay.
This is social media at its very worst. 
We should not take this kind of nonsense 
seriously, yet some people clearly do. It 
worries me that we have become insular 
in strange ways that looking at a number 
online and assessing someone is some-
how more potent than sitting down and 
having a conversation. I would challenge 
any one of you to sum up your character 
in a number out of ten, but you would all 
fail because people, as we all know, are 
Lulu is trash and hurtful to men and 
women. This is not something to which 
I need to draw your attention. We know 
about things like cyber bullying and oth-
er fallout from social media, yet I have 
never come across something so delib-
erately degrading, even if presenting it-
self under the guise of a “healthy” way 
for girls to know about guys. Respond to 
this by getting to genuinely know people. 
Numbers are not made to describe hu-
man beings. I am not and will never be 
an 8.4.
The 
Unpopular 
Opinion
Andrew DeFalco ’15.5 
is from Toronto, Canada
Accept the Challenge
We are the generation that is the 
least aware of how technology is chang-
ing our lives. Our gadgets, and the vir-
tual realities that we can enter through 
them, can make us forget why we need 
to be present in the here and now, but 
only if we allow them to.
I am writing in response to 
Cheswayo’s brilliant piece ‘Check Your 
Authenticity’ which appeared in this 
newspaper three weeks ago. In his 
piece, he attributes the cause of the 
inauthentic interactions that go on be-
tween some people here at the school 
to the fact that “we are too preoccupied 
with what is going on in our lives to 
ever notice others.” He proposes that 
we take a personal initiative to “get out 
of [our] bubbles and embrace the larger 
one” by demonstrating our eagerness 
to connect with other people through 
our actions, not just our thinking. 
I cannot agree with him more. 
First, though, I want to pose a ques-
tion. Why are we too preoccupied with 
ourselves here? Is it to preserve the 
imaginary aura of perfection that we’ve 
created for ourselves on our Facebook 
profiles? Or should we put the blame 
on the devices that we carry around 
with us everywhere that give us in-
stant access to the outside world? But 
couldn’t it be something even more 
fundamental than any of the above, 
that we are simply “very afraid people,” 
as Cheswayo posited?
I argue that although all of the 
above are part of the problem, a fac-
tor that we often overlook is that many 
of us do not yet realize how precious 
these four years are as a window in 
our lives for us to challenge ourselves 
socially and intellectually. We need 
strong support from the faculty to do 
that — which Middlebury does provide, 
and is why we should maintain a good 
relationship with our professors — as 
well as constant reminders from our 
friends. Friends are not merely a safety 
net that we can fall back onto every now 
and then and especially in times of des-
peration, but they are people who love 
and care for us enough to challenge us 
to become who we truly are and more.
Electronic gadgets can’t do that for 
us, so they are not our friends. (And 
following through with this logic, we 
should rethink our relationship with 
our friends that behave like our elec-
tronic gadgets.) Yet, some people spend 
more time with their electronic coun-
terparts than with their friends, even 
though these gadgets can do nothing 
to understand 
and care for us 
as complex, con-
stantly in flux, 
human beings. 
Why should we 
settle for a less-than-personable world 
when we have such kind and stimulat-
ing people all around us? A loyal friend 
has a memory storage larger than all 
of our email inboxes combined, and a 
good listener and observer is a better 
search engine than Google or Yahoo! 
or Bing. The ultimate goal of using any 
sort of electronics must be to foster 
stronger human connections, not to 
retreat from thereof. 
At the same time, these four pre-
cious years are not just for our own 
personal growth, but they are also for 
us to engage with our civil responsi-
bilities. Higher education occupies a 
very unique role in the domain of pub-
lic discourse because any respectable 
educational institution that promotes 
a culture of integrity and excellence 
on their campus must also be both a 
bearer and a practitioner of truth. In a 
world that is so full of ideological in-
terests and corporate greed, colleges 
and universities have an irreplaceable 
voice which members of these learning 
communities must seize on and aptly 
utilize.
How better to realize this respon-
sibility and power than by working side 
by side with the people we find around 
us here? In our own personal effort 
to bring about equality and justice to 
this community and beyond, what can 
be more enjoyable — not to mention 
more effective — than seeking positive 
change through making new friends 
and forming new alliances?
Although we are the least well-
equipped generation of all to handle 
technology in our lives, none before 
ours has enjoyed the same level of ac-
cess to such a diversity of people as we 
do. This wonderful clash of cultures, 
perspectives, faiths, and values can 
help us to better understand ourselves, 
and if we preoccupy ourselves with the 
right amount of technology at the right 
time, we can even fulfill our civil re-
sponsibilities with our friends here like 
no previous generation.
Reader oped
Adrian Leong ’16 is 
from Hong Kong
The more beautiful world
Emily Cox
opinions10 december 5, 2013 | 
On Friday, a week into “new mem-
ber education” — “pledge” for those not 
versed in doublespeak — the leader-
ship of Kappa Delta Rho received a let-
ter from Dean of Students Katy Smith 
Abbott stating 
that in response 
to “an allega-
tion of poten-
tial hazing,” all 
functions of the 
house would be 
suspended for 
an indetermi-
nate amount of time to allow for an in-
vestigation. Each new member — who 
at a less absurdly Orwellian institu-
tion might be accurately referred to 
as a “pledge” — was interviewed indi-
vidually. In some cases, the interviews 
were conducted by officers from the 
Department of Public Safety. In most, 
however, they were run by an external 
private investigator, Nancy Stevens, at 
a cost to the student body that likely 
ran into the thousands of dollars. The 
investigation, unsurprisingly, found 
nothing; there was nothing to find. A 
similar investigation in the fall of 2011 
also found that no hazing. It seems un-
likely that an apology is forthcoming 
for either unnecessary investigation. It 
seems equally unlikely that actual guilt 
matters. 
Various members of the college ad-
ministration often wax eloquent about 
the need to foster a greater sense of 
community on this campus. Yet social 
houses provide one of the strongest 
and enduring sources of community on 
an otherwise transitory campus. Even 
the most fervent haters of Delta can-
not argue that filling Prescott house 
with first-years and turning its party 
space into a classroom has somehow 
improved the Middlebury social scene. 
Super blocks are not an adequate sub-
stitute; a super block moves into an 
on-campus house for a single year and 
then vanishes, its members joined by 
friendship or convenience rather than 
an interest in being a part of some-
thing larger. The administration has 
attempted to remedy this problem by 
giving the Super Blocks a theme, but 
the dearth of actual programming 
along those lines shows that effort has 
largely failed. 
When students join a social house, 
they become part of traditions and cul-
ture that have endured for decades. 
Attempting to make it impossible for 
the current members to pass these 
along to new initiates is to try and cre-
ate a Middlebury with no institutional 
memory — where students come and 
go with no knowledge or interest in 
what came before and what will follow, 
where the stories of a house’s previous 
tenants vanish down the memory hole. 
Social houses are not the reposito-
ries of white, male, conservative privi-
lege often associated with Greek life on 
other campuses. Instead, these houses 
are some of the only institutions on a 
campus otherwise fiercely divided by 
race, class, and gender politics that 
bring a diverse membership together 
with a common interest in a space and 
a set of traditions. In this they have 
been much more successful again than 
the other block housing options, which 
are often composed by students who 
come from similar backgrounds.
By contrast, KDR is arguably the 
most diverse organization on campus 
in both race and socioeconomic status, 
rivaling interest clubs 
whose specific pur-
pose is to promote 
cultural understand-
ing. That breadth of 
cultural exposure 
isn’t found elsewhere 
on campus in a struc-
tured setting. If you don’t believe me, 
take a look at the composites next time 
you visit. A coeducational membership 
also creates a unique dynamic in social 
houses that can provide an example 
for Greek life across the country. The 
Middlebury chapter of Kappa Delta 
Rho was recently readmitted into the 
national fraternity as a full and equal 
chapter, where it serves a model for 
the future. 
The social houses of Middlebury 
College are institutions of which we 
should be proud. Their existence 
should be a selling point to prospective 
students — part of a trend that began 
here. But instead of trumpeting the 
diversity and progressiveness of the 
houses here, tour guides barely men-
tion their existence unless prompted. 
Instead, the administration throws a 
series of strict anti-hazing regulations 
of the social houses that hardly make 
sense. Scavenger hunts and walks 
through the woods suddenly become 
dangerous and illegal. If my friends 
were to blindfold me on the way to a 
surprise birthday party, I would pre-
sumably have a strong anti-hazing 
case against them. 
The administra-
tion claims to use a 
“reasonable person 
standard” and sug-
gests the type of al-
ternative activities 
that might be ap-
propriate for a middle school slumber 
party. One of their recommendations 
was to make a scrapbook. If mandated 
scrapbooking is not hazing, then I do 
not know what is.
This is not to make light of actual 
hazing. Hazing is a dangerous crime. 
But in the social houses here at Mid-
dlebury — at least in those that are not 
underground – it simply does not hap-
pen. It is long pastime for the admin-
istration to cease using absurd allega-
tions of hazing as an excuse to strain, 
malign, and ultimately destroy one of 
the best sources of the community on 
this campus.
Community by Another Name
Apply 
Liberally
Zach Drennen ’13.5 is 
from Canadaigua, NY
“The social houses of 
Middlebury College are 
institutions of which we 
should be proud.”
From across Ross dining hall you 
spot a girl. It’s the same brown face you 
often see in passing around the campus. 
Long black braids swinging past her 
shoulders in the mid-lunchtime frenzy, 
you smile at her 
and she smiles 
back. You’ve nev-
er spoken to her, 
or maybe you 
have? You shake 
the idea from your 
head, dismiss it, assume that she is 
who you think she is. Because she has 
braids. Because she wears glasses. Be-
cause it’s Tuesday. Because of any arbi-
trary reasoning you can assign. Because 
who else could she be? So in your mind 
she fades into the background. 
Paint the Middlebury portrait and 
-
er than a quarter of the entire portrait. 
With so little color in a college crayon 
box, wouldn’t it 
be theoretically 
easy to separate 
the Chestnut 
from the Alloy 
Orange? The 
Sepia from the 
Burnt Siena? 
It’s easy. Or 
rather it should 
be. If one paid a 
little more atten-
tion to detail, to 
subtle variations between each stroke, 
to the nuance in every iris, then maybe 
things would be different. 
For me, the problem is that I am 
NOT every other brown girl on cam-
pus. “We” are not all the same. It is a 
truth universally acknowledged, yet 
of the average Middlebury student that 
I begin to worry.  
I’ve had my name, and therefore my 
identity, stripped from me more times 
than I can count, tossed aside because 
“Delia” was not as distinct or as memo-
rable as “Diku” or “Debanjan.” While 
encapsulate me. Everything that I am. 
My experiences, my thoughts, my likes, 
my dislikes, and even my Facebook typ-
letters, the neatly wrapped ribbon and 
bow on this 5’4 package. I should be 
treated as such — a unique individual, 
more than the sum of my parts.  
To some, it might sound like a gen-
eralization to say that everyone mixes 
me up with other brown girls on cam-
pus. But one must understand that af-
ter two years of experiencing the same 
confusion, it’s time to speak out. 
We often call Middlebury a bubble, 
because perched atop a violet moun-
tain, the college seems separate from 
the rest of the world. But I see Mid-
dlebury as more of a box, a space that 
someone else has made for us, a mind-
set where our self-image is dictated by 
what or who others say or think we are. 
Once I was complimented on a 
great Verbal Onslaught poem that I 
never performed. When I, eyebrows 
raised and polite smile set, replied that 
I wasn’t at all involved in Verbal On-
slaught, the acquaintance apologized, 
and claimed that he’d seen my boots 
that day that 
were similar to 
that of the poet 
. . . 
In another 
instance, I’d re-
ceived an email 
from a person 
who’d lived in 
the same build-
ing as me last 
year. She’d had 
a conversation 
with someone who she thought was me, 
but was actually another brown girl. 
Instead of stopping to ask that girl to 
mention her name again during their 
conversation, she took a chance, and 
sent me the email. She got the wrong 
girl. 
Once during lunch, I greeted a boy 
that I’d met at the Grille one weekend. 
I’d called him by his name, and he tried 
to guess mine. When he got it confused 
with that of my friend, he instantly 
got nervous. Apparently I intimidate 
people. He started rambling furiously, 
saying the last thing that anyone wants 
to hear “Oh, I’m sorry. I have a lot of 
black friends at home. I’m sorry, I don’t 
have white privilege like that!” I did as 
I always do in such situations. Told him 
it was okay, smiled weakly, and contin-
ued to eat.
What all these examples tell me is 
that people have looked through me 
instead of at me. Conversation is moot 
because it doesn’t matter what they get 
to know about me through talking. It 
seems that people have relied and will 
continue to rely on trivial aspects like 
my hairstyle or my boots to distinguish 
who I am. No effort has otherwise been 
taken to get to know me as a human 
being. I just wonder if it would be too 
hard to take the time to look a person in 
the face before deciding that you’ve got 
them pegged. 
-
stantly having to defend my identity. 
There’s something about anonymity 
that condones exclusivity. I can’t shake 
the feeling that for the rest of my time 
here, I will remain a stranger, a color 
in the box that was never appreciated. 
-
pression, to come off as genuine and 
warm, only to have that impression 
month. I’ve built up a wall of my bitter-
ness that will only end up hurting those 
around me. The cycle starts. Will I fold 
people into that box as well and decide 
that they are whatever I make them out 
to be? 
If there’s one thing I’ve learned 
from my struggle for identity, it’s that 
we must all do better, or at least try — 
to put time into relationships we hope 
to foster. This is something I must re-
member. This includes never treating 
these relationships, both acquaintances 
and otherwise, lightly. Because honest-
ly I’d hate to think of this campus as a 
web of faceless interactions. We’re here 
for four years — why not make it per-
sonal? Let’s try this again. 
Hi, my name is Delia Taylor. If you 
see me, introduce yourself. Don’t be 
shy. 
raw sepia
Delia Taylor ’16 is 
from Brooklyn, NY
Look at Me, Not Through Me
“I see Middlebury as more 
of a box, a space that 
someone else has made for 
us, a mindset where our 
self-image is dictated by 
what or who others say or 
think we are.”
tamir williams
|December 5, 2013 11opinions
“Privilege” is a word we love to use 
at Middlebury. It works well with our 
classroom discussions on the global 
south, how we perceive our relation-
ships with the town, and even how 
we treat waste 
at our dining 
halls. It is not a 
term that often 
enters our bed-
rooms.
I had a 
shocking reminder of exactly what 
privilege meant when I brought a guy 
home from a party for the first time 
this semester and since being abroad. 
This was someone 
who I considered 
a friend and a nice 
guy, someone who 
I had known since 
freshman year and 
who had always 
been kind to me. 
Frankly, I had al-
ways had a crush on 
him, but we hung out with very differ-
ent groups and it was never something 
I would have pursued. 
So I was cautiously excited as I 
was bringing him home. When we got 
to my room, the conversation we had 
been having was immediately cut off 
as things started getting physical. At a 
certain point I admitted that I had my 
period and didn’t want to do much, 
which put a quick damper on things. 
When I said I didn’t want to have 
oral sex with him because it wouldn’t 
be reciprocal, he seemed even more 
put off. When I asked if we could do 
something when I didn’t have my pe-
riod, he was quick to tell me that he 
didn’t want to be “boxed in.” Finally 
after about two minutes of awkward 
silence, he made a half-hearted excuse 
about needing to get 
up early and left. 
So what, right? 
It was a bad night. 
The kind of night 
you attribute to 
Midd just being 
Midd and complain 
about with your 
friends the morning 
after. You can’t expect anyone to want 
more than casual sex at Middlebury 
right? That would be absurd. 
What is actually absurd is how 
far we as a student body have lowered 
our expectations both in the bedroom 
and in romantic relationships. We ex-
pect all relationships to be primarily 
physical and initiated at a party when 
both partners are intoxicated. We ex-
pect them to last one night. We have 
even come to expect that we may not 
acknowledge each other the next day. 
This is not limited to gender or sexual 
orientation. It is pervasive. It is more 
than the complaint that “no one dates 
anymore” at this school. It is a com-
plete and utter lack of respect for each 
other summed up in, and yes I’ll say it, 
privilege. We’ve all had a rough week 
and now we deserve to get drunk, go 
out and, if we’re lucky, get some. At 
its best, it ends the way my night did. 
At its worst, it is manifested in acts of 
sexual violence, which we all know do 
in fact happen here. 
I think most of us know that this 
is not acceptable behavior outside of 
this college in the “real world.” Ever. 
It should not be acceptable here ei-
ther, and we need to take a hard look 
at why it has become our normal. I’m 
not saying that all romantic interac-
tions must end in committed relation-
ships. Frankly, I don’t see anything 
wrong with casual sex if both partners 
communicate their expectations, use 
protection, and respect their partner’s 
integrity. Oh, and maybe say hi the 
next day. 
As a student body, we’re always 
eager mobilize to find the next hot is-
sue we can pick over with friends, read 
about in The Campus or host a panel 
discussion about. The state of our ro-
mantic relationships at this school 
hardly ever makes the cut. Or how it 
is now taboo to be in any way roman-
tic or sexual (unless you’re already 
in a relationship) outside of a sloppy 
party. Changing our hook-up culture 
does not need its own organization; it 
does not need high profile meetings or 
official endorsement. It requires us to 
shift our own behavior and attitudes 
and not accept inconsiderate treat-
ment from others. 
And it needs to be our next big 
topic. Because at the end of the day, 
none of us (no matter how beautiful, 
athletic or privileged) deserve sex. Or 
a relationship. We have to earn that by 
treating others with, if nothing else, 
respect. 
Privilege in the Bedroom
Reader oped
Lizzie Gooding ’14 is 
from Jamestown, RI
“We as a student 
body have lowered 
our expectations 
both in the bedroom 
and in romantic 
relationships.”
introducing our newest writers
This week our paper looks a little 
different because we have a few new 
writers — high school students!
Two weeks ago, middbeat posted 
a video made by an English class at 
M i d d l e b u r y 
Union High. 
Although the 
video was made 
a few years 
ago, it is still 
relevant and 
highlighted an 
issue we, as the 
College com-
munity, don’t talk about very often — 
town-College relations. As an editor 
for the local section, I wanted to find 
a positive way to explore town-Col-
lege relations through The Campus. 
Rather than an article, we decided 
on a different method — The Campus 
has partnered with Middlebury Union 
High School’s journalism class to 
bring you this issue and insight into 
Middlebury Union High.
The partnership, which we hope 
will be ongoing, is mutually benefi-
cial — the high schoolers will give our 
readers valuable insights they don’t 
normally have the privilege to see 
about the town we live in. We can give 
them by-lines (good for college ap-
plications!) and insight into our lives. 
I imagine only good can come from 
something like this, right? In the end, 
my goal is selfish — I want to learn 
from these students and see what 
their lives are like since, in the end, I 
don’t know very much about the town 
and people that have generously host-
ed me for the past four years.
My mom’s side of the family has 
lived on the same piece of land for 
nearly a century, so my sense of home 
and belonging is strong. As a super se-
nior feb, technically I’ve lived in Ver-
mont for four years, but I would never 
say that — somehow that feels false, 
especially when I think about my per-
sonal feelings regarding my home and 
my family. Even after being the local 
section editor on and off for several 
semesters and making every effort to 
pop the Middlebury 
bubble, I got swept 
up in school, lost 
touch with Vermont 
and began obses-
sively counting the 
days, hours and min-
utes before I could go 
home.
Looking back on 
my four years here, 
I’m saddened by this 
disconnect and by the fact that, by the 
end of the year I was too frazzled and 
homesick to stay in Vermont. Hope-
fully, in my last month and a half 
here, a little can be salvaged and my 
sense of place heightened. This is one 
attempt to do so.
Even though it can be difficult, it 
is important to make an effort to reach 
out. The town of Middlebury hosts 
each college student for four years 
and then most of us leave without a 
trace or an idea of 
this place. Ideally, 
I would love for 
this partnership 
between The Cam-
pus and Middle-
bury Union High 
School to continue 
while I’m gone, 
but it depends on 
the interest and 
free time of the 
high school students — they’re awe-
some but it’s hard to fit it all in! 
Regardless, I hope the Middle-
bury Union High School students 
know that they always have a voice in 
our paper and advocates in our office. 
It is a small effort to make, but impor-
tant to me and The Campus. 
notes from 
the desk
Molly Talbert ’13.5 is 
a local editor from Santa 
Fe, NM
“Looking back on my 
four years here, I’m 
saddened ... that, by the 
end of th year, I was too 
frazzled and homesick 
to stay in Vermont.”
middleburycampus.com
&
McDonalds 
Two Things in your life that 
are open 24/7
The Middlebury Campus| December 5, 201312 13features
design by Olivia Allen
Middlebury Union High School has one foreign exchange student this 
semester; 18-year-old Yeweon Kim of Seoul, South Korea. Yeweon, meaning 
“Jesus Wants Me” in Korean, is a cat owner who loves piano, traveling and 
anything to do with cheese! Yeweon came to the United States through the Program 
mission as an effort “to increase mutual respect among the people of the world, to 
foster an appreciation of our differences and similarities, and to enhance our ability 
to communicate with one another.” Through PAX, Yeweon has been placed with 
the Foshays, a local Bridport family who have previously hosted three exchange 
students.
“When Grace, our oldest daughter, left for the Air Force, we had an extra 
said. “Olivia, our youngest is 17 and homeschooled, so we thought it would be nice 
for her to have a sister around.”  
Prior to coming to America, Yeweon had traveled to the Maldives, Sri Lanka, 
and Japan, as well as Cambodia and the Philippines for missionary work. She 
biggest adjustment while staying here in America centers around school. In Korea 
Yeweon experienced a very strict and methodical setting, yet here in America she 
is experiencing much more relaxed and amicable environment. One of the biggest 
teachers questions or talk to them during class, mostly because students are shy. 
We just listen to the teachers speak during class.” said Yeweon. Schooling in Korea 
are the same as in Korea, she said, the learning environments just happen to be 
different. Yeweon said that while in America, “I hope to use this time in Vermont 
 
 
Jeff Clark, a world history and photography teacher who has taught at 
bikes 12.5 miles to and from the school year-round, regardless of the weather. 
Clark has an extensive educational background and holds a degree in Political 
Ph.D. work in intellectual history and is ABD (all but dissertation). His dissertation 
traces the intellectual origins of western attitudes towards nature from the biblical 
period to the present through the lens of deep ecology and eco-feminism. 
on the undefeated football team that just won the state championship. As president 
events and fundraisers, like the recent blood drive. Athletically, besides dominating 
Also involved in the Brain Science club for all four years of high school, he 
but is also considering careers in research or teaching after college. Jonah worked 
as an intern in the neuroscience lab at Middlebury College. Working with Assistant 
Professor of Psychology Mark Stefani, Jonah assisted in his research. He liked 
working there a lot, saying it “made him want to pursue neuroscience even more.” 
Jonah also is taking a computer science class at the college, which he also enjoys, 
taught by Professor Matt Dickerson.
In addition to playing tenor sax in band since freshman year, he also plays the 
ukulele in his free time. He has diverse musical tastes, ranging from Zac Brown Band 
to Al Green to Brother Ali. Jonah likes to read biographies and books about the brain. 
He lives in Middlebury with his parents Todd and Karen, his little sister Sophie, and 
himself without suffering, for he is both the marble and the sculptor.”
Steve Small is a man of many talents.  He works at the Middlebury Hannaford 
Career Center as the theater instructor. The Hannaford Career Center is attached to 
Middlebury Union High School. Steve has been working at the Career Center since 
asked how he began his career in Middlebury he mentioned that a local playwright 
saw him act and asked him if he would sit in on a meeting about the new theater 
arts program at the Career Center. At the meeting Steve gave his opinion about 
what he thought the program could be, and the next day he was offered the job. 
The program in the Career Center that Steve teaches is called Addison Repertory 
Theater (A.R.T.) This program allows students the chance to run and create a 
theater company. This also allows students to immerse themselves in the world of 
acting. Every day students from local high schools have the opportunity of taking 
this course for either a semester or an entire year. People who go through A.R.T. 
learn not only acting skills but skills such as screen writing, lighting, sound, set 
designing, costuming, and theater management to name a few. As busy as Steve is 
teaching high school students everything he knows about theater, he also manages 
to keep his acting skills sharp by being involved in local plays at the Town Hall 
Theater. He recently played the role of Lennie in a production of “Of Mice and 
Men” and was just in “Cat on a Hot Tin Roof” as well. 
he majored in drama. During the course of his teaching at the Hannaford Career 
Center he has taught some incredible students who later went on to become stars. 
One of the students that he taught was Jake Lacy, one of the actors in the show 
Schine along with many others. When asked about his most rewarding moment 
connection to the craft ... That is the moment I like best.”
Marshall Eddy has been working at the Middlebury Union High School since 
teacher at Middlebury Union High School, he got his Juris Doctor degree from 
University of Michigan Law School in 1968 and a Bachelor of Arts degree from 
Middlebury College in 1965. He has worked as an operating room orderly, a 
Russian language linguist in Army intelligence, a lawyer, and even a history teacher 
at MUHS before becoming an art teacher at the high school.
Moving from law to art is a big change, but Eddy became interested in art 
while he was practicing law in Middlebury. During one court case, he was snowed-
in while staying in a hotel, and he started making art to pass the time. It started 
out as a hobby, but it grew to something larger, and he liked it more than he liked 
practicing law and teaching history. So when a position opened at the high school 
where he was working as an history teacher, he applied for the job and has been 
teaching art ever since.
Hall Theater with his family. He has acted in many productions before, and even 
preformed a one man opera with the Vermont Symphony Orchestra, playing a 
“conductor” who sang while conducting. He also commutes to work every day on 
but only moved two feet,” he said in a previous interview with The Tigers’ Print, the 
MUHS newspaper. He also led an extracurricular mime group at MUHS for 12 years.
As a teacher, Eddy has taught six current teachers, three staff members, and the 
learning new techniques and taking art classes.
Steve Small
Theater Instructor
THE 
MANY 
FACES OF 
MIDDLEBURY 
UNION 
HIGH SCHOOL
1
3
2
4
5
After viewing the documentary made in a 2011-2012 Middlebury Union High School (MUHS) English 
Class on middbeat, Local Editor Molly Talbert ’13.5 and Editor-in-Chief Kyle Finck ’14 reached out 
to MUHS Journalism teacher Matthew Cox. In a new partnership, The Campus will work with MUHS 
journalism students to produce local content.  
Lives in Weybridge, VT, sings in the 
school choir and acts in plays
ISABEL VELEZ
MUHS Class of 20151
1
From Bridport, VT, works at the Waybury 
Jessica Prissson
MUHS Class of 20143
From Weybridge, VT, on the varsity nor-
dic skiing team
Zoe Parsons
MUHS Class of 20142
Lives in Weybridge, VT, starting lineman 
on muhs’ state champion football team
SAMUEL MESSENGER
MUHS Class of 20144
From Weybridge, VT, plays varsity bas-
ketball and softball
Krisandra Provencher
MUHS Class of 20155
Marshall Eddy
Longtime MUHS Teacher
by Zoe Parsons
2
Jeff Clark
Bike Enthusiast
by Jessica Prisson
3
Glover, VT. He currently owns six bikes. 
In 1989, the biking enthusiast sold his car and began commuting by bike as he 
Just last summer, he spent two weeks touring between 16 Vermont Breweries 
These days, biking up and down the colossal hill to Ripton proves more 
When asked why he does it, Clark will answer that he bikes partly for mental 
health, but mostly for “a more direct, intentional relationship with the outside 
world.” Aside from the meditation aspect, Clark bikes solely for the experience. 
trip from the Canadian Rockies to the Mexican Plateau. 
JONAH LEFKOE
MUHS Senior Class President
by Samuel Messenger
4
Yeweon Kim
Foreign Exchange Student
by Krisandra Provencher
5
1
 Church, early on Thanksgiving morn-
ing. I close my eyes to pray but the picture 
me, kissing me. I’m not talking about Jesus, 
to remember last night precisely: our voices, 
-
ever.
-
-
-
macy, or being with someone, or even simply 
to terms with last night’s outcomes must be, 
-
-
you meet your late-night companion in the 
-
-
better than that. 
to bring ourselves what we want, which most 
the Earth to be able to create togetherness 
-
-
-
-
-
14 features | December 5, 2013
By Maggie Nazer
By Julia John
Love and Sexuality:
-
-
against a sanguine sunset.  
-
-
the canvas, immersing observers in alternate 
-
-
-
was, in actuality, a commonplace hall.  
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
tograph. 
-
Still, I think everyone grows as an artist.” 
Students Take Campus to Canvas
By Mary Claire Ecclesine
Joe Flaherty
Mary Claire ecclesine 
-
-
bour jacket are the last things you will 
-
homogenous college campus. 
-
gious spirit or overall personality that 
brightens every room she walks into, but 
-
scarves. 
-
berlin chic. 
into something entirely original. 
-
-
-
oul’s eyes because she is most heavily 
city. 
-
-
Short black boots have become her sta-
ple to complete any look. 
believe it.” 
spiritually, but also challenges one to 
-
-
-
-
-
-
15featuresDecember 5, 2013   
My first “first date” last week was 
delightful. After a long hiatus from dat-
ing on campus, I felt like a lucky boy to 
be out on the town with an adorable and 
charming lady.
Finding her was a little tricky. In 
the absence of any casual leads, I wasn’t 
sure how to seek a potential date without 
seeming indiscriminate. I didn’t want to 
be too picky, but I did want the date to 
be genuinely romantic. Complicating the 
matter, asking a girl I didn’t know at all 
seemed strange, but asking a girl I knew 
too well risked trespassing a friend zone.
A female friend of mine asked if I was 
only going to ask out cute girls, a great 
and fair question. Yes, but more specifi-
cally, I’m only going to ask out girls that 
I find attractive. Isn’t the point of dat-
ing to find someone you spark with? I 
hope a girl would only acquiesce because 
she finds me attractive as well. There’s 
nothing like a pity-date to make for sour 
memories.
On a tight schedule for the Cam-
pus deadline, I enlisted a miscellany of 
friends to help me identify prospects in 
Ross on Friday night. I pitched to a girl 
finishing dinner with a friend. She ex-
plained, “I’m not single, so I don’t think 
I should.” In a fit of idiocy, overtaken 
by nerves, I asked her friend if she was 
a student here, then limped away to re-
group with my spotting team.
Then, she sat down a couple tables 
away with her friends. Knowing they’d 
listen in anyway, I addressed all five of 
them with my pitch but stood next to 
her. “And I’m wondering if you would be 
my date,” I finished, with a light tap on 
her shoulder. There was an explosion of 
hilarity from all sides of the table. She 
looked shocked, stuttered, then agreed. 
“Only thing is, I have to go tomorrow 
night.” “She’s free,” a friend assured on 
her behalf.
I wanted to be discreet about Belin-
da’s* identity, but the cloak of anonym-
ity is a slippery fish. Two of my scouts 
knew who she was. Though neither knew 
her personally, they’d only heard good 
things. A close friend, Emilia*, heard 
who my date was and was thrilled; she’s 
known Belinda for years. I declined to let 
Emilia tell me anything about Belinda, 
and also decided not Facebook stalk her.
Then Saturday I saw her at lunch in 
Proctor and again at the squash courts. 
Both times, I was with someone who 
knew her or knew of her, but I made no 
inquiries about her. I’m unsure what in-
formation, if any, is fair to glean in ad-
vance of a date and by what sources. I 
figured I preferred to know her to the 
extent that she chose to share.
We headed to 51 Main, which is 
owned by the College and only has din-
ner service. They don’t take reservations, 
so I was glad to find the place filled but 
not full when we arrived at 6:45. We sat 
at a high table next to a space heater, 
which I worried would be dangerously 
hot, but it was actually quite nice.
However, my legs were too short to 
comfortably rest on the lower crossbar 
of the tall chair, so I propped them on 
the higher one, forcing me to lean over 
my bent knees to keep from slouching 
backwards. Self-consciously, I worried 
my posture seemed too aggressively en-
gaged, when I was really just trying to 
stay balanced. No doubt, there was some 
undue worrying on my side of the table.
The food was delicious and our con-
versation energetic. Belinda, a sopho-
more, told me she was paid $20 after 
volunteering to sing impromptu onstage 
at a country festival in Utah and about 
how her triplet siblings have rhyming 
nicknames. We made a show of civility 
by using our silverware to split the Mez-
ze Platter appetizer, a finger dish under 
any other circumstance.
For entrées, she wisely chose the 
salmon, which can be eaten in graceful 
bites between rounds of conversation. I 
bent to whim over good sense, and got 
the grilled chicken sandwich, a poor 
choice for a first date with a whip-smart 
conversationalist. Like any sandwich, it 
required substantial chewing, and I ad-
mit to feeling a bit underprepared to ask 
questions that inspired sufficiently long 
answers.
We each got a dessert and sampled 
the other. The Vermont Cookie Love 
Sundae was rich as a pharaoh; the Flour-
less Banana-Almond Cake was subtle 
like petals in the wind. Both were excel-
lent. We bundled up and headed out as 
the jazz band got started. 51 Main brings 
great live performers, but the pressed-
tin ceiling and brick walls can make for 
tough acoustics.
We walked back to Gifford, after just 
over two hours together. Cautious to give 
an appropriate farewell, I hugged her 
and said goodbye. It felt right, though I 
sure as hell would’ve liked to have given 
her a kiss. Break was coming and the 
falling snow looked like Dippin’ Dots. 
She was wearing a knit cap over her hair 
to keep her freckled ears warm.
Admittedly, my memory of the eve-
ning has been inflated by my continual 
reflection. At times I would cringe, re-
alizing how dumb I sounded. I wish I’d 
been a little looser, maybe come pre-
pared with an awesome joke. Next time 
I’ll try to snag a table on the floor. But I 
accept all the crinkles as foibles of being 
human. In retrospect, I actually think 
the date was a resounding success.
*Name changed
Dining, Dating & Dashing with Belinda
By Ryan Kim
By Joy Zhu
¡AMurica!
Some time ago, two of my close friends in 
a long distance relationship broke up due to 
an ‘irreconcilable cultural difference,’ despite 
both of them being brought up in Hong Kong.
So where is Hong Kong positioned in the 
cultural spectrum really?
There are many groups of people in 
Hong Kong. There is the typical, local stu-
dent. But there are also the minorities: there’s 
the ABCs (American Born Chinese) who re-
fuse to speak Chinese and gabber loudly in 
public in English and for this reason  are de-
spised by many; the Pakistanis and Indians 
born and raised in Chung King Mansion who 
speak perfect Cantonese; the Chinese immi-
grants with their distinctive mannerisms and 
habits, both rich and poor. 
I don’t think you can deny their Hong 
Kong identity — they live here. There are 
quintessenntial aspects of Hong Kong culture 
that have an undeniable exclusiveness built 
by common experiences — TVB shows, Ko-
rean dramas, a common education system, 
popular songs, movies and venues, the SARs 
outbreak and watching our food slaughtered 
before our eyes as a guarantee of freshness.
The main difference between an ‘insider’ 
and an ‘outsider’ is that the insider has natu-
rally acquired the tastes that are expected of a 
typical Hong Konger. An outsider, such as an 
academic, can have an equal understanding 
of tastes, but his motives stem from curiosity, 
really someone who knows every single TV 
show down to the detail?  If each fragment of 
pop culture constitutes Hong Kong’s identity, 
is it possible that we induct ourselves entirely 
to its body of values, or in other words, brain-
wash ourselves with it? Moreover, there can’t 
-
less of whether or not it is shared.
Despite there being an overarching 
‘mainstream’ culture, it is impossible that we 
can identify with it completely and unreserv-
edly. Everyone is entitled to their own view-
points and experiences because in the end 
we are still individuals in a collective. While a 
dishwasher in a restaurant may not subscribe 
to the newly invented jargon from universi-
ties, his experience of the place is still authen-
tic. It applies to the underclass and also to the 
expats and ABCs. Cantonese colloquialisms 
of Hong Kong should not inhibit someone’s 
claim to their identity.
And yet, Hong Kongers are very sensitive 
to anything perceived as foreign. Once I post-
ed a link of a series of artistic photos of Hong 
Kong on facebook, which was then reposted 
by a friend who captioned it with ‘Hong Kong 
in a foreigner’s eyes’. Neither Chinese nor 
British, Hong Kong is unique in itself, resist-
such a short history, how can its culture com-
mand a sense of belonging, as much as the 
long-established culture of China? I believe 
this is one of the reasons why it is not easy to 
feel a sense of belonging in Hong Kong.
Recalling a conversation I had with a 
friend in Middlebury, he told me that Hong 
Kong was “dying” because we are becoming 
more and more stagnant. Indeed, Hong Kong 
seems to pride on itself so much that it has 
lost sight of the fact that it is a small port on 
the coast of China. Leung Man-Tao, a famous 
Chinese commentator, envisioned that Hong 
Kong’s literature would one day identify itself 
as a part of the Chinese repertoire instead of 
its own. While Hong Kong has a growing in-
by Europe, is Hong Kong culture itself going 
nowhere?
Perhaps Hong Kong should take inspira-
tion from the various Chinese provinces and 
American states. While retaining its own cul-
ture, it should also address larger issues on 
both national and global levels. Since Hong 
Kong’s identity could only be categorized by 
the ‘others’ checkbox, instead of allowing 
should position and identify itself uniquely 
against other cultures.
OVER-
HEARD 
IN THE  
CAMPUS
“I can’t shake the feel-
ing that for the rest 
of my time here, I will 
remain a stranger, a 
color in the box that 
was never appreciated. 
I can try hard to make 
to come off as genuine 
and warm, only to have 
that impression washed 
of the month.”
– Delia Taylor ’16
“Drunkenness is the so-
cially accepted apology 
for the lack of erection, 
for the abandonment 
of restrictions and the 
temporary display of 
amnesia when you meet 
your late-night com-
panion in the dining hall 
the following morning.”
– Maggie Nazer ’17
“I really look at myself when I see a weakness 
in our team. If a kid is struggling mentally or 
physically, I ask myself what am I as a coach 
doing wrong. I ask myself how I can differ my 
approach so that the kid will understand easier.”
– Middlebury Union High School Football Coach 
Dennis Smith
16 Advertisement | December 5, 2013
877-508-8455
real cheer
celebrating life’s little moments
 
Bank Real. Live Real.
    MOBILE APP       
         
NEW
8924_NBM_RealCheerAd_5x7.75MC_01ajs.indd   1 11/26/13   4:11 PM
We’re kind of like a big deal 
So come join our team. campus@middlebury.
WANTED:
Talented people to work with 
other talented people. 
to apply or for more information, 
e-mail themiddleburycampus@gmail.
com
news.
local news.
opinions.
features.
arts.
sports.
and
Alex Edel
if you’re lucky
it’s all 
online.
middleburycampus.com
arts sciences
don’t
miss
this
Senior Thesis Concert: “Figures of Speech”
Two seniors, Amy Donahue ’13.5 and Adeline Cleve-
land ’13.5, seek to transform the Dance Theatre as they 
present a concert of original work inspired by their in-
terests in contemporary dance, gender dynamics, con-
templative practices and multimedia expression.
12/5-12/6, 8 P.M., MCA DANCE THEATRE
Vocal Recital
Peck and Beth Thompson cap off a semester of vocal 
study with an evening of songs and arias. Sponsered by 
the Department of Music. Free.
12/7, 8 P.M., MCA CONCERT HALL
Harm’s Way
Senior directing work of Matt Ball ’14. Set in the 
chaos of a shattered America, this play follows 
the journey of a man named Santouche who, af-
ter committing a murder, must avoid harm at all 
costs.
12/5-12/7, 8 P.M., HEPBURN ZOO
Languages Evoke Emotions in ‘Pentecost’
The Department of Theatre and 
Dance presented an ambitious, large scale 
production of David Edgar’s Pentecost, an 
enviably clever play combining high art and 
international relations in an exhilarating 
exploration of culture and the past and 
present value of art on Nov. 21-23.
playwrights of the post-1960s British 
generation, wrote Pentecost in 1994 as part 
of a trilogy of plays discussing negotiation in 
Eastern Europe.
“I wanted to posit a different way 
of looking at culture, a model which 
acknowledged that all cultures are 
fundamentally hybrids, which grow and 
develop in response not just to the urge for 
continuity but the exigencies of change,” 
Edgar is quoted as saying in the program.  
European country, shortly after the fall 
of the Berlin Wall, as national art curator 
Gabrielle Pecs, played by Tosca Giustini ’15, 
and proper British art historian Dr. Oliver 
Davenport, portrayed by professional actor 
Jeffries Thaiss, discussed Pecs’ belief that 
she had discovered a piece of art that could 
elevate her small, unnoticed country onto the 
world stage and completely alter European 
art history.
The painting was gradually revealed 
through a series of complex and masterful set 
the removal of a few bricks, it was then 
it was prepared for removal and restoration. 
Edgar established the multiplicity 
of language from the start with Pecs and 
Davenport discussing colloquialisms alone 
humorous cast of supporting characters 
who revealed – in multiple, sometimes 
overlapping languages – their own, often 
preservation or removal.
Thaiss and Giustini set the tone of the 
delivered copious amounts of dialogue in an 
Eastern European accent. 
Professor of Theatre Alex Draper lit up the 
stage as stereotypical ‘arrogant American’ art 
historian Leo Katz, carrying an equal amount 
deny that a work of any importance could 
What ensued in the remainder of the act 
was an engaging battle about the painting’s 
destination. 
Professor of Theatre and director 
Richard Romagnoli explained that the 
investigation and exploration of the painting 
was his main reason for choosing the play.
moving and cathartic for me,” he said. “I’m 
hoping that audiences found one way or 
another into the play, but I think the weight 
of the painting itself is one way that could be 
useful for everyone.” 
Throughout the play, 12 languages were 
spoken, giving the audience a true sense 
of what it feels like not to fully understand, 
often having to guess from body language, 
just like the English-speakers on stage, what 
a character was saying. 
Draper noted that the dialogue proved to 
“There’s a script, but just like in music, 
not all of it is played at the same volume or 
if four people are talking at once, which 
happens a lot, what dialogue the audience 
needed to hear as the featured solo and what 
was backup.”
Just as the audience started to feel 
comfortable with the complex debate 
surrounding the painting, Edgar hit the 
act. Katz, Pecs and Davenport were suddenly 
taken hostage as a multi-cultural group of 
refugees seeking political asylum burst into 
the church and demanded entrance into the 
countries of their choice. 
Draper beautifully portrayed 
Katz’s remarkable and subtle personal 
transformation, ultimately handling the 
stressful situation much better than the 
usually calm and understanding Davenport, 
who nervously requests insulin for his 
infuriating Yasmin, the refugee leader played 
by Mari Vial-Golden ’14. 
As the refugees realized that the 
painting on the wall may be even more 
valuable than their human prisoners, their 
individual stories came out. Full of pain, 
misery and in some cases, hope, the stories 
sparked sympathy in the hostages and the 
audience, despite constant threats of violence 
and ever present weaponry. The refugees 
interpreted each other’s folk tales and made 
music, showing that they were really not that 
different from their hostages, even as they 
threatened the painting and their prisoners. 
Draper was moved both by the actors 
around him and the transformation of his 
character.
“The last ten days of the rehearsal and 
through the performance, somebody else 
the play,” Draper said. “In the performance, 
the actual stories of individual refugees 
for me, Leo Katz, became a whole lot more 
substantial and weighty than I had originally 
realized.”
Indeed, each actor embodied their 
character so strongly that I honestly forgot I 
was watching a play.
 “Those who auditioned were just the 
best – they were curious, they were eager, 
questioning, tentative and reticent,” said 
Romagnoli. “They began to embrace the 
work so thoroughly and entirely while not 
losing the sense of reticence, but having 
were doing the right thing as an individual 
in the context of the collective. The student’s 
capacity to rise to the challenge and meet it so 
totally is what it’s really about.”
Part of what made Pentecost so 
impressive was the sheer size of the cast. 
The group, one of the largest companies in 
theatre department history, consisted of 28 
students, professors and professional actors, 
as well as many professional crew members 
Romagnoli and Draper sang the praises 
of the collaboration between professional 
and student actors. 
“It’s a great combination,” Romagnoli 
said. “The professional actors are a great 
embodiment, with respect to their talent and 
their career journey, of where many of the 
students who wish to pursue acting can be. 
It’s one thing to be taught by a professional 
actor in an acting class, but that same person 
in a production teaches very differently and 
the whole educational process is much more 
intuitive and inductive.”
Draper agreed that the rehearsal process 
is an invaluable tool to all involved. 
“The students will try our suggestions 
right away, and in that way, the adults need to 
remain students,” Draper said. “At the same 
time, the students need to be always learning 
for what they think is the right thing to be 
doing in that moment because there comes a 
time when the actor knows more about their 
character than the director.”
Unlike many other theatre department 
productions, Pentecost boasted a heavy 
representation of the abundant international 
community on campus, and only two of the 
characters in the play are native English 
speakers. 
Anis Mebarki ’15, who played Raif, an 
Azeri refugee, is from Algeria and speaks 
seven languages. Mebarki chose to act in 
Pentecost because it spoke to a part of his 
religious identity in practice and theory. 
“The idea of the politics of asylum and 
part of my family’s identity,” Mebarki said.
Mebarki went on to say that Pentecost 
holds a unique relevance with political 
and historical education for the whole 
community.
“One of the students at the lunch preview 
said ‘So, how was it for you to be part of a play 
that exhibits a sort of reality that is so distant 
from what we as Middlebury students know 
and do and experience?’ and I said, ‘No, there 
are a lot of people at the College, including 
myself, who did witness a sort of post-
Socialist transition, at the end of the Cold 
War a transition into civil wars and the like, 
and I know for a fact that there are others,’” 
Mebarki said. “I think Pentecost helps make 
it a more pertinent reality for the audience 
members, and I was frankly just surprised 
that people assumed that we all come from 
this shared, safe, sheltered experience which 
is not the background we all had.”
The problem, as the play escalated to 
were eventually given offers of freedom. The 
hostages were clearly moved by this denial of 
the refugees, and by this point, the audience 
was too, watching on the edge of their seats as 
the refugees became understandably angry. 
The truly moving scene in the play 
came as a shock. Yasmin moved to torch the 
painting when suddenly, loud sirens sounded 
and three commandos broke through the 
wall of the church, forever destroying the 
pitch dark. Each shot of the machine guns 
pierced through the dark, sparks illuminating 
tiny spaces on stage as screams rang out and 
the loud sounds of violence echoed heavily 
through the space.
As the lights turned back on, Pecs, Katz 
and the audience had to swallow the fact that 
the refugees were subject to unspeakable 
violence when they, despite their threats, 
never harmed anyone or anything.
Part of Pentecost’s complex message 
is that so much can be lost in translation, 
whether it be in a simple conversation, the 
death hostage situation. Katz and Davenport 
must learn how to survive in a situation 
where English is not the primary language, 
and Edgar uses his own artistic expression 
to convey that art has a unique and profound 
power to unite and divide.  
Starting with a fascinating script, 
Romagnoli, Draper and every other member 
of the cast and crew crafted a thought-
provoking, riveting production through 
strong individual efforts and a rare collective 
cohesion, creating a play that will last in the 
minds of the audience well into the future.
By Leah Lavigne
Refugee leader Yasmin, played by Mari Vial-Golden ’14, breaks up the bonds that are forming between the refugees and the hostages.
paul gerard
“Press/Release,” the Dance Program’s 
fall concert, showcased newcomers and vet-
erans alike in eight pieces, six of which were 
student-choreographed, at the Mahaney 
Center for the Arts Dance Theatre on Nov. 
22- 23.
It was a welcome opportunity to see the 
College’s talented Dance Program in a new 
light: “Press/Release” shed light on enor-
mously skilled underclassmen dancers that 
I never even knew existed and it was equally 
as fun to watch the senior majors show their 
prowess as choreographers as it was to see 
younger performers. As it turns out, their 
choreography is as impressive as their danc-
ing.
One of the night’s standouts came 
from Rachel Nuñez ’14, who choreographed 
“Objects in Mirror” for dancers Octavio 
Hingle-Webster ’17, Danielle Weindling ’17 
and Laura Xiao ’17. A trio with some crazy 
psychosexual power struggles — I never re-
ally know exactly what is going on in dance 
pieces — Hingle-Webster, Weindling and 
Xiao performed to an original mash-up that 
interweaved, among others, The Weeknd, 
Otis Redding and Ólafur Arnalds’s Icelandic 
chamber music. It was irresistible. 
Nuñez’s inventive soundtrack was 
matched only by that of Jill Moshman ’14, 
whose piece, “Residue,” closed the show. 
Moshman’s ambitious score brought to-
gether Woody Guthrie, a Bach cello suite 
performed by Yo-Yo Ma and Rossini’s “Wil-
liam Tell Overture” with clips from subway 
announcements and selections from a wide 
spectrum of sources, from nursery rhymes to 
“The Phantom Tollbooth” to “The Bell Jar.” 
Moshman choreographed “Residue” in 
collaboration with Doug LeCours ’15, with 
the pair performing the piece as well. By in-
tegrating everyday sound clips and kitchen 
chairs that were both pedestrian and tangi-
ble, Moshman and LeCours infused a sense 
of real life into a genre that is often inacces-
sible and elusive.
Hai Do ’14 also took a back seat for the 
fall concert, instead choreographing a stun-
ning and graceful classical Chinese piece 
performed by Xiao, Honami Iizuka ’15, Emily 
Luan ’15, Cynthia Park ’16 and Yuexin Zeng 
’16. 
Cameron McKinney ’14 was the only se-
nior dance major to perform solo at the fall 
show. “Nights Devoted to Roaming in Dark-
ness,” which McKinney choreographed for 
himself, was a visually striking and very seri-
ous piece that involved a large bamboo pole. 
McKinney seemed to be getting at themes of 
introspection and discovery, his movements 
recalling, perhaps, those of a cautious explor-
er feeling out entirely new territory.
There was also Meredith White ’15 , who 
choreographed “Lost and Found,” featur-
ing Vladimir Kremenovic ’17, Nellie Pierce 
’16.5, Veronica Rodriguez ’16.5, Sarae Snyder 
’15 and Sophie Vaughan ’17. Set to original 
ambient music by Eric Hass ’15, “Lost and 
Found” showcased Pierce’s hair: everyone 
started off in oversized hoodies, androgynous 
and almost unrecognizable, then the dancers 
paired off, crawled around on all fours carry-
-
cled around a kneeling Pierce, who slowly un-
raveled her knee-length hair over the course 
of the piece. 
In a style true to her own character, 
Isabella Tudisco-Sadacca ’13.5 presented a 
spoken word–dance hybrid piece entitled 
“This Body I Carry,” which explored her self-
discovery, her relationship with her mother, 
and that time she lived in Senegal, all set to 
the tune of speeches from the Franco-African 
Negritude movement. 
The two numbers that were not choreo-
graphed by students included the Annual 
Newcomers Piece, arranged by concert direc-
tor Catherine Cabeen, and “Narayaniyam,” a 
classical Indian Kuchipudi-style dance that 
was the culmination of a theory-practice 
course on Indian religion, aesthetics, history 
and dance. “Narayaniyam” was particularly 
engaging — it was a bright, cheery piece with 
-
ing shift from some of the more esoteric 
works. 
“Narayaniyam” was also the only ap-
pearance of the night for dance department 
bigwig Adeline Cleveland ’13.5, who will be 
performing tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m. 
alongside Amy Donahue ’13.5. Cleveland and 
Donahue will present entirely original senior 
work that seeks to combine their interest in 
dance, gender and self-expression across a 
variety of media.
By Hannah Ostrow
Dance Concert Highlights New Talent
18 arts SCIENCES
I have to admit that it took me nearly 
until the end of “See Now Then”, Jimaica 
Kincaid’s controversial new novel and the 
of Kincaid’s lovely long sentences, weav-
ing together disparate snatches of time 
and landscape, voice and personality, into 
the small and yet richly complex life of 
Mr. and Mrs. Sweet in the Shirley Jack-
son house in Bennington, Vermont. One 
can fall comfortably into the tumbling, 
unending rhythm of these sentences, as 
Kincaid gently carries Mrs. Sweet’s narra-
tive voice in a wondering search for un-
derstanding of life’s joys and sadnesses 
and lifts all her characters into the airy 
realm of the epic and then grounds them 
in Gap overalls, a bunk bed from Crate & 
Barrel and a garden battle between the 
shy Myrmidons and the Teenage Mutant 
Ninja Turtles collected from McDonalds’ 
happy meals. 
One of the reasons we love poetry, 
gently rocking rhythm; it can make life 
seem comprehensible, or at least beauti-
ful, even in its deepest darknesses, and 
we might think yes, it is all worthwhile; 
yes, it is all part of a greater whole. But 
Kincaid jerks us out of that serenity. Sud-
denly life is far from comprehensible — 
suddenly hatred is a part of love, and Mr. 
head on the kitchen counter and to cook 
that he could serve to her on a platter. I 
felt lost in the center of “See Now Then”, 
and it is not a very long book. I felt frus-
trated that this vein of sickness could lie 
at the center of so much beauty. I felt that 
Kincaid was torturing me; I did not want 
to watch Mrs. Sweet naively, happily knit-
ting her socks and blankets as Mr. Sweet 
imagines killing her, and I was sick and 
tired of time circling around madly and 
repeating itself, and of moments of near-
understanding getting mixed up and in-
terrupted by trivialities — and all this in 
exhausting, mile-long sentences. It was 
too much. 
I was so caught up in my anger with 
Jamaica Kincaid that I failed to notice I 
was at the wrong gate at the Atlanta air-
to Middlebury. After sprinting from con-
-
off, I made it to my seat on the plane with 
start again. As our plane circled in the air 
up and diverted to Albany, I tried to read 
“See Now Then” more slowly and patient-
ly, pausing often for breath — especially 
at the colons, for just when Kincaid seems 
ready to be perfectly straightforward with 
us, “the young Heracles had no other way 
to understand this except in this way:” she 
is sure to launch into a whole new jumble 
of images and impressions and memories. 
Whether the novel itself becomes 
clearer as it reaches the moment of cri-
how to read it, Kincaid’s images became 
piercingly real to me. Her writing might, 
Sweet’s children are named Heracles and 
Persephone and her deceased neighbor 
was named Homer), but the mythical 
mother comes into focus as her children’s 
very current, teenage voices weave into 
the narrative and all of their pain and love 
feel vibrant and somehow new, just as the 
family cracks into pieces.
Many critics have pinned Kincaid’s 
novel as an autobiographical work of re-
venge on her ex-husband Allen Shawn, a 
reading which, though technically accu-
rate, would reduce the work as a whole. 
Mr. Sweet does come off horribly in the 
novel, for in the end he only loves dead 
trees. He is afraid of the process of life 
itself, the constant cycle of growing and 
dying through the seasons, whereas Mrs. 
Sweet “found this process a joy, its inevi-
tability a mystery, unexpected, unimagi-
nable.” Still, Kincaid compassionately 
imagines her way into Mr. Sweet’s mind to 
comprehend the agony of living trapped 
within a marriage that one does not want. 
Her novel strives to understand both Mr. 
and Mrs. Sweet’s constant internal battle 
between giving themselves wholly to their 
family and reserving themselves within 
their solitary, artistic corners of the house 
to seek out their “one true selves.” 
If Kincaid’s writing does not resolve 
our greatest questions, it gets at the cen-
ter of the elusive, circuitous, incompre-
hensible substance of time, which dis-
of the memories in the novel could not 
be real), and yet, in brief moments, glints 
into focus. Kincaid’s writing mirrors the 
at-times-beautiful, at-times-bewildering 
experience of living — which, like Virginia 
Woolf and Gertrude Stein, is tricky to get 
through. But I think, like Woolf and Stein, 
Kincaid is doing something new and re-
markable with words, and we owe it to her 
to read carefully and patiently. I, for one, 
-
ing the book on the plane, then immedi-
reading it all again.
b0oking it
BY ALI LEWIS
See Now Then
by Jimaica Kincaid
“Human beings in a mob / What’s a 
mob to a king? / What’s a king to a god? / 
What’s a god to a non-believer who don’t 
believe in anything?” 
The haunting Frank Ocean hook in “No 
Church in the Wild” from Watch the Throne 
played through my head as I read Jennifer 
Couzin-Frankel’s article, “When Mice Mis-
lead” in the Nov. 22 News Focus section of 
the Science magazine website.
Couzin-Frankel writes about recent 
waves made in the animal research commu-
nity by those questioning current drug-trial 
models in animals. One of those wave-mak-
ers is Ulrich Dirnagl, a German researcher 
who is calling attention to the negative as-
pects of the practice of cutting animals out 
Couzin-Frankel writes, “Dropping ani-
mals from a research study for any num-
ber of reasons…is an entrenched, accepted 
part of the culture [in animal research]. 
‘You look at your data, there are no rules. 
… People exclude animals at their whim, 
they just do it and they don’t report it,’ [said 
Dirnagl]. That bad habit, he believes, is one 
of several that plague animal studies.” 
Animal studies have been used to ex-
plore potential drug therapies for decades. 
And during all those years, “researchers, 
pharmaceutical companies, drug regula-
tors, and even the general public have la-
mented how rarely therapies that cure ani-
mals do much of anything for humans.” 
Why is that the case? Is human biology 
so dramatically different from animal biol-
ogy as to make animal models irrelevant? 
Many have asked that question, and “much 
attention has focused on whether mice with 
happens in sick people. But Dirnagl and 
some others suggest there’s another equally 
acute problem,” according to Couzin-Fran-
kel, and one that has less to do with differ-
ent biology and more to do with how the 
studies are conducted. 
Malcolm Macleod from the Univer-
sity of Edinburgh analyzed variations in ex-
perimental technique in animal drug trials 
and found a general lack of randomization 
and blinding, both of which increase ex-
perimental objectivity, that has resulted in 
skewed data. 
In the studies analyzed, “many of 
these authors likely didn’t recognize what 
Macleod perceived as lack of rigor in their 
studies because their mentors, and their 
mentors’ mentors, had not [conducted ran-
domized, blinded trials],” he writes.
There’s a sort of institutional inertia in 
the animal research community – passed 
down from mentor to mentee – that has re-
sulted in a pervasive lack of built-in checks 
to ensure objectivity. 
-
low such a lapse in objectivity to occur? 
I would like to propose an answer, for 
what it’s worth. Reading Couzin-Frankel’s 
accounts of mice dropped out of data sets at 
greatest convenience, it struck me that the 
real issue at play is a lack of curiosity. 
The scientists leaving data out of stud-
ies have lost sight of the purpose of scien-
and insight into the workings of the world. 
Instead of investigating why the data – the 
whole data set, not just a piece – appears 
the way it did, these scientists are choosing 
to shape the results to match their bias, a 
-
stitutional inertia – a whole host of factors. 
-
doctrine. Biased reporting of results contra-
dicts the fundamental tenet of science: that 
-
cant evidence presents itself. 
Science is not a biased doctrine. It is a 
mindset, a humble attempt to understand 
the unknown, the other, the wildness of this 
world in which we live. The scientist must 
be a “non-believer, who [doesn’t] believe 
in anything,” Couzin-Frankel said, in or-
der to  construct her understanding of the 
world from objective observation and from 
her understanding, construct a meaningful 
narrative. 
SC ENCE
soc etyand
By Will Henriques
anthea viragh
Jill Moshman ’14 and Doug LeCours ’15 close the show with a breathtaking modern piece.
 | december 5, 2013
19AdvertisementDecember 5, 2013|
Spend too much time        
in lib?
in front  of an 
easel?
Want to try Sketching for the one and 
only Hannah Bristol?
The Middlebury Campus is seeking 
a new sketch artist for the 
 Spring semester and 
following year(s).
Send an email detailing your interest, 
Interviews will be held the following 
| december 5, 2013sports20
The Middlebury women’s basketball 
team fell to 2-3 on the season with a 53-
51 loss to Johnson State as they dropped 
two of three games over a two-week 
span. On Nov. 23 the Panthers fell 65-43 
to Emmanuel, but rebounded three days 
later with a six-point win over Johnson 
State that featured a 20-rebound game 
from Katie Pett ’14 — her second such 
game of the season. 
On Tuesday Dec. 3, the Panthers 
lost in heartbreaking fashion as a last-
second, desperation heave narrowly 
missed after Castleton State took a two-
point lead with 3.9 seconds remaining. 
Middlebury fell into an early eight-
point hole as efficient shooting from 
the Spartans gave the visitors an early 
advantage. Castleton State opened the 
game converting seven of their first 14 
attempts including a pair of threes to 
take command of the game. 
The Panthers audibled into a two-
three zone in an attempt to deter the 
Spartans’ outside shooters, but Castleton 
State kept firing away, extending the 
lead to 10 midway through the first. 
Junior forward Alexis Coolidge ’15 
kept the Panthers in the game early, 
knocking down her first four shots of 
the game for eight first-half points. 
Point guard Laura Lowry ’14 took over 
the game down the stretch, pouring in 
10 first-half points on 4-7 shooting as 
Middlebury made a late run to cut the 
deficit to three at the half.
After a promising run, the Panthers 
endured a sustained scoring drought 
to start the second half, failing to score 
until the 12:45 mark when forward 
Rachel Crews ’15 knocked down a 20-
foot jump shot to cut the Castleton State 
lead to nine. 
Defensively the Panthers shifted 
back into the two-three zone, forcing a 
Spartans miss, which led to a Pett layup 
on the other end. Following a Castleton 
State bucket, Crews knocked down 
another long two to draw Middlebury 
within seven at 43-36 midway through 
the second half. Crews made it three 
straight on the very next possession, 
knocking down a wing three and cutting 
the deficit to four, giving the junior 
seven points in a 2:22 span.
After the Panthers cut the lead to two, 
a quick four-point run by the Spartans 
extended the visitors’ lead to six before 
back-to-back baskets from Pett and first-
year forward Elizabeth Knox ’17 cut the 
Castleton lead to 47-45. The comeback 
was realized two possessions later as 
Crews knocked down a corner three to 
give the Panthers their first lead of the 
game with 5:01 remaining. 
“[Rachel has] always shot the ball 
that way, but never in games because 
she never was in a position to do it,” said 
head coach Noreen Pecsok. “When we’re 
in transition we want her to stop at the 
three-point line where then the defense 
has to guard her or leave her. And if they 
come out and guard her than she has 
position inside.”
Both teams struggled to convert from 
the free throw line down the stretch, 
with Castleton State taking advantage 
of a miss on the front end of a one-and-
one by grabbing the loose rebound and 
scoring to take a two-point lead. Pett 
returned the favor on the other end, 
missing a left-handed shot in the key, but 
ripping the ensuing offensive rebound 
out of the hands of a Spartans’ defender 
and laying the ball in to tie the game at 
51 apiece with 1:03 remaining.
After a pair of empty possessions 
for both teams, Castleton point guard 
Jade Desroches converted on a runner 
with 3.9 seconds remaining to give the 
visitors a two-point lead. Lowry took the 
ensuing inbound pass and launched a 
half court shot that clanged off the back 
iron, but would not fall for the Panthers 
who fell to the 2-3 on the season with the 
loss.
“It’s always hard to lose that way, but 
I felt that in our early season that was 
our best game,” Pecsok said. “We had a 
lot more assists and that’s when we know 
we’re better — when we share the ball. 
I thought we made adjustments on the 
fly and reacted really well to them. Our 
intensity levels were great. They have 
better scores than we do at this point in 
the season and we just kept fighting our 
way back. Some days are easier to coach 
than others and this team was an easy 
coach today because we stayed after it.”
First-year forward Elizabeth Knox 
’17 — who missed her entire senior year 
of high school with an injury — led the 
team in both scoring and rebounding, 
making all five of her field goal attempts 
for 12 points while wrestling down 13 
rebounds in just 23 minutes. 
“She’s like a sponge,” Pecsok said 
of Knox. “She takes in information so 
quickly and one thing we’ve noticed 
about her right away is that she can 
compete at the intensity level we have 
here. Sometimes it takes a while for 
freshmen to get there and she has that. 
And hitting those shots — that’s a great 
sign for our future.”
In the Panthers’ narrow 48-42 win 
over Johnson State, Pett led the way, 
scoring 17 points and grabbing 20 
rebounds as Middlebury overcame a 
woeful shooting performance to squeeze 
by the Badgers. The Panthers made just 
17 of 64 field goal attempts — shooting 
less than 27 percent from the floor — 
and opened the game by missing 12 of 
their first 13 attempts, falling behind a 
similarly struggling Johnson State team 
early. 
Trailing 6-2 more than eight minutes 
into the game, Middlebury’s trio of senior 
guards — Sarah Marcus ’14, Laura Lowry 
’14 and Kristina Conroy ’14 — scored 11 
points over the next 10 minutes of play, 
giving the Panthers an 18-10 lead with 
2:13 remaining. The Badgers closed the 
half with five straight points, however, 
and tipped off the second half by scoring 
eight of the half’s first nine points to take 
a 23-19 lead. 
Johnson State extended its lead to 
a game-high seven points with 7:41 
remaining before Pett, who had scored 
just two points at that juncture, took 
over the game for the Panthers, scoring 
15 points over the final 7:26 of the 
game. The senior from Saginaw, Mich. 
found her range by knocking down a 
jump shot before attacking the Badgers’ 
zone — a late-game adjustment — with 
three layups over a 2:38 span to swing 
the game in the Panthers’ favor and 
give her team a six-point lead with 1:55 
remaining. 
Pett then sealed the game at the free 
throw line, making seven of 10 free 
throws down the stretch to give her team 
the 48-42 victory. The former walk on 
leads the NESCAC in both rebounds (14) 
and steals (3.2) per game and is second 
on the team with 10.4 points per game. 
“What she does at 5’7’’ is remarkable,” 
Pecsock said. “I find myself — and this 
rarely happens to me as a coach — 
watching her as a spectator. It’s so cool 
to watch. She’s smart and how she scores 
over people she scores over … I don’t 
know. And the rebounding is shocking. 
She has done it long enough for us to 
know it’s for real. It’s not a one-game 
thing. I can’t say enough about her — 
she’s fantastic in every aspect. I’m not 
sure I’ve coached anyone tougher.”
Pett uses a combination of pre-shot 
preparation and unrelenting energy and 
will to dominate the glass. 
“I just try to get whatever angle I can,” 
Pett said. “Box out first and then go get 
it. I’m not big enough to just go get the 
ball so I have to get a position where I 
can get it. But once it comes off the rim 
I just keep going until I get it. If I have 
to hit the ball out of someone’s hands a 
couple of times, then that’s what I’ll do.”
For the Panthers, the victory over 
Johnson State was a needed rebound 
after a 22-point loss to Emmanuel the 
week before, in which Middlebury turned 
the ball over 22 times while shooting 
28 percent from the floor. And while 
Pecsok’s squad continues to struggle 
to score, they turned the ball over a 
season-low nine times against Johnson 
State, including just three second-half 
giveaways and shot 45 percent from the 
floor in the first half against Castleton 
State.
The Panthers travel to Skidmore (1-4) 
on Saturday Dec. 7 and play four more 
nonconference games before they begin 
NESCAC play against Bates on Jan. 10.
Pett Pulls Panthers (2-3) into Contention
By Damon Hatheway
Paul Gerard
Katie Pett ’14 chased down 20 rebounds 
and scored 17 points in the Panthers’ 
48-42 win over Johnson State, Nov. 26.
WANT A PIECE OF THE ACTION?
The Middlebury Campus is seeking new writers, photographers and 
sketch artists for the upcoming semester. 
NEWS LOCAL NEWSFEATURES
SPORTS
OPINIONS
With less than 20 seconds on the 
clock on Sunday, Nov. 24, Scarlett Kirk 
’14 was battling 25 mph winds and a 
Johns Hopkins defender with her back 
to the goal and seemingly nowhere to 
go. In one quick motion, the 
Middlebury forward’s turn 
opened up space to tuck away 
the ball past the outstretched 
Hopkins keeper in the back 
of the net. Kirk turned with 
arms open to welcome her 
celebrating teammates and 
the program’s first ever spot 
in the NCAA Final Four in San 
Antonio, Texas.
“The whole play is a bit of a 
haze, but I remember getting 
the ball and thinking that this 
was my chance to end this 
game before overtime, and I 
got lucky that it was a good 
shot that beat the keeper,” 
Kirk said. “I was so cold and exhausted 
at that point, I was so happy that the 
game wasn’t going into overtime. I still 
can’t believe that it happened and that 
we’re actually going to the Final Four. 
It’s been our dream ever since I’ve been 
at Middlebury.”
Just a day earlier, on Saturday, Nov. 
23, the Panthers emphatically announced 
themselves as serious NCAA contenders 
with a 5-1 win over Misericordia, in a 
game that included a hat trick from Kirk.
In the beginning, Middlebury looked 
uncomfortable playing on the largely 
unknown turf field, with the Panthers 
having a hard time finding feet and 
controlling passes on the fast surface. It 
didn’t take long for Middlebury to grow 
into the game, generally dictating play 
and limiting Misericordia’s chances on 
goal.
Kirk netted her first goal of the game 
in the 38th minute after an impressive 
Hannah Robinson ’16 one-touch pass 
toward the striker to knock it past the 
keeper.
Middlebury doubled its lead in the 
final minutes of the first half with Molly 
Parizeau ’
15 her first goal of her Middlebury 
career. Kirk was yet again instrumental, 
earning a corner after chasing down 
a long ball and her shot with deflected 
behind. Ali Omsberg ’15 quick pass 
found Parizeau at the near post for a 
header and 2-0 lead before halftime.
Middlebury came out even stronger 
in the second half, with two goals in the 
first five minutes of play.
Robinson played a weighted ball down 
the left hand side to carve open space to 
find Jamie Soroka ’16, who cut the ball 
back to find Kirk open in the middle of 
the box. In a tight space, Kirk volleyed 
the ball into the corner of the net.
Just four minutes later, Kirk earned 
her hat trick after 
a masterful series 
of passes from the 
Panthers. Quick, one-
touch passing didn’t 
allow Misericordia to 
close down Middlebury 
fast enough. Robinson 
found Julie Favorito 
’14 at the top of the 
box,  where the tri-
captain one-touched 
a through ball that 
Kirk converted despite 
tumbling to the ground 
and her hair falling out 
of its ponytail.
The Panthers 
continued their 
dominance on corners, with their final 
goal of the game coming from a header 
by Sarah Noble ’14 after a corner from 
Carter Talgo ’15 in the 58th minute.
Middlebury then began to slow the 
game down, with patient build-up and 
relaxed play. The Panthers were briefly 
punished for this, after a consolation 
goal from the Cougars in the 71st minute. 
Middlebury was caught sleeping on the 
corner, as a shot from Megan Lannigan 
was deflected into the goal.
The dominant performance wiped 
away the painful memories of last year’s 
NCAA Regional final’s 1-0 loss to the 
Cougars.
“I thinking going into the game we 
were just happy how far we had already 
come, but the fact we had that history 
with them made us want to win that 
much more, and I think that showed in 
how we played,” Noble said.
On Sunday, Johns Hopkins and 
Middlebury braved brutal conditions of 
harsh winds and a temperature (without 
wind-chill) of 20 degrees. The Blue 
Jays benefited in the first half with the 
wind at their backs, posting a 9-0 shot 
advantage.
Hopkins’ first real chance of the 
afternoon came just two minutes into the 
game after being awarded a free-kick, but 
saw their effort go just over the crossbar. 
Neither team threatened again until the 
20th minute when Hannah Kronick and 
Kelly Baker worked a give-and-go, but 
Kronick was unable to handle the return 
pass.
Middlebury’s best chance of the half 
came in the 23rd minute when Soroka 
rocketed down the left hand side, but 
tried to play a pass to Kirk in the middle 
instead of shooting. Chances were few 
and far between for Middlebury, as the 
Blue Jays kept pushing the Panthers 
back.
Johns Hopkins finished the half with 
the last real chance, as goalie Elizabeth 
Foody ’14 produced a top notch save, 
catching Baker’s fizzing shot in mid-air.
The Panthers came out in the second 
half looking to make amends for their 
poor first half performance.
In the 61st minute, Middlebury was 
denied a penalty kick after Robinson’s 
shot hit the hand of a Blue Jay defender, 
the ball instead deflected behind for a 
corner. Parizeau saw her shot denied, 
her rebound falling to Robinson who’s 
follow up attempt rattled the cage.
On the other end, Kronick continued 
to pile on the pressure, first seeing 
her effort from 20 yards out stopped 
by Foody and just three minutes later 
launching a shot over the goal.
With overtime looming, Middlebury 
began to crank into gear, pushing 
forward. On their last offensive threat, 
Favorito touched a challenged ball ahead 
to Kirk for the senior forward to net her 
16th goal of the season and the 47th of 
her career.
Middlebury’s final push is reflective 
of a season that has seen the majority 
of the Panthers’ goals scored in the final 
five minutes.
“One of my professors came up to me 
after the game and said that something 
in the last five minutes seemed to 
literally just switch with us, but I think 
that’s just how our season’s being going, 
we’ve won so many games in the last 
couple minutes,” Lindsay Kingston ’14 
said. “We talk about how it has to be a 
90 minute game and play through it all 
and I think that’s really helped us beat 
many teams.”
Favorito thinks this weekend’s 
performance showed that Middlebury’s 
spot in the Final Four is no fluke.
“I think beating a big name team like 
John Hopkins that we have heard about 
for years really boosted our confidence 
in terms of playing teams like Trinity-
Texas who we’ve never played before but 
have heard a lot about,” Favorito said. 
“We proved to ourselves that we are up 
there with the nationally ranked teams. 
Not sure what to expect but I’m so 
excited to get on a plane with this team, 
it has been a dream of the seniors for a 
long time.”
Middlebury will face second ranked 
Trinity University on Friday, Dec. 6 
in the National Semifinal. Despite the 
significance of the game, head coach 
Peter Kim insists that nothing will 
change in the team’s preparation.
“We’re going to continue what we’ve 
been doing all year: take each game 
one at a time,” Kim said. “We’ve never 
expected anyone to be a weak opponent 
so there’s not going to be any surprises 
when we play against a good team. I 
don’t think we even want to play against 
a weak team at this point.”
 december 5, 2013 | 21SPORTS
Women’s Soccer Advances to Final Four
By Alex Morris
WOMEN’S
Injuries and absences abound for 
the men. Plus, the women will get 
Kirk back  soon.
YES
None of their opponents are 
currently ranked.
Owen Teach (83-89, .482)
Damon Hatheway (131-116, .530)
Joe macdonald (18-22, .450)
Who will have a better winning 
percentage at the time that the next 
Campus goes to print; men’s or 
women’s basketball?
Will the men’s hockey team win 
the Holiday Classic at Middlebury 
in early January?
Who will be playing in the BCS 
National Championship on Jan. 6?
Will the women’s soccer team 
be crowned NCAA Champions 
this Saturday?
MEN’S
They’re young and inexperienced, 
YES
This is the most talented team since 
my freshman year.
MEN’S
After an early hiccup, this team will 
get back to its winning ways. As 
will I.
YES
Why host a tournament that you 
can’t win?
FSU-Ohio State
Yeah, Joe Mac. Unbelievable that 
the NESCAC champ doesn’t get a 
BCS bid. 
NO
But may the odds be ever in their 
favor.
FSU-AUBURN
Gotta give the Tigers a shot after the 
epic ’Bama win. Afraid it might be 
Ohio State in their spot though.
YES
Let’s see them bring home the 
bacon!
NO
Peter Kim accidentally punched 
one of his players in the face 
after the Hopkins game he was 
celebrating so hard. Amazing.
FSU-AUBURN
Somehow Middlebury gets 
snubbed. Again. It’s all politics.
NO
I hope I’m wrong. But Trinity 
hasn’t lost all year. On the other 
side, William Smith went 17-1.
editors’ picks
MEN’S
I’ve let down my loyal fans (Hi 
mom! Wait... even she doesn’t read 
this) these past few weeks. I vow to 
improve.
YES
Why not.
FSU-AUBURN
Another football question...really? 
I don’t even know anymore. 
#editorspicksburnout
Alex Morris (18-22, .450)
“We’ve never ex-
pected anyone to 
be a weak oppo-
nent so there’s not 
going to be any 
surprises when 
we play against a 
good team.”
Peter kim
Head coach
The Middlebury men’s basketball team 
hoped to have plenty to be thankful for over 
the break with two games in the Hoopsville 
National Invitational Classic on Friday, 
Nov. 22 and Sunday, Nov. 24. Unfortunately 
the Panthers fell short in both contests, 
Mustangs on Friday, and then by dropping 
an overtime thriller against tenth-ranked 
St. Mary’s (Md.). The Stevenson loss was 
since 2008.
The Panthers rebounded on Sunday, 
Dec. 1, with a victory on the road against 
Rensselaer, 92-79, and added to their win 
total with a 90-80 defeat of Castleton St. at 
home on Tuesday, Dec. 3.
Stevenson, who entered the game 1-0, 
offense and won the battle on the boards 
despite a disadvantage in height — grabbing 
47 rebounds to Middlebury’s 42 and pulling 
down 19 on the offensive end. The Mustangs 
never looked back, dropping Middlebury to 
Captain Joey Kizel ’14 continued his slow 
start to the season. On the positive end, Kizel 
shot well from the line (7-8), a department 
in which the Panthers as a whole struggled 
(59.1%), and picked the Mustangs for six 
six turnovers.
The struggles continued for Vermont-
native Matt St. Amour ’17 as well. In the 
starting lineup for the third consecutive 
game, St. Amour managed just two points 
Jake Brown ’17, in just his second game 
due to injury, played a solid 25 minutes off 
the bench and handled the ball with poise. 
The newcomer gathered 14 points on 6-9 
to lead our offense,” head coach Jeff Brown 
said. “[He] has made a quick adjustment to 
the college game.”
Hunter Merryman ’15 provided the team 
with an offensive spark. Since coming off 
the bench in the season opener, Merryman 
has started every game and has been a 
consistent scorer. On Friday, Merryman 
and 5-11 beyond the arc.
The Mustangs outplayed Middlebury 
physically and attacked the Panthers’ 
interior, forcing Kizel and others into foul 
trouble. Kizel fouled out late in the game, 
while some early whistles relegated Matt 
Daley ’16 to just 18 minutes in the contest.
Middlebury had a day to recover before 
squaring off with number 10 St. Mary’s.
Stepping into the starting lineup for St. 
Amour, Nate Bulluck ’14 had a great start 
points and giving Middlebury a 9-4 lead. 
The Panthers led 34-31 at halftime, but with 
10 minutes remaining St. Mary’s knotted 
the score at 52 all.
Kizel found his form in the game’s 
second half, particularly down the stretch, 
scoring 20 second half points on 6-10 
shooting. With 1:30 left in the second, 
Kizel completed a three-point play to bring 
Middlebury within two. A minute later, 
Kizel went to the line down three and hit 
both free throws under pressure to make it a 
one-point game. After the subsequent foul, 
St. Mary’s hit both of its free throws, leaving 
the Panthers with 12.9 seconds to make up a 
knocked down a buzzer beater to send the 
game into OT.
Responding well to his change of role, St. 
Amour played 29 strong minutes, tallying 
eight points, including a critical three points 
in OT to give the Panthers a one point lead, 
followed on the next possession by two 
successful free throws.
Merryman played 39 minutes on the 
night, but did not have his typical solid 
shooting game. As the clock ticked down in 
from beyond the arc with a chance to tie 
the game once again and go to a second 
overtime period, but failed to tickle the 
twine, with the buzzer giving Middlebury 
the 81-78 loss.
For the second game in a row, Jake 
minutes off the bench, scoring 12 points 
on 6-7 shooting in 23 minutes. Nidenberg 
seemed to be taking advantage of the void 
left by Dylan Sinnickson’s ’15 voluntary 
leave of absence and the injury of James 
Sunday, but did not play.
“Jake has developed into a strong 
offensive post player,” Coach Brown said. 
“His ability to get us high percentage shots 
inside is his greatest asset.”
Coach Brown looked for more positives 
despite the disappointing outcomes.
“I don’t view the two losses in Baltimore 
as a negative,” Coach Brown said. “We had 
some bright spots in both games. Playing a 
strong non-league schedule on the road can 
be helpful going into the NESCAC schedule 
in January.”
winning ways against the less-heralded RPI 
Engineers (0-4) on Sunday, Dec. 1, with a 
92-79 win — improving to 3-2 on the year.
The Panthers led throughout most of 
the affair, though the outcome was in doubt 
until late in the second frame. With 4:28 left 
in the game, Middlebury led by just six, but 
their good day from the charity stripe (20-
23) allowed them to seal the deal.
and distributed all game long, attempting 
just one shot but racking up six assists in 
not know he would be counted on so heavily 
early on.
“Honestly, coming in I had no idea 
what to expect,” Brown said. “I think I 
can alleviate some of the pressure [Joey] 
faces every night. I knew I had an amazing 
opportunity playing with Joey so every 
chance I get I try and learn from his play.”
Brown believes he can be successful 
without scoring, as he was against RPI.
that can score,” Brown said. “Setting up 
shots for Joey is a big part of our offense, 
so any time I can get him the ball I think it 
makes his job easier.”
Merryman returned to his scoring ways, 
hitting three shots from deep en route to a 
action of the year, providing 17 high-energy 
minutes, 10 points, and three boards while 
also drawing a charge, earning the praise of 
Coach Brown.
“Jensen adds a lot to our playing group,” 
Coach Brown said. “After Joey he is our 
most experienced player. He is a tough 
matchup because of his mid-range game 
and his ability to drive to the basket.”
Nidenberg, again, shot well (6-12) in 
16 minutes off the bench. Kizel, too, put 
together a strong stat line, with 14 points, 
nine rebounds, seven assists and three 
steals.
On Tuesday, Dec. 3 the Panthers 
defeated in-state opponent Castleton St. (1-
3). The Spartans one victory on the season 
was impressive, coming over WPI who was 
ranked ninth at the time. 
Castleton came into the game shooting 
34% from behind the arc, but rode strong 
three-point shooting in this match-up to an 
deep. 
Castleton St. took a one point lead into 
half) and the performance of Jensen kept 
career-best 22 points, shooting 12-15 from 
the line, and locked down Castleton’s top 
offensive threat, forward Cornelius Green, 
who fouled out with zero points.
Coach Brown is happy to have Jensen 
back.
“On offense,” Coach Brown said, “he is 
a tough matchup because of his mid range 
game and his ability to drive to the basket.”
Castleton could only muster two free 
throws, allowing Middlebury to pull away 
with the 90-80 victory.
Kizel had a typical game, scoring 19. 
Jack Roberts ‘14 tossed away an astonishing 
nine shots to go with 12 points and seven 
rebounds.
Despite the team’s losses in Maryland, 
there is optimism amongst the team and 
coaching staff.
“For a lot of guys on this year’s team,” 
Jensen said, “not only were out two 
win the Invitational, but I was happy with 
how some of our younger players stepped 
up against good competition.”
The Panthers will be 5-2 when they 
travel to Skidmore on Saturday, Dec. 7 for 
|  december 5, 2013 22 sports
Men’s Hoops Falls Twice at Hoopsville Classic
By Joe MacDonald
Squash Teams Split Matches at Hamilton
The men’s and women’s squash teams 
Hamilton on Saturday, Nov. 23. The 
Continentals provided the Panthers with 
their first NESCAC competition of the 
season. 
The Panthers, ranked 12th nationally, 
started the day off with four consecutive 
losses in match-play at the sixth, seventh, 
eighth, and ninth slots, with Hamilton’s 
players playing very impressive squash. 
Amanda Chen ’14, despite losing at the 
sixth slot, showed determination, taking 
her opponent, Hannah Coffin, to five 
games. The marathon game was featured 
as the Harrow Sports Collegiate Squash 
Match of the Week, for which Coffin 
earned NESCAC Player of the Week 
honors. 
Middlebury picked up its first win 
on the day at the fifth slot, with Saskia 
Pownall-Gray ’16 dominating her 
opposition from Hamilton, winning 
in straight sets. Pownall-Gray was 
incredibly efficient, winning each 
game by a considerable margin. 
Middlebury kept up the dominant 
play at the third and fourth slots, 
with Tiffany Hau ’16 and Zoe Carey ’16 
both winning in straight sets. Carey 
in particular impressed, allowing her 
opponent to score only five points in 
each of the last two games. Middlebury 
split the final two games at the first 
and second slots, with Abby Jenkins ’14 
winning her number one match in five 
games, and Annie Wymard ’15 taking her 
opponent to a fifth game but coming up 
short. 
Twentieth-ranked Hamilton upset the 
higher-ranked Panthers with a final tally 
of 5-4. The win marked Hamilton’s first 
over the Middlebury women’s squash 
program since Feb. 3, 2000.
On the men’s side, the seventeenth-
ranked Panthers completely dominated 
the number 24 Continentals. Having 
blanked Stanford 9-0 the weekend 
before, the Panthers were able to 
duplicate that feat, utterly controlling 
the match against a talented Hamilton 
team. 
Reed Palmer ’15 and Bent Krant ’17 
opened play at the eighth and ninth slots 
respectively with wins, followed by Wyatt 
French’s ’17 and Robert Galluccio’s ’15 
manhandling over their opponents in 
straight sets at the sixth and seventh 
slots. After a five game win by Harrison 
Croll ’16 at the fifth slot, Middlebury 
would then go on to win the final four 
matches all in three games. 
Andrew Cadienhead ’17, playing in 
the fourth slot, swept his opponent from 
Hamilton. In the third slot, senior Will 
Moore ’14 took care of business in short 
order. Andrew Jung ’16 held down the 
second slot, and Parker Hurst ’14 ended 
the day on a positive note with a clean 
sweep of Hamilton’s Martin Bawden. 
Senior leaders Hurst and Moore appear 
to be playing in good form, a good sign 
going forward for the Middlebury men’s 
squash team.
Both teams have busy weekends 
ahead, as the women will play four and 
the men five matches between Saturday, 
Dec. 7 and Sunday, Dec. 8.
The women will host conference foes 
22nd ranked Colby and 17th ranked 
Bowdoin on Saturday. On Sunday, St. 
Lawrence and Tufts will be in town to 
challenge the Panthers.
On the men’s side the Panthers will 
see some stiff competition. They will 
welcome conference foes Colby and 
20th ranked Bowdoin to Middlebury 
on Saturday and square off with out-of-
conference opponents Bard and sixth-
ranked St. Lawrence on Sunday. Finally, 
the men will play Tufts on Sunday 
evening at 4:00 p.m. 
By Stephen Etna
the middlebury
great  eight
8
swimming and diving
Someone has to be last. 
That’s just how it works in 
this game we call life.
1
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Owen’s Opinions
2
Women’s Soccer
Scarlett Fever strikes again 
to send Panthers to Texas.
Cross Country 
3rd and 7th at Nationals= 
2nd in Great 8. Can’t argue 
with that.
3
Women’s Hockey
Five straight wins to begin 
the year gets them #3.
4 
men’s hockey
Life would be better 
without Plattsburgh State.
5
Men’s hoops
Two losses in November? I 
am shocked and confused.
7
squash
Hey that new squash center is 
cool, huh?
6 women’s hoopsI feel like this team has a lot 
of upside. I just feel it.
161
109
16
17
Points conceded by the men’s basketball 
team in the Hoopsville Classic 
tournament.
victory over Alabama.
Finish recorded by Greg Krathwol ’14 at 
the NCAA cross country championship, 
history.
Number of seconds left on the clock when 
Scarlett Kirk ’14 scored the winning goal 
against Johns Hopkins.
Time it took the women’s hockey team 
to score three goals in the third period 
by the Numb3rs
3:24 
Watch 
THE ROAD 
TO SALEM
go/RoadtoSalem
competition, they scored 297 points for 
a seventh place finish. St. Olaf College 
won the meet with a paltry 84 points and 
perennial favorite North Central College 
finished a close second with 86 points.
Before the races, both teams had the 
opportunity to run the courses twice. 
This allowed the men to devise a strategy 
that they thought would give them the 
best opportunity to perform. 
“As a team, we wanted to get off the 
line quickly to avoid traffic, but then 
settle into an even race pace and work 
the later sections, using the rolling hills 
to our advantage,” Kevin Wood ’15 said. 
“We did not quite execute the plan as we 
hoped, but we still had a program-best 
finish, of which we are very proud.” 
In the early stages of the race, Wood, 
Greg Krathwohl ’14, Nate Sans ’14, and 
Wilder Schaaf ’14.5 were running near 
one another while Sebastian Matt ’16, 
Sam Craft ’14, and Luke Carpinello ’16 
formed a second pack of Panthers. As the 
race moved along, the men strung out. 
Krathwohl and Wood slowly moved away 
from Sans and Schaaf while Matt began 
to move up from his pack to the leading 
group of Middlebury men. At the end of 
the race, Krathwohl continued to move 
through the field, eventually finishing 
16th among all competitors. His finish 
earned him All-American honors and 
was the highest a Middlebury man had 
finished at the NCAA meet in program 
history. Finishing behind Krathwohl were 
Wood, Sans, Matt, and Schaaf to score 
and Craft and Carpinello completing the 
squad.
Despite a strong top-10 finish for the 
men, the team couldn’t help being a little 
bit dissatisfied with the result. 
“We were a bit disappointed with 
seventh, even though that was a school 
best,” Wilkerson said. “We had a few 
guys fade a bit too much. I think [we 
were disappointed] because we laid it out 
to contend for a higher finish. We raced 
more aggressively than we had in the past 
at NCAAs because we wanted to compete 
for those top spots. We also have one of 
the most competitive Conferences and 
Regions in the Nation and the men had 
to race really hard at both the Conference 
championships and the Regional meet 
just to be safe to even get to Nationals. 
Overall, the men’s teams from New 
England did not do well at Nationals and I 
think it was because of the weeks of really 
hard racing and competition leading up 
to NCAAs. Perhaps some fatigue there 
that other regions did not have.”
With the cross country season now 
completed, the teams will look toward 
the indoor track and field season as well 
as next year’s cross country season. They 
will have big expectations for next year 
where they will hope to improve on their 
finishes from this year. 
“As a team, I think we’re proud of what 
we have accomplished but, even more so, 
I think we are determined to improve 
upon this year and build a podium team 
for next year,” Wood said. 
Women’s, Men’s Cross Country Teams 
Secure Third, Seventh Place Finishes
 december 5, 2013 | 23SPORTS
Plattsburgh Bests Men’s Ice 
Hockey in PrimeLink Finals 
The Middlebury men’s hockey team 
kept its legs churning over Thanksgiving 
break, moving past Norwich in a 
shootout on Friday, Nov. 29 to reach the 
finals of the 2013 PrimeLink tournament 
on Saturday, Nov. 30 before falling to 
unbeaten Plattsburgh. The team now 
stands at 3-1-2 on the season, having 
added two narrow wins on the road at 
Tufts on Friday, Nov. 22 and Connecticut 
College on Saturday, Nov. 
23. 
Michael Longo ’14 
stayed positive after the 
PrimeLink final loss to 
Plattsburgh.
“We started a little 
slow and they got three 
quick goals on us,” Longo 
said. “But, for most of 
the game we played right 
there with them and 
[Louis Belisle ’14] scored 
an incredible goal.”
Eleven minutes into 
the third period, with 
Middlebury three goals 
down after just six 
minutes in the first period, 
Belisle carried the puck through the slot, 
windmilled around two defenders to his 
left and snapped the puck up into the top 
shelf. Goalie Nicholas BonDurant ’14, 
who shut Plattsburgh down for the final 
two periods, recognized the opposing 
goaltender and MVP of the tournament. 
“That was the only kind of shot that 
was going to beat their goalie, he played 
an amazing game,” Bondurant said. 
After the finals loss to Plattsburgh, 
Coach Bill Beaney told Channel 3 
reporters, “Our execution wasn’t what I 
had hoped it would be, but part of that 
was just that I think Plattsburgh played 
well.”
The Panthers went to a shootout 
against Norwich on Friday after 
finishing regulation play tied at one 
goal apiece. In the second period, Evan 
Neugold ’16 corralled a high shot toward 
the crease and bullied his defender while 
Longo found the loose puck for the goal. 
Norwich tied the game eight minutes 
later when a Norwich forward lurking 
well wide of the far post deflected a low 
shot behind his back and across the line.
Last year, the Cadets ousted 
Middlebury from the Primelink 
tournament by scoring 
three goals in the final 10 
minutes to win 5-4.  
“That was our motivation 
throughout the game,” 
Belisle said. “We got 
together after the third 
period and said ‘We’re not 
giving the Cadets another 
chance. We’re taking this 
one. This is our game, this 
is our year.’” 
The Panthers earned the 
first goal in the game in the 
second period after Longo 
struck home a rebound in 
the crease. Norwich tied 
the game up on the power 
play with 3:47 left in the second period. 
William Pelletier converted on a pass 
from Corey Hale, sneaking the puck just 
past Michael Peters ’15 inside the left 
post.
In the shootout against Norwich, Jake 
Charles ’16, who already has four goals 
on the season, drew a circle around the 
puck, ducked a shoulder, and a quick 
forehand shot wedged tightly into the 
top right corner for the first goal. The 
left-handed Belisle went forehand-
backhand-forehand to open up space 
below the blocker arm for the second. 
Middlebury keeper Peters was perfect on 
his end, denying both Norwich shooters 
and shaking his head wildly after taking 
the win. 
Peters showed confidence in his 
teammates under the bulbs of the 
Channel 3 news cameras.
 “This is a team where our mantra has 
been ‘Let’s go out and play some hockey’ 
and we believe that if we play the best 
hockey we can, we can skate with anyone 
in this league,” Peters said.
Middlebury showed its dominance 
within the NESCAC the previous 
weekend, beating Tufts and Connecticut 
College to become 3-0-1 in conference 
play. 
Nine total penalties hurt the Tufts 
team, as Captain Robbie Donahoe ’14 
and Derek Pimentel ’15 both cashed 
in goals on two-man advantages. At 
even strength, first-year to watch Mike 
Najjar ’17 tallied his first of the season, 
and Neugold scored another. Tufts 
tested Middlebury’s nerves in the third 
period, cutting the margin to 4-3, but the 
Panthers held on for the win.
At Connecticut College, the Panthers 
took down the camels in an overtime 5-4 
thriller. 
Middlebury carried a 3-2 advantage 
after the first period and clung to 
a 4-3 edge heading into the second 
intermission. With 50.6 seconds left in 
regulation, Greg Liautaud connected 
with JC Cangelosi near the left circle to 
put away the 4-4 equalizer.
With one minute to go overtime, 
Donahoe played a feed from the blue line 
and Charles was able to find the open net 
for the game-winner and his second goal 
on the day.
Middlebury pummeled the net with 
thirty-eight shots and gave up only 
fifteen, deserving every bit of the hard-
fought victory. 
The Panthers visit Amherst on Friday, 
Dec. 6 to battle for supremacy in the 
NESCAC and will face Hamilton away on 
Saturday, Dec. 7. 
By John Wyman
As I counted the bruises up my shins, 
I also kept counting down the days 
until the bubble would be torn down. 
I thought that I would never miss that 
two-and-a-half lane track — one of the 
lanes just disappearing into nothingness, 
the sharp corners, and concrete 
straightaways disguised with a thin layer 
of rubber. We dreamt of the new field 
house we had been shown on building 
plans and posters since the day we had 
our first recruitment meeting. We hardly 
thought about what we were going to do 
in the interim without a track, nervously 
giggling when we mentioned it off the 
cusp and our coach even shrugging with 
a grin when we asked about our plans 
for next year. “We’ll cross that bridge 
when we get to it.” With that bridge now 
ahead of us — and the baseball, softball, 
ultimate frisbee, and lacrosse teams all 
waiting to cross it with us — life outside 
the bubble all of the sudden feels very 
real. 
I love running for its simplicity. That 
it’s just you out there on the trail or in 
your starting blocks, and that all you 
need is a pair of shoes. Abebe Bikila 
even won the 1960 Olympic Marathon 
in Rome barefoot. You are the creator of 
your own destiny. No one else. 
However, it’s easy to say that 
simplicity has not been the theme of 
this year’s season. We leave now our 
fate in the hands of the weather gods, 
constantly checking the weather app on 
our phones for whether the temperature 
will peak at 2 p.m. or 3 p.m., when the 
sun will set, switching our off-day from 
Sunday to Wednesday in pursuit of an 
extra ray of sunshine and one more day 
on the outdoor track. 43 degrees used to 
be our outdoor cut-off point; we’re now 
pushing low 20s — snowflakes mixing 
with our cold sweat.
Indoors, Nelson Arena resembles 
something of a refugee center. Sprinters 
run on rolled out pieces of rubber or 
hug the walls of the arena trying to 
replicate 200m intervals. Hurdlers 
walk over hurdles set up in the middle 
of tennis courts. Throwers hurl javelins 
that occasionally get stuck in basketball 
hoops and jumpers launch themselves 
onto mats squished in the back. Other 
teams watch on patiently, waiting often 
until 7 p.m. or later for their turn.
Yet no one complains. 
We are still the creators of our own 
destiny and nobody can change that. 
I’ve often been called crazy for choosing 
track and field as the sport I wanted 
to pursue in college. And to be honest, 
I probably am crazy; most of this team 
crazy is for how much they love running. 
That love is what is making life outside 
the bubble tolerable. The desire to 
get better, faster, and stronger never 
stops. I’m still hungrier than ever, and 
lamenting the fact we have no real place 
to practice doesn’t win races. 
The future of Middlebury Track and 
Field is exciting; in the next year, and for 
the next 30 years and beyond, this team 
will be practicing in a facility that is 
capable of hosting NCAA competitions. 
Seniors, in their last year of racing and 
unable to reap the rewards of the new 
field house, still excitedly talk about the 
benefits of the construction. While racing 
is an individual event, this team is truly 
a family. While we run for ourselves, we 
ultimately each run for each other. We 
run bubble-less for this year for what it 
gives the next generations of Middlebury 
athletes, with the schedule changes, 
crowded spaces and sore shins are more 
than worth it. 
Sport is sometimes sacrifice, but it 
makes the victory so much sweeter.
 -Alex Morris ’16 is a sports 
editor from London, England.
Outside the bubble
panther sc0reboard
women’s hockey vs. Plattsburgh 
men’s basketball  vs. St. Mary’s 
women’s soccer vs. Johns Hopkins
 men’s hockey vs. Plattsburgh
Men’s squash at Hamilton
The number one Plattsburgh 
Cardinals best the Panthers, but they 
will meet again in February.
Bring us a championship, girls. They 
take on Trinity (TX) on Friday.
Taking number 10 St. Mary’s to 
OT should give Middlebury some 
to Plattsburgh. But the Panthers are 
undefeated in the NESCAC (3-0-1).
Panthers ruined the Continentals 
home opener with the sweep.
2-0 L 
81-78 L (OT) 
1-0 W
3-1 L
9-0 W
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 24
“This is a team 
where our mantra 
has been ‘Let’s go 
out an play some 
hockey’ and we 
believe ... we can 
skate with anyone 
in this league.”
Michael Peters ’15
Goalie
The second-ranked Middlebury 
women’s hockey team continued its 
in-conference dominance with two 
wins against Trinity the weekend 
before Thanksgiving. Middlebury 
hosted the ninth annual Panther/
Cardinal Classic the following 
weekend and welcomed some 
top-ranked squads to Kenyon 
Arena. On Saturday, Nov. 30, the 
Panthers defeated number four 
Elmira College 5-3. Middlebury 
experienced a hiccup in their 
winning ways on Sunday, Dec. 1 
with a loss against number one 
ranked Plattsburgh, dropping the 
Panthers to 5-1 on the year. 
was an exciting one, ending with 
a 3-2 win. Emily Fluke ’15 struck 
the fatal blow 1:18 into overtime, 
with a dart over the left shoulder of 
Trinity goalkeeper Kristen Maxwell 
off a pass from Carly Schaeder ’16. 
The other two goals came from 
period and from Katie Sullivan 
’15 on a power play in the second 
period. Kate Moreau ’15, Fluke, 
Sullivan, and Anna Van Kula ’16 all 
The Panthers played a 
completely different game on 
Saturday, Nov. 23, sweeping 
Trinity with an explosive 7-0 win. 
Middlebury outshot Trinity 41-14, 
goals in the game. Captain Sara 
with two goals each. The other 
goals went to Sullivan, Van Kula, 
Madeline Joyce ’14, and Martin. 
the day, while Hannah Bielawski 
’15 and Katie Mandigo ’16 had two 
each. 
Ugalde is hopeful that this fast 
start portends good things for the 
rest of the season. 
“It’s still pretty early in the 
season so we still have things 
to improve on,” Ugalde said. 
“But I think our team has a lot of 
potential, and our quick start helps 
us show that.”
The Panthers opened the 
Panther/Cardinal Classic with a 
game against the Soaring Eagles of 
Elmira. The Panthers were looking 
to avenge last year’s loss in the 
found it with a 5-3 victory. 
Middlebury took the early lead 
period from Bielawski on a power 
play, but Elmira soon responded 
with their own power play goal 
eight minutes later. The Soaring 
Eagles took the lead 13:21 into 
the second period with a 4-on-
4 goal. The teams traded goals 
early on in the third period, but 
then Middlebury’s offense caught 
goal to tie the game 3-3 with less 
than four minutes remaining in 
the last period.  Middlebury then 
iced the contest with two goals 
in the last three minutes. Ugalde 
and Bielawski both netted goals 
to secure Middlebury’s vengeance 
over the Soaring Eagles.
Unfortunately, the Panthers 
could not keep their winning streak 
alive and dropped a game against 
top-ranked Plattsburgh 2-0 the 
next day. Plattsburgh has allowed 
only one goal against them in 
Madeline Marsh ’16 played well 
with 19 saves, but Sydney Aveson 
of the Cardinals outplayed her with 
21 saves. Middlebury threatened 
a few times, notably in the second 
period with a shot from Ugalde that 
hit the post behind the Plattsburgh 
goalie, but could not score.
Despite the loss, Joyce remains 
optimistic for the rest of the season 
and the team’s impending rematch 
against Plattsburgh scheduled for 
Tuesday, Feb. 11. 
“I think the loss against 
Plattsburgh will make us better,” 
Joyce said. “Playing top-notch 
teams outside of the NESCAC is 
always a good challenge.  Losing to 
a team like Plattsburgh early on in 
the season will push us to get better 
and work harder, so hopefully 
when we play them again there will 
be a different outcome.”
Middlebury looks ahead to a 
home game against Castleton St. 
University on Saturday, Dec. 7th.
On Saturday, Nov. 23, the 
Middlebury cross country teams 
were in Hanover, IN, to run 
in the NCAA Div. III National 
Championships. On a blustery 
mid-west day, the women 
recorded a third place finish 
while the men finished seventh, 
the highest finish in program 
history.
Entering the meet, the women 
were ranked fourth in the 
country behind Johns Hopkins, 
Johns Hopkins came out on 
top with a score of 85 points, 
137 points, and the Panthers 
improved on their ranking by 
scoring 185 points for third. 
Calvin finished seventh, behind 
University of Chicago, MIT, and 
NYU.
Upon the starting gun, the 
ladies quickly moved near 
the front of the race. At the 
NCAA regional meet, they had 
been boxed in early in the race 
and were unable to maneuver 
through the field, so they 
wanted to ensure that this did 
not happen again. However, 
Middlebury went into the 
race knowing that the NCAA 
championship would present a 
challenge unlike any other they 
had faced this season. 
this year to being out in front 
of every race, even when we 
didn’t win, because most of 
the competition wasn’t at the 
same level as we were,” Alison 
Maxwell ’15 said. 
After the beginning stages of 
the race, they managed to settle 
into a rhythm and some of the 
girls were able to run together. 
Erzsie Nagy ’17, Maxwell, and 
Katherine Tercek ’16 led the 
girls for the first two kilometers 
with Emily Singer ’14 and Katie 
Rominger ’14 only a few seconds 
back a third of the way through 
the race. As the race progressed, 
the women were able to maintain 
their tight group, a crucial 
strategy in large races where 
a team finishing essentially as 
one can be far more devastating 
than one front runner followed 
by a group of stragglers.
Nagy, who had been the 
team’s top runner at both the 
NESCAC and Regional meets, 
broke away from her teammates 
to move into a low point scoring 
position. She maintained a place 
in the mid-twenties for much 
of the latter stages of the race 
before an unfortunate fall near 
the finish line. 
“Erzsie really just went to 
the well and came up 10 meters 
too short,” Head coach Nicole 
everything she had.” 
Even if Nagy maintained her 
position, the Panthers’ final 
team position would not have 
changed.
Maxwell was the team’s top 
finisher, completing the six-
kilometer course in a time of 
22:00. Behind her were Nagy, 
Singer, Rominger, and Tercek, 
with all the scorers finishing 
within 20 seconds of one 
another. Summer Spillane ’15 
and Sarah Guth ’15 rounded 
out the competitors for the 
Panthers.
After the women’s podium 
finish, it was time for the men 
to take to the course. Amid stiff 
sports 24
By Bryan Holtzman
Panthers Race to Top-
10 Finishes Nationally
File PHoto
Middlebury avenged their National Championship loss with a 
5-3 victory over Elmira at Kenyon Arena on Saturday, Nov. 3o.
MEN’S HOCKEY 
FALLS IN PRIMELINK 
TOURNAMENT FINAL
PAGE 22
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
SUFFERS FIRST 
PRE-JANUARY LOSS 
SINCE 2008
PAGE 21in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Panther/Cardinal Classic Final
By Ben Buckles
SEE WOMEN’S, PAGE 23
Take-off to texas
Rachel Frank
