December 8, 2011 | Vol. 111 no. 11 | middleburycampus.com
FARMERS’ 
MARKET HAS 
HOLIDAY TWIST
PAGE 6
OLD STONE MILL 
SHOWCASES 
COLLEGE ARTISTS
PAGES 14-15
STUDENTS 
REPRODUCE 
QUIXOTE CLASSIC
PAGE 20
in
sid
e
After a three-week investigation, 
Old Chapel found Kappa Delta Rho 
(KDR) and Omega Alpha (Tavern) 
innocent of all hazing charges. 
“After careful consideration and 
review of the evidence, the College 
has found that the activities report-
ed regarding KDR and Tavern did 
not constitute hazing as that term 
Dean of the College and Chief Di-
statement. 
to the Inter-House Council (IHC), 
-
-
ishment.
According to Collado’s state-
ment, the IHC approved the Col-
-
ern member Zach Marlette ’13. “It 
has been such a long and arduous 
process that it was just good to hear 
what we though all along was found 
According to Marlette, all 
pledges and house members were 
Marlette praised Collado and 
-
-
Marlette is a former rush chair 
at the house and plans to run for 
president during Winter Term. He 
said the outcome of the meeting 
was a greater sense of cooperation 
between Tavern and Old Chapel.  
“The Administration has a lot 
going on other than the social hous-
es. It’s not in their best interest or 
ours to have a three-week hazing 
-
ward, it will be all about coopera-
tion and making sure this doesn’t 
-
“We’re glad that this is all be-
hind us and we plan on moving 
forward with a bunch of activities 
said. 
In the immediate future, Col-
lado emphasized re-education and 
re-evaluation. 
-
force the goals and values of the 
-
es. All members of both houses will 
be required to attend an intensive 
hazing education program during 
college will also engage the IHC 
in a thorough review of the entire 
multiple acts of vandalism, most 
painted around Marble Works and 
“We do have two witnesses that 
saw the person and we’re also work-
-
-
prised to hear that someone had 
come forward now and the punish-
ment would just be some commu-
-
print the team and compare them. 
He said if it got to that point, it 
the MPD’s response. 
“We are certain that none of the 
frustrating when it’s assumed we’re 
-
-
checked who was still on campus 
for break and cross-referenced that 
name, which made me the prime 
on campus over break.
-
numerous people who can vouch 
that an interview does not implicate 
“It’s just a lead we went on. I’m 
Social houses acquitted
Trespass order creates controversy
Rugby investigated for 
Anna Clements
By Kyle Finck
By Kyle Finck
courtesy : Abigail Borah
STANDALONE ONLY
By Jess Berry
SEE TEAM, 5
SEE INCIDENT, 2
A No Trespass order issued 
(FYC). As a result of his hosting 
Dec. 5.
throw it out the window and that, 
in a separate incident, someone 
naked in the shower area of a men’s 
was then followed to further 
investigate the reports.
on that, we do what we would 
locate people who might know who 
was approached in the bathroom, 
about to get in the shower. At that 
location.
several hours.
that he would be heading home to 
During a second set of 
p.m., when the No Trespass Order 
would be issued.
the MPD for assistance.
“We needed to get in touch with 
to issue a No Trespass order, which 
SEE SOCIAL, 2
Sixty-six percent of Egyptian voters cast 
round of historic elections that took place 
last week, leaving the West fearing a political 
transformation that will leave the world with 
an Islamic Republic, much like Iran.
In light of the violent protests that have 
taken place in the past few weeks, many wor-
ried that the election turnout would be low. 
On the contrary, the occupation of Tahrir 
Square decreased to only a few thousand as 
protesters chose to take their opinions out of 
the streets and to the polls.
While some view the election participation 
as a stride toward democratic freedom, oth-
ers feel that the election itself is only a display 
of democracy and that the outcome does not 
parties, who only won 15 percent of the vote, 
-
dence,” Magda Mokabel told a reporter with 
The New York Times. “But I came because 
then I will have done my duty, so I will ask to 
claim my rights.”
Others came because authorities threat-
who chose not to participate in the election. 
Despite doubt, cynicism and threats, many 
demonstrated pride and optimism for Egypt’s 
future.
This future may not align with western 
or liberal expectations, as election results re-
vealed that over 60 percent of voters identify 
with religious parties. A shocking 20 percent 
of votes went to Islamic extremist groups, re-
ported CNN. 
During a campaign rally in Giza, an Is-
stated, “To give your vote for Islamists is a 
religious issue,” reported the Times.  He con-
tinued that he advocated “the rule of God, not 
the rule of the people.”
The more moderate Muslim Brotherhood 
Peace and Justice Party garnered 40 percent 
of the vote. Saad Al Hussaini, a party leader, 
of work.  Once outlawed by the Egyptian gov-
ernment, their resistance to Mubarak seems 
to have inspired the Egyptian people and, ac-
cording to Hussaini, won their trust.
One voter expressed her hope that the 
Brotherhood would “change everything.” She 
told CNN cameras, “Health, housing, jobs, 
girls who walk around with their heads un-
covered, girls who walk around in the wrong 
During an interview with CNN, Amre 
Moussa, the former secretary-general of the 
Arab League, expressed hope that this show-
ing of support for the religious parties would 
awaken and unite supporters who wish for a 
separation between church and state. He was 
quick to remind his interviewer that Egypt is 
-
tions. Despite his own disappointment with 
the results, Moussa emphasized the impor-
tance of democracy, stating, “We can’t have 
our cake and eat it, too … we have to respect 
the will of the people.”
Leaders of the Brotherhood, unlike ex-
tremists, have offered assurances that they 
will do nothing to infringe upon the rights of 
non-Muslims. In fact, they claim to encourage 
the opposition and recognize the importance 
of different perspectives in Egypt’s gover-
nance.  
Despite his fearing the prospect of reli-
gious groups’ involvement in the government, 
Moussa is optimistic, commenting in his in-
terview, “The Middle East of last year is gone 
for good. We will have a new Arab world and 
a vigorous Arab world [as well as] a new set 
of relations.” 
Final parliamentary elections are sched-
uled for March. The results of the last round 
of voting will determine what type of “new 
world” will emerge and, if governed by Islam-
ic law, what sort of relations it will have with 
the West.
BY MELANIE HAAS
BEYOND 
THE
BUBBLE
| december 8, 20112 NEWS
Marlette agreed with Collado but believes 
reviewing IHC protocols should only be the 
“We all realize that the IHC protocol 
be augmented, especially because it hasn’t 
changed with the new rules for this year.”
The College suspended all functions at 
KDR on Nov. 1 and at Tavern on Nov. 3, open-
ing hazing investigations into both houses. 
The College’s investigation prompted a 
hailstorm of criticism from members and 
pledges alike. Namely, the pledge class sent 
a letter to Collado — signed by nearly every 
and staunchly defending its innocence. 
“Collado and Smith Abbott said they saw 
a lot of passion from members and pledges 
about this,” said Marlette. “We do feel very 
strongly, we do feel very passionate about 
this house. Did it have an effect? Absolutely.” 
Marlette said the biggest loser from the 
investigation is the current pledge class. The 
investigations ended all pledging, leaving the 
House in unchartered territory after the rul-
ing. 
“With pledge this semester now suspend-
ed, we have two options regarding what to 
do with this pledge class,” he said. “We will 
either have to let this pledge class enter the 
house as members as they are now without a 
complete pledge or initiation process under 
their belts, or say ‘sorry guys, you’re going 
to have to pledge next semester. Given how 
much this pledge class has stood up for us, we 
have chosen to go with the former option.” 
In the future, Marlette said the challenge 
will be making sure everybody at Tavern feels 
comfortable, an admittedly frustrating and 
“Right now, if one of the pledge events 
was to draw in coloring books and someone 
felt humiliated and were to tell the adminis-
tration, there would be a three-week inves-
tigation,” he said. “Something’s gotta come 
into play to say ‘they clearly weren’t trying to 
haze anybody. If someone felt hazed simply 
because they had to color in a coloring book, 
would you really say that we were the unrea-
sonable ones in that scenario for choosing 
that as an event?” 
Social houses 
move forward 
following
allegations
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Free Friday Film 
Our Idiot Brother at 
Dana Auditorium
FRIDAY AT 7 & 10 P.M.
Pub Night Preview
Tall Heights to play in 
Crossroads Cafe. 21+ 
bring two forms of ID.
FRIDAY 9-11 P.M.
Zumba 
Come dance the calories 
away at McCullough 
Social Space.
SUNDAY AT 4 P.M.
HAPPENING AT 
MIDDLEBURY?
WHAT’SMCAB’s
Incident prompts 
concerns of racism
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
may return to campus, that shouldn’t be on 
campus.”
Chief of Police Thomas Hanley explained 
that Elamir was not in town at the Ilsley 
Public Library, as originally expected, 
Elamir on campus.
went to the [Davis Family] Library and 
located the man there, and … Public Safety 
served him with the notice,” wrote Hanley in 
an email.
“Our involvement was limited. There 
who was in training.”
training escorted Elamir into the lobby of the 
Davis Family Library, where they waited for 
“During that time, [Elamir] just kept 
saying ‘I don’t know what I did wrong, I was 
just using the computer, can you give me an 
explanation for why this is happening?’” said 
Anna Clements ’12.5, who was in the lobby 
at the time.
Noting the potentially excessive number 
opinion, the [MPD] were being insensitive 
towards him … When we were in the lobby, 
don’t know if that’s true.”
Burchard agreed that there was no need 
and plans to discuss this with the MPD in 
order to avoid future situations where more 
Following the incident in the library, 
Elamir was escorted back to Stewart to 
gather his belongings. Smith met him there 
and his friend, Sam Koplinka-Loehr ’13, 
followed close behind. As Elamir gathered 
his things, both Smith and Koplinka-Loehr 
say they felt harassed and disrespected by 
said that he would arrest all of us if we did 
not leave the building,” wrote Koplinka-
Loehr in his statement. “Despite [Smith]’s 
limited mobility [due to a broken foot] they 
continued to rush us and push for a faster 
pace, saying that we were ‘wasting their 
time.’ 
Amy [Buck of Public Safety] said she felt 
that [Smith]’s friendship with Elamir was 
‘disturbing.’”
Once his belongings were gathered, 
Elamir left campus with Smith and some of 
Smith’s friends. Smith says he hasn’t heard 
from Elamir since.
On Wednesday, Nov. 23, Smith posted an 
anonymous editorial piece on the blog The 
with Middlebury College,” according to 
the publication’s website. His editorial, 
titled “Institutional Racism: Alive and 
Well at Middlebury College,” alleged that 
College.
details about the events, and Smith admitted 
that this was a conscious editorial decision.
“I still think that what I said was valid, 
even without the greater nuances [of the 
entire situation],” Smith said. “I think that 
we need to be having these conversations 
about race and class on campus, and this 
was something that happened that gave an 
avenue to have these conversations. So I 
recognize that I did leave out parts of it, and 
if someone thinks that that’s misleading, I’d 
like to talk to them about it.”
Before it was taken down a week later, 
in the comments section following the piece.
Rachel Callender ’12 was extensively 
involved in the discussion, initially criticizing 
the role Public Safety and the MPD played in 
the incident. 
“There are members of this campus who 
I know personally that have visitors here for 
over a month and they don’t get so much as 
an email,” she wrote on the blog. “Why? Is it 
because their friends look like the majority of 
MiddKids do and are therefore snuck under 
the radar? Should this be accepted?”
Concerned with the details that were 
lacking in the blog post, Callender sought 
a meeting with Director of Public Safety 
Lisa Burchard, who met with Callender and 
answered all of her questions.
“The meeting was extremely productive 
and extremely respectful,” said Callender. 
“[After speaking with Burchard,] I was 
convinced that it was not a racially motivated 
incident.” 
“It’s so easy, especially within the minority 
group on campus, to feel victimized ... there’s 
a huge sensitivity of the issue on campus,” 
black, half white.” “So I don’t blame those 
who feel threatened by such an incident. I 
do feel, however, that it is our duty to always 
search for the facts.”
Burchard appreciated Callender’s 
questions, and felt that the meeting was a 
“Any time we do our work, if people raise 
concerns, we look at it … and try to determine 
whether or not we were following our policy 
and procedure,” said Burchard, and if “we 
could do our job better.”
In this case, however, Burchard said 
correctly.
Callender did feel, however, that had 
Elamir been a white male, his treatment 
would have been less acceptable and caused 
greater outcry.
She was not the only student who felt 
that the incident was an example of racism 
on campus, either. Matt Birnbaum ’12 
expressed his concern with student reactions 
to Elamir’s presence on campus.
“If questionable behavior was indeed 
observed by fellow students, why were 
neither [the] guest nor [the] host approached 
to discuss the matter?” he wrote in an email, 
noting that it is not uncommon for students 
to have guests for over one month without 
concern from Public Safety. The responses 
concerning.
“One student [alleged] that this ‘guest’ 
had to leave because he was ‘smelly’ (since 
when is it Middlebury policy to remove 
‘smelly’ people with the help of police?),” 
Birnbaum wrote. “It was as if the social biases 
that many members of our community have 
long acknowledged, were on full display, out 
from behind ‘the curtain of privilege.’”
On Monday, Dec. 5, Dean of Students 
Katy Smith Abbott informed Smith that he 
Commons. Smith said Smith Abbott 
expressed concern about his decision in 
bringing an older man he barely knew to a 
responded to the people who said they felt 
uncomfortable.”
Smith said that at dinner one night during 
Elamir’s stay, some girls who live in Stewart 
talked with him about their experience with 
urinated in a cup and proceeded to throw the 
cup out of the window.
“The way in which the situation was 
presented to me was that it was something 
really strange, but I never got the feeling 
that they felt that their safety was being 
threatened,” said Smith. “But that’s one 
of not interrogating the situation more fully 
and involving more of my Res life team in a 
response.”
Smith had multiple meetings throughout 
the week of Nov. 27 with the Brainerd 
Residential Life staff and Dean of Brainerd 
Commons Natasha Chang, who Smith said 
supported him throughout the week and had 
Smith then had a meeting set up with 
Smith Abbott, Chang and Head of Brainerd 
Commons Roman Graf in the afternoon on 
Dec. 5. He said he felt “blind-sided” by this 
meeting, which he believed was going to be 
an opportunity for him to give his side of the 
story.
“I’m really, really concerned about my hall 
… [and] the process by which this was done,” 
he said. “I wasn’t given the opportunity to 
speak to any of the other deans, and it wasn’t 
transparent at all. I feel like there was no 
semblance of due process.”
I came to Amman, Jordan with 
few expectations – to improve my 
Arabic, receive marriage proposals 
in exchange for many camels and 
escape the frigid Middlebury winter. 
Well, mufaja-a! Surprise! 
Even after three months, it still 
takes local people some time to real-
ize that I am speaking Arabic and not 
Greek. Mufaja-a! I have not received 
any marriage proposals, though I 
was offered a puppy during a trip to 
Egypt solely because the 10-year-old 
who asked for my hand did not own 
any camels.
Unbeknownst to me, Jordan is 
cold in the winter. Being raised in 
the tropics and making assumptions 
about Middle Eastern latitudes, I did 
not bring a jacket. Mufaja-a! That 
will teach me not to move to another 
country without doing adequate re-
search again. 
Mufaja-a has been a good way to 
describe the Middlebury program 
in Amman. It has all been one big 
mufaja-a after another – from the 
HIV test we did not know we would 
be required to take, to the emergen-
cy meeting held one month into the 
program in which we were informed 
that our building was implicated in 
a prostitution ring. (Oh, so that’s 
what all those Saudi men were do-
ing hanging out by our building!) 
Mufaja-a!
After receiving clean bills of 
health from the Jordanian Health 
Department and moving into new 
housing without “ladies of ill-re-
pute,” the cold weather remained a 
problem for me. For a while I went 
around wearing four layers of sweat-
ers, but last Friday I succumbed and 
took a cab down to one of the souks 
to buy an oversized jacket.
Three Middlebury friends and I, 
all girls, piled into a cab and spoke in 
broken Arabic for the duration of the 
ride, the driver smoking and eyeing 
us through the rear-view mirror the 
whole time. The concept of smoke-
free zones has not caught on in the 
Middle East, as we smelled like we 
had spent an extended period of 
time in a bar by the time we got out.
Cab rides have proven to be some 
of my more peculiar experiences 
abroad. Sometimes the driver will 
show us pictures of his family, some-
times he will decide that he would 
rather steer with his knees instead of 
his hands, sometimes he will stop to 
buy coffee on the side of the road and 
sometimes he will ask us if we are 
married or if we have “become wom-
en yet.” With good reason, “none of 
your business” and “shame on you, I 
am like your sister” were some of the 
-
quial Arabic. 
I’m not going to miss the taxi cab 
situations, nor will I miss the neigh-
borhood men who sit around all day 
-
tute and who is not. In some ways, I 
am ready to return to the U.S. where 
there are insulated houses, Christ-
mas trees and functioning clothes 
dryers. 
Even if I cannot feel it now, I am 
sure that in a few months mufaja-a 
will hit me once again, brought on by 
something completely unexpected. 
If Jordan has taught me anything, it 
is that this is how these things work.
overseas
briefing
BY IRACEMA DREW ’13
Amman, Jordan
december 8, 2011 |  3        News
Bike room plans move forward
By Allison Forrest
The Student Government Association 
(SGA) and Old Chapel are currently discuss-
ing the details of how to implement the You-
Power Bike Room and FIC Gym bill, which 
the SGA passed on Nov. 20. 
Old Chapel has concerns regarding the 
next steps to implement the bill, which pro-
poses the purchase of 12 stationary bikes 
that will generate usable energy power, in 
addition to the creation of a weight room 
the basement of the Freeman International 
Center (FIC). The bike room will include a 
display to track the total kilowatts of energy 
generated. Each cyclist will also be able to 
monitor how much energy he or she indi-
vidually produces. The creation of the gym 
is expected to cost approximately $50,000, 
which includes both the spin and weight 
room components.
The bill is the result of extensive planning 
by Astrid Schanz-Garbassi ’12, who original-
ly proposed the project to the administration 
and SGA in the spring.
On Tuesday, Dec. 6, SGA Treasurer Scott 
Klenet ’12 met with Vice President for Ad-
ministration Tim Spears, who oversees Fa-
cilities Services, in a meeting that both de-
scribed as “productive.” Spears explained 
that Facilities staff had worked with Astrid 
to identify FIC as the space for her project, 
but that many logistical questions about the 
space — its suitability, needs, and mainte-
nance — remained before the SGA’s propos-
al could be implemented.
Though he expressed support for the 
combination of the Ross gym proposal with 
the YouPower project, Spears expressed 
concern with the vagueness of the SGA bill, 
particularly regarding the peculiarities of the 
FIC space. The room is small, has two lev-
els and very little air circulation and adjoins 
the Bunker, which receives a lot of late-night 
the gym and its equipment.
“It seemed that there had been no follow-
up between the SGA and anyone in Facilities 
to see whether a gym — mats, and weights 
space, along with the spinning program,” 
said Spears.
Furthermore, though the SGA has allo-
cated funds to purchase the equipment for 
the gym, it remains unclear how the project 
The original bill proposed that the SGA 
create a new campus organization called 
YouPower Midd, which would be responsi-
ble for the management and continuing op-
erations of the exercise space, including hir-
ing and paying monitors, such as those who 
work at the Fitness Center — necessary to 
guard against the liabilities that accompany 
potentially dangerous equipment. The SGA 
therefore proposed that the administration 
purchase the energy generated by the bikes 
in order to defray the costs of maintaining 
the facility.
Spears argues that the College would 
-
taining such a project, should it successfully 
be implemented.
“It seems to me that if the SGA was to pay 
the start-up costs in borrowing the equip-
-
age that operation once it’s been set up,” he 
said. “The College would assume the over-
sight of the monitors and the space and pay 
for it. The SGA should not be expected to 
fund the maintenance of this program going 
forward.”
After the meeting with Spears, Klenet 
agreed that this arrangement now repre-
sents the “basic framework” of the SGA’s 
plan.
“We moved closer to a consensus on a 
-
sponsibilities for the FIC gym project,” he 
wrote in an email. “We are fast arriving at an 
agreement that resolves my main concern, 
sustainability while minimizing total SAF 
exposure.”
Spears emphasized the importance of 
working with Facilities to better understand 
the intricacies of establishing a gym and bike 
room in FIC. He also noted that the project 
could become much more expensive than 
the SGA had originally imagined, and noted 
that the funds would come from the Col-
lege’s renewal and replacement reserves and 
pressing Facilities projects.
“If we did move into that space and ren-
center, that will require some resources well 
beyond what SGA could pay and well beyond 
what we could expect SGA to pay,” he said.
Spears noted that the project must be 
considered to be in a “beginning” stage.
The SGA is eager to make the FIC gym a 
reality. The bill includes termination clauses 
that will render the proposal invalid if spe-
time periods.
“We don’t want this to languish for years, 
essentially,” said Klenet. “I don’t want to put 
aside $50,000 and then not know next year, 
or the year after, whether I can touch that.” 
Klenet believes that the larger size and 
greater accessibility of the FIC gym make it 
preferable to the proposed Ross gym.
It is “an opportunity to increase the size 
of the gym and create it so it has a bigger im-
pact on student’s lives, while bringing down 
the cost of the total package,” he said.
“I’m really excited about the YouPower’s 
potential to make tangible just how tough it 
is to produce energy, to provide an alternate 
workout space on campus and to host awe-
some events that start dialogues about en-
ergy consumption,” said Schanz-Garbassi.
President of the SGA Vin Recca ’12 ex-
pressed enthusiasm for the project’s prog-
ress.
“I am proud that members of my admin-
istration are moving quickly and coopera-
tively with the College to address students’ 
long-standing areas of concern,” he said. “I 
believe this project represents how the SGA 
creative solutions and best engage each oth-
er on substantial issues to produce the great-
est impact on the student experience.”
The Nov. 20 meeting of the Student Gov-
ernment Association (SGA) was devoted to 
two pieces of groundbreaking legislation, 
the Pass/D/Fail Resolution and the You-
Power Bike Room Resolution. 
An email was sent to all students urging 
them to attend the SGA meeting, and about 
10 students came to watch.  
The voting procedure began with Sena-
tor Michael Polebaum ’12, the sponsor of 
the Pass/D/Fail resolution, reading through 
the bill’s contents. Afterward, the discussion 
was opened so that other senators could add 
friendly amendments. However, the only 
changes made were either grammatical or 
minor and non-substantial.
The SGA then voted on the resolution, 
passing it with a unanimous vote. 
Next, Senior Senator Brittany Gendron 
’12 presented the YouPower Bike Room 
Resolution that she worked on with Astrid 
Schanz-Gargbassi ’12. This resolution pro-
poses the creation of a gym in the Freeman 
International Center and appropriates SGA 
funds in order to buy and install the equip-
ment needed and hire monitors. The room 
would have a collection of exercise bikes 
that also generate electricity that the SGA 
would then sell back to the College.
The two First-Year Senators, Rana Ab-
delhamid ’15 and Danny Zhang ’15, voiced 
concerns about the amendment in the reso-
lution that would repeal money allocated in 
the Ross Gym Annex Bill. Gendron recog-
nized that this section of the resolution may 
trouble some students, but she said that she 
hoped this resolution would essentially re-
place the Ross Gym Bill. The Ross Gym Bill, 
she said, has been having trouble getting off 
the ground and the Bike Room Resolution 
gives students a larger workout space that is 
also environmentally conscious. The resolu-
tion passed with only one vote against it.
At the Dec. 4 meeting of the SGA, Senator 
Zhang motioned to start an Ad-Hoc Com-
-
national students. After a recent forum on 
socio-economic diversity on campus, Zhang 
-
cial aid issues for international students. 
Senator Gendron suggested expanding the 
Ad-Hoc Committee to researching socio-
economic issues for all students; however, 
it was agreed that it should be a separate 
committee. Zhang’s Ad-Hoc Committee was 
Next, the SGA Cabinet gave an update on 
the status of past legislation. They urged all 
senators to direct students in need of project 
money to go/funding, a new site established 
to handle funding requests from students 
independent of campus organizations. 
Regarding the Bike Room Resolution, 
the Cabinet also said that the College is now 
reluctant to purchase the electricity gener-
ated by the spinning bikes. They cited a 
possible miscommunication between Old 
Chapel and the SGA and assured the group 
that they are planning to meet with Vice 
President for Administration Tim Spears 
to discuss the future of the resolution (see 
above article).
The Cabinet also mentioned that they are 
currently polling various professors to mea-
sure where they stand on the future of the 
Pass/D/Fail resolution. Recca urged all of 
the senators to speak with their professors 
in order to garner support for this legisla-
tion. 
Also, the Cabinet is considering dropping 
the current contract with USA Today once it 
expires. Instead, they plan to purchase more 
copies of The New York Times.  
By Ben Anderson
sga update
The current plan for the bike room location is in the basement of FIC, pictured above.
sopheak chheng
4 NEWS
College hosts AIDS awareness day
By Kelsey Collins
Hannah Judge ’12.5, Co-President of Globemed, helped plan World AIDS Day.
Anna Clements
LessMeat Monday aims to educate students
By Charlotte O’Herron
On Dec. 1, the College’s GlobeMed 
chapter and the Chellis House collaborat-
ed to promote World AIDS Day on cam-
pus in order to raise awareness about the 
disease. HIV/AIDS affects 33.3 million 
people worldwide and an estimated two 
million people die from the disease each 
year.
World AIDS Day is held annually on 
Dec. 1 as an opportunity for people world-
-
ease, and is a day to raise awareness and 
become more educated about HIV/AIDS. 
While World AIDS Day has been interna-
tionally recognized as a global health day 
been actively observed at the College.
Members of GlobeMed wrote facts 
and statistics about the disease on side-
walks and in classrooms throughout the 
campus, and students were encouraged 
to wear red t-shirts and ribbons to show 
their support.
In addition, GlobeMed and Chellis 
House held several events in honor of the 
day, including screenings of Robert Bil-
heimer’s A Closer Walk and David Weiss-
man’s documentary We Were Here. Assis-
tant Professor of Economics Erick Gong 
gave a lecture entitled “The Economics of 
the HIV/AIDS epidemic.”
Gong’s lecture on the economics of 
HIV in sub-Saharan Africa was the most 
well-attended event of the day, drawing 
over 80 students and faculty members. 
Sub-Saharan Africa is home to 12 percent 
of the world’s population, yet those infect-
ed with HIV/AIDS make up 68 percent of 
the global HIV/AIDS population.
Gong’s talk sought to explain why the 
region bears such a disproportionate 
burden of what he called “the most dra-
matic epidemic since the black plague.” 
He framed the issue in economic terms, 
and discussed how income shocks to ru-
ral women could lead to changes in sexual 
behaviors that might further contribute to 
the pandemic.
He suggested that the market for trans-
actional sex is larger in this region due to 
the frequency of income shocks caused by 
droughts in agricultural communities and 
a lack of coping mechanisms found else-
where around the world, such as formal 
social safety nets, insurance or loans. Ac-
cording to Gong, this, coupled with a high 
prevalence of HIV infection, is a possible 
driving force behind the rising HIV rates 
in the region. 
Sam Peisch ’13, co-president of the Col-
lege’s GlobeMed chapter, said the large 
turnout at Gong’s lecture showed the Col-
lege’s growing interest in the initiatives of 
GlobeMed and similar global health orga-
nizations.
“What’s underscored in the campus’s 
involvement on World AIDS Day is the 
public health,” Peisch said. “It was illumi-
nating to see an economist’s take on HIV/
AIDS when it is so commonly debated as 
a sociopolitical issue, which I think speaks 
to the multidisciplinary approach the 
world must take to both mitigate the cur-
rent impact of HIV/AIDS and to combat 
its spread.”
Both Peisch and co-president Hannah 
Judge ’12.5 expressed satisfaction with 
the student body’s response to the events, 
and the discussions stimulated as a result 
of the talks.
“We wanted everyone on campus to be 
aware of the day, and get people thinking 
about the disease,” said Judge. “I think 
most people know what HIV/AIDS is, but 
are so shocking. We weren’t taking any 
donations throughout the day — the point 
was to raise awareness and get people 
thinking.”
She added, “We want people to take an 
awareness day like World AIDS Day as a 
starting point, though. It shouldn’t just be 
that we’re thinking about the disease one 
day a year.”
On Nov. 28, Ross and Proctor din-
ing halls implemented a trial run of 
LessMeat Monday, an initiative launched 
by a group of Environmental Econom-
ics students as part of a project to raise 
awareness on the environmental impacts 
of consuming meat. The experiment was 
viewed as controversial by some, who 
considered LessMeat Monday to be an 
Each dining hall only served one meat 
option, replacing the second meat option 
with an extra vegetarian dish.
The community-based project in Pro-
fessor of Economics Jon Isham’s class 
was led by Samantha Strom ’13, Kathryn 
Bostwick ’12, Joe Damron ’13 and Anna 
Thurston ’13. Students in the class part-
nered with local businesses to achieve an 
environmentally friendly goal.
“I realized that one way to teach eco-
nomics is to have students actually try to 
be economists right away,” Isham said of 
his motives behind the assignment.
Strom, Bostwick, Damron and Thur-
ston sought to make dining hall food 
more environmentally friendly and met 
with Director of Dining Services Matthew 
Biette to discuss how this could happen. 
LessMeat Monday emerged as an option 
that was both feasible in expenditure and 
implementation.
Last year the Organic Garden con-
ducted a survey to gauge whether or not 
students would be in favor of Meatless 
Mondays. Of the 880 students who re-
sponded, 52 percent responded favor-
ably.
Strom, Bostwick, Damron and Thur-
ston decided to pursue LessMeat Mon-
days to raise awareness of the environ-
production contributes to greenhouse 
gases in the atmosphere, water pollution 
and biodiversity loss. They aimed to pro-
vide students with information about the 
impacts of eating meat to promote con-
scious dietary choices. 
“The hope is to reduce demand 
through this education,” Strom said. “Is 
one meal with a little bit less meat really 
going to make that much of a difference 
to the environment? It will make some, 
but the big change will be awareness.” 
Biette, although willing to help the 
students with their experiment, antici-
pated that many students would oppose 
the change, as meat makes up an integral 
part of most diets.
“[LessMeat] Monday takes out a re-
ally important piece of the diet to a lot of 
people,” Biette said. 
To reduce opposition, the students 
and Biette opted to have less meat on 
Monday, as opposed to no meat at all.
“We didn’t actually limit the choice 
that much,” Strom said. “There was still 
a meat option that was different for Proc-
tor and Ross.” 
The dining service’s responsiveness to 
the students’ proposal serves as a testi-
mony to their willingness to participate 
in student-led initiatives. 
“We are always willing to work with 
any educational portion of the college,” 
Biette said. “This was educational, so we 
decided to do it.”
He also noted that the dining halls do 
not serve any meat on some nights, such 
as cultural theme dinners, and receive no 
complaints.
As students walked into the dining 
halls, they were greeted by posters ex-
plaining LessMeat Mondays. Biette sent 
out an email earlier that evening to notify 
students of the experiment. 
Strom, Bostwick, Damron and Thur-
ston, along with members of the Organic 
Garden and Sunday Night Group, wore 
taped signs and handed out information 
pamphlets. They encouraged students to 
speak to them directly, as opposed to the 
dining hall staff, when raising questions 
or concerns.
As expected, some students expressed 
opposition and responded angrily to the 
students handing out information sheets.
“It’s not necessarily about LessMeat 
Monday, it’s about tolerance,” Biette 
said. 
Many of those who were opposed to 
LessMeat Monday resented forced di-
etary restrictions on the entire student 
body based on beliefs held by a smaller 
group of students, arguing that the initia-
tive was presented in a way that alienated 
meat eaters.
Tyler Sandoval ’13 is opposed to hav-
ing more LessMeat Mondays in the fu-
ture. 
“I just don’t think it’s fair to impose 
that sort of dietary restriction on the en-
tire college to prove a point,” Sandoval 
said. “[As] someone who is allergic to 
gluten, eliminating meat from the menu 
severely limits my options.” 
Sandoval also argued that condemn-
ing meat is a limited approach to pursu-
ing sustainable eating habits, stating that 
corn and soy products are just as bad for 
the environment. Other opponents ar-
gued that there are ways to reduce the 
impact of food on the environment with-
out restricting dietary options, such as by 
buying more local foods.
Almost 1,000 students responded 
to the survey that was sent out after 
LessMeat Monday. Sixty-three percent 
said they would support having more 
LessMeat Mondays in the future, yet 
many of the students’ comments in the 
survey were negative and expressed con-
fusion. 
“When I read a lot of confused com-
ments on the survey, I wished that people 
had asked me questions when I was there 
our project,” Strom said. 
“I’m glad the project sparked a lot 
of interest and in some cases disagree-
ment,” said Isham. “The point is not that 
eating a little less meat on that Monday 
their own behavior. It was a really good 
learning opportunity.” 
It is unknown whether or not there 
will be another LessMeat Monday in the 
future. 
11/29/11
11/30/11
12/02/11
12/03/11
12/03/11
12/03/11
12/04/11
DATE TIME INCIDENT DESCRIPTION LOCATION DISPOSITION
1:35 a.m.
9:45 a.m
unknown
1:15 a.m. 
12:17 a.m.
12:30 a.m.
3:33 a.m. 
Alarm  
Agency Assist Other  
Vandalism 
Vandalism  
Alcohol Citation   
Collision  
Fire 
Carbon Monoxide 
Maine State Police 
College building   
Non-Student 
Vehicle Damaged 
Fire at Heating Plant 
110 South Main   
Off Campus Location   
Forrest Hall   
Allen Hall   
Ridgeline  
O lot   
Service Building 
REFERRED TO DOC AND COMMONS DEAN
REFERRED TO DOC AND COMMONS DEAN
REFERRED TO COMMONS DEAN
REFERRED TO DOC AND COMMONS DEAN
REFERRED TO DOC AND COMMONS DEAN
REFERRED TO DOC AND COMMONS DEAN
REFERRED TO RISK MANAGEMENT 
PUBLIC SAFETY LOG November 28- December 4, 2011
The Department of Public Safety reported giving 12 alcohol citations between 11/28/2011 and 12/04/2011.
| december 8, 2011
LessMeat Mondays provided students 
more vegetarian options in the Proctor.
File photo
college 
shorts
COMPILED BY NATE SANS
Sandusky maintains 
innocence in Times 
interview
In an interview with The New York 
Times, Former Pennsylvania State Univer-
sity assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky 
maintained his innocence regarding child 
abuse charges by stating, “These allega-
tions are false … I didn’t do those things.” 
However, he did describe unclear boundar-
ies between himself and the children taking 
part in the Second Mile Foundation, a char-
ity aimed to help underprivileged children 
and their parents, which was founded by 
Sandusky in 1977. Sandusky acknowledged 
giving money and gifts to the children in-
volved in the charity, which the prosecu-
tion believes were used to establish trust 
with the children. Sandusky also said that 
spoke about any suspected misconduct. An 
ESPN legal analyst said that Sandusky’s 
interview might be his defense’s attempt 
to portray him as a generous mentor with 
an unclear understanding of traditional 
boundaries between adults and children.
  
— 
Corporate marketing on 
campus raises concerns
Colleges and universities are con-
cerned about the growing presence of 
corporate marketing on campus. Compa-
nies such as Red Bull and Monster, both 
producers of popular energy drinks, com-
monly recruit students to serve as “brand 
ambassadors.” A brand ambassador typi-
cally receives a small stipend in return for 
handing out free samples and increasing 
student awareness of the product. Some 
administrators worry about this practice 
because the presence of marketing may vi-
olate “pouring rights,” a college’s contract 
to provide drinks from only one company. 
is also a concern regarding this form of 
marketing. Additionally, administrators 
fear the negative effects that consumerism 
may have on college students who are un-
aware that they are subjects of a market-
ing ploy. Negative effects of consumerism 
include stress and debt. 
Asian-American college 
applicants hide ethnicity
In attempts to avoid discrimination, 
some Asian-American college applicants 
with only one Asian parent choose not 
-
formation about their race. Some ap-
plicants who make this choice claim 
that the stereotype of Asian students as 
higher achievers makes gaining admis-
“Asian kids know that when you look at 
the average SAT for the school, they need 
to add 50 or 100 to it. If you’re Asian, 
that’s what you’ll need to get in.” 
Critics claiming discrimination 
against Asian-American applicants point 
to the fact that top colleges with race-
blind admissions often have double the 
percentage of Asians than do Ivy League 
universities.
— 
Borah presents to U.N. climate panel
By Elizabeth Fouhey
On Nov. 28 in Durban, South Africa, 
Abigail Borah ’13 gave an address to Unit-
ed Nations negotiators at the U.N. Frame-
work Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCCC) on behalf of the International 
Youth Climate Movement (IYCM), calling 
for an increase in transparency and force-
-
tation.
UNFCCC was founded in 1992 with 
the goals of solving the problem of rising 
greenhouse gas emissions and to better 
understand the effects of the emissions on 
developing nations. 
Jon Isham, Professor of Economics at 
the College, described the program of UN-
FCCC. 
“It’s a gathering of forces who are all 
trying to affect our future as it pertains 
to runaway effects of climate change,” he 
said.
College. The College’s legacy of emphasis 
on the importance of climate change is-
sues further pushed Borah to get involved.
Borah said, “While the connection be-
tween a small liberal arts college nestled 
in the mountains of Vermont and the in-
ternational climate negotiations may seem 
-
al education through language education, 
international studies and a geographically 
diverse community show the connection is 
not so surprising.” 
Borah was able to get involved with 
UNFCCC through her work with Sus-
tainUS, a national youth organization that 
allows young people to get involved in the 
movement against climate change on an 
international level.
Louise Yeung, a member of the Sus-
tainUS Steering committee, as well as a 
fellow delegate in Durban said, “Providing 
the opportunity for youth like Abigail to 
Borah, along with 13 other SustainUS 
youth delegates, is working with other 
young people from all over the world. 
They are trying to urge leaders to adopt a 
fair and legally binding treaty on climate 
change. This global collaboration sets an 
will follow.
“Bilateral cooperation such as the U.S. 
and China youth collaboration as well as 
-
transfer or human rights, show that even 
though we come from different cultures, 
we can work together to create articulate 
policy recommendations and radical ac-
tions,” she said.
At the conference, speaking to nego-
tiators from over 194 countries, Borah, as 
youth, was able to take advantage of the 
rare opportunity for non-negotiators to 
-
gotiations.
Borah’s address, an intervention at the 
plenary session of the Subsidiary Body for 
-
STA), focused on the youth organization’s 
desire for more stringent policies to fur-
ther ensure the reduction of greenhouse 
gas emissions. 
In her speech Borah said, “The youth 
are committed to reducing global forest 
carbon emissions. Forests are the lungs of 
the world and our greatest defense against 
climate change.”
Borah continued, “The success of ro-
-
tion] provisions by SBSTA will dictate [its] 
effectiveness.”
In addition to the calls to further pre-
vent deforestation, Borah emphasized a 
need for more access to information and 
highlighted the growing importance of 
youth and indigenous forest-dwelling peo-
ple in matters of climate change. 
In response to the UNFCCC negotia-
tions, Louise Yeung said, “SustainUS fully 
supports Abigail’s address … We, along 
with the Youth Constituency at the cli-
mate talks, see this as a critical aspect of 
successful implementation for deforesta-
tion and other climate strategies and hope 
forums reminds negotiators that their de-
cisions will have lasting impacts on future 
generations.”
In response to Borah’s address, 
Schumann Distinguished Scholar Bill 
 said, “It’s awfully good to see 
Middlebury students continuing to play 
such a big role in international events. I’m 
pretty sure that if you took a poll at Dur-
per capita than any other school. They’re 
all doing their best to overcome the power 
of the fossil fuel industry, which is still 
blocking change.”
Isham was similarly encouraging to-
ward the active role that the youth and stu-
dents are playing, citing the importance of 
-
ers in the climate change movements. 
“If you are strategic enough and mobi-
lize enough people, you can affect change,” 
said Isham.
The Main Street Bridge, pictured above, had the word “ginger” spray painted onto it.
anna clements
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
team contacted a College rugby alumnus who 
now works as an attorney. 
“MPD would have no legal bounds to do 
While the case is still open, Mogerley said 
the rugby team has not been contacted since 
the initial interview with Sirkia. 
-
volvement of Middlebury students in the in-
cident. 
“Middlebury students are of the highest 
-
selves.” 
-
 5        Newsdecember 8, 2011 | 
DO YOU HAVE A 
TIP OR AN IDEA 
FOR A STORY?
GO/THECAMPUS
SEE 
SOMETHING
SAY 1 2 SENDSOMETHING3
Sample teas from 
across the world at John 
Wetzel’s petite teahouse 
Page 7 local
Fifty vendors decked the halls of the Middlebury Municipal Gym to sell their products at the annual Holiday Farmers’ Market. 
AMNA CLEMENTS
WALKING IN A MARKET 
WONDERLAND
On Saturday, Dec. 3, downtown Middlebury fea-
tured a host of holiday-themed events. The fourth 
annual Holiday Farmers’ market was held in the 
Middlebury Municipal Gym. With a range of prod-
ucts from fresh produce and wine to handbags 
made out of recycled skirts and neckties, the mar-
ket offered homemade goods from across Addison 
County.
The farmers’ market is usually held in Marble-
works every Saturday throughout the fall. Yet Sat-
urday marked a special event not only because of 
the impending holidays, but because the logistics 
of the market were different. Vendors that sell at 
the Middlebury market all summer got priority for 
any Vermont vendor with homemade products was 
invited to participate. The market was 
bigger, offering a wider variety of items 
to inspire gift-giving and celebration 
this holiday season.
Pam Taylor has been the manager 
of the Middlebury Farmers’ Market 
holiday market took place the week-
end before Thanksgiving, but because 
of the warm weather and poor timing 
this year, the event was moved. 
date changed,” said Taylor. “Having 
it the same weekend as a Very Merry 
Middlebury and all the other holiday 
our market.” 
The change was drastic. This year was the most 
successful holiday market yet. There were over 50 
customers all day.
But according to Taylor, the products, even more 
so than the large turnout, really shone this year.
hundred dollar products. The price range is good 
gift-giving.” 
Deb Tier, owner of Vermont Purseanality, of-
fers her handmade bags both at the normal and at 
the holiday markets. Her bags are made of recycled 
clothing and are well-crafted, while retaining cer-
tain traits of their former shape and use. A purse 
made out of a skirt still had the same pleating, and 
another bag made with a tie used the end as a clasp. 
Tier also makes play clothes, coin purses and other 
useful items, all with recycled clothing. 
Tier enjoys the holiday market because “there’s a 
lot more space, having a roof over your head is nice 
and it’s warm in here.” She was a fan of the wide 
range of products available, especially because 
people from outside Middlebury were offered the 
chance to sell their goods. 
“There are a lot of new things here we don’t nor-
mally see,” said Tier.
Dr. Elizabeth Davidson, who lives and works as a 
chiropractor in Middlebury, makes a point of visit-
ing each farmers market.
know who makes the stuff and exactly 
where it’s grown,” she said. 
Over time she has gotten to know 
every vendor at the market, about half 
of those present on Saturday. 
people in the community,” said David-
son.
Lynn Gerow sold baked goods 
ranging from stuffed breads to very 
popular sticky buns. She is a vendor 
in Middlebury on Wednesdays and in 
Brandon on Fridays. 
well; there’s been a steady crowd all day.”
Although the Holiday market has come and gone, 
the Middlebury market isn’t going anywhere. Every 
Saturday through Christmas from 9:30 a.m. to 1:00 
p.m. the winter market will be held in American 
Flatbread. After Christmas, when produce vendors 
leave for the winter season, the market will be open 
on the second and fourth Saturday of every month. 
“Because we’re on everyone’s radar and people 
are used to coming to us, when we open in the 
spring it’s easy,” said Taylor. “We’re already there, 
we already have our customers because they stuck 
with us all winter.”
The winter market featured bread, eggs, organic 
knitted items. The goal is to offer as much as pos-
sible through the long winter months, while mak-
ing sure that the people of Middlebury don’t forget 
about the market. 
Taylor believes College students have the op-
portunity to become vendors. Anyone who has a 
product to sell, as long as it is hand-made, can par-
ticipate. Taylor has hosted students before and has 
noticed their success. 
“We love seeing College kids down here,” said 
Taylor. “We can be a springboard for your busi-
ness.”
The winter market is a great way to be a part 
of the community, support local vendors and take 
tasty treats and warm knitted hats back to dorm 
rooms to help make it though the cold winter 
months. For more information, call Taylor at (802) 
388-0178. 
By Devin MacDonald
Pam Taylor was pleased with her decision to move 
the date of the Holiday Farmers’ Market this year.
AMNA CLEMENTS
“It’s all high 
quality, not 
high end. That’s 
the nice thing 
about it. It’s not 
three of four 
hundred dollar 
products.”
pam taylor
manager of the middlebury 
farmers’ market
BY RACHEL PORTER
 | december 8, 2011 7local
By Charlotte Gardiner
One in 8,700
Where the personalitites of Middlebury proper are celebrated
The Vermont Folklife Center came alive on Friday, Dec. 2 for the 13th annual Gingerbread Exhibit and Competition. The 
festivities will continue through Dec. 21. All are welcome and encouraged to come check out the tasty festive creations. 
Many traditional houses were featured in addition to innovative gingerbread interpretations such as a sculpted lighthouse. 
ANNA CLEMENTS
GINGERBREAD HOUSES GALORE
Lucy Orgill is an advocate for the rights 
of dairy farmers, and she has traveled all 
the way from Hampshire, England, to ex-
plore this issue in America. An exchange 
student from the University of Nottingham, 
Orgill said that her interest in farming be-
gan when she “started to notice that a lot of 
my friends were struggling.” 
Growing up in an area surrounded 
face. After reading Eric Schlosser’s Fast 
Food Nation, she began to appreciate the 
struggles of English farmers and noted that 
these struggles may be attributed to the 
economic system in place. 
Orgill has observed fundamental dif-
ferences between the British and the 
American approach to dairy farming. She 
said that while Americans are comfortable 
drinking milk produced by large feedlot 
farms, the English do not feel the same. 
This reluctance has led many English farm-
and cost-effective production. While the 
average herd of dairy cows in England is 
about 120, milk operations within the Unit-
ed States can reach upwards of 2,000 cows. 
Orgill insists that the U.K.’s com-
mitment to small-scale farming is not at-
tributed to the 
dairy farmers’ 
ignorance of the 
increased effec-
tiveness of larger 
operations. Af-
ter talking with 
members of the 
National Farm-
ers Union who 
came to the 
United States to 
research feedlot 
farms, she said, 
Why then do English farmers continue to 
maintain small dairy farms?
According to Orgill, “How England 
farms are the key to the U.K.’s image of 
rolling hills and idyllic countryside. Should 
farmers switch to primarily feedlot farms, 
this landscape would be destroyed. Orgill 
said when Liecestershire proposed build-
ing a large farm there was heavy protest. 
The central argument of protesters was that 
feedlot farms “work in America, but they 
won’t work here.”
It seems that due to the commitment 
to small-scale farming, English consumers 
would not hesitate to pay more per pint of 
milk in an effort to support local farmers.
Unfortunately, though, this is not the 
case. English consumers are well aware 
that milk is cheaper in America. Orgill said 
that while they enjoy small farms, “There is 
this kind of psychological thing in people’s 
mind where they think that milk could be 
cheaper.” 
“In that way there is kind of like a pres-
sure,” she said. 
This pressure drives prices down and 
often leaves the farmers in a situation 
“If milk prices aren’t protected they 
will have to expand,” said Orgill. 
In Orgill’s opinion, it is crucial that 
people realize farming problems are “not 
black and white; it is much more nuanced.” 
Despite this complexity, Orgill remains op-
timistic.
“I think there is a middle ground to be 
had,” she said. 
Whether it be midsized farms or in-
creased understanding between farmers 
and consumers, she thinks the key is “not 
to have extremes” from either party.
When Orgill returns home she will 
complete her dissertation comparing 
American and English dairy farming mod-
els.
FARM FRESH
It is crucial 
that people 
realize farming 
problems are 
“not black 
and white; 
it is more 
nuanced.” 
Dr. Davidson and her “assistant” Elena 
believe in relieving stress placed on the 
nervous system. 
courtesy:  Elizabeth davidson
A year and a half ago, Dr. Elizabeth Da-
vidson and her daughter, Elena, moved to 
Middlebury from Montgomery, Vt. A chi-
ropractor, Davidson is the owner of Clear 
Connection Chiropractic, located at 152 
Maple Street. The doctor and her daughter 
sought to move to a town larger than Mont-
gomery’s 1,000-person population.
“I liked the feel of Middlebury,” said 
Davidson, who thought about moving to 
Montpelier, too. “I wanted a place with 
educational opportunities for my daugh-
ter and I wanted to stay in Vermont so she 
could be close to family.”
The art scene, including Middlebury’s 
theater and music, attracted the chiroprac-
tor as well. After graduating from Johnson 
State College in Vermont and later Sher-
man College of Chiropractic in South Caro-
years. 
“One morning I woke up and the only 
thought in my head was I should be a chi-
ropractor,” she said. “It is a job where I can 
help make the world a better place.”
Davidson especially enjoys helping her 
clients live healthier and happier lives, and 
aiding all to become better citizens and 
parents. Elena, her sidekick, is often in the 
teaches adults hopscotch as they wait for 
their appointments. 
The chiropractor said many of her cli-
ents initially come in with a backache. She 
realigns their bodies by gently massaging 
pressure points, and prides herself on the 
fact that she employs no 
twisting or cracking in the 
process. 
“It is all about the brain 
and body communicating,” 
she said of her job. “You need 
to keep the brain system healthy because if 
that is healthy, everything else is too.”
She examines the nervous system and 
crafts ways to protect the spine and spinal 
cord. This includes noting any differences 
on the right versus the left side of the body, 
and looking for areas where nerves may be 
pinched or irritated. 
Davidson works with many children, 
and especially with newborn babies. 
“Obviously newborns are not complain-
ing about their backs,” she said, adding 
that she has never seen a baby that does not 
need an adjustment. “But being born puts a 
big stress on the nervous system physically, 
mentally and chemically.”
Davidson urges all to lead low-stress 
lives by eating healthy foods free of chemi-
cals and constantly stretching the body. 
She believes her soft and tender technique 
helps teach people how to manage and take 
care of the stress they place on their ner-
vous system. If she simply cracked backs, 
she feels little would be learned.  
Developing a close relationship with her 
clients is important to Davidson. She said 
her favorite part of the job is getting to work 
with babies. Yet she also enjoys progres-
sive examination: a patient will come into 
client will devise a plan of care to help the 
individual adopt a healthier lifestyle. About 
three months later, the patient comes back 
to the chiropractor and the pair will redo 
the exercises and adjustments performed 
12 weeks prior.
“I love to see what has changed, espe-
cially when I am working with children,” 
she said.  
In addition to her work in Middlebury, 
Davidson is also part of a group of about 
100 other chiropractors and their families. 
Known as the New Renaissance, the doc-
tor says all members are passionate people 
wanting world change. Together, they have 
built a humanitarian program, Love Has 
No Color, that seeks to bring health and 
hope to Native Americans, particularly the 
children.
“These children are caught in a cycle 
of hopelessness out on the reservation,” 
she said. “We are working to change that 
through all kinds of programs.”
The group works with Native Americans 
living on the Fort Peck Reservation in east-
ern Montana. Davidson said this is the res-
ervation most in need in the country, boast-
ing the worst health ratings of anywhere in 
the United States. The area faces a 75 per-
cent unemployment rate, a 40 percent high 
school dropout rate, one-third of the mid-
dle-school students are sick with a sexually 
transmitted disease and in a school of only 
160 students, 20 attempted suicide last 
“It is really awful out there and we 
are really trying to make 
changes,” Davidson said.
This year, the New Re-
naissance gathered thou-
sands of Christmas pres-
ents and many of the group 
members are traveling to Montana to deliv-
er the gifts. In the past, the group has also 
refurbished the reservation’s movie the-
ater, built a health clinic and is now hoping 
to employ a chiropractor on the reservation 
full-time.
Davidson is especially excited about the 
new scholarship program in place. Now a 
senior in high school, one of the girls from 
the reservation will be attending college for 
the next four years and upon graduation, 
will enter graduate school, training to be-
come a chiropractor. 
“We also hold a kids event over the sum-
mer,” said Davidson. “The children build 
We connect with them and we show them 
we care. They think we are not going to 
come back because so many have not in the 
past, but we keeping coming.” 
Davidson and Elena enjoy frequenting 
the Farmers’ Market and the doctor values 
knowing where her food is coming from 
and who is growing it. She feels so lucky to 
be in Middlebury and hopes all will come 
variety of music. 
“I love making mixes,” she said, citing 
some of her favorite artists as the Jazz Man-
dolin Project, Grace Potter, Stevie Wonder 
and Led Zeppelin. “I have been listening to 
a lot of Natalie MacMaster because I went 
to her concert last Thursday.” 
Davidson hopes College students will 
take advantage of her wellness seminars 
each Tuesday night from 5:30 to 7:00 p.m. 
what health is and is not and how wellness 
“We are all tricked into thinking health 
is the absence of something,” she said. “We 
think if we are not sick, then we must be 
healthy, but health is the presence of some-
thing.”
The seminars discuss how we are each 
born to be healthy and that our innate intel-
ligence is what keeps us alive.
“All those things that your body does 
without you thinking about it — food di-
gesting, blood pumping,” Davidson said. “It 
is the amazing, beautiful innate intelligence 
inside of us that makes us alive.”  
For the chiropractor, this is the whole 
basis for why she lives her life as she does 
and why she thinks it is vital that everyone 
have healthy nervous systems. If we touch 
our leg, for example, it is the nervous sys-
tem that allows us to make this movement 
and feel the touch. 
“Our bodies take care of everything 
all the time that you do not have to think 
about it,” she said. “Chiropractic keeps you 
healthy from the inside out. When you are 
healthy you feel and think better, so you 
make better decisions, are nicer to people, 
are more productive, have more energy and 
contribute more.  The more healthy  people 
we have, the better world we will have and 
that is why I do what I do.”
She summed up the main idea of chi-
ropractic as healthier people yielding a 
healthier planet. 
Elizabeth Davidson
Doctor
 DECEMBER 8, 2011 | 8local
Local 
lowdown
24
thursday
Christmas tree and wreath sale
Head to the Middlebury United Method-
ist Church on Friday and Saturday for a 
fundraiser, with everything you need for 
the holiday season. Locally grown balsam 
trees and wreaths will be available for 
purchase, along with a plethora of baked 
goods. There will be live music and hot 
chocolate for all to enjoy. Please visit 
http://www.middleburyumc.org/ for 
more information.
DEC. 9, 4 P.M. – 8 P.M.
Live nativity in Weybridge 
This Sunday the Weybridge Congrega-
tional Church will transform into a little 
town in Bethlehem, as the church puts on 
a live Nativity pageant. Behind the church 
where Mary, surrounded by live animals, 
has given birth to the newborn King. Even 
if you can’t see the angels, you’ll still hear 
the Christmas carols, while enjoying hot 
chocolate and donuts. In case of rain or 
snow, the event will be postponed until 
Dec. 18.
DEC. 11, 5 P.M. – 5:30 P.M.
Wildlife walk
Can you imagine a better way to start 
your morning than with the OCAS-MALT 
monthly wildlife walk? Josh Phillips will 
lead the group along shorter and longer 
routes, and point out birds and other 
wildlife along the way. Dress warmly and 
meet at the corner of Weybridge Street 
and Pulp Mill Bridge Road. Call (802) 
388-1007 or (802) 388-6829 for more 
information. 
 DEC. 10, 8 A.M. – 10 A.M.
Christmas bazaar
Time to start Christmas shopping, and no 
better way than to stop by the Hancock 
Town Hall/Church on Route 100 for its 
annual holiday sale. Hosted by the Com-
munity Church of Hancock and Granville, 
myriad presents will be sold. Donated 
items are much appreciated, and call 
(802) 767-9157 to coordinate a drop-off 
or pick-up. Lunch will also be served to all 
in attendance. If anyone is interested in 
selling at the bazaar, call (802) 767-3649 
to rent a table.
DEC. 10, 9 A.M. – 2 P.M.
Hot chocolate hut
If you haven’t already taken advantage of 
the hot chocolate hut in town, located near 
the cannon, do so this Saturday. The tasty 
house displays festive decorations and 
25-cent cups of hot chocolate that can be 
topped with whipped cream, peppermint 
sticks and marshmallows for no extra 
charge. Who can say no to that?
DEC. 10, 10 A.M. – 2 P.M.
Breakfast with Santa
The Holley Hall in Bristol will be adorned 
in red and green for its holiday commu-
nity breakfast. For $5, all are invited to 
chow down on pancakes and sausage, 
while sipping juice, coffee, milk and tea. 
Breakfast seatings will be at 8:30 a.m. 
and 9:30 a.m. Santa and Buddy the Elf 
will join the festivities, which also include 
carriage rides, arts and crafts and live 
music. Call (802) 453-5885 to reserve a 
spot. Proceeds will go to the Bristol Recre-
ation Department Scholarship Fund. 
DEC. 10, 8:30 A.M. – 10:30 A.M.
Christmas cookie and craft sale 
The Champlain Valley Christian Re-
formed Church will turn into a holiday 
bakery this Saturday. Choose from Dutch 
pastries and among hundreds of cookies, 
candies and treats, to bring home to the 
family.  
DEC. 10, 10 A.M. – 2 P.M..
By Kaylen Baker
Stone Leaf Teahouse, although located 
in the heart of Middlebury’s Marble Works, 
feels as far away from the College campus 
as the other side of the world. Luckily, you 
China to reach it. Owner John Wetzel, who 
opened the teahouse in June 2009, makes 
that trip instead.
This two-story teahouse effuses an East 
Asian ambiance reminiscent of the teas’ 
origins — Taiwan, China, Nepal, Vietnam, 
Japan and India. A soft glow, emanating 
from little straw lanterns on low wooden ta-
bles, illuminates the small square paintings 
hung on the walls in minimalist fashion. 
-
roamed across the crisscrossed black metal 
beams decorated with Christmas lights. 
curl of tree bark pinned to the wall and a 
plush Persian rug. 
“The art and general setting take you to 
a different place,” said Gunit Gill ’12. “Be-
ing on campus, you’re always surrounded 
by a lot of students and you don’t really 
Her friends, each sipping their own tea, 
agreed.  
“It’s a nice place to come with friends 
and talk for hours,” said Jonathon Fall ’13. 
“You really can. I’d say part of the reason 
why is it’s not so crowded. It’s got a relaxing 
atmosphere, there’s no sort of rush.”
Of course, what is more alluring than 
the charming, mysterious ambiance of 
The teas range from green and white to 
oolong, black and tisane, and are organized 
by region on the menu. 
’13. “It has a hint of rice cracker.”
Nethra Venkatesh ’13 felt similarly. 
“I really like the cutlery, the teapots, 
the cups,” he added. 
The four friends shared a large glass 
containing a teapot with tea inside, a cup, 
a pitcher and a metal tea strainer. The tea 
mainly for high grade oolong and puer tea.
its own pot — probably the type of pot cor-
responds to the tea’s origin. I think they’re 
each brewed specially, differently depend-
ing on what you get.” 
The group also ordered coconut mochi 
and dried fruit, among the small food items 
on the menu.
Perhaps you pose a pickier challenge 
— you only drink decaf, and can’t stand 
greens or infusions. Wetzel suggests the 
rooibos, a southern African herbal tea of-
strength of the tea, so that the milk does not 
weaken the taste.
almost smelt stronger than it tasted, like a 
The tea was poured from a clear pot into a 
round clear cup, the smooth reddish gold 
liquid splashing in a perfect arc, and the ac-
tion of pouring felt therapeutic and beyond 
drunk like wine. 
While sipping, I took bites of the 
specially-selected Daily Chocolate, a dark 
candied tangerine slab and a salty cara-
mel. Both were delicious and melted in my 
mouth with a swig of hot tea. I poured an-
other cup. This one had the faint taste of al-
mond. Each cup tasted fuller than the last, 
that brings him satisfaction, it is the knowl-
edge he continues to gain from running the 
-
er many of his different interests.
“Agriculture, history, modern culture 
— this is my study,” he said. “Starting this 
teahouse has been like my own post gradu-
ate studies.”
Wetzel, originally from New Paltz, 
N.Y., has come a long way in starting his 
-
ing and learning about tea was at the Dobra 
Tea Room in Burlington.
— like trying eight different types of green 
tea,” he said. 
After Dobra, Wetzel began farming or-
Peak Winery and later at Vergennes Daily 
Chocolates, before he settled down and 
-
ence in other artisan boutiques taught him 
how to run a small business, and also how 
to conduct business with other partners.
“The hardest part for me was taking 
into place.”
and Taiwan in particular, before the shop 
opened. There he experienced the culture 
of tea at its richest and most ancient. He 
different places, while riding through lush 
-
ping for tea samples along the way. 
“It’s like wine tasting in Napa Valley, 
or maybe more analogous to going to Bur-
gundy, because it’s so much a part of their 
history,” he said. 
-
zel met the man who was to become his tea 
broker. 
“I trust him,” said Wetzel. “For me 
incredibly fortunate to make these kind of 
partners in Taiwan, China, Nepal, Japan 
and India.”
Wetzel looks for growers and brokers 
chemicals.
“It’s not in the culture there to hide 
farms you can see when they’re using pesti-
cides,” he said. “You can see the runoff and 
the deforestation.” 
Most of the farms Wetzel buys from are 
small, allowing him to do business as close 
to the crop producers as possible, but cer-
tain teas, such as assam, come from larger 
plantation  — a direct result of British colo-
nialism — and in these cases, Wetzel only 
fair trade. 
Tea carries a spirituality for Wetzel, 
-
way it has carried and created spirituality 
it has existed.   
world, and a part of so many cultures.” 
Owner of Stone Leaf Teahouse John 
buying tea for his local business.
Anna Clements
HENRY SHELDON MUSEUM OPEN HOUSE 
Mary Manley
The Middlebury-Vermont Train Club designed the train set displayed each year at the Henry Sheldon Museum holiday open 
-
for its annual holiday open house. The mu-
seum is a monument to the eccentric Henry 
historical artifacts.
This year’s theme was, “A Child’s De-
light,” and displays boasted items, like a 
19th century sled and a miniature painted 
county fair.
Yet, the feature attraction of the holiday 
open house continues to be the elaborate 
train set designed by the Middlebury-Ver-
mont Train Club. With tiny trains winding 
-
scapes, children especially were mesmer-
ized. The newest addition to the train set 
was a changeable roadside billboard. 
years of trains,” said museum coordinator 
Mary Manley.
Middlebury Union High School student 
Jacob Giles has been conducting trains for 
the museum since he was eight years old. 
the next generation of train conductors.
-
cord breaking open house,” said Manley, 
who was pleased with the healthy turnout 
on Sunday as well.
The train exhibit and holiday displays 
will be up at the museum until Jan. 14.
By Amy Scanes-Wolfe
 9local
By Charlotte Gardiner
 | december 8, 2011
Middlebury celebrates with festive activities for all
The Town Hall Theater (THT) was 
decked with holiday spirit on Saturday, Dec. 
3, with approximately 110 wreaths, created 
by local business and artists, which were 
displayed throughout the building. The Fes-
tival of Wreaths is sponsored by the Mary 
Johnson Children’s Center, located in town 
on Water Street, and has become an annual 
holiday fundraiser.
The center, which provides early educa-
tion programs to 
children aged 18 
years old, from 
across Addison 
County, was 
excited about 
its 19th annual 
event.
“One of our 
board members 
saw a Festival of 
Trees in another 
state,” said Ilana 
Snyder, the co-
director for the 
center, who 
has been work-
ing there for 21 
years. “We came 
up with an adap-
tation, and start-
ed the event in 
the high school 
cafeteria with 
20 wreaths. We got more and more support 
though.”  
Snyder provides local business and 
companies with the wreaths, who then dec-
orate them each as they please. Many busi-
-
cates on the wreaths. Throughout the day, 
people wander in and around the festive 
green shrubs, making bids on any and all 
wreaths as part of the event’s silent auction.
“We get our name out there, the busi-
nesses get their names out there,” said Sny-
der.
She said the children at the center 
helped drop off and pick up the wreaths 
throughout the past week.   
Jackie Voluz ’14 has worked at the cen-
ter for two years. She felt the festival was 
an innovative event and hopes it will raise 
a lot of money for the center. A Staten Island 
native, Voluz had her eye on a few of the 
wreaths, and hoped to bring one back to the 
Russian House where she lives. 
Mary Jane, a Middlebury native, has 
been attending the event for years. Her 
daughter used to work at the center, and 
Jane values the center’s hard work and be-
lieves it offers a “tremendous service” to the 
community. 
“I feel so inadequate,” she said. “I feel 
lucky to put a bow on a wreath.”
Jane sees the event as a win-win for all 
parties involved and calls the wreaths the 
“gift that keeps on giving” because of the 
ski lift tickets, placed on many. 
Nestor Martinez ’10, who is now an em-
ployee at Mary Johnson after working there 
for three years during his time at the Col-
lege, said his favorite part of the week was 
taking the kids to pick up the wreaths. 
The Festival of Wreaths was part of 
the town’s Very Merry Middlebury celebra-
tion. A gingerbread exhibit at the Vermont 
Folklife Center and a holiday open house at 
the Henry Sheldon Museum, coupled with a 
hot chocolate hut (that sold 800 cups, which 
was double last years’ sales), horse drawn 
wagon rides and visits from Santa kept 
crowds entertained throughout the day.
A hot chocolate hut, located in Cannon Park, offers locals 25-cent cups of hot cocoa 
with whipped cream and peppermint sticks. The Festival of Wreaths was part of the 
town’s A Very Merry Middlebury kick-off to December celebrations. Over 11o wreaths 
were donated in hopes of raising money for the Mary Johnson Children’s Center.
ANNA CLEMENTS AND CHARLOTTE GARDINER
Middlebury show choir
7 p.m.- 9 p.m. 
11
17
22
For the 31st year, the Brandon Congregational 
Church hosts the Brandon Carol Festival. Gene 
Wilders’s The Christmas Story will be the main 
feature, including singing, spoken word and jazz 
instruments.
Carol festival
3 p.m. – 5 p.m. 
Join others for hot chocolate at 5 p.m. before the 
with marshmallows and chestnut roasting. Santa will 
march with the band at 6:30 onto the town green. 
Horse-drawn sleigh rides will be available until 
8:30 p.m. At 7:30 p.m., caroling will begin at the 
New Haven Congregational Church. For additional 
information, call (802) 453-5978.
Winterfest
5 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.
Merlin the Magician and Santa, with a gift 
for all children, will meet at the Vergennes 
American Legion. The refreshments, activi-
ties, and entertainments are all free of cost.
Get your jingle bells ready and hang your mistletoe, 
join others at the Vergennes American Legion for 
a handmade cedar chest will be a top prize for all in 
attendance.
“Steam Heat: A Holiday Extravaganza” will take the 
Town Hall Theater by holiday storm. Classic tunes 
for all are promised! Tickets are $10 for adults and 
$5 for children under 12-years-old. Call (802) 382-
9222 for information. 
D
ec
em
be
r
9 10
11 14
22
cookies and join in holiday games at the 
Lincoln Library. For information, call (802) 
453-2665.  
Children holiday fun 
3:30 p.m. – 5:30 p.m. 
Holiday fair
10 a.m. – 2 p.m. 
Addison County artists offer pottery, hand-painted 
silk, honey, jewelry, art prints and herbal products in 
honor of the holidays.
Hot chocolate and donuts for all in 
attendance will complement the Weybridge 
Community Church’s live Nativity pageant. 
Live animals and Christmas carols will be 
held in the “stable” behind the church. 
Live Nativity
5 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.
The Lincoln Library will come alive in reds and 
greens for a holiday sing-along. All are welcome 
and refreshments will be served. Call (802) 453-
2665 for details.
Holiday tunes
10 a.m. - 12 p.m.
Vergennes Xmas party
3 p.m. - 5 p.m.
Adult festive party
2 p.m. - 8 p.m.18
enjoy myriad Holiday happenings across Addison County
“One of our 
board members 
saw a Festival 
of Trees in 
another state. 
We came 
up with an 
adaptation 
and started 
the event in 
the high school 
cafeteria with 
20 wreaths.”
ilana snyder
co-director for the Mary 
Johnson childrens’ center 
and organizer of middlebury’s 
festival of wreaths
NEW, LOCAL, OPINIONS, FEATURES, SPORTS, ARTS & SCIENCES
IT’S ALL THERE. LOG ON TODAY.
  THE CAMPUS + THE INTERNET
MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM   MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM
editorial
The editorial 
represents the  
The Middlebury 
Campus as 
notes from 
the desk
Damon Hatheway ’13.5 
is a sports editor from 
London, England.
editorial board
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Race and gossip
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kara Shurmantine
MANAGING EDITOR
Dana Walters
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Ethan Schmertzler
NEWS EDITORS 
Jess Berry, Kyle Finck, 
Adam Schaffer
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Kevin Carpenter, 
Isabel Shaw, Ian Trombulak
SPORTS EDITORS 
Alex Edel, Dillon Hupp, Katie Siegner,
Damon Hatheway
LOCAL EDITORS 
Kaylen Baker, Charlotte Gardiner, 
Devin MacDonald
FEATURES EDITORS 
Cedar Attanasio, Shannon Fiedler, 
Allison Forrest
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Santiago Azpurua-Borras, Deirdre Sackett, 
Emily Scarisbrick
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Anna Clements, Paul Gerard, 
Andrew Podrygula, Jiayi Zhu
DESIGN EDITOR
Ian Stewart
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR
Emily Pinto
ONLINE MANAGER 
Lea Calderon-Guthe
ONLINE EDITORS
Hannah Bristol, Kaireth Kim,  
Sarah Pfander, Ian Thomas
opinions
Tufts Daily he 
“Tufts? Really?”
is
29
Correction: 
Campus 
another meat-less monday :( #closetedprobs
Semester in tweets
it not  serve 
 
 
Liberal Midd Moms Compete For the Title 
Stoned With Their Children #parentsweekend
s my solar d
three doors to a more accessible entrance to 
Apply 
Liberally
Zach Dallmeyer-
Drennen ’13.5 is from 
Canandaigua, N.Y. 
Reader
Op-ED
Harry Zieve-Cohen ’15 
is from Brooklyn, N.Y.
notes from 
the desk
Ian Trombulak ’12 is 
an Opinions Editor
 from Middlebury, Vt.
Casino America Sleep on it. Please.
“Unconscionable comparisons”
Someone once said that there are two 
types of Americans: those who are rich, 
and those who plan on getting there 
someday. Advertising and easy credit 
have left their mark on the American 
psyche and the American bank account; 
we’d rather have a BMW than spend 
time with our kids and we’d rather own 
an empty vacation home than have a job 
that actually allows the time to spend on 
vacation. 
We measure the strength of our 
economy not in jobs nor in income 
equality, but in raw 
growth of Gross 
Domestic Product 
and in consumer 
dollar saved is 
“bad” for the 
economy; a dollar 
borrowed and 
spent is “healthy.”  
Therein lies the problem with the 
platform of the Democratic party: it’s 
realistic, not aspirational. Congress 
cuts taxes on the wealthy again and 
again without public 
outcry because so 
many people believe 
that, someday, despite 
all evidence to the 
contrary, those policies 
average voter doesn’t 
care much about 
welfare or food stamps 
or unemployment 
insurance because 
the average voter 
thinks they’ll never 
be poor, hungry or 
unemployed. We don’t 
care about health 
insurance because we don’t think we’ll 
ever get that sick. We don’t care about 
endless wars and deployments of troops 
because we’re not a part of that other 
one percent that defends our freedoms. 
And why would we? We live in a society 
where these problems have all been 
reduced to unpleasant abstractions. To 
many of us, the fate of the soldier from 
Dallas, Texas, her unemployed husband 
and their uninsured neighbors have no 
more connection to our lives than the 
rainforest.
Year after year, voters line up at the 
polls and vote Republican because they 
don’t want to face these uncomfortable 
truths. They want to believe in an 
America where every person can truly 
pull themselves up by their bootstraps 
and break into the top bracket of society. 
Never mind the recent study, cited by 
none other than Rick Santorum, which 
found this dream more plausible in 
such capitalist havens as France and 
Germany. 
Despite a tax structure that coddles 
the mega-rich and the stagnation of 
middle class wages, we’ve stayed silent, 
entranced by the millionaires on our 
from our grasp. Half a century ago, the 
American dream was to own a modest 
home with a white picket fence. Now we 
all want to be Kardashians.    
The Democratic Party has lost 
individualistic ownership society where 
we prize the right to solitude above all 
else, we need to promote a new American 
dream; one where maybe the rewards 
of success aren’t as high — two houses 
instead of seven, or a share of a private 
plane instead of the plane itself — but 
also where the penalties of failure are not 
the most advanced medical technology 
in the world, spend a few weeks of the 
year relaxing with their families and 
get a useful education.  We’ve lost sight 
of this dream because the Republicans 
have successfully framed the debate 
in terms of the “nanny” state versus 
freedom; we need to frame the debate 
instead in terms of risk. 
An America run by 
the Republican Party is 
the national equivalent 
of a casino, where the 
lucky few gain all the 
rewards, and where 
the house always wins. 
To believe their story, 
all we have to do to be 
successful is to work 
hard. That’s insulting 
to the tens of millions 
of men and women 
who drag themselves 
out of bed every 
morning and work at 
menial jobs just to survive. When they 
don’t miraculously become rich it’s not 
because they’re too stupid or too lazy. 
Many of them work harder every day 
Should we punish them politically and 
demean their existence just because they 
weren’t dealt the winning hand? 
The Democratic Party is the party of 
inconvenient truths and uncomfortable 
the Republican narrative that wealth is 
nothing more than the product of hard 
work by pointing to the victims of their 
policies and by connecting their stories 
to the median voter — until we link 
them and their ill-conceived rhetoric of 
“freedom” from government assistance 
to the children who don’t have a place to 
call home and the mothers who can’t pay 
their healthcare bills and the soldiers 
dead from wars of choice in this country 
— we will remain on the defense, the 
middle class will continue its descent 
into poverty, and the American Dream 
will remain more of a fantasy than an 
attainable goal for most Americans.
probably doing something wrong. 
of our identity — after all, you don’t get 
into a college like Middlebury without 
during high school. Though we may not 
always outwardly express enjoyment 
with the workload we face during the 
semester, most of us do enjoy the process 
of learning and expanding our knowledge 
we probably wouldn’t ask our parents to 
invest a small fortune in our four-year stint 
in the middle of nowhere. 
The expectation that we are eager 
students who get all of our work done 
becomes problematic, however, when 
the health of the student is put at risk. 
Unfortunately, this is exactly what happens 
when a student’s workload necessitates 
that most ubiquitous and timeless 
collegiate rite of passage: the all-nighter.
The research on sleep deprivation 
linked to the following physical and 
psychological effects: headaches, increased 
blood pressure, muscle aches, depression, 
memory loss, shaking, hallucinations, 
severely impedes an individual’s working 
memory, attention span and capacity for 
thoughtful decision-making. 
Sadly, these symptoms are not foreign 
to most Middlebury students. That is 
because “pulling an all-nighter” is an all-
too-common method of dealing with the 
workload that comes with four Middlebury 
classes and a handful of extracurricular 
activities (for example, working for the 
Campus
part of what it means to “work hard” at 
never — not once in four years — stayed 
thought is probably either, “he must be 
a slacker” or “he must be an American 
Studies major.” 
the point is that a normal, hard-working 
Middlebury student is expected to prioritize 
homework over sleep, and any failure to do 
so connotes a student who is not serious 
about his or her work and education. This is 
not a healthy attitude toward learning, and 
suggests that it makes me a better student 
— at least, a more engaged, attentive and 
physically healthy one. 
The root cause of this pervasive attitude 
on who you ask. Most students would 
probably attribute their all-nighters to 
the sheer amount of work they have — if 
their professors gave them less work, there 
would be less cause for late nights in BiHall 
or Davis Library. Professors might counter 
by suggesting that students manage their 
time better during the daylight hours, 
or withdraw from time-consuming 
extracurriculars. Of course, some students 
may also acknowledge their need to be 
professors may admit that the work they 
assign (multiplied by four) requires an 
unreasonable time commitment. But the 
dominant trend, as with most attributions 
we make as humans, is to place the blame 
on an external source. 
The administration, too, has a role to 
play in perpetuating the “work over sleep” 
mentality. By keeping the library open 24 
they are implicitly encouraging students 
to view these weeks as a time when it is 
especially important to work rather than 
sleep, when, in fact, the direct opposite is 
true. No empirical study has ever supported 
the notion that a student does his or her 
best work when they haven’t slept in 24 
more sleep during these critical weeks. 
However, an always-open library implies 
that working from 
dusk ‘til dawn may 
be the only way 
to complete one’s 
work — and that 
this is normal and 
acceptable. 
How can an 
administrat ion 
that publicly decries the student body’s use 
of alcohol as dangerous and problematic 
also promote sleep deprivation as a route 
to academic success? Sure, they have never 
come out and said that students should be 
what other message are we supposed to 
receive when the dining halls cook food at 
midnight and the library is open 24 hours? 
nine hours of sleep” seem like a normative 
or desirable goal. 
But, of course, the administration is 
only responding to student demand. When 
they axed midnight breakfast and 24-hour 
library access after the 2008 recession, 
the student outcry was so intense that the 
SGA stepped in to fund both. Clearly, the 
attitude exists among students that all-
nighters are a necessary part of the college 
experience, especially during “crunch 
this is because of an unmanageable 
workload or a widespread lack of regard 
for personal health is not clear. 
The bottom line is that our learning 
environment suffers when we are not 
deprivation is so deeply ingrained into 
our model of academic success that we 
no longer care about having engaged and 
attentive students in our classrooms, then 
maybe it’s time for us to start thinking of a 
new model. 
being tired. 
Last week, my classmate Sarah Cohen 
’15 called out the injurious comparison 
Occupation in her article entitled, 
“The other ‘N’ word.” Her article was 
prompted by an audience member at a 
three weeks ago. The Holocaust cannot 
be compared with the Occupation 
because, as Sarah argued last week, 
the Holocaust 
was genocide; the 
Occupation is not. 
Sarah wrote that 
bringing the word 
“Nazi” into the 
conversation about 
have themselves linked the Holocaust 
to the Nazis. Rendering the issues 
forced her citizens to undermine the 
core values of Judaism.
Time magazine 
about his book, The Holocaust Is 
Over: We Must Rise from Its Ashes, 
Avraham Burg said, “The Holocaust 
was a hellish horror, but we often use 
it as an excuse to avoid looking around 
seeing how, existentially, 60 years later, 
in a miraculous way, [we] are living 
and Jews in general, live dangerously 
— in constant fear of existential crisis. 
We Jews cannot leave the Holocaust 
behind and dismiss the real potential 
for the world to turn against us. After 
the Holocaust, we have rightly learned 
that Jews must never get complacent. 
Complacency was of course hardly 
the cause of the Holocaust. But “never 
again” must remain an active message. 
“never again” is not just never enough; 
statehood cannot be reparation for the 
damage of the Holocaust nor protection 
against future and present anti-Semitic 
mobilization.
Furthermore, many Jews and 
Holocaust to excuse a double-standard. 
weapons program and call on the 
United States to cut its stockpile, but 
nuclear arsenal. We criticize China for 
its Tibet policy, but remain silent as 
helpless (and stateless) Palestinians. 
standard from anyone else. Human 
rights standards are meaningless if we 
allow exceptions to them. By remaining 
can never fully recognize and live in 
the present. More pressingly, it cannot 
move forward to create a just and 
sustainable future.
The great Jewish philosopher Moses 
Maimonides talked about freedom from 
oppression for all humanity, not just 
for Jews. The Holocaust, as perhaps 
in history, belongs not just to Jews but 
of Hillel, “Do unto others as you would 
have them do unto you.” All the rest 
of the Torah, he famously proclaimed, 
is commentary on that principle. The 
lesson of the Holocaust is not simply 
that we must protect Jews’ rights; it 
is that we must protect everyone’s. 
Equating the Holocaust with the 
Occupation is not only misguided and 
spurious; doing so ignores the real 
conversation we need to have. We 
Palestine. But the community also needs 
to have an honest discussion about the 
classism, violence and environmental 
injustice. Until we have that discussion, 
or about the Holocaust, and we will 
continue to misunderstand and to make 
unconscionable comparisons.
An America run 
by the Republican 
Party is the national 
equivalent of a 
casino, where the 
lucky few gain all 
the rewards, and 
where the house 
always wins.
11opinionsDecember 8, 2011 | The Middlebury Campus
In national defense of a 
big, huge government
Dispelling gender-based 
rumors among Middlets
I attended one of the most liberal, 
enlightened private schools in the 
Mid-Atlantic from age four to 18, 
where instead of reciting the Pledge of 
Allegiance, we sung out Martin Luther 
King Jr.’s “I Have A Dream” speech 
every morning and had pop quizzes 
on the Big 8 every afternoon following 
snack. If one was 
even so much 
as suspected of 
saying the N-, 
or C-, or K- or 
F-words they 
would be taken 
post-haste to 
be given several swift and effective 
spankings and sent home for the day if 
not forever. 
I say this just to preface why I am 
so surprised that there was not one 
institutionally-sponsored club, class 
or lecture that pertained to women’s 
rights until high school — and no, I am 
not talking about the rights of women in 
truly oppressive countries, or the victims 
of genital mutilation and other similarly 
horrendous practices — because my old 
school (and Middlebury, too) eats that 
type of thing up. I’m talking about the 
implicit value systems that inform how 
most of my fellow students (including 
me) shaped judgments about our 
classmates and ourselves. Girls were 
taught that you could be the president of 
the student body, and maybe next of the 
USA — while they were simultaneously 
learning that the only way to get a boy 
to like you is to get nearly blackout 
and chase him to whatever sketchy 
upperclassman house party he might 
be attending where you might hurl your 
drunken bod at him and hope for the 
best. 
Middlebury is, thank goodness, more 
socially diverse than my previous school 
was. There are many more conservatives, 
and, for balance, many more radically 
liberal students. Despite this excitingly 
broad scope of social opinions and 
beliefs (that only occasionally intersect 
with political views), I’ve found that 
even some of the most vocal preachers 
of equality and anarchical destruction 
oppress somehow still possess some 
of the most deeply rooted prejudices 
about those who identify as women. For 
some reason, the feminist cause, other 
than to say, “I am tolerant! Women 
should get to abort their unborn babes 
and pierce their nips while getting paid 
just as much as I do!” (which is great, 
but not nearly enough) has not yet 
permeated the dominant progressive 
discourse on campus.* Why is it that 
some Middlebury students are so quick 
to spring to the defense of certain 
marginalized groups, both domestic and 
international, but are not quite ready to 
destroy prevailing attitudes regarding 
51 percent of the student body?
It is in this light that I’ve decided 
to write up a few gender-based rumors 
that are perpetuated at Middlebury and 
elsewhere. As minor as some of them 
sound, the continued belief in these 
truly dumb stereotypes contributes 
to the perpetuation of a society that 
believes men should be big and tough 
and awesome and that women should 
be meek and nice and nuts. 
1. If a man is a vegetarian, he’s a 
wimp.
2. If a woman is watching her 
weight, she’s anorexic.
3. If a woman isn’t watching her 
weight, but manages to stay 
thin, she’s SUCH A BRO OMG 
I LOVE THIS GIRL. 
4. If a man uses the elliptical 
machine in the gym … oh wait 
actually I’m pretty sure that’s 
never happened in the 200+ 
year history of Middlebury 
College.
5. Only dark-haired women are 
allowed to take WAGS classes, 
save one or two token gays.
6. Only dark-haired women are 
allowed to join Poor Form 
Poetry, save one or two token 
gays.
7. If a woman who is your supe-
rior takes a stern tone, she is 
suuuuch a bitch and will likely 
die alone.
8. If a man who is your superior 
takes a stern tone, he is go-
ing to be so successful and it’s 
probably a good idea to start 
dating him now so that he can 
in ceramics.  
9. If a woman reacts strongly to 
something you’ve done it’s be-
cause she’s pre-menstrual or 
should be admitted to an asy-
lum.
10. Because a man doesn’t text you 
back it’s because he’s fallen 
victim to his own manly inepti-
tude, i.e. following his ding a 
ling.
11. If a woman cuts her hair short 
she’s clearly alerting the world 
of her newfound lesbianism. 
12. You can’t be a feminist if you 
do anything inconsistent with 
hardline feminism because 
women (and especially femi-
nists) must stick to perfect 
ideological consistency to earn 
their gross title.
13. Bashing a female peer’s per-
ceived vapidity to a group of 
men is a totally effective way to 
advance the feminist cause!
14. If a man is simultaneously 
dating two women, and you 
are one of these women, it is 
DEFINITELY the other wom-
an’s fault and she should start 
being your enemy and the en-
emy of all of your friends, im-
mediately, no questions asked, 
because the man is so cute and 
just happens to be the perfect 
combination of arty and buff!
15. Sexual harassment is a rare oc-
currence at Middlebury.
16. 
with a dude but is blackout 
drunk, that’s totes healthy be-
cause she’s a freshman and we 
are exploring our sexuality, 
stop being such a prude! 
17. If a man yells at a woman when 
she refuses to sleep with him, 
it’s not sexual harassment. 
18. Sexism is a lesser evil than rac-
ism.
19. Feminism is only for white, 
upper-middle class women 
and caters only to their inter-
ests. It cannot possibly address 
the intersectional ties between 
race, class, and gender.
20. Because you say you’re a femi-
nist, you don’t believe any of 
these myths.
Again, I stress that I am not 
condemning anyone for believing any 
number of items from the preceding 
list — I obviously believed a lot of them 
until recently and still catch myself 
sporadically judging people because 
of this value system. But, it is time to 
recognize our (potentially subconscious) 
acceptance of these and other sweeping 
generalizations and evaluations, realize 
that they are patently false, and begin to 
work towards their eradication.
*In saying this I obviously am not 
including the Women and Gender 
Studies Department, Chellis House, the 
People’s Gender Council or others who 
have committed their academic careers 
to studying feminism and related 
thought. 
That Thing 
Down There
Joanna Rothkopf ’12 
is from Washington, D.C.
reader
Op-Ed
Addi DiSesa ’12 is 
from Wynnewood, Pa.
12opinions
When I read pieces such as last 
week’s “Patrick Henry: give me liberty, 
too” supporting the U.S. Patriot Act in 
this section, I feel sick to my stomach. 
Easily one of the most constitutionally 
controversial laws in the long history of 
this nation, rife with constitutionally 
controversial laws, the U.S. Patriot Act 
epitomizes a great Republican paradox: 
big government is bad government, 
except for when it’s capital “R” 
Republican government.
My issue today lies not with last 
Patriot Act in particular — those 
with a greater knowledge of the 
act’s implications ought to foster 
that dialogue — but instead with the 
claim that, while “a main tenet of the 
Republican Party is its insistence on 
small government … when it comes 
to national security, a majority of 
Republicans will condone a larger role 
of the state.” The author of that article 
goes on to cite the preamble to the 
constitution as accountable for this big 
government “exception.” I must ask, 
however, what does national security 
actually entail and which political party 
truly cares about it. 
The federal government plays 
several important roles in regulating 
parts of Americans’ everyday lives. 
Governments build roads, schools and 
hospitals. They ensure that tap water is 
potable and that the electricity remains 
on. Governments 
enforce criminal laws 
to keep our families 
and loved ones away 
from those people 
who wish to do them 
harm (though I am 
not talking about 
terrorists in Yemen 
or Pakistan who, to 
most Americans for 
all of their lives, will 
remain non-entities 
and propagandized 
abstractions of fear; 
I am talking about 
the guy robbing 
the corner store on 
Roosevelt Boulevard 
in Anytown, USA). 
Good governments, like our American 
government, provide us with security in 
countless ways, only some of which have 
anything to do with the Departments 
of Defense or Homeland Security. The 
U.S. Patriot Act may keep Americans 
safe in some unproven ways (no, 
that we have had fewer threats to our 
security since September 11, 2001, does 
not prove or even necessarily suggest 
that the tenets of the act have foiled 
terrorists’ aims to hurt Americans; that 
is a jump in the illogic supporters of the 
act are all too eager to make) but other 
important staples of government keep 
America a place worth keeping safe. 
In other words, our government, our 
exceptional government — as in unique 
and not necessarily better than other 
governments — makes this country 
worth defending. Our government 
protects our patriotism; why don’t we 
protect it?
and waste and as a former employee 
(read: intern) of the New York City 
government, I can speak to the 
presence of gratuitous spending, hiring 
and bureaucracy that has found its way 
into our system. Much of what I did in 
my government post seemed irrelevant 
to the starry-eyed optimism with which 
I view American government. Such 
is the charge of a purely good and 
effective government, to cut down on 
needless spending. But spending on 
endless reams of printer paper or on 
wages for employees solely responsible 
for writing out-of-date newsletters to 
constituents is actually needless; a lot 
of other government spending many 
Republicans would call needless serves 
an important purpose and role in 
defending the country in practice.
 Without big government, 
who will help to prevent the number 
of starving families in this nation from 
increasing? Who will help citizens 
rebuild roads and bridges when storms 
ravage them? Who will devise ways to 
foot the bills facing hospitals forced to 
admit to their emergency rooms poor 
people who lack health insurance — 
which the government tried to help 
provide? Who will protect Americans 
from falling into another recession, one 
concocted largely 
on Wall Street (my 
brother works on 
Wall Street, so 
don’t try to tell me 
I don’t realize that 
bankers are people 
who can care and 
love and feel too)? Who will protect 
Americans from the real, tangible fears 
and threats they confront each and 
every day.
My point is that we have big 
governments and many governments in 
this country — federal, state and local, 
not to mention to pseudo-governments 
existing in our schools, clubs, teams, et 
cetera — and these governments do a 
lot of positive things for a lot of good 
people. Surely some bad apples have 
found themselves in elected positions 
of power and some 
other bad apples have 
enjoyed the fruits of 
others’ labor without 
doing too much to 
help out, but since 
when do we let the 
minority alone rule in 
this country? Never, 
we rule one and all 
together.
National security 
then is more than 
just waterboarding 
terrorists under the 
U.S. Patriot Act. 
National security 
means protecting our 
poor, our wealthy, 
our hungry, our 
obese, our blacks, our whites, our 
Christians, our atheists, our political, 
hawks. We must protect each other by 
making our roads passable. We must 
give ourselves security by living in a 
society that honors the human dignities 
our constitution. We must defend our 
liberty by not abolishing the very body 
that enables it.
American security is exceptional 
security. We stand opposed to threats to 
our liberty. So I  will quote Patrick Henry, 
who cried, “Give me liberty or give me 
that protects and guarantees my liberty 
with helpful agencies and programs. 
The Departments of Defense and 
Homeland Security are concerned 
with the glamour of national defense. 
The Department of Education, the 
Environmental Protection Agency 
and the Department of the Interior, 
to name a few, are concerned with the 
nitty-gritty of it. Our government, in its 
entirety, protects us. Let it continue to 
grow and to protect us. There are few 
deregulated free market solutions to 
national security.
So the question remains: which party 
stands for national security? The party 
of small government, interested in the 
defense of America from terrorists 
abroad, or the party of big, huge and 
sometimes cumbersome government, 
with its bothersome agencies aimed at 
making sure we, the undeserving, we, 
the ingrates, have safe roads to travel 
and clean air to breathe?
National security 
is more than just 
water boarding 
terrorists under 
the Patriot Act. 
National security 
means protecting 
our poor, our 
wealthy, our 
hugnry, our obese 
our hawks.
The Middlebury Campus| December 8, 2011
Last week in East Jerusalem, one Palestin-
ian family was four days away from losing their 
home. The threat of eviction was the result of a 
morally suspect legal maneuver used by the or-
ganization Himnuta to transfer the deed from 
the Sumarin Family. Himnuta is a subsidiary 
of the Jewish National Fund (JNF), which has 
long claimed that it does not do business over 
the Green Line.
Under Israel’s Absentee Property Law, a 
law applied solely to Arab residents, the gov-
ernment was able to take legal possession of 
the house after the family patriarch’s death in 
1991. Because his three sons were living outside 
the country, despite the other family members 
living in the house, their absentee status was 
grounds for the government to assume the 
deed, and soon after transfer it to Himnuta in 
1991. 
Since then, Himnuta has been engaged in a 
decades long legal battle to enforce this, while 
technically legal, unjust eviction so it can then 
turn the house over to the settler organization, 
ELAD. The house, located in the Palestin-
ian East Jerusalem neighborhood of Silwan, 
is directly inside the City of David National 
Park. The City of David itself is a controversial 
archeological dig and park run by ELAD, an 
organization whose directive is to transform 
the demographics of East Jerusalem in favor 
of the Jewish population. They seek to “Juda-
ize” the neighborhood, pushing out Palestinian 
families and replacing them with Jewish ones 
through their destructive settler activity.
For a bit of background, JNF has long been 
one of the central addresses for Diaspora giving 
to support the State of Israel. Set up in 1901, 
47 years before the founding of Israel, it bought 
land in what would become modern Israel on 
behalf of Jews seeking to immigrate. Without 
the JNF, it is very likely Israel’s path to state-
hood would not have been very long and their 
importance is not lost on us. After the state was 
founded, the JNF took primary responsibil-
ity for forestry and ecological work, as well as 
administering 
large tracts of 
land through-
out Israel. It’s 
keep their work 
within the Green Line. This is where their 
subsidiary, Himnuta, comes into the picture. 
-
nuta is entirely owned by the JNF and shares 
together on that front. 
Organizations such as the JNF helped build 
role in the development of the country. How-
ever, for those of us that see such settlement 
activity as dangerous to integrity of Israel as a 
democratic, Jewish state, this JNF sanctioned 
activity is more than troubling. Their ventures 
across the Green Line are unacceptable. They 
are betraying the trust of those who have sup-
ported the JNF in the belief that they are help-
ing to build Israel’s future; rather this behavior 
jeopardizes a two-state solution by appropri-
ating land in East Jerusalem. Neighborhoods 
that would, by the way, become the capital of a 
It is disappointing to see an organization that 
has done so much good, such important work 
in the past to then imperil the future of the 
very country it founded. Because that is what 
the JNF does when it crosses the Green Line in 
such an irresponsible manner; it works against 
the very forces that would ensure Israel’s sur-
vival as a Jewish and democratic state. 
This action is particularly troubling when 
taking into account the implicit support given 
by other central well-known Jewish organiza-
tions, such as Birthright. This winter, 11,300 
young Jews will travel to Israel on Birthright 
-
cies prevent their trips from crossing the Green 
Line. However, many of them will go to the 
City of David, without knowing the danger-
ous implications of their visit — that they are 
monetarily supporting a settler organization 
that works to intimidate and annex a neighbor-
hood. While Birthright provides an important 
opportunity for American Jews to connect with 
their homeland, it must be done in a morally 
sustainable way, one that engages with our val-
ues of justice and democracy. Indeed, many of 
with Israel on a Birthright trip. This ten-day 
trip proved to be an essential building block 
in their commitment to making Israel a bet-
ter place for our own and future generations. 
We believe Birthright plays an essential role 
in maintaining the relationship between the 
American-Jewish community and Israel, but it 
must not come at the expense of what is right. 
Unfortunately, what is happening to the 
Sumarin family is not an exception. These 
quiet injustices have been carried out for de-
cades. They are pulling apart the fabric of a 
democratic Israel, thread by thread, quietly 
enough so that we might not even notice un-
til it is too late, until the chance for a two-state 
solution has been rendered an impossibility for 
those families in East Jerusalem and the Occu-
pied Territories. It’s disappointing for those of 
state solution to see the explicit, and implicit, 
cooperation of important Jewish institutions 
like the JNF and Birthright involved in activity 
that erodes our Jewish and democratic values, 
those upon which Israel were originally found. 
There is some good news in all of this trou-
ble: It was thanks to the efforts of Rabbis for 
Human Rights in Israel and North America and 
Solidarity Sheikh Jarrah that the eviction was 
originally postponed. By publicly pressuring 
delayed. Now, it’s time to cancel it permanent-
ly. These campaigns, supported by J Street U, 
are essential in making sure the values that the 
Jewish people seek to exemplify are truly rep-
resented in our institutions, actions, and home-
land. We must move the conversation forward 
and restore justice to a system facing existential 
threats by those impeding the establishment of 
a two-state solution, the only way to guarantee 
the survival of Israel as a democracy and a vi-
able Palestinian state.
Almost 1000 people took the LessMeat 
Monday survey, which is amazing. Overall, 
the results were really positive, but I wanted 
to take some time lay out a few of the main 
criticisms and respond to them. 
The real goal should be local and 
organic food, and the meat vs. non-
meat debate is missing the point. Though 
local and organic foods are important parts of 
sustainable food systems, after meeting with 
the head of dining, Matthew Biette, we were 
informed that they were unaffordable for the 
M i d d l e b u r y 
dining halls. 
While we could 
have done 
s o m e t h i n g 
along the lines 
of a special, local 
Atwater dinner, 
we feared this would only cater to students 
who were already passionate about the issue 
and that it would not raise any new awareness. 
A related complaint was that vegetarian diets 
actually supported corn and soy industries 
which are worse than the meat industry. I 
agree that big soy and corn agriculture are not 
ideal, but disagree that our vegetarian options 
supported them more than meat would have. 
While it is true that we had one tofu option 
made from soy, our other protein options were 
pasta, cheese, chick peas and hummus.  Also, 
livestock consumes one-third of the world’s 
grain, so meat production is intrinsically 
tied with the corn industry. There are many 
other food issues that we did not fully address 
that are very important, but that does not 
invalidate the meat vs. vegetarian debate, 
which we chose to tackle because it is feasible 
for the dining hall on a weekly basis. 
Vegetarian food was cheaper than 
meat so we should pay less/it was more 
expensive so it was unfair to the dining 
hall.
meat products vs. nonmeat products for the 
dining hall, and the prices turned out to be 
approximately the same. We originally hoped 
that less meat would save the dining hall 
money, but Matthew Biette is great at buying 
quality meat at great prices.
We should focus on other 
environmental problems before 
tackling meat. If we want to help the 
environment, addressing meat production is 
a necessity. The 2006 FAO paper “Livestock’s 
Long Shadow” reported that livestock 
production causes 18 percent of greenhouse 
gas emissions (more than the entire 
transportation sector), it is most likely the 
leading cause of biodiversity loss and water 
pollution worldwide, and it uses up 70 percent 
of agricultural land, half of which is used solely 
for animal feed, which is extremely energy 
environmental problem that can be partially 
mitigated by something as simple as choosing 
to not eat meat one meal per week. 
We disrespected and prohibited 
choice. Our project was in no way meant to 
force anyone to do anything. We considered 
doing a completely Meatless Monday and 
decided against it because we wanted people 
to have a choice. While we did take away 
one meat option, we added another dish 
that could be eaten by both vegetarians 
and meat eaters on campus.  We tried very 
hard not to disrespect anyone, and tried to 
make that clear in the email when we wrote 
that we respect whatever you chose. Our 
intention was to inform people of some of the 
environmental consequences of those choices. 
Many people suggested that if we hadn’t had 
any information, no one would have noticed 
the difference. We discussed simply trying 
to sneak in less meat, but decided against it 
because education and increased awareness 
is what will actually make a difference in the 
long run. We truly wanted the focus to be on 
education, and it was. We stood passively 
outside of the dining halls with information 
and made ourselves available to answer any 
questions that students had. 
We were imposing our minority 
vegetarian views on everyone. We were 
promoting less meat, not a vegetarian diet 
(in fact three out of our four group members 
are not vegetarian). Meat reduction is not 
such a radical idea; what is new and radical 
is our increased demand for meat, which has 
grown 37 percent since 1980 and is predicted 
to double by 2050. The worst case scenario 
minority, but the Organic Garden Survey last 
year found that 15 percent of students did not 
eat meat on campus, and LessMeat Monday 
represents less than 5 percent of meals on 
campus.  
There was not enough information. 
Many people made a beeline to the food 
(understandably) and missed the big posters 
and the info sheet outside the dining hall, so 
I will put those along with our citations and 
paper online at the end of the semester when 
about this if anyone wants more information 
or is confused. 
13opinions
Reader
Op-ED
Samantha Strom ’13.5 
is from Chapel Hill, N.C.
More info about LessMeat Monday
Reader Op-ED
Submitted by J Street U 
Middlebury
I write today to express my stunned disappointment regarding 
capricious, improper dismissal of one of its most dedicated and 
steadfastly loyal employees: First Year Counselor Barrett Smith. 
In the interest of full disclosure, I consider 
the dismissed Res Life staff member a close 
friend. That will discredit my words to some, 
and it is for this reason that I have refrained, 
until this point, from expressing publicly my 
concern with the unfolding events that have 
led to his relief of duty. But one need not be 
every characteristic and value that a freshman could ever hope for in 
a leader.
For the FYC is, to a group of new students navigating a tumultuous 
set of new experiences, the very epitome of a leader and role model. By 
condemning their leader, the administration has, in the same stroke, 
stigmatized every value he embodied to these freshmen: trust and 
man. And you had better believe they are watching. These young new 
members of our community have now received a callous lesson in 
what their school values.  They have learned hatred over love, fear 
over acceptance and intolerance in place of trust. They have learned 
that those they have learned to admire and model themselves after 
can be disparaged and disrespected regardless of their opinions of the 
matter. And they have learned that unless they toe the line, abide by 
unarticulated rules of acceptable differentness and defer in all things 
to the dictates of their new school’s infallible administration, they too 
something they love.
I love this school. I love my FYCs, and two years later, still hold 
their friendships dear and often seek their council. I love so much of 
what Middlebury and its commons system have done for me, but I 
student of Middlebury College.
Letter to 
the Editor
Sam Murray ’13
The Jewish National Fund: Preventing a two-state solution?
Earlier this week Barrett Smith, one of two First-Year 
of his duties. This came after Barrett had hosted a person 
week. We will not be exploring the details surrounding 
this guest’s stay or his departure, many of which are the 
subject of debate, but we do urge readers to learn more if 
they feel it necessary. What we do wish to express is our 
disappointment in the Brainerd Commons Administrators’ 
Stewart Hall, we hope and request that the Administration, 
namely Brainerd Commons Dean Natasha Chang, Dean of 
the Students Katy Smith Abbott, Dean of the College Shirley 
Collado and Brainerd Commons Faculty Head Roman Graf 
will review and overturn the decision.
The transition to college life has not always been easy and 
we feel incredible gratitude for the wonderful Residential 
Life staff that has helped along the way. Barrett is an integral 
member of the Res Life team and his care, sensitivity, 
kindness and passion for the Middlebury community both 
comforts and inspires us. Indicative of his enthusiasm is the 
special effort his broken foot has required he make to walk 
have requested a room change, but he was set on remaining 
come January, will compromise the comfort that had been 
cultivated by the Stewart community — including Natasha 
and Roman — this semester.
While we understand that Barrett’s decision represented 
a lapse in judgment, we know that such a lapse is hardly 
telling of the way Barrett approaches his duties as an FYC. 
While some punishment may indeed have been necessary, 
we wish it could have come in the form of a reprimand or 
probation. A punishment of this sort would have been a 
more proportionate response to the singular nature of 
Barrett’s transgression. Furthermore, we are frustrated that 
the most potentially affected members of this community — 
the students — were not consulted in the review process over 
the past few weeks.
We admit that we are not familiar with all aspects of the 
deliberations, but what we do know is that this decision 
will be detrimental to the 
tightly knit community that 
Stewart currently houses. 
We recognize the concern 
Administrators might feel 
about setting a precedent 
but feel that the College has 
other means at its disposal 
with which it could avoid 
such an adverse result. There 
is another precedent at stake here: the disruption and 
Finally, we do not want it to seem as if we lack an 
for the Administration to make. We know that they hold a 
responsibility to parents as well as others in the College and 
we appreciate that the intent behind this decision was to 
protect students’ interests. We simply do not feel that this 
to parents and others that Barrett had been reprimanded 
and given a better understanding of the full scope of the 
requirements that surround an FYC, the administration 
decided on an unnecessarily harsh course of action. Once 
again, we are disappointed with the unilateral nature of 
will be reviewed and that his strong support from students, 
which we anticipate will become increasingly evident over 
the following week, will help lead to his reinstatement.
Reader 
Op-ed
Sam Smith ’15, Harry 
Zieve-Cohen ’15, 
Nathan Weil ’15, and 
Jia Jun Jee ’15 
Regarding the dismissal of FYC Barrett Smith ’13
December 8, 2011 | The Middlebury Campus
“All the dinners happen in Old Stone Mill. There’s 
that we use and a dishwasher, which is amazing 
-
space to put on the dinner and get away with strangers.”
-
know 
a group of people who are complete strangers. People 
think it s a great opportunity to talk to people you 
wouldn’t normally talk to and just get a really 
hoping to take orders and sell some pieces.”
“I started on the project last spring.”
-
one in my room. Also, I don’t think my roommate would 
think the Old Stone Mill is great for that.”
“I now know a lot more people on campus that I say hi to, 
that come from a lot of different social groups. I learned how 
-
“My project is called Fairies and Feathers. I’m making 
chains and feathers and coming up with my own design. 
“I started this project at the Old Stone Mill this semester. 
making jewelry since I was a little kid.”
earring attaches from your earring hole 
up to a clip at the top of your ear with 
myself and I did.”
-
“One of my family friends is a professional print maker and he lend me a mini press so 
had the resources.”
room. I wanted to put it in a safe place that’s 
draw is something that I don’t get in my 
academic life and is really really important 
-
and how I need to make stuff. 
I really, really enjoy it when I 
community that acts as a support 
system.” 
sushi one to two nights a week for students on campus.”
-
-
started making sushi pretty often.”
The Middlebury Campus| December 8, 201114 15features
-
cation thinking I’d do a lot of recycled and green art, which I mostly stuck 
supplies there.”
of space needed for an ongoing project where you can really get messy.  I 
we would like to or approach it from new angles.” 
and make 
you happy.  
Old Stone 
Mill has 
lot of in-
sight into 
who I am 
when you 
take away 
the course 
load and 
student 
groups and 
social struc-
ture on cam-
pus which has 
really helped 
me re-frame my 
goals getting ready 
I come up with an idea and say, okay how would I interact with it rather 
can go into one of the rooms and just stay there when I’m 
Heart of Darkness
middle of the forest. The main character is an engineer on 
through the game, and the choices they make, the ending 
can turn out quite differently.”
16 features
By Geoffrey Brown
LAST WEEK OF CLASSES
Can you believe how fast this 
FINALS
So.
EGG NOG
FINALS
Much.
HOLIDAY SPIRITS
Sherry, Baileys, rum.
FINALS
Work.
WINNERS&losers
stUdent sp  tlight: Cameron Wilson 
taste cheese     
     chopsticks
BY JIAYI ZHU
+
wi
th
When I met Cameron Wilson ’14, my 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
of Step Brothers
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
International students spend holidays in USA
By Kirtley Righi
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
The Middlebury Campus| december 8, 2011
Anna Finchbaugh
!e world is big scary place. Luckily, Cam-
eron Wilson ’14 is big, scary rugby player. 
17features
“I’ll drink to that”: 
a holiday mixology
By Ethan Schmertzler
The   -Word: LOTSA LOVE EDITION
BY LEA CALDERON-GUTHE 
Easy holiday entertaining requires food 
that can be prepared ahead of time or pulled 
together quickly so you can spend time with 
your guests and enjoy the party too. Favor-
ites over time have been a seafood buffet of 
things like smoked salmon; or a whole cold 
poached salmon; shrimp; herring in wine 
or sour cream; mini crab cakes; etc. Offered 
with lots of different sauces, toppings and 
breads, a seafood spread feels elegant and 
luxurious. However, there is little, if any 
cooking involved, and nothing has to be 
served hot out of the oven.
Another good alternative is to go with 
a large item like a sliced ham, or smoked 
chicken or turkey. They do not have to be 
very hot, and they can be served with small 
rolls allowing everyone to make their own 
mini sandwiches. Provide different mus-
tards and mayo.
Other easy foods are things like mini 
quiches, spanakopita, cheese puffs, etc. 
These foods are best served warm, but the 
good thing is there are quite decent ver-
sions available in the freezer compartment 
of any grocery store.
Salads with various grains, nuts and 
dried fruit like cranberries can be great as 
side dishes. They are easy, because they can 
be prepared ahead of time and served at 
room temperature.
A great accompaniment is champagne 
or sparkling white or rose wine, which is 
festive and won’t break the bank. There are 
lots of nice alternatives from the United 
States, France, Italy, Spain and other wine-
producing countries with a wide range of 
prices. Options such as the Segura Viudas 
NV Brut Reserva or Freixenet Cordon Ne-
gro Brut Cava (both $9, Spain) are easily 
accessible and perfectly reasonable.
Good non-alcoholic offerings are cran-
berry spritzers with lime, sparkling apple 
juice or sparkling grape juice. Soda and 
sparkling water are also good to have.
Putting some extra time into presen-
tation heightens the quality of experience, 
and the appreciation for both food and 
drink. Don’t let the ubiquity of red cups 
numb you to other possibilities. Have on 
hand a stack of small plates, napkins, forks 
or toothpicks and glasses. There are lots 
of decorative paper goods available every-
Should you wish to bartend, be sure 
to settle on something relatively simple to 
make. Pick one or two drink offerings for 
company, to minimize prep. Make it easy 
to strike a balance between being a caterer 
and enjoying time with your guests. If your 
selection calls for juices, squeeze them be-
forehand, and remember that fresh citruses 
make an appreciable difference in taste. 
While nuances certainly exist between cer-
tain makers, on average one tends to get 
what they pay for when it comes to spirits. 
For reasonable purposes, above $20 per 
750 ml. the rate of return for quality begins 
to decline steeply for most liquors. Bom-
bay, Bulleit, Jameson and Mount Gay are 
all respectable makers.
For something different at your next 
gathering, here are two recipes worth try-
ing.
New Swanson
2 oz Bulleit bourbon
1 oz Diep 9 Apple Genever
1/8 oz Knappogue Castle 12-Year whis-
key
2 dashes Angostura bitters
 
Combine all ingredients in a mix-
glass, and serve.
Avenue Gabriel
1.5 oz Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey
0.5 oz green Chartreuse
0.15 oz light agave syrup
2 dashes Peychaud’s bitters
Orange twist
december 8, 2011  
I have written this column for nearly three 
years based on my perception of sexual activity 
on campus, and so far no one has complained 
that my views are inaccurate. When SOAN 0301 
shared the relationship section results of their 
all-campus survey (remember the email beguil-
ingly titled “DRUGS, SEX, AND $50”?), how-
ever, I !gured I should see if my observations 
stand up next to actual data. For the most part 
they do, but I have a couple of new observations 
to make.
Just a note on my analysis, you’re going to 
have to trust my status as a statistics professor’s 
daughter (and my success in psych statistics two 
years ago) as proof of my capacity to read survey 
results. English majors can also occasionally read 
numbers. I rounded o! percentage points to man-
ageable numbers for quick reference, but the link 
to the full results is online at go/thecampus.
THE SURVEY
"e 1,123 students who took the survey 
represent about 45 percent of the student body, 
if the website’s report of a 2,450-student popu-
lation is accurate. For practical purposes I will 
tentatively invest in the data as a representative 
sample, but keep in mind that for all we know 
the other half of the student body who didn’t 
take the survey could feel totally di#erently 
about relationships. I use “we” when I extrapo-
late the survey results out to conclusions about 
the Middlebury student population, but I am 
aware (and you should be, as well) that I am 
only making broad generalizations. All of the 
questions were also not answered by all of the 
respondents, but I have only reported on ques-
tions that achieved high response rates.
WHAT WE DO
"e split was 45/55 (yes/no) on whether 
respondents had ever been in a relationship, 
and about 70/30 (yes/no) on whether respon-
dents had ever participated in a hook-up. So far, 
we’re doing what everybody thinks we’re doing: 
we’re hooking up more than we’re dating, and 
the majority of us have at least tested the sexy 
time waters.
WHAT WE WANT
Around 55 percent of respondents wanted 
more monogamous romantic relationships, 
while 30 percent wanted more continuous 
hook-up relationships and only 13 percent 
wanted more one-night stands. "irty percent of 
respondents also felt no desire to increase their 
sexual or romantic life activities at all. About 35 
percent of respondents were sick of being single, 
and 20 percent wished they had fewer one-night 
stands, but a whopping 52 percent of respon-
dents felt there was nothing they were already 
doing that they wanted to do less. It seems that 
we want more sex than less in whatever form it 
takes, but I was surprised that such a large por-
tion of the population also wants to date more 
seriously. Jyoti would be proud.
WHAT WE THINK
Seventy percent of respondents found it 
easier to !nd a hook-up partner than a rela-
tionship partner (only !ve percent found the 
opposite is true), and 25 percent thought they 
are equally easy (or hard) to !nd. Respondents 
reported that the best environments for meeting 
relationship partners are student organizations, 
dorms and in class (70, 66 and 60 percent re-
spectively), but respondents chose parties as the 
best environment for meeting hook-up partners 
by far (96 percent). Social houses were the next 
most popular at 60 percent, and dorms and 
sports teams fell on either side of 30 percent. It’s 
interesting that we like to !nd our relationship 
partners while engaged in activities of sustained 
mutual interest, but we expect our hook-up 
partners will arise out of chance encounters 
(at parties or in social houses) or, for some of 
us, out of convenience (in dorms or on sports 
teams). I also wonder if dorms weren’t a more 
popular environment for meeting relationship 
partners than hook-up partners just because if 
you start sleeping with someone you also live 
with, you’re more likely to !nd yourself inextri-
cably attached.
DO WE THINK WE CAN GET WHAT WE WANT?
Eighty percent of respondents thought 
Middlebury provides us with opportunities to 
!nd someone to hook up with, but only about 
40 percent of respondents thought Middlebury 
provides opportunities to !nd someone to date. 
However, almost 60 percent of respondents 
thought the kind of person they would like to 
date goes to Middlebury and only 50 percent 
thought the kind of person they want to hook 
up with goes to Middlebury. We apparently feel 
we have ample opportunities to hook up with 
people (about whose desirability we feel ambiv-
alent). But when it comes to dating, a majority 
of us think the right person is out there, we just 
haven’t had the chance to meet.
"e number of respondents actively look-
ing for sex or romance was between 25 and 
30 percent, so while a majority of respondents 
generally wanted more romantic relationships 
(55 percent), the search for a partner does not 
necessarily seem to be urgent. More startling to 
me is that at least 25 to 30 percent of respon-
dents essentially answered, “Meh” to each of the 
questions on student satisfaction with or desire 
to pursue dating and sex at Middlebury. As 
someone who lives a very sex-positive, romantic 
love-driven existence, I o$en forget that some 
people (apparently a lot of people) don’t send 
their friends sex toy recommendations or obsess 
over other people’s love lives. Some people feel 
ambivalent about their sex lives, or maybe just 
about the College’s role in their sex lives, and 
that can be completely healthy, too.
CONCLUSION-LIKE STATEMENTS
In this column, over the years, I may have 
occasionally overreacted to what I perceived as 
a dearth of dating and an epidemic of loneliness 
on campus. It looks like the vast majority of us 
have “gotten some” at least once while at college, 
and at least we think we have plenty of oppor-
tunities to get some more. We do seem unsure 
(30 percent of survey respondents felt neutral 
about the issue, and 30 percent felt negatively) 
as to whether Middlebury provides enough 
opportunities to meet people to date, however, 
which puzzles me. "e majority of respon-
dents thought the kind of people they would 
date go to Middlebury, and they thought the 
best environments to meet people to date were 
student organizations, dorms and in class. I 
think Middlebury o#ers those environments in 
spades, so if we frequently !nd ourselves in the 
right place, and we think the right people are out 
there, but we still think we lack opportunities to 
meet the right people, then that onus might be 
on us. Now that we all know the chances are bet-
ter than not that someone we like is open to the 
idea of dating, and we know where we’re going 
to !nd people we might like, all that’s le$ is to 
walk up and say hello.
ENVIRONMENTS STUDENTS THINK ARE BEST FOR 
MEETING POTENTIAL HOOK-UP PARTNERS
ENVIRONMENTS STUDENTS THINK ARE BEST FOR 
MEETING POTENTIAL RELATIONSHIP PARTNERS
Courtesy: Middlebury College
Ethan Schmertzler
Holiday season sees increased fundraising
By Alexandra Strott
“Generally, this is a time when peo-
ple are generous with their donations,” 
said JJ Boggs, associate dean of students 
for Student Activities & Orientation. She 
explained that this is just one of the rea-
sons why fundraising on campus seems 
to get so hectic during holidays. 
But it’s not just because of softer 
hearts that students bombard their peers 
with candy grams, friendship bracelets 
and t-shirts this season. Fundraising re-
quires more than finding a table to set up 
outside of Proctor or Ross.
It takes groups a few months to proj-
ect proposals and fundraising groups up 
and running. Club sports suddenly realize 
that they need travel money for spring-
time championships. And the deadline 
for Middlebury Alternative Trips (MAlt) 
funds is quickly approaching. 
MAlt is a service organization at 
Middlebury, whose trips are designed 
and lead by students. It creates service 
trips for College students over February 
break (and “mini-MAlt” trips during long 
weekends in the fall). 
“MAlt offers opportunities for stu-
dents to participate in strong direct ser-
vice that seeks to address needs as de-
termined by a local community partner,” 
said Ashley Calkins, the community en-
gagement coordinator in the Center for 
Education in Action (EIA).
Students who lead a MAlt trip with 
the Service Cluster Board of the EIA to 
select a project and determine it’s cost. 
These include travel expenses, an orga-
nizational fee and lodging. After an ex-
pected student contribution is subtract-
ed from the total, the remainder must be 
raised through fundraising. Budgets for 
MAlt trips range from a few thousand 
dollars to more that ten thousand dol-
lars, and usually include around 10 stu-
dents. 
Competing for holiday dollars, fund-
raising groups try different tactics.  
Asia Stuerznickel ’14 printed tee-
shirts to raise funds for her volunteer 
trip to Ghana during Winter Term, where 
she will be a Winter Fellow for the not-
for-profit Community Water Solutions. 
Since Stuerznickel’s project is not a stu-
dent-created one, her fundraising efforts 
originated not through Civic Engagement 
but outside of the College. That means 
that she is not allowed to use the student 
fundraising website, MiddSTART, where 
alums can view projects and donate. 
Asia needs to raise enough money to 
cover the costs of implementing a sus-
tainable water treatment business in a 
rural village in Ghana. She wrote letters 
to businesses in her hometown, set up a 
donation page on the website Crowdrise 
and talked to friends who might be inter-
ested in donating. In addition, she reg-
istered a t-shirt selling booth in front of 
Proctor and sold t-shirts through the box 
office. According to her profile on Crow-
drise, her goal is $2,000. 
One MAlt group, MAlt El Paso, plans 
to offer massages in the library during 
finals week, according co-leader Adam 
Lang ’14. Members of the trip will vol-
unteer in a hospitality house for immi-
grants.
Other groups, such as the Middlebury 
Quidditch team, had t-shirts made that 
they sold at matches. Similarly, the Ser-
vice Cluster Board made t-shirts to be 
sold in order to support Tropical Storm 
Irene victims back in October. 
With all the crowding in the Christ-
mas charity market, groups try not to 
step on each other’s toes. 
“With five [MAlt] groups, we have to 
be careful not to interfere with another 
group’s fundraising because our job is to 
support each other,” says Lang. “We’ve 
found that it’s really best to coordinate 
with each other, such as telling our 
friends about other fundraising events 
that are going on.”
18 features | december 8, 2011
Otter Creek 
Used Books
has moved down 
creek from Main 
. to Marble Works.      
 Check it out. Windows!  Books!             
      Look for the blue awnings.
Always buying used textbooks.
99 Maple Street, Marble Works
802-388-3241
WOULD YOU LIKE A TASTE OF...
JOURNALISM?
THE CAMPUS
SEEKS WRITERS
FOR AL
SECTIONS.
EMAIL
CAMPUS@
MIDDLEBURY.EDU
DECEMBER 8, 2011 |  19ADVERTISEMENTS
arts sciences
Fall Dance Concert 
showcases raw talent in 
“before the ghost light”
Page 18
don’t
miss
this
Student Film Showcase 
The Film and Media Culture Department presents an 
-
12/12, 7:30 P.M., DANA AUDITORIUM
Pity Party 
12/12, 8 P.M., SEELER STUDIO THEATRE 
A Million Tiny Deaths 
-
-
-
12/8 - 10, 8 P.M., HEPBURN ZOO 
In the realm of Spanish literature 
lies one of its greatest classics -
-
 written by Miguel de Cervantes. It 
weaves a tale of a Spanish nobleman, 
who, after reading one too many books 
about romance and chivalry, takes it 
upon himself to live out the life of an 
adventurer. The time-tested musical 
interpretation, , 
came to the McCullough Social Space 
thanks to Charles Giardina ’12, who di-
rected and starred in the piece, as well 
as helped design the sound and set. 
The musical starts off with a num-
ber of the players already laying on the 
stage (presumably dead or sleeping for 
what I can only imagine was an uncom-
fortably long time) in an asylum hidden 
somewhere in La Mancha, Spain dur-
ing the 17th century, at the time of the 
Spanish Inquistion. The two newest cell 
mates, Cervantes (Nathaniel Rothrock 
’13) and his servant (Thomas Scott ’14, 
-
sition and their fellow cellmates. As 
they are held on trial, Cervantes tells 
the story of Don Quixote as his defense 
plea, which then begins the numerous 
musical pieces of the story.
Giardina and his merry band of 
players and crew did a fantastic job 
bringing such a strange story to life. 
Rothrock delivered a great perfor-
mance, showing effortless code-switch-
ing between two different characters: 
Cervantes and Quixote. Combine that 
with his fantastic singing, which will 
leave lord and lady humming along 
alike, and you have one very talented 
actor. 
But behind every knight there is 
both a lady and a squire.  Aldonza (also 
known as Dulcinea) is the object of 
Quixote’s heart and his squire, Sancho, 
is a symbol of his friendship. Played 
by Nejla Calvo ’12 and Scott respec-
tively, they brought a certain richness 
to the stage and moved the plot along 
smoothly, each with his and her own 
musical numbers. 
However, all was not well in the 
land of the unexpected Inquisition. In 
some instances where the show was 
plagued by annoying microphone hic-
very goofy at times from the stands, but 
luckily there wasn’t too much of it for it 
to be of any real concern. 
The costumes were well done, and 
-
acters and setting, as well the minimal 
set design that, for some odd reason, 
despite lacking detail, was perfect for 
what the players were trying to achieve. 
was, overall, 
a well structured and designed musi-
cal that breathed life into an otherwise 
dusty literary classic. 
In his director’s notes found inside 
the play bill, Giardina said, “Ultimate-
ly, I hope this show not only makes you 
laugh but inspires you to do the ‘mad’ 
thing and brightens up your corner of 
the world in whatever way you can.” 
While I won’t be putting on a green 
leotard marked with purple question 
marks anytime soon, I can say that I 
will be humming the musical’s tunes 
for some time to come. 
By Santiago Azpurua-Borras
TOP LEFT: The cast looks off into the distance in one of the show’s musical numbers. TOP RIGHT: Aldonza (Nejla Calvo ’12) pushes away touchy onlookers.
BOTTOM LEFT: Various inn patrons mock Aldonza. BOTTOM RIGHT: The Padre (Charles Giardina ’12) pleads with the Lord in an emotional scene. 
Andrew Podrygula
Seemingly odd though it is for the di-
rector of Taxi Driver, Mean Streets and The 
Departed to take on a children’s movie, it 
quickly becomes clear that what is most nec-
essary for Martin Scorsese to direct Hugo is 
something he already possesses — a passion-
based on the Caldecott Award-winning book 
The Invention of Hugo Cabret by Brian Sel-
znick (a relation of classical Hollywood direc-
tor David O. Selznick), combines the 
could-easily-be-trite notions of the 
“magic of the movies” and the inno-
cence and imagination of youth into 
a fabulously non-corny adventure. 
Instead, adults and children alike are 
transported to 1930s Paris, inside the 
clocks of a train station, to keep time 
with Hugo Cabret as he explores the mechan-
ics of movies and memories.
Hugo begins with a sense of excitement 
and tragedy. Scorsese paints the animated, 
he darts around the train station’s intricate 
clockworks. Keeping the clocks in sync and 
functioning, he lives in constant run from the 
vigilant and comical Station Inspector (Sacha 
Baron-Cohen) and the toy shop owner out to 
get him (Sir Ben Kingsley). Despite the initial 
sense of thrill, Hugo is alone. An orphan af-
ter his father (Jude Law) dies in an accident 
and his uncle abandons him, Hugo lives by 
his wits and quick hands until he is caught — 
and that is the moment, ironically, when his 
real adventure begins.
Not entirely bereft when his father dies, 
Hugo is left with his and his father’s last proj-
ect, an automaton, or self-operating machine 
akin to a robot. When he is caught stealing 
tools from the toy shop owner in order to re-
pair the automaton his father had found rust-
ing in a museum, Hugo starts upon a journey 
of discovery that delves into the beginnings of 
cinema and its ability to make dreams come 
alive. When he comes across the embittered 
toy shop owner’s buried dream, Hugo digs 
heart, a more complicated mechanism than 
what he had previously dealt with.
Along for the ride are the toy shop own-
er’s god-daughter, Isabelle, (Chloë Grace 
Moretz), who thinks that only the potential 
for trouble in an event constitutes an adven-
ture, and Isabelle’s god-mother and the toy 
shop owner’s wife, Mama Jeanne (Helen Mc-
Crory, who some may recognize as Narcissa 
Malfoy of Harry Potter fame).
In much the tradition of Pixar’s Wall-E 
and Up!, Hugo capitalizes on the new trend 
in which children’s movies are better than 
much of the adult fare arriving in theaters 
today. Hugo -
tion unseen in any movie Keanu 
Reeves has ever been in.
topics like the intersection be-
tween dreams and reality and the 
place of illusion in life, at its heart 
is the burgeoning relationship be-
tween the toy shop owner Georges 
Méliès and Hugo. Both “objects” in need of 
the the familiar touch of family.
showing the evolution of this relationship. 
And Scorsese does an admirable job in not 
over-using 3-D technology in the sensation-
objects jumping out at you in an attempt to 
make you jump from your seat. Instead, the 
3-D aptly speaks to the amazing feats movies 
In the end, Hugo succeeds at instill-
ing a child-like mentality in even the most 
jaded adults. Becoming cynical at the state 
of the cinema today is easy, but Hugo res-
urrects the innocent perspective that allows 
theater to fade, until all that matters is the 
miraculous visual going on before you, and 
more importantly, the people who accompa-
nied you there. 
| december 8, 2011 arts SCIENCES21
I read a lot. I suppose that is a rather 
obvious fact. And while there is nothing 
wrong with reading in any spare time I 
ample mental literary inventory makes it 
touch me in some way. I live for the mo-
ment when I’m only halfway into a book 
and already raving about it to my friends, 
when I am excited to turn the page and 
exclaiming over plot points aloud, even 
in very crowded dining halls at extraordi-
narily inappropriate times. When I start-
ed reading Mark Haddon’s The Curious 
Incident of the Dog in Nighttime, I real-
ized that I had found a book 
that did all these things.
This is one of those 
novels that has been on my 
to-read list for ages. Having 
often-talked-about children’s 
lit course, I was immediately 
reminded why the book had 
received so much hype in the 
The main character, 
with autism living in England with his fa-
ther. He tells us early on that his mother 
“went away” to the hospital and died of a 
heart attack, leaving him with his blue-
collar father who tries his hardest to un-
derstand his son’s view of the world, with 
limited success. 
It is the goal of the reader to try and 
understand Christopher as well, a feat 
that is much easier than one might think. 
Explaining what he thinks, he is incred-
ibly direct in language and logic. I hon-
estly found myself thinking that what he 
was saying made a lot of sense. I do have 
a rather extensive knowledge of autism 
spectrum disorders, thanks to my moth-
er’s master degree and years of teaching, 
and so while I read the book actively no-
ticing the symptoms of the disease, I also 
was able to see Christopher as a character 
in his own right, not a clinical diagnosis. 
I believe Haddon was aware of this while 
writing, and wanted to present Christo-
pher in a way that we understood he was 
different and could easily identify those 
differences, but also see within ourselves 
some of those same ticks.
There are wonderful moments of hu-
mor in the novel, when Haddon’s sarcasm 
comes through other characters. Christo-
pher also provides particularly hilarious 
bits, although the reader does struggle 
with whether or not you are laughing at 
him or simply the situation. 
This is a novel that forces you 
to think, that makes you un-
comfortable and yet in the end 
catches you up in a young man’s 
triumphs. 
There is profound sadness 
as well, especially reading as an 
adult. Never have I empathized 
so readily with parents, but there 
are moments when my heart 
simply broke for Christopher’s 
father. For fear of ruining any important 
plot points, I won’t discuss my apprecia-
tion and sadness surrounding the charac-
ter of Christopher’s mother. I’ll only say 
that her character is a bold choice by Had-
don.
-
el, and honestly can only come up with my 
despite his many triumphs, is still on a 
hard road, and it is the reader’s knowl-
edge of this juxtaposed against Christo-
pher’s naïve ignorance that pull at the 
heartstrings. But don’t let that stop you. 
This is a novel for adults and children, 
each getting something completely differ-
ent out of it, but in the end simply enjoy-
ing the story of a boy who is endearingly 
different, and incredibly sincere.
b0oking it
BY HALLIE WOODS
the curious 
incident of the 
dog in night-
time
Mark Haddon
According to its website, the McCa-
rdell Bicentennial Hall’s Great Hall was 
intended to encourage “collegial interac-
tions among the various departments.” 
While this goal sounds highfalutin and 
vague, it is by no means unattainable. 
Many symposia, such as the annual Clif-
ford Symposium, Spring Symposium and 
Summer Research Symposium, occur 
in the immense, yet intimate, meeting 
space, providing a medium in which stu-
dents and faculty can come together and 
explore and discuss new ideas and proj-
ects.
On Wednesday, Nov. 30, the Great 
Hall was host to another, smaller sympo-
sium featuring work from both the psy-
chology and neuroscience departments. 
The poster session was comprised of stu-
dents from three classes — Professor of 
Psychology Barbara Hofer’s “Psychology 
and Emerging Technology” senior semi-
nar, Visiting Instructor in Psychology Ad-
ela Langrock’s “Stress and Coping” senior 
seminar and Associate Professor of Psy-
chology Jason Arndt’s “Research Meth-
ods” class — as well as other students 
pursuing independent research projects. 
Though this event was not nearly as large 
as the three major symposia, student at-
tendance was impressive. 
Students in Hofer’s technology-fo-
cused seminar attempted to take an objec-
tive look at the myriad ways in which new 
media are changing the ways in which “we 
think, relate, connect, learn and work.” 
In projects that hit frighteningly close 
to home, the students researched the ef-
fects that the wired world may be having 
on our brains. Particularly salient as we 
on Facebook withdrawal and procrastina-
tion. 
The work presented by Langrock’s 
students was equally current with College 
-
gin. The seminar explored the effects of 
different coping strategies and stress on 
“physical and psychological well-being.” 
Attendees at the symposium needed 
to keep their eyes sharp around the pre-
sentations of Arndt’s students. Students 
enrolled in his “Research Methods” class 
were presenting research proposals rath-
er than actual projects or independent 
research. Despite this, their profession-
al-looking posters and well-constructed 
graphs fooled more than one visitor into 
questioning the presenters about their 
(hypothetical) results. Nonetheless, they 
were still a vital element in the mental 
mingling. 
As neuroscience major Kira Gordon 
’12 noted, the diversity of the classes par-
-
edge from each other’s projects directly 
to their own. However, she went on to 
explain that presenting her own research 
and exploring other students’ projects 
was still a valuable experience that helped 
-
ing in his or her own research project. As 
scientists, these interactions are invalu-
able, as peer-review is a major aspect of 
“Seeing other students’ research — 
conclusions they’ve drawn from their data 
and how they’ve interpreted their results 
forces you to take a closer look at your 
own research.”
Symposium features 
PSYC, NSCI projects
by Anna Flinchbaugh
this week on wrmc 91.1 fm
HIP-HOP EDUCATION 101 WITH DJ POSTMAN
The longest running hip-hop show on WRMC.  
THURSDAY 10 P.M.-12 A.M.
FILM SCHOOL ON THE RADIO WITH ALAN SANDERS
This week on Film School on the Radio, another great movie will be discussed (what did 
Woody Allen really mean by that fade out?), more amazing trivia will be revealed (why 
does Wes Anderson use Futura Bold in all of his credits?), and a new soundtrack will be 
out what this week’s movie is.  
TUESDAY 6-8 P.M.
IF YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN WITH SAM WYER AND JOANNA ROTHKOPF
This week, DJs Sam and Joanna will take a step back for IYKWIM meta week. Only 
featuring songs containing the phrase, “If you know what I mean,” these two hours 
promise innuendo, euphemism and misunderstanding. Featuring a perfect mix of 
tunes to listen to whilst studying in library, drinking with friends or sleeping in your 
bed, this week’s IYKWIM will pump you up while slowing things down!
TUESDAY 10 P.M. - 12 A.M.
ANGRY FANS WITH BRAD BECKER-PARTON AND SPENCER WRIGHT
This week on Angry Fans, the guys will welcome back the NBA season with a round of 
their increasingly popular game, “The Lineup Game,” the “Name that Tune” of sports 
trivia. Call in if you want to be the third contestant.
MONDAY 6-8 P.M.
THE SALT AND PEPPER HOUR WITH STEPH AND AWA
You put salt and pepper on your food? Great! We put it on our music. The Salt and 
Pepper Hour highlights new, indie artists every week that we feel have been strongly 
songs that pay tribute to special women, honoring them through the beauty of music. 
We’ll be featuring classics such as “Jolene,” “Penny Lane” and “Izabella.” If you have a 
beautiful woman in your life that you’d like to celebrate over the airwaves, give us a call! 
SATURDAY 8-10 P.M
LOOKING FOR REPORTERS!
Interested in in adding to the campus conversation? Want to sound like Ira Glass? The 
Middlebury MUSE wants your voice on the air! We are looking for reporters who will dig 
the 
reel critic
BY DANA WALTERS
HUGO
| december 8, 201122 arts SCIENCES
It is almost Christmas time, and if your 
tastes are leaning towards the instrumental 
this holiday season, then there is only one 
recording you can seriously be heading to-
wards: the Kirov Orchestra’s recording of 
Pytor Illych Tchaikovsky’s timeless “Nut-
cracker Ballet.” Released in 1998, the qual-
ity of this rendition certainly doesn’t seem 
like breaking news. But year after year, this 
recording proves itself to be amongst the 
recent interpretations. 
Valery Gergiev, now of the London 
Symphony Orchestra, translates the piece 
for listeners rather than watchers. The 
problem with music for ballet is that it can 
be overshadowed by what’s going on on-
stage: the costumes, the glitter and the men 
in tights all distract the listener from the 
subtleties of the music exploration at hand. 
Furthermore, orchestras playing for live 
ballet shows are essentially, and tragically, 
accompanists.  Their job is to best support 
whatever it is the dancers are doing.  The 
conductor in the opera pit is the means by 
which they achieve this; he is constantly in-
terpreting what is happening in the ballet 
for the orchestra to adjust. He tweaks dy-
namic, caesuras and tempo constantly so 
that the two parts of the show relate to each 
other. Yet the stage always takes the lead. 
Gergiev’s treatment of the Kirov Or-
chestra is radically different from this.  He 
prioritizes the 
music over all 
else. This is most 
clearly seen in 
the pace of the 
m o v e m e n t s . 
you’d notice that makes this stand out from 
other recordings is the sheer speed of the 
no point does the orchestra make it feel like 
the pieces are tripping over themselves, or 
rushing to a conclusion. But the up tempo 
performance certainly keeps the energy 
high amongst the players and only enhanc-
es the incredible joy of the classic tunes like 
the “March.” 
Increased tempo, some might say, 
would distract from the exposed melan-
choly of moments like the raw oboe melody 
in “Pas de deux: Intrada.”  But this is just 
when the power of conducting for an or-
chestra rather than ballet comes into it’s 
own, because in this instance Gergiev is 
able to hand the reins completely over to 
the soloist without being constrained by the 
movements of dancers. The result is a won-
derful exchange between oboe and low-
register clarinet that somehow never feels 
overwhelmed by the full string score hum-
this movement, and one that again speaks 
to Gergiev’s control of the timing of the 
orchestra, is the increased space between 
of the piece, this lengthening towards the 
end feels almost like a musical joke, and the 
listener forward into the next movement. 
the recording, the instrumentalists them-
the textural and phrasing contrasts between 
instrumental sections been so clear and full 
of character. In the infamous “Waltz of the 
Flowers,” the broad string theme is offset 
by the dialogue between the rich, yet never 
heavy bass, as the clarinet climbs around 
in its melodic range with a clear and round 
sound before the whole orchestra trium-
phantly folds together: brass shooting up 
the octave to compliment the huge tutti cre-
scendo and accelerando, enhanced by very 
timpani that is all the more effective for its 
temperedness. 
“The Nutcracker” is a perennial favor-
ite for ballet and music lovers alike. I’ve al-
ways found the plot bizarre and the staging 
muddled in the various performances I’ve 
seen. But this complete recording of the 
allows the sometimes dramatic and often 
charming music to be appreciated for its 
own sake. 
H A V E  A N  A W E S O M E  R E S E A R C H  P R O J E C T ? 
K N O W  A  P R O F E S S O R  D O I N G  S O M E T H I N G  C O O L ?
WANT TO SHARE YOUR OPINION ON SCIENCE AT MIDD? 
LET US KNOW! CAMPUS@MIDDLEBURY.EDU
the nutcracker
Pytor Illych 
Tchaikovsky
for the rec  rd
BY EMILY SCARISBRICK
Concert, before the ghost light, found a full 
dance theater and a sold-out show, and 
seemingly increasing fan club came excited 
and responsive with applause during bows 
plenty explosive enough for the Red Hot 
Chili Peppers. The audience left sated by 
the department’s usual suspects, several 
pieces of break-out choreography and Vis-
iting Lecturer Christal Brown’s newcomer 
Finding underlying thematic unity 
but what ultimately tied them together 
was thoughtful composition and intensely 
dedicated execution. The evening opened 
with Rachel Nuñez’s ’14 “It’s Made of 
Glass,” a duet between the choreographer 
and Cameron McKinney ’14. Costumed in 
matching red shirts and black dress pants, 
Nuñez and McKinney’s movement invited 
dialogue between contrast and similarity, 
alluding to Riddim-like qualities without 
being wedded to them. 
-
lowed with “Stepping Back,” a piece of 
ache and separation: the backbone of the 
work was Vasquez soloing in opposition 
to an often-empty chair placed downstage 
left; her movement carried the quality of 
-
ed the choreographer’s tense and tortured 
solo with muted procession, their shadows 
a heartbreaking closing of the door and an 
Vasquez’s mind-bending grace opened 
the vein for the ghostlike bloodline of the 
-
umph of alien synergy. Her dancers show-
cased the work with mingled talent and 
commitment, often manipulating limbs in 
a way only to be described as delightfully 
This Is Only For You” reveled in a study 
of deterioration into eloquence, accompa-
nied by the choreographer’s own poetry 
and music recalling The Shining, steeped 
in death and memory. 
But at times the ghost receded from the 
work, allowing the relief of emotionally up-
explored the tension of water in an exhaus-
-
ers Sarah Briggs ’14, Kate Murray ’15 and 
in skirts of blue-purple, left the impression 
of a water molecule’s organized, crystalline 
purity, softened by inspired lighting and 
Zoe Keating’s cello. Brown’s newcomer 
synchrony — though employed to a level of 
almost disturbingly metronomic precision, 
the movement was exacting but varied, 
Jill Moshman ’14 and Hannah Pierce 
both made pieces with entirely female 
casts — though each had decidedly dif-
ferent tones. Pierce’s “Spate” combined 
an almost professional crispness in dress 
-
ers, cast in blue, arranged and disarranged 
their bodies, recalling the logic of a dream. 
Moshman’s “The Between” found itself a 
structure in the breath-like ticks of a clock, 
at times frenetic and at others frozen. Cos-
Hicks ’15, Sarae Snyder ’15 and Isabella 
black tape on their bodies and pink tape on 
but obsessive, blending the distinction be-
tween object and person. 
performed by dancers with varying ex-
LeCours’s ’15 remarkable articulation 
performative authority and Rafael Velaz-
co’s ’15 colorful intention. The piece, lit in 
shocking red and blue, was both indulgent 
and entertaining. 
Veteran dancer Sarah Chapin ’12 end-
a solo exploring the limits of the human 
quality measured by high-tension quiet. 
 before the ghost light was 
riddled with moments of brilliance, not 
only in choreography and dancing, but 
-
underscored the movement, illuminating 
Pierce’s keening solo in Moore’s piece or 
isolating Nuñez and McKinney in a single 
band of light, all while neither accessoriz-
ing or dominating the work. 
With its spring of abounding talent 
and prowess, before the ghost light proved 
itself as testament and proof of the College 
community’s growing hunger for dance.
by Claire Sibley
beyond the ghost light. 
COURTESY
 DECEMBER 8, 2011 | 23advertiseMENTS
BE A PART OF a TRADITION
the 
campus 
has 
printed 
for 106
Years.
join us  
for 107.
Whether you care 
about politics, 
sports, investigative 
journalism, the arts, 
food, scandal or film, 
there’s space for your 
words. 
campus@middlebury.edu1905
1955
2005
2012
| december 8, 201124 advertisements
Check Out Our
NEW WEBSITE
www.nbmvt.com
Watching your back.
We’re here for you 24/7. Anytime, anywhere. 
Spend less time waiting in line and more  
time doing what’s real to you. 
Bank Real. Live Real.
real
life
1-877-508-8455
BRA S SB B S
 
 
Middlebury College Bookstore 
Monday-Friday, Dec. 12 - 16,  8:30am  5:00pm 
Saturday Dec. 17,  9:00  5:00  
awarded to selected participating SGA groups. Sign up for the 
bookstore s $1000 worth of gift cards giveaway raffle! 
 
 
  
ADMIT ONE
Forth ‘N Goal Sports
A
1
1
Any item with the word Middlebury on it is 20% off.
katie siegner Dillon Hupp Alex edel
Will men’s hockey complete 
another weekend sweep? 
How many wins will the men’s 
basketball team have when we 
return from winter break?
Will women’s hockey beat 
Manhattanville?
YES
This will be a true test for the 
Panthers, but I’m optimistic (as 
always).
YES
This team has so much depth. 
Even in a down year they romped 
Amherst 4-1 last season.
12
I’d expect nothing less from the top 
team in the nation (and my heart).
12
I’m scared to write anything for fear 
of jinx. I’m Tebowing.
YES
At the very least, I should get points 
for eternal optimism.
YES
The Panthers beat Manhattanville 
en route to the Frozen Four last 
season and will do it again.
editors’ picks
Who will have the greater margin 
men’s or women’s swimming?
Which LA NBA team will have 
a better record when we return 
from winter break?
NO
Damon sniped the lead by picking 
against Middlebury, so forgive me 
for trying the same tactic.
12
The number one team isn’t 
supposed to lose. And we won’t.
YES
They’ve won every editor’s pick 
we’ve featured them in this 
semester.
YES 
They are on a roll and key players 
are stepping up their game.
12
They are the top-ranked team. 
Nothing can stop them now.
YES 
They are off to a great start and 
will beat a nationally-ranked 
Manhattanville squad.
WOMEN’S
Love you Alex! (And you too, Adam, 
but unfortunately gender bias plays 
in here as well.)
LAKERS
I hate them, but they are good.
WOMEN’S
In the battle of Alex v. Adam you 
always go with Alex. What gender 
bias?
CLIPPERS
Phil Jackson gone, Andrew “Bigger 
Baby” Bynum still around = slow 
start for the Lake-show.
WOMEN’S
Sports editors trump news editors 
every time.
LAKERS
As much as I wish it were the other 
way around, the Clippers will 
always be the Clippers.
WOMEN’S
We are off to a great start!
LAKERS
Duh.
Career REcord 74-86 (.463) 28-22 (.560) 86-76 (.531) 47-52 (.475)
Damon hatheway
december 8, 2011 | 25SPORTS
WANT A PIECE OF THE ACTION?
The Middlebury Campus is seeking new writers, photographers and 
bloggers in all sections.
campus@middlebury.edu.
NEWS
ARTS&
SCIENCE
LOCAL NEWSFEATURES
SPORTS
OPINIONS
WHAT’S BETTER THAN GOOGLE?
SPORCLE.COM
WHAT’S BETTER THAN SPORCLE?
ICANHASCHEEZBURGER.COM
WHAT’S BETTER THAN 
ICANHASCHEEZBURGER?
MIDDLEBURYCAMPUS.COM
The Middlebury women’s basketball 
team came back down to earth last week-
end, dropping both of their games in the 
Williams Invitational tournament to fall 
to 2-3 on the early season. This was fol-
lowing back-to-back momentum-build-
ing victories over Wheelock and Castleton 
State, in which the Panthers dominated 
their opposition on the de-
fensive end.
Middlebury’s first game 
in the Williams tournament 
came against Daemen Col-
lege on Friday, Dec. 2.  The 
Panthers’ usually solid de-
fense let them down early, 
giving up a 14-2 run to 
start the game. From there, 
Middlebury attempted to 
chip away, eventually cut-
ting the lead to just two after 
a layup from guard Katie Ritter ’15. Then, 
with Daemen starting to regain control of 
the game, Tracy Borsinger ’13 hit a three-
pointer to keep the deficit at four. The 
Wildcats would eventually lead by a score 
of 30-23 at the half.
Daemen opened the second half on 
another strong run, this time to the tune 
of 13-3. Middlebury did not even manage 
a field goal in the second half until near-
ly 10 minutes had passed. At that point, 
however, it was far too little, far too late, 
as the Wildcats would go on to take the 
game by a final score of 59-41. Borsing-
er and Sarah Marcus ’14 both had nine 
points for the Panthers, and Katie Pett 
’13.5 gathered eight rebounds.
From there, Middlebury took on 
Bridgewater in the tournament’s conso-
lation game on Saturday, Dec. 3. There 
would be no tip-off woes for the Pan-
thers this time around, 
as the teams traded buck-
ets through the open-
ing minutes of play. The 
Panthers battled back 
when the Bears opened 
up a six-point lead with 
12 minutes left in the first 
half, getting points from 
Marcus, Borsinger, and 
tri-captain Brittany Per-
fetti ’12 during a run that 
helped them tie the game at 16 points 
apiece. The Panthers and Bears matched 
each other blow for blow throughout the 
remainder of the half, and headed into 
the break deadlocked at 35.
Unfortunately, that was as close as 
the Panthers would get. Bridgewater 
came out hot to start the second half, and 
what was a steady eight-to-10 point lead 
slowly turned into a 15-to-20 point lead 
as the half transpired, and eventually the 
rout was on. Middlebury wound up los-
ing by a final score of 80-55, by far their 
worst defeat of the young season. Tri-cap-
tain Maddie Moreau ’12 led the Panthers 
with 12 points, and Pett, who was named 
to the all-tournament team for her ef-
forts, had eight rebounds to go along with 
six points.
After a strong start to the season, and 
coming off of back-to-back wins going 
into the tounrament, the Panthers will 
have to look at their fourth-place finish as 
an opportuntiy to get better.
“We recognize that we must sustain 
the type of game that we play for the entire 
forty minutes,” said tri-captain Brittany 
Perfetti. “We competed with both teams 
in both of the first halves. We have to start 
working on how to keep an intense level 
of play for the entire game. As a team, we 
recognize that playing very competitive 
teams before NESCAC play will definitely 
get us prepared for January. We just need 
to utilize what we learned from this past 
weekend and use those new awarenesses 
to our advantage.”
The Panthers will go to Skidmore this 
weekend to take on the Thoroughbreds. 
Following Winter Break, they will begin 
the conference portion of their schedule, 
starting out with a key matchup against 
NESCAC rival Tufts in the Maine Mari-
time Tournament Jan. 2-3.
By Dillon Hupp
| december 8, 201126 sports
Coming off solid performances 
against Tufts and Connecticut College, the 
Middlebury swimming and diving team 
looked to continue their strong start to the 
season against Amherst last weekend. Both 
the men and women’s teams came up short 
against the still undefeated Lord Jeffs, one 
of the top Division-III teams in the country. 
The men lost 162-116, while the women fell 
173-127.  
The men had a tough time on Saturday 
against a deep Amherst team, not winning 
a race on the day.  The Panthers are a very 
young team this year, with each “A” relay 
Christo Vandiford ’15 had a great day, 
placing third in the 100-yard breaststroke 
second-fastest breaststroke split in the 
200-yard medley relay. Teddy Kuo ’15 
the men’s 100-yard freestyle with his time 
of 49.16.  
Tyler Sandoval ’13 turned in a 54.13 
Middlebury got off to a good start in the 
when Nick Daly ‘12 put the Panthers in the 
However, they could not hold off the more 
experienced Amherst team as they fell 2.77 
seconds short. 
“Our men are young and hit a great 
“Our second half was much better.”  
The women’s meet was much closer 
than the men’s.  The Panthers got off to 
an exciting start with a victory in the 200-
yard medley relay. Their time of 1:49.23 
was only two-tenths of a second ahead of 
Amherst. The Panthers got out to a big lead 
in the race after a blazing breaststroke split 
of 29.94 by Jamie Hillas ’15 and were able 
Courtney Haron ’15 captured the 200-
yard freestyle with a time of 1:58.07, more 
than a full second ahead of Amherst’s top 
in the 500-yard freestyle. Andie Tibbetts 
’14 won the 100-yard backstroke with 
a time of 58.81 and followed it up later 
Women’s basketball succumbs to Daemen
Swimming and diving 
competes at Amherst 
the early competition for the sixth man 
spot.
 “I think he does [bring a different 
element to the team],” said head coach 
Jeff Brown. “I think with the addition 
of [Brierley] we are certainly a better 
perimeter shooting team than we were a 
year ago and offensively we are stronger 
than we have been in the last several 
years.”
Merryman, meanwhile, also collected 
eight rebounds to lead the team. Peter 
Lynch ’13 — the Panthers’ leading scorer 
— tallied 19 points on seven of nine 
shooting. Lynch is shooting better than 
65 percent from the floor and has been 
one of the most efficient players in the 
NESCAC. 
The Panthers played the first five 
games of the season without senior co-
captain and preseason All-American 
Ryan Sharry ’12. 
“I think as a unit we’re trying to find 
an identity and playing early in the 
season without [Sharry] has benefited us 
[by allowing us] to look at other players 
who would have had a lesser role if he 
was healthy,” Brown said.
Fittingly, Sharry returned to action 
in Middlebury’s first game defending 
their number one ranking and — as only 
Sharry can — led the team with 16 points 
on six of seven shooting from the floor. 
The Panthers got off to a slow start 
against the Wildcats of Johnson & 
Wales, turning the ball over on two 
early possessions before an emphatic 
follow-up dunk from first-year Dylan 
Sinnickson ’15 electrified the Pepin 
Gymnasium crowd, bringing it to its 
feet. Sinnickson finished the game with 
13 points off the bench on five of eight 
shooting wile leading the team with five 
rebounds in just 15 minutes of play. The 
Panthers dominated the remainder of 
the first half, going into the break with a 
51-17 lead — highlighted by Sinnickson’s 
dunk and then an electrifying buzzer-
beating, off-balance three-point heave 
from Joey Kizel ’14 at the end of the 
first half, eliciting a roar from the home 
crowd. Kizel was nearly perfect in the 
game, shooting five of six from the 
floor, two of two from beyond the arc 
and all three free throws in the game 
for a total of 15 points. Kizel also had 
three rebounds and five assists while 
not turning the ball over. The Panthers 
as a team had 24 assists and just four 
turnovers — a tremendous six to one 
ratio.
Jake Wolfin ’13 led the team with six 
assists and could have had a few more 
but some easy misses robbed him of 
a potential double-digit assist game. 
Thompson had 11 points and played 
stellar defense for the Panthers while 
holding the Wildcats to just 39 percent 
shooting and 30 percent in the first half. 
The top-ranked Panthers (6-0) travel 
next to Skidmore (4-1) on Dec. 9.
By Kevin Yochim
CONTINUED FROM 28
panther sc0reboard
men’s hockey vs. Tufts
Women’s Hockey vs. Trinity
men’s Squash vs. Navy
Swimming & diving vs. Amherst
women’s basketball vs. Bridgewater
3-2 W
3-1 W
5-4 W
Losses
80-55 L
Men’s hockey opened conference 
play strong with a key win over the 
Jumbos.
Men’s squash pulled out a close win 
over the Midshipmen at Williams.
The Panthers took it to the Bantams 
twice last weekend, sweeping them 
off the Kenyon Arena ice.
Swimming and diving couldn’t keep 
up with the Lord Jeffs, as both the 
men and women fell.
Women’s basketball took a tough loss 
in the Williams Holliday Classic to 
the Bears.
Men’s Basketball earns 
No. 1 ranking in nation
by the Numb3rs
65 
16
4
1
Number of Middlebury student-athletes 
announced to the fall NESCAC academic 
team.
Number of rebounds for Katie Pett ’13.5 
in the Williams Holiday Classic. Pett was 
named to the all-tournament team.
Number of combined wins for the men’s 
and  women’s hockey teams over NESCAC 
foes last weekend. 
Number of the men’s basketball team’s 
team has ever earned the top-ranking.
13 Number of rushing touchdowns by Cam Newton this season, breaking the all-
time record for rushing TDs by a QB.
backstroke. Hillas easily won the 100-
yard breaststroke with a time of 1:06.77 
and later won the 200-yard individual 
medley. Maddy Berkman ’15 won the 100-
swimmer to break a minute in the event.  
The meet was much closer than the 
were within striking distance until the very 
end.  
“I think we really surprised ourselves by 
giving Amherst, a traditionally outstanding 
team, a run for their money,” said Tibbetts. 
“We had a number of remarkable swims 
and I continue to be exceedingly proud of 
us.”
On the diving side, Skylar Dallmeyer-
Drennen ’14 and Omar Carmical ’12 turned 
in solid performances for the Panthers. 
Carmical placed second in the 3-meter 
event with a score of 156.15. Hannah King 
Baker ’15 captured second in the 1-meter 
event with a score of 173.47.
“This is an exceptional group,” said 
Rueppel.  “Leadership has come from our 
seniors and they have been incredible.  This 
team has had a focus from Nov. 1 to buy into 
our training plan.”
The loss dropped the women to 2-1, 
while the men fell to 0-3 on the year.  The 
Panthers will travel to Massachusetts this 
weekend for a dual meet against a talented 
Maddie Moreau ’12 led the Panthers 
against Bridgewater with 12 points.
file photo
“We recognize 
that we must sus-
tain the type of 
game that we play 
for the entire 40 
minutes”
Brittany Perfetti ’12
Tri-captain guard
Dillon says: Haters gonna hate. 
SEC football gonna keep winning nation-
al championships. There are few things 
that are certain in life, folks. Death, tax-
es and the BCS crystal ball residing in 
the Southeastern Conference are among 
them. Already this year the SEC has won 
an unprecedented sixth-consecutive na-
tional title, and they haven’t even played 
the game yet. This year’s matchup fea-
tures LSU and Alabama, in a rematch of 
a 9-6 slugfest won by the Bayou Bengals 
back in early November. BCS detractors 
will cry about the lack of drama and in-
trigue created by such a matchup, and the 
annual playoff posers will crawl out of the 
woodwork, demanding a fair shake for 
the little guy. My response? They can read 
the sports section and weep. The BCS got 
it right this year.
Sure, there are other teams that 
could make a case for a spot in the title 
game. Allow me to refute them. Stanford 
fourth in the standings. And they are one 
from being a mediocre PAC-12 team. Boi-
a single loss, and was ranked seventh in 
the standings. Their coach, Chris Peters-
en, claims that “everyone is tired of the 
BCS.” I claim that if Boise could execute 
-
ing this crisis of circumstance. The team 
with the most legitimate beef is Oklaho-
ma State, which walloped Oklahoma in 
in the rankings. But the simple fact of the 
matter is that the Cowboys just can’t hang 
with LSU, as good a team as we’ve seen 
this century. The only team that even has 
a shot at making the national title game 
competitive is Bama. They and LSU are 
simply the two best teams in the country, 
period. It will be an all-SEC affair for the 
championship, and rightfully so.
But cheer up, SEC and BCS haters. 
At least it’s certain that an SEC team will 
lose the national title game for once this 
year.
Damon says: Enough with the B*S. 
The whole thing is a farce. Every argu-
ment that could be made against imple-
menting a playoff system in college foot-
ball is twisted and arcane. I’m done with 
the whole system. You can argue, as Dil-
lon has, that the two best teams are play-
ing in the national championship game. 
And they probably are. But the nature 
of sports is such that the two best teams 
rarely do play for the championship. The 
two most deserving teams do. Imagine 
if the two best teams — based solely on 
the regular season — played for the title 
in every sport. There would have been no 
giant upset of the New England Patriots 
in 2007 and the 2011 St. Louis Cardinals 
— one of the most improbable World Se-
ries champions ever — certainly wouldn’t 
have won it all. 
College football has effectively 
stomped on the “Cinderella Story.” Sure, 
TCU won the Rose Bowl last season to 
cap off an undefeated season and Boise 
State beat Oklahoma in the 2007 Fiesta 
Bowl, but as college football stands there 
can be no Butler, no Gordon Hayward, 
no eighth-seeded Villanova taking down 
powerhouse Georgetown — no seminal 
underdog moment that makes sports 
great. Regardless of who you believe 
should or shouldn’t play for the national 
championship game, there’s a much larg-
er issue at hand — how college football 
rankings are determined. 
The system by which teams are 
ranked in college football could be more 
trivial only if every editor on the Campus 
was given a vote. Hell, that might even 
improve the process. Of the six computer 
polls that are averaged and then com-
bined with the two human polls that de-
termine that national rankings, only one 
makes its algorithm available to the col-
lege football powers that be. It would be 
-
ing system that assesses students from 
around the nation to determine how we 
get into college. Oh wait. 
Dillon Hupp ’12 is from Little Rock, 
Ark. and Damon Hatheway ’13.5 is from 
London, England.
december 8, 2011 | 27SPORTS
Damon & dillonPanthers continue strong start
men submarine Naval Academy 5-4
all 13 shots throughout the game. 
Middlebury had the upper hand for the 
duration of the game, with a total of 32 shots 
compared with Conn. College’s 13. After a 
5-3 loss to the Camels in the opening week-
end of last year’s season, the team showed 
the strides they have taken with this shutout 
win. 
The Panthers continued to prove their 
power the following day in their 3-2 win over 
Tufts, a team that also beat them at the start 
of last year. Although Middlebury had a 19-8 
period, they were unable to convert on any 
of these and the score was 0-0 going into the 
second period of play. 
However, the Panthers capitalized on 
into the second, with a goal from Ben Wig-
gins ’14. The Jumbos came back right away 
with a goal at 9:32. Later in the period, 
Tucker Donahoe ’12 grabbed the lead back 
from the Jumbos with a goal at 12:39 into 
to bring the score to 2-2 heading into the de-
Determined to come out with a win, 
Drolet scored at 5:21 in the third period off 
of an assist from Mathieu Castonguay ’13 
and Brett Brazier ’13. The wealth of play-
ers contributing goals and assists through-
out the two games speaks well for the Pan-
thers, in addition to getting these crucial two 
conference wins. The Jumbos capitalized 
on a mistake from the Panthers late in the 
third period, but failed to convert the at-
and completing the on-the-road sweep for 
Middlebury. 
Ranked 11th in the nation, the Panthers 
will travel again this weekend to play Ham-
before winter break. 
Third-ranked Middlebury 
still unbeaten in NESCAC
Last week, the men’s and women’s 
NESCAC play by facing two other tough op-
ponents — the women’s team took on top-
ranked Harvard on Wednesday, Nov. 30 and 
the men traveled to Williams to take on the 
15th-seeded Naval Academy on Saturday, 
Dec. 3.  While the women did not take a game 
from Harvard, falling 9-0, playing the best 
team in the nation was a testament to the in-
creased strength of schedule that has charac-
terized the team’s start to the season. 
“It was a great opportunity to get to play 
and a good way to round out a tough open-
ing to our season. We’re excited to work hard 
over the next few weeks and return in Janu-
ary to see more evenly matched teams and 
come up with some big wins,” said women’s 
co-captain Al Boillot ’12.
While the women did not come out with 
a win at the beginning, their matches against 
strong Ivy League foes were productive and 
helpful to team development.
The men edged out a well-fought 5-4 win 
win of the season and proving that they are 
worthy of their high national ranking.
On Saturday, the men’s team capitalized 
off of a solid performance from the middle of 
their ladder to pull out a win against Navy, in 
what proved to be a back-and-forth battle be-
tween the two teams. 
“The guys in the middle of the lineup 
the points develop without trying to end the 
point right away,” said co-captain Jay Dolan 
’13. “With only one departing senior last year, 
of our lineup, and their efforts on Saturday 
simply reinforced this.”
The Panthers saw themselves fall into 
numbers three and nine. The match took a 
turn for the better after the pair of losses, as 
Will Moore ’14 pulled out a solid win in the 
No. 6 spot and co-captain Dolan captured a 
win at No. 2.
Cooper Redpath ’14 furthered the Pan-
thers’ winning ways with a victory at  No. 5, 
but the tide turned back against them with 
yet another loss at the bottom of the ladder, 
as eighth-seeded Robert Galluccio ’15 strug-
gled against his opponent. This set the stage 
for a fairly dramatic end to the match, which 
remained up in the air until co-captain Addi 
DiSesa ’12 sealed the win for the Panthers 
with his four-game victory.
 “I wish we had won 6-3 or better, but for 
played very well so far and I think we have 
a lot of potential. I’d like to see some of the 
younger guys step it up over break to make 
sure that we can compete all the way through 
the ladder when we return.”
interim period, and proved to the college 
ranked among the leading teams in the na-
tion. 
“We played a solid Navy team this year, 
and our results demonstrate that we too are 
a strong, recognizable program,” concluded 
DiSesa.
By Katie Siegner
8
winter break
Winter athletes hone their 
skills, the rest of us relax.
1+2
RANKINGCHANGE TEAM
Katie’s Comments
2+2
Men’s basketball
They put points on the 
board like it’s their job.
women’s hockey
Sweeping a NESCAC rival 
at home is big.
3+2
men’s hockey
Big steps from last year 
with the latest pair of wins.
4+4
squash
The men’s team beat the 
Navy. That takes muscle.
5 swimming & divingAt least they have more 
class than Amherst.
7
fall athlete honorees
What up Academic All-
Americans?!?!
6+2 women’s basketballTough losses, but they were 
D-II opponents.
the middlebury
great  eight
the puck traveling back and forth across 
the ice, with neither team managing to 
successfully score. 
Just over one minute into the second 
period, Middlebury managed to take a 1-0 
lead. Maggie Woodward ’13 took the puck 
down the right side, passing it to 
Ugalde who scored her second 
goal of the weekend. Later in 
the period, the Bantams had a 
close shot to tie the game, but 
Middlebury goalkeeper Laura 
preserve the lead. 
forwards, but our defense did a 
great job getting the puck out of 
our end,” commented Pinsent.
Before time was up, Ugalde managed 
to score again, this time off her own 
rebound during a power play, increasing 
Middlebury’s lead to 2-0. Trinity rallied 
later in the second period with a tricky 
shot from Payson Sword that put the 
Bantams on the board, 2-1. 
Middlebury dominated the final period 
of the weekend, outshooting Trinity 
17-3 and gaining a third goal. Madeline 
Joyce ’14 found the rebound off a shot by 
Bielawski and fired the puck into the net 
for her fourth goal of the season.
The Panthers won their second game 
of the weekend with a final score of 3-1. 
After this weekend, 
Middlebury’s record 
stands at 5-0-1 and 
4-0 in NESCAC 
play. The third-
ranked women will 
face off against 
Manhattanville at 
home on Friday, 
Dec. 9, at 7:00 pm. 
Middlebury last 
faced off against the 
Valiants on their road to a Frozen Four 
appearance in the NCAA tournament 
last season, a 1-0 victory. The Panthers 
will look to extend their success with 
their third out-of-conference victory 
of the season, and hope to make it two 
consecutive wins over Manhattanville 
dating back to last year.
CONTINUED FROM 28
The Panthers took two on the road, one from Conn. College and one from Tufts.
Andrew podrygula
“Our team is really 
starting to come 
together and I 
think we have a lot 
of potential”
laura pinset ’14
goalkeeper
CONTINUED FROM 28
Women’s hockey sweeps series over Trinity
Sharry ’12 returns, 
team earns top spot 
sports december 8, 2011 | 28
WOMEN’S 
BASKETBALL DROPS 
TWO AT WILLIAMS 
PAGE 26
DILLON AND DAMON 
TAKE ON THE BCS 
PAGE 27
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
The Panthers received scoring contributions from numerous players in the pair of NESCAC games.
Courtesy: Jeff Patterson
For the first time in the 
history of Middlebury athletics, 
the men’s basketball team has 
earned the number one ranking 
in the nation. The Panthers 
capped off a thrilling week that 
included two wins and 197 points 
scored with the knowledge that 
they are currently the top-ranked 
team in the country. How long 
that lasts remains up to them. 
They will play with a target on 
their back for the remainder of 
the season and will certainly 
get their opponent’s best game 
every time they play. 
After a 107-51 win at 
Southern Vermont on Nov. 29, 
the Panthers returned home 
a week later with a 90-46 win 
over Johnson & Wales on Dec. 
6 — their first game defending 
their number one ranking. 
Middlebury’s 107 point drubbing 
of Southern Vermont marked 
the first time that the Panthers 
have broken the century mark 
since a 108-64 decimation of 
Tufts on Jan.17, 2009, while the 
197 points they scored over the 
course of the past two games is 
the most in consecutive games 
since Jan. 9 and 12, 2007, 
when Middlebury beat Green 
Mountain and Colby 102-47 and 
100-93 respectively. 
The Panthers shot a scorching 
52 percent from the floor in the 
win over Southern Vermont, 
thanks largely to 20 team assists 
and just 10 turnovers. Three 
players scored double figures 
as first-years Hunter Merryman 
’15 and Dean Brierley ’15 scored 
10 and 20 points respectively 
in that game. Brierley led all 
scorers, scoring his 20 points 
in just 16 minutes. The first-
year from Morristown, N.J. was 
seven of nine from the floor and 
four of four from beyond the arc. 
Brierley, in the early-going, 
has provided something that the 
Panthers final four team of last 
season lacked — the ability to 
knock down shots from beyond 
the arc. Only co-captain Nolan 
Thompson ’13 shot better than 
40 percent from beyond the 
three point line last season 
among players who attempted 
10 or more threes. In the first 
six games of the season Brierley 
has shot nearly 44 percent from 
deep and his ability to stretch 
the floor gives him a leg up on 
Eighth-ranked men’s hockey 
throttles Camels, edges Tufts
The men’s hockey team ad-
vanced to 4-0 in NESCAC after 
shutting out Connecticut College 
and beating Tufts 3-2 on the road. 
Their overall record has advanced 
4-1-1, with the tie and the loss 
coming against strong non-con-
ference opponents. 
The weekend started out on 
Friday, Dec. 2, against Conn. 
College on the Camels’ home ice. 
Panthers came out strong in the 
second period, scoring all four of 
their goals. Just 48 seconds into 
the second period, Martin Drolet 
’12 scored off of an assist from 
Charlie Strauss ’12. Just under 11 
minutes later, Strauss scored him-
self off a feed from Luis Belisle ’14. 
Continuing the sequence of assist-
ing then scoring goals, Belisle net-
ted one for himself two minutes 
later on a power play, increasing 
the Panther’s lead to 3-0 in just 14 
minutes of play. 
The Panthers did not give the 
Mules any leniency, as Belisle 
scored again off of a breakaway 
After a period that started off 0-0, 
the team saw themselves ahead by 
four goals heading into the third 
period. Although the Panthers 
failed to score in the third period, 
goalie John Yanchek ’12 success-
fully preserved his third career 
shutout, turning in saves against 
By Damon Hatheway
The Middlebury women’s 
hockey team hosted Trinity this 
weekend, Dec. 2 and 3, for their 
2011 home opener. The Panthers 
and Bantams faced off twice, 
with Middlebury walking away 
with a two-win sweep over the 
weekend.
“This weekend was our home 
opener, so it was great to come 
out with two big wins,” said 
Panther goalie Laura Pinsent 
’14. “Our team is really starting 
to come together and I think we 
have a lot of potential.”
The Panthers started their 
dominance of the Bantams on 
Friday, Dec. 2 with a 2-1 win. 
Middlebury scored the first 
goal of the game 5:10 into the 
first period. Madison Styrbicki 
’13 took a shot that went wide, 
but Hannah Bielawski ’15 was 
there to pick up the rebound. 
Bielawski circled before firing 
the puck into the top left corner 
for her first career goal. 
Trinity evened the score 
with a goal at 11:30 later in the 
same period. Bantam Lauren 
Glynn scored a backhander that 
snuck by Middlebury goalkeeper 
Annabelle Jones ’15. The score 
remained at 1-1 for the rest of 
the first period, with Trinity 
goalkeeper Alexa Pujol stopping 
a Molly Downey ’13 shot to keep 
the game even. 
Middlebury continued to 
pressure the Trinity defense, 
outshooting the Bantams 16-7 
over the game. The Panthers 
failed to take advantage of a 
power play 2:35 into the second 
period, when Lauren Greer’s 
’13 attempt later rebounded 
off the crossbar. Trinity almost 
managed to take the lead at 
13:08 off a shot from Rebecca 
Rosen, but Jones made a quick 
save to keep the game tied at the 
end of the second period.
The Panthers finally scored 
the winning goal 7:43 into the 
third period off a power play. 
Greer assisted Sara Ugalde ’14, 
who gained her second goal of 
the season. The Middlebury 
defense held off the Bantams 
for the remainder of the game to 
win the first game of the double 
header.
The two teams were on 
the ice again Saturday, Dec. 
3, for the second game of the 
weekend. The first period saw 
By Mike Oster 
The Panthers outskated their NESCAC rivals Trinity, as their forwards put consistent pressure on the Trinity goaltender in both games.
andrew podrygula
By Alex Edel
SEE THIRD-RANKED, 27
SEE PANTHERS, 27 SEE MEN’S BASKETBALL, 26
