On   Thursday,   Dec.   3,   in   an  
effort  to  raise  awareness  of  HIV  
infection   and   the   AIDS   pan-­
demic,   GlobeMed   in   partner-­
ship   with   Chellis   House   held  
a   panel   discussion   in   honor   of  
World   AIDS   Day.   The   panel   of  
professors   across   different   dis-­
ciplines   addressed   this   year’s  
central   theme,   “The   Time   to  
Act   is   Now,”   when   address-­
ing   their   perspectives   on   HIV/
AIDS   around   the  world.   Panel-­
ists  consisted  of  Professor  of  the  
Practice   of   Global   Health   Pam  
Berenbaum,   Professor   of   Eco-­
nomics  Erick  Gong  and  Profes-­
sor  of  Psychology  Rob  Moeller.  
World   AIDS   Day   was   the  
first  ever  global  health  day  that  
began   in   1988.   Held   annually  
on   Dec.   1,   the   day   is   a   formal  
opportunity   for   people   across  
the   world   to   unite   in   the   fight  
against   HIV,   show   support   for  
people   living   with   HIV   and   to  
commemorate   those   who   have  
died  from  the  disease.  
Berenbaum   opened   up   the  
panel  by  saying  that  people  need  
to  challenge  the  way  myths  and  
outdated   stereotypes   shape  no-­
tions  about  HIV.  For  many,  the  
stigma   of   testing   HIV   positive  
is  a  deterrent  from  getting  test-­
ed.   She   noted   that   worldwide  
trends   show   that   many   people  
who   get   tested   for   HIV   never  
pick  up   their   results.   “For  a   lot  
of  people,  the  benefits  of  getting  
tested  do  not  outweigh  the  costs  
because  in  testing  HIV  positive,  
some  people  have  a  much  bigger  
risk   to   their   lives   from  the  per-­
son  who  is  angry  about  it  [than]  
to  the  actual  AIDS,”  Berenbaum  
said.   However,   testing   remains  
a   vital   part   of   addressing   HIV  
from  the  start.    
“HIV   falls   into   the   larger  
public   health   problem   of   indi-­
viduals   needing   to   change   be-­
havior,”  Berenbaum  said.  
She  also  expressed  hope  that  
the  issue  of  HIV  infection  would  
be   addressed   on   a   global   level.  
“Globally,   what   I   personally  
would   love   to   see   is   separating  
sex   from   other   objectives,”   she  
said.  “We  need  to  get  rid  of  rape  
as   a   weapon   of   war.   We   need  
to  get   rid  of  human   trafficking.  
The   vast  majority   of   pornogra-­
phy  people  enjoy  is  from  sexual  
slaves.   The   people  who   are   ap-­
pearing  in  this  pornography  are  
subjected   to   HIV   risk   all   the  
time,”  she  continued.  
Moeller,   whose   research   at  
New  York  University  focused  on  
HIV   infection   in   black   and   La-­
tino   communities,   articulated  
that  the  U.S.  is  in  a  major  health  
crisis   regarding   HIV/AIDS.  
“The   people   who   are   most   im-­
pacted  by  this  are  young  [14-­24]  
gay  and  bisexual  men  of  color,”  
he  said.  He  noted  that  the  com-­
mon  belief   that   gay  or  bisexual  
men   wear   condoms   less   than  
heterosexual   men   do   is   false.  
The  issue  then  lies  in  the  small-­
er   pool   of   potential   partners  
that  is  experiencing  higher  rates  
of  HIV  infection.  
“For   gay   men,   the   idea   that  
sex   can   lead   to   death   is   a   real-­
The  Grid  Presented  to  College
December 10, 2015 | Vol. 114 no. 11 | middleburycampus.com
JOHN GRAHAM 
SHELTER HOLDS 
SLEEPOUT TO FIGHT 
HOMELESSNESS
PAGE 3
SGA SPEED DATING 
SHAKES UP 
CAMPUS SOCIAL 
SCENE
PAGE 13
FALL DANCE CONCERT 
SHOWCASES 
STUDENT 
COMPOSITIONS
PAGE 15in
sid
e
By  Caroline  Agsten
News  Editor
Faculty Panel Talks HIV/AIDS 
SEE GLOBEMED, PAGE 2
Town ByLaw
Targets
Off-Campus 
Parties
By  Ethan  Brady
Senior  Writer
By  Abigail  Browngoehl
Contributing  Writer
Zach  Baines  was  one  of  four  panthers  in  double  digits  on  Tuesday  as  Men’s  Basketball  cruised  to  a  96-­74  
win  over  Castleton  in  their  home  opener.  The  team  is  in  action  again  on  Saturday  against  Plattsburgh  St.
Michael Borenstein
SEE “THE GRID”, PAGE 2
On  Dec.   6   the   town   of  Mid-­
dlebury’s   adopted   ordinance  
concerning   rental   houses,  
apartments   and   the   control   of  
public   nuisances   went   into   ef-­
fect.    Associate  Dean  of  Students  
for  Residential  and  Student  Life  
Douglas  Adams  notified  all  off-­
campus   residents   in   an   email  
the  following  day.
According   to   Adams,   the  
town   addressed   experiences  
where   student   occupants   of  
rental   locations   were   chroni-­
cally  and  excessively  disruptive  
in   Middlebury   neighborhoods.  
Some   of   these   instances   have  
led   to   visits   by   the   town   police  
and   contributed   to   the   motion  
to  create  the  new  town  policy.  
“In   the   spirit   of   this   ordi-­
nance,  we  ask   that  you  remem-­
ber  to  be  sensitive  to  the  poten-­
tial  impact  you  will  have  on  the  
people  who  live  nearby,”  Adams  
said  in  the  email.  “Living  in  the  
community   requires   work   and  
an  understanding  that  what  you  
do  will  impact  people  who  have  
different  work   schedules,   noise  
tolerance   and   expectations   of  
behaviors  than  a  typical  college  
student,”  he  continued.    
The   new   policy   states   that  
previous   other   laws   and   ordi-­
nances   do   not   adequately   con-­
trol   “chronic   unlawful   or   nui-­
sance  activity  or  its  detrimental  
effect   on   the   community  where  
such  chronic  activity  occurs.”
The   ordinance   stipulates  
that  the  fourth  or  more  separate  
noise   violations   occurring   on  
the  same  property  within  a  180-­
day  period   is  deemed  as  a  pub-­
lic  nuisance.  A  violation  will  be  
issued  if  loud  noise  occurs  after  
10   p.m.   on   weekdays   and   after  
1   a.m.   on   weekdays,   although  
complaints  may  be  made  before  
these   times.   The   initial   occur-­
rence  of  a  public  nuisance  on  a  
property  is  a  violation  of  the  or-­
dinance  and  may  be  punishable  
as  a  first  offense  with  a  fine.  
In   the   email,  Adams  provid-­
ed  tips  to  foster  better  relation-­
ships  between  students  who  live  
off  campus  and  their  respective  
neighborhoods.   In   addition   to  
better   communication   among  
all   community   members,   he  
also  reminded  students  to  be  re-­
sponsible  for  any  parties  before  
and  after  they  occur.
“I   think   its   important   to   re-­
inforce   that   studnts   living   off  
campus  have  to  uphold  ceretain  
expectations,”  Greer  Howard  ’16  
said.   “We’re   a   port   of   the   com-­
munity,  our  neighbors  aren’t  all  
on   the   same   scheuldes,   and  we  
need   to   be   cognizant   of   those  
differences.”
Festive  lights  and  brighten  the  McCullough  quad  on  a  cloudy,  but  snowless,  December  night.
Rachel Frank
MEN’S BASKETBALL CRUISES IN HOME OPENER 
On   Wednesday,   Nov.   2,   in  
Wilson  Hall,  three  administrators  
—   Katy   Smith   Abbott,   Andi  
Lloyd   and   Miguel   Fernández   —  
unveiled   a   plan   they   developed  
over   the   summer   to   remedy  
time   that   the   plan,   which   they  
termed  “The  Grid,”  was  available  
to   the   student   body.   About  
seventy   students   and   faculty  
were  in  attendance  at  the  forum.
At   their   May   meeting   the  
Board   of   Trustees   charged   the  
administration   with   addressing  
stress  and  inclusivity  on  campus.  
The  resulting  plan  outlines  short-­
term   and   long-­term   solutions  
that   are  broken  down   into   three  
categories:   building   community  
and  resilience,  promoting  mind–
body   well-­being   and   fostering  
diversity   and   inclusivity.   Each  
objective   has   its   own   chart   and  
associated  time  agenda.
“It   seems   to   me   like   the  
administration   is   very   desperate  
for  some  kind  of  concrete  action,”  
Prasanna   Vankina   ’18   said.   “It  
is   clear   that   the   administration  
cares   a   lot,   but   a   lot   of   the  
proposals  they  suggested  seemed  
reactive.”
During   the   presentation,  
Smith  Abbott  described  intensive  
brainstorming   sessions   over   the  
summer   between   herself,   Lloyd,  
and  Fernández,  in  a  room  on  the  
a   white   board,   “a   great   deal   of  
snacks,”  and  diagrams  and  buzz-­
words   of   stressors   for   today’s  
college  students.
“I   don’t   know   how   much  
interaction   there   actually   was  
with  students,”  Vankina  said.
SGA   President   Ilana   Gratch  
’16   said   that   the   SGA’s   main  
goal  in  holding  this  stress  forum  
was   to   create   an   opportunity  
for   students   to   enter   the  
conversation.   Last   week,   the  
Campus   editorial   board   called  
|  December 10, 20152 NEWS
By Tess Weitzner 
SGA  Correspondent & 
Staff Writer
SGA 
Update
“The  Grid”  Focuses  on  Mental  Health
SGA  President  Ilana  Gratch  ’16  began  the  
Nov.   15  meeting  with   the   results   of   the   Eat  
Real  survey  about  dining  options.  Of  the  800  
students  who  responded,  92  percent  were  in  
support   of   reaching   the   goal   of   50   percent  
“real  food”  served  on  campus  by  2020.  (“Real  
-­
lowing   criteria:   local,   humane,   ecologically  
sound  and  fair).    
Gratch   also   announced   that   10   o’clock  
Ross  will  be   terminated   if   students  continue  
to  steal  food  items  such  as  large  cereal  bags.  
She  reminded  the  group,  tea  and  coffee  are  not  
served  as  a  safety  precaution  against  hot  water  
burns.  
Senators  discussed  ways   to   incorporate  a  
student  voice  into  the  presentation  on  student  
mental   health   that   was   held   on  Wednesday  
Dec.  2  at  in  Wilson  Hall.    
On   the   topic   of   mental   health,   senators  
also  acknowledged  an  inconsistent  and  some-­
times  unhelpful  approach  to  stress  voiced  by  
professors.   They   cited   personal   experiences  
and  anecdotes  from  friends  and  peers.  Gratch  
announced   that   she   will   discuss   these   con-­
cerns  with  President  Patton  during  their  next  
monthly  meeting.
Speaker   of   the   Senate   Reshma   Gogineni  
’16  opened  the  discussion  to  the  reshaping  of  
MiddCourses  such  that  professors  could  offer  
input  on   the   structure  of   the   class  and   their  
teaching  philosophy.  Gogineni  will   be  work-­
ing  with  Director  of  Technology  Dana  Silver  
’16  and  anticipates  the  challenge  of  advertising  
the  feature  to  professors  and  convincing  them  
to  participate.
Senators   explored   ways   to   bolster   the  
CCI’s  relationship  with  the  student  body  and  
CCI  as  a  resource.  Senators  discussed  the  pos-­
workshop   that   would   help   students   explore  
career  interests  and  connect  to  alumni.  Sena-­
tors  also  cited  the  challenge  of  integrating  the  
CCI’s  function  with  the  liberal  arts  philosophy.  
Finally,  Gratch  updated  SGA  on  the  status  
of   the   AAL   distribution   requirement   reform  
proposal.  The  new  requirement  would  be  re-­
named  “Critical  Perspectives”  and  would  allow  
students   to   choose   to   study  several  different  
regions  of  the  world.  The  administration  will  
vote  in  January.  If  it  passes,  the  restructured  
-­
dents  in  fall  2017.  However,  senators  voiced  a  
push  to  implement  the  change  sooner,  noting  
-­
power  required  to  label  all  classes  on  Banner-­
Web.  
At   the  meeting  on  Nov.  22,   senators  vot-­
ed  to  pass  a  bill  sponsored  by  Gogineni   that  
would  allocate  $99  from  SGA’s  budget  to  cov-­
a  MiddRides  app  on   the  app  store.  The  app  
will  be  available  for  students  in  January  2016.  
MiddRides  is  described  in  the  bill  as  necessary  
for   students   to   travel   safely   across   campus  
during   winter,   but   currently   unreliable,   due  
by  allowing  students  to  submit  their  locations  
to  the  driver’s  assistants  and  receive  feedback  
when  the  van  is  approaching  their  location.
Senators   voted   to   table   a   bill   that   would  
extend  the  drop  deadline  and  the  invocation  
of  the  Pass/D/Fail  option  to  eight  weeks  and  
the   revocation   of   the   Pass/D/Fail   option   to  
12   weeks.   The   two   week   add   period   would  
not  be  changed.  Survey  results  indicated  that  
few  students  would  take  advantage  of  the  ex-­
tended  deadlines,  but  they  believe  the  policy  
change  would  alleviate  stress.  Faculty  will  dis-­
cuss  the  policy  on  Dec.  11  and  15  and  will  vote  
to  continue  or  cancel  the  Pass/D/Fail  option  
in  January.      
There  was  a  motion   to   table  a   resolution  
recommendation   that  would  prompt   further  
conversations  on   increasing  campus  accessi-­
bility,  especially  in  the  Ridgeline  Apartments.  
The  recommendation,  sponsored  by  Commu-­
nity  Council  Co-­Chair  Tiff  Chang  ’17.5,  Won-­
nacott  Senator  Lisa  Han  ’16,  and  Sophomore  
Senator   Jin   Sohn   ’18,  would   also   encourage  
discussions  about  inclusion  not  only  as  it  ap-­
plies   to   physical   disabilities,   but   “cognitive,  
learning  and  other  disabilities  diagnosed  and  
undiagnosed,”  as  written  in  the  bill.        
GlobeMed, Chellis House
Host World AIDS Day Talk  
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
On  Monday,  Dec.  7,  Community  Council  
Student   Co-­Chair   Tiff   Chang   ’17.5  
began   by   noting   that   the   Student  
Government   Association   recently   passed  
two   recommendations   –   an   extension   of  
the   add/drop   deadline   and   an   extension  
of   the   Pass/D/Fail   option   –   which   both  
grew   out   of   discussions   originally   held   in  
Community  Council  about  academic  stress.
The  council   then  considered   the  recent  
campus-­wide   discussions   on   cultural  
appropriation   and   inclusivity.   Several  
members  shared  that  they  were  supportive  
of  the  most  recent  Town  Hall  meeting,  but  
wished   that   it   could   have   been   held   in   a  
larger  venue  and  at  a  more  convenient  time  
of   day,   since   many   potential   dissenting  
voices  seemed  absent  from  the  discussion.
Public   Safety   Telecom   Manager   and  
Tech   Support   Specialist   Solon   Coburn  
noted,   however,   that   the   problem   of   an  
problem  to  have.”
Some   faculty   members   on   the   Council  
shared  their  disappointment  that  students  
seemed   hesitant   to   turn   to   professors   to  
discuss  issues  of  race  and  class,  particularly  
professors  who  study  those  very  topics.  
Additionally,  the  question  was  raised  of  
whether  Community  Council  should  begin  
to  tackle  those  issues,  especially  in  light  of  
student  protests  at  Yale  University  and  the  
University  of  Missouri.  Members  generally  
agreed   that   such   subjects   would   probably  
be  best  addressed  within  larger  topics  that  
the   Council   plans   to   review   later   in   the  
academic  year.
The   Council   had   planned   to   end  
Monday’s   meeting   –   the   culmination  
of   a   semester-­long   focus   on   stress   –   by  
President   of   the  College   Laurie   L.   Patton.  
However,   several   staff   members   stated  
that   they   felt   uncomfortable   forming   a  
recommendation   primarily   on   academic  
stress   –   a   subject   about   which   they   have  
little   knowledge.   Furthermore,   some  
members  pointed  out  that  the  Community  
address  only  non-­academic  issues.
“I’m   wondering   if   there   needs   to   be   a  
conversation   about  what  we’re   allowed   to  
do  and  whether  that  needs  to  change,  in  the  
wording  of  the  way  we  were  chartered  as  a  
body,”  Ethan  Brady  ’18  said.
In  the  end,   the  Council  agreed  that   the  
best  option  would  likely  be  the  creation  of  
on   stress.   This   task   force   would   be   given  
Community  Council,   each  of  which  would  
be  categorized  as  either  a  short-­term,  mid-­
term  or  long-­term  goal.
ity,”   Moeller   said.   “I   have   never   in   my  
life  met  a  gay  man  who  was  not  afraid  of  
HIV.  The  fear  certainly  exists.”  
The  panel  addressed  current  medical  
treatment  of  HIV.  While   in   the  past   the  
common  medication  for  possible  HIV  in-­
fection  was   curative  –   to   be   taken   after  
having   unprotected   sex   with   someone  
who  was  HIV  positive  –  the  current  mod-­
el   of   medication   is   preventative.   “The  
problem  with   this   is   the   issue   of   access  
and   treatment,”   Moeller   said.   He   cited  
that   only   one   in   three   doctors   knows  
about  pre-­exposure  prophylaxis,  the  new  
HIV   prevention   strategy   that   uses   anti-­
retrovirals  to  reduce  risk  of  infection.
Transmission   rates   of   the   infection  
are  much  lower  than  common  belief  dic-­
tates.  For  one  sexual  encounter  between  
a  person  with  HIV  and  one  without,  the  
rate  of  transmission  is  1/1000.  With  an-­
tiretroviral   therapy,   this   rate   is   reduced  
by  70  to  90  percent.  Adherence  to  treat-­
ment  is  thus  considered  very  important.  
Resistance   to   the   therapies   can   occur  
when  the  full  dosage  is  not  observed  and  
the  benefit  of   reduction  of   transmission  
rate  does  not  occur.  
“When   people   receive   HIV   positive  
tests,  some  of  them  will  go  out  and  have  
more   unprotected   sex   because   the   cost  
goes   down,”   Gong   said.  He   emphasized  
the  need  for  treatment  after  diagnosis  to  
improve  the  welfare  of  the   infected  per-­
son   and   because   it   prevents   transmis-­
sion  of  the  infection.  
“One   of   the   things   that   economists  
have  been   looking  at   in   terms  of  chang-­
ing   sexual   behaviors   is   known   as   con-­
ditional   cash   transfers   (CCTs)  –   you  do  
something  and  we’ll  pay  you,”  Gong  said.  
With  this  method,  individuals  would  re-­
ceive  vouchers  when  they  showed  up  for  
treatment   or   extra   incentive   for   fully  
completing   treatment   with   additional  
money.  
Gong   also   focused   on   the   presence  
of  HIV  and  AIDS  in  Sub-­Saharan  Africa  
where  he  conducted  most  of  his  research.  
“The   puzzle   is   this:   rates   of   HIV   are  
much   higher   is   Sub-­Saharan   Africa,”  
he   said.   “But   if   you   look   at   the   number  
of   sexual   partners   between   the   average  
person   in   the  United  States  versus  Sub-­
Saharan  Africa,  they’re  about  the  same.”  
HIV/AIDS  affects  33  million  people  in  
Sub-­Saharan  Africa.  According  to  Gong,  
vaccines  are  not  available  because   large  
pharmaceutical  companies  in  the  United  
States  are  not  addressing   it.  To  encour-­
age   the   production,   economists   suggest  
advance  market   commitment,   or   the   “if  
you  make  it,  we’ll  buy  it”  approach.
“It’s   not   really   about,   ‘Let’s   change  
the   message,’   or   ‘Let’s   figure   out   the  
right  wording   to   get   people   to   use   con-­
doms,’”  Moeller   said.   “What   I   think   we  
really  need  is  a  vaccine  and  a  cure,  both  
of   which   we   are   very   far   away   from   at-­
taining   simply   because   we   just   don’t  
know  enough.”
By Nick Garber
Community Council
Correspondent & 
Staff Writer
Community
Council
Update
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
for  administrators   to  base   their   solutions  
on   student   input   rather   than   on   their  
anecdotal   or   outdated   perceptions   of  
student  stress.
“I  am  encouraged  that  three  senior  level  
administrators   spent   the   entire   summer  
addressing   issues  relating  to  stress   in  the  
student  body,”  Gratch  said.
At   the   forum,   Gratch   gathered  
responses   and   suggestions   from   student  
attendees,   which   she   will   compile   in   a  
and   Fernández.   She   said   the   SGA   will  
also  conduct  a  survey  during  winter  term  
asking  about  perspectives  and  experiences  
related  to  stress  at  Middlebury.
“I   look   forward   to   compiling   the  
student   input   we   received   at   the   forum  
for   administrators   so   the   proposals   can  
incorporate   students’   ideas,   too,”   she  
continued.  
Some   commented   on   the   low   number  
of   student   attendees   at   the   forum.   One  
student   suggested   that   students  were   too  
stressed   about   their   academic   work   to  
show   up.  When   the   attendees   broke   into  
many  were  dismayed  that  few  solutions  in  
the  plan  dealt  with  academics.
“Almost   everyone   in   my   small   group  
was  frustrated  that  ‘slow  learning’  came  up  
once   in   the   presentation,”   Vankina   said.  
“The   other   prevalent   issues   of   diversity  
and   inclusivity   and   health   are   piled   onto  
an  already  existing  issue  in  the  classroom,  
this   rapid   form   of   learning.   No   one   is  
internalizing  anything  they  learn.”
During   a   question-­and-­answer   period,  
one   student   stood   up   and   said   that   if   he  
received   one   extension   on   a   paper,   “that  
would  do  more  to  solve  his  stress  than  any  
of  these  proposals  combined.”
Marie   Vasitas   ’18   said   that   stress   is  
largely  self-­imposed  by  students.  
“We   need   to   learn   how   to   deal   with  
the  stresses  of  the  real  world,  because  the  
world  is  not  going  to  adapt  to  us,”  she  said.  
“Once  we  leave  Middlebury,  there  won’t  be  
opportunities  to  have  conversations  about  
how  we  can  make  the  world  less  stressful.  
I   think   that’s   something   that   you   have  
to  do  on  your  own,  and   that’s  part  of   the  
learning  experience.”  
One   student   suggested   that   students  
and   faculty   “take   breaks   for   what   they  
breaks.  “Not  having  work  over  break,  not  
piling  up  work  before  and  after  break,  and  
actually  reevaluating  what  a  break  means  
would  help  so  much.”
Another   student   lamented   the   lack   of  
traditions  on  campus.  
“There   are   traditions   within   certain  
groups   on   campus,   but   there’s   no   one  
unifying   tradition,”   she   said.   “Even   a  
homecoming   dance.   How   many   people  
actually  go  to  Winter  Carnival?”
Kathryn   Morse,   chair   of   the   history  
department,   said   the   conversation  
that   occurred   at   the   stress   forum   was  
thoughtful  and  showcased  multiple  points  
of  view.  
“The  overall  bottom   line  seemed   to  be  
that  there  is  too  much  to  do  with  too  little  
time,”  she  said.  “Students  have  been  saying  
there’s   too  much  academic  work  here   for  
years.   In   response,   faculty   often   suggest  
that   students   might   be   overcommitting  
themselves   beyond   the   classroom.   The  
question  might  be,  How  does  our  culture  
pressure   students   to  want   to  do   so  many  
things  at  once?”
Morse  also  said  that  there  are  too  many  
talks  offered  each  day.  
“Perhaps   limiting   the   number   of   talks  
across  the  institution  to  one  per  day  would  
reduce   stress.   Students   and   faculty   seem  
to  have  too  many  talks  and  obligations  to  
go  to  —  there’s  just  too  much  going  on.”
Tiffany   Chang   ’17.5,   co-­chair   of  
Community  Council,  expressed  excitement  
for  Gratch’s  work  with  the  forum  and  with  
to   the   conversation   to   hear   the   opinions  
of  students  en  masse.”  she  said.   “I  would  
also  like  to  see  the  solutions  focus  more  on  
faculty  and  staff  stress,  which  Community  
Council  has  been  discussed  this  semester.  
All   of  us  —  students,   faculty,   and   staff  —  
live  and  work  on  campus  together,  and  all  
our  stresses  affect  one  another.”
Matthew   Gillis   ’18   expressed   concern  
about  the  way  Middlebury  markets  itself.  
“People   feel   deceived   about   having  
come   here   when   they   see   institutional  
and   social   forms  of   racism  and   classism”  
he  said.  “It  is  disheartening  to  realize  how  
many  students  are  accepted  from  similarly  
privileged   areas   each   year   and   how   the  
way   you   present   yourself   in   admissions  
can,   in   many   cases,   immediately   divide,  
shape  and  burden  your  experience.  When  
the   college   annually   boasts   how   each  
class   is  more  brilliant,  more  diverse,   and  
ultimately   more   ‘perfect’   each   year,   you  
internalize  the  surrounding  imperfections  
you  see—and  begin  to  doubt  the  ability  to  
be  perfect  yourself.”
  “I  think  being  honest,  sharing  why  you  
feel  a  certain  way,  why  you  hold  a  certain  
view   or   why   you’re   having   a   tough   time  
is   so   important.  Many   times   I   stay   silent  
instead  of  admitting  ignorance  or  slap  on  
a   smile  when   I’m   feeling  down.  We   can’t  
be   afraid   of   making   mistakes,   appearing  
vulnerable,   revealing   ignorance,   or  
showing   that   we   aren’t   perfect   people,  
because   this   is   how   will   eventually   help  
us   learn   and   reform   ourselves   and   our  
stress,”  he  concluded.
With   the   presidential   election   less  
than   a   year   away,   and   primaries   for  
both   parties   even   closer,   the   Campus  
sought   on  Sunday   to   take   stock   of   local  
residents’  opinions.  The  following  inter-­
views   are   an   anecdotal   glimpse   into   an  
electorate   that   is   decidedly  Democratic,  
but   still   grapples   with   the   feasibility   of  
their   Senator,   Ber-­
nie  Sanders,  as  a  vi-­
able  candidate.  
Of  the  two  dozen  
respondents,   twelve  
voiced   their   support  
for  Sanders,  six  pre-­
fer   Hillary   Clinton  
and   three  had  yet   to  
make   up   their   mind  
between   Sanders  
and   Clinton.   Only  
three   respondents  
were   planning   to  
vote   for   a   Republi-­
can   candidate,   two   of   whom   preferred  
Chris  Christie.
        The  concern  over  Sanders’   viabil-­
ity   has   been   confirmed   elsewhere:   In  
September,   Castleton   Polling   Institute  
found   that   although   48   percent   of   Ver-­
monters   hoped   to   see   Sanders   elected  
president,   only  27  percent   think  he  will  
win.   In   contrast,   46   percent   of   respon-­
dents  think  Clinton  will  win.
Barbara   Merz   epitomized   this   pre-­
carious  position.  “Even  though  we  might  
be  told  that  it’s  a  waste  to  vote  for  [Sand-­
ers],   I’m   going   to.   It’s   just   a   primary,”  
she   added,   “so   I’ll   vote   for   whose   posi-­
tions   I   agree   with   and   in   the   presiden-­
tial,  I’ll  vote  for  whoever  the  Democratic  
winner  is.”
Elizabeth   Ker-­
vick   expressed   a  
similar   sentiment:  
“I  think  probably,  as  
far   as   issues   go,   I’m  
more   aligned   with  
Bernie.   Also,   my  
goal  is  to  see  a  Dem-­
ocrat  as  president.”
Another   resi-­
dent’s   somewhat  
contradictory   opin-­
ion   was   particularly  
humorous:   “You  
could  put  me  down  for  Sanders,”  he  said.  
“But  I   just  don’t   think  he’d  make  a  very  
good  president.”
Not   all   residents   were   as   skeptical.  
Mary-­Ann   Deverell   said   she   was   voting  
for   Bernie   Sanders.   “I   think   his   grass-­
roots   campaign   has   really   spread.   ...   I  
think  he’s  true  to  who  he  is,  and  has  al-­
ways  had   the   same  expectations   for  our  
country.”
Pierre  Vachon  felt  similarly.  “I  think  
it’s  time  for  a  change  and  I  think  Bernie  
Sanders   is   the   right  guy   for   it,”  he  said.  
“I   think   his   policies   are   more   progres-­
sive  and  have  a  better  chance  for  helping  
America   than   a   lot   of   the   other   candi-­
dates,  currently.”  
Most   residents  
agreed   with   this   as-­
sesment.   Courtney  
Krahn,   for   example,  
lauded   Sanders’  
progressive   stance  
on   universal   health  
care  and  higher  edu-­
cation,   but   was   un-­
sure   of   his   position  
on  guns.
“Maybe   oth-­
er   candidates   are  
stronger  on  gun  con-­
trol,”   she   acknowl-­
edged.  “But  maybe  he  has  a  more  realis-­
tic  view  of  it?  I  don’t  know.”
“Gun   control   I   feel   is   really   on   the  
forefront   of   my   mind,”   replied   another  
resident,   when   asked   about   the   issue  
that  concerns  her  most.
Arguably,   however,   Sanders’   most  
attractive   feature   is   his   consistent   and  
unrelenting  focus  on  political  corruption  
and  wealth  inequality.
“I   think   Bernie’s   strongest   issue   is  
the   idea   that   one   percent   of   our   coun-­
try   has   such   a   high   percentage   of   our  
wealth,”   said   the   same   resident   con-­
cerned  with  gun  violence,   “and   the   idea  
that  there  is  really  no  middle  class.  We’re  
struggling;;  or  not.”
S u r p r i s i n g l y ,  
this   strategy   has  
even   allowed   Sand-­
ers,   running   to   the  
left   of   Hillary   Clin-­
ton,   to   draw   sup-­
port  from  across  the  
aisle.  
“I’m   naturally  
a   Republican,”   said  
Jamie   Sheldon,   “but  
I’m   looking   at   Ber-­
nie   Sanders   as   the  
best   candidate   right  
now.  I  really  like  his  
platform  about  growing  the  middle  class,  
because  I  am  middle  class.  You’re  either  
on  state  aid  or  you’re  extremely  wealthy  
-­  the  middle  class  is  a  lost  party.  So  that’s  
where  he’s  kind  of  hit  home  with  me.”
“I’ve   been   a   Republican   my   whole  
life,”  said  another  local  resident,  “but  I’ll  
tell   you,   Bernie   Sanders,   he   is   what   he  
is.”
Pierre   Vachon   noted   that   Sanders’s  
success  may  not  hinge  upon  his  policies  
as  a  candidate,  but  on  the  amount  of  me-­
dia  coverage  he  receives.  
“Part   of   the   is-­
sue   is   he   gets   kind  
of   pushed   aside,  
but   he   has   a   strong  
grassroots   campaign  
so   I   think   the   popu-­
lar   vote   could   go   to  
him   pretty   easily,”  
he   said.   “If   he   can  
get   through   the   pri-­
mary   and   actually  
be   the   Democratic  
candidate,   I   think   he   has   a   very   strong  
chance.”
Those   who   expressed   their   support  
for  Hillary  Clinton  tended  to  emphasize  
her   experience   in   government   and   her  
foreign  policy  credentials.
“I   think   [Clinton]   has   got   the   most  
experience   and   I   like   her   international  
views   on   the   world,”   said   one   woman.  
“[Bernie’s]  a  good  guy  –  educated  –  but  
in  the  world  arena,  I  think  he’s  lacking  in  
experience,  where  Hillary  has  had  expe-­
rience.   I   like  her  views  on  things.  Espe-­
cially  as  a  woman.”  
Nonetheless,   she   noted,   “Bernie  
would   be   my   sec-­
ond   choice   –   I’d  
love   to   see   them  
as   President-­Vice  
President  in  a  per-­
fect  world.”
“The   two   big-­
gest   issues   for   me  
as   a   voter   are   the  
economy   and   for-­
eign   policy,”   said  
another   Clinton  
supporter,   “and   I  
think   that’s   where  
Hillary   comes   out  
as   a   winner.”   This  
voter  was  optimis-­
tic   about   Clinton’s  
electoral   chances,  
but  noted  that  “the  
two   most   viable   candidates   to   threaten  
her  in  terms  of  actually  winning  an  elec-­
tion  are  Jeb  Bush  and  Marco  Rubio.”
Yet  the  few  surveyed  Republicans  ex-­
pressed  a  preference  not  for  Bush  or  Ru-­
bio,   but   for  New  Jersey  Governor  Chris  
Christie.   One   appreciated   his   emphasis  
on   “law   and   order,”   while   another,   Jim  
Hunter,  cited  Christie’s  ability  to  govern  
a  mostly-­Democratic  state.  
“[It]   tells  me  that  he  can  manage  to  
please   both   sides   of   the   aisle,”   Hunter  
said.  “As  a  President,  you  need  to  be  able  
to  make  the  majority  of  the  people  some-­
what  happy.”
While   initially   cautioning   that  Don-­
ald  Trump  is  “a  little  too  crazy,”  Hunter  
conceded  that  he  ad-­
mires  Trump’s   focus  
on   illegal   immigra-­
tion.   Many   recent  
immigrants,   Hunter  
said,   “have   no   idea  
what   America’s  
based  on  –   they   just  
see  free  stuff.”  
Prior   waves   of  
immigrants   who  
came   through   Ellis  
Island,   he   asserted,   were   subjected   to  
more   tests,   which   Hunter   feels   should  
be  reinstated.  “The  country  was  built  on  
immigrants,   so   I   have   no   problem  with  
that,”   he   said.   “It’s   control   that   I   care  
about.”
However,   the   majority   of   residents  
were  harshly  critical  of  Trump’s  policies,  
with  many  agreeing  that  a  Trump  victory  
would  be   the  worst  possible  outcome  of  
the  2016  elections.  
“A   Trump   presidency   would   be   the  
very   worst   case   scenario,”   said   Barbara  
Merz,   “but   I   100   percent   don’t   believe  
that   that   will   happen.”   Another   resi-­
dent   concurred:  
“I   don’t   think   the  
presidency  should  
be   a   reality   TV  
show.”
Indeed,   de-­
spite   some   dis-­
agreement   about  
the   Democratic  
primary,   most  
residents   seemed  
unified   in   their  
animosity   to-­
wards   the   entire  
Republican  field.  
“ [ R e p u b l i -­
cans]   just   propa-­
gate   more   vio-­
lence   and   more  
hate,”   said   one  
resident.  “So  I’m  looking  for  the  opposite  
of  that—the  propagation  of  well-­being.”
Ultimately,   both   statewide   polling  
and   anecdotal   evidence   point   to   Sand-­
ers   winning   his   home   state   of   Vermont  
in  the  Democratic  primary.  The  question  
remains,   however,   whether   sentiment  
regarding   Sanders’   viability   as   a   candi-­
date,  expressed  even  in  Vermont,  will  af-­
fect  his  performance  nationally.
Residents  Weigh  in  on  Presidential  Candidates
By  Nick  Garber  and  Harry  Cramer
Contributing  Writer  and  Local  Editor
local
Courtesy prescisearz
Courtesy business  insider
Bernie  Sanders  (D)  is  projected  to  win  Vermont,  but  faces  doubts  about  his  viability  nationally.
Hillary  Clinton  (D)  received  support  from  those  who  prioritize  foreign  policy  and  experience.
“As  much   as   I   would  
like   to   support   Ber-­
nie   Sanders   -­   I   think  
he’s   phenomenal   -­   I  
just   don’t   know   if   he  
would   take   it   all   the  
way.”
Ingrid
“I’m  naturally   a  Repub-­
lican,   but   I’m   looking  
at   Bernie   Sanders   as  
the   best   candidate   right  
now.   You’re   either   on  
state   aid   or   extremely  
wealthy   –   the   middle  
class   is   a   lost   party.   So  
that’s   kind   of   where   he  
hit  home  for  me.”  
Jamie Sheldon
“I   don’t   think   the  
presidency   should   be  
a  reality  TV  show.”  
Local Resident
“[Republicans]   just  
propagate   more   vio-­
lence   and  more   hate.  
So  I’m  looking  for  the  
opposite  of  that  –  the  
propagation   of   well-­
being.”
Local middlebury Resident
On  Saturday,  Dec.  5  the  John  Graham  
Shelter   in   Vergennes   hosted   its   second  
annual  sleep-­out  at  the  foot  of  Otter  Creek  
Falls  near  Marbleworks.  
The   fundraising   event   raised   over  
$35,000,  which  surpassed  last  year’s  total  
of  $30,000.  All   of   the  money   raised  will  
go  directly  into  helping  homeless  individ-­
Last   year,   approximately   40   people  
participated   in   the   event.   This   year,   the  
number  of  participants  was  nearly  70.  
Elizabeth  Ready,  Director  of  the  John  
Graham   Shelter   articulated   the   impor-­
tance  of  this  event.  
“The   event   is   to   bring   awareness   to  
the   problem   that   so  many   of   our   neigh-­
bors   have,”   Ready   began.   “We   are   talk-­
ing   about   families   with   children,   we   are  
talking   about   individuals,  we   are   talking  
about  people  of  all  ages.”
Dan   Adamek   ’18,   who   works   part  
time  at  the  John  Graham  Shelter  as  a  ser-­
vice   coordinator   and   serves   on   the   shel-­
ter’s   board   of   directors,   echoed   Ready’s  
sentiments.  
“I   think   that   a   lot   of   people   are   just  
unaware   that   there   is   a   homelessness  
problem  in  Vermont,”  Adamek  said.  
Adamek   pointed   out   that   living   in   a  
rural   area   is  part   of   the   reason   such  un-­
awareness  exists.
“I   think   to  a   lot  of  people,  especially  
in   rural   areas,  homelessness   can  be  very  
invisible  because  it’s  very  easy  to  not  see  
homelessness   in  places  where  people  are  
so  spread  out.”
In   addition   to   helping   raise   aware-­
ness,   Ready   emphasized   how   the   event  
gives  participants  perspective.  
“When  you  think  that  we’re  only  here  
for   one  night,  whereas  other  people   face  
uncertainty  every  night,  it  puts  the  situa-­
tion  in  context,”  Ready  said.  
Personally,  Ready  said  the  event  helps  
her  think  twice  about  how  she  responds  to  
those  who  call  the  shelter  in  need.  
“Sometimes  I  thought   ‘oh  well,  we’re  
full,  let  us  take  down  your  name  and  num-­
ber,’  and  now  I   feel   like   ‘oh,  yeah  we  are  
full,  but  let’s  see  what  we  can  do.’”  
On  how  this  event  can  help  bring  per-­
spective   to   the  College’s  community  spe-­
privileged  bubble  on  top  of  a  hill,  at  an  in-­
stitution  that  has  a   lot  of  money  concen-­
trated  in  one  place.  But  there  are  so  many  
people   around   us  who   are  working   poor  
and  working   class  people  who  are   either  
homeless   or   on   the   brink   of   homeless-­
ness.”
Ready  was  quick  to  point  out  the  gap  
between   wages   and   housing   costs   as   to  
why  she  believes  Vermont  has  seen  a  spike  
“Bottom   line,”   Ready   said,   “most   of  
the   people   at   the   shelter   are   working.”  
Guests   come   to   the   John   Graham   Shel-­
ter   who   work   at   grocery   stores,   nursing  
homes,   farms,   convenience   stores,   and  
other   jobs   because   their   wages   are   not  
keeping  pace  with  the  cost  of  housing.  
Ready   addressed  how   the   John  Gra-­
ham   Shelter   has   tried   to   deal   with   the  
growing   demand   for   its   services   and   the  
chronic   problem   that   persists   from   the  
state  having  a  high  cost  of  living.  
“What  we   try   to  do  at   the  John  Gra-­
answer   to   the   economic   riddle   by   help-­
ing   people   get   vouchers,   helping   people  
income   [and   doing]   whatever   it   takes,”  
Ready  said.  
The   sleep   out   event   began   at   4   p.m.  
with   a   candlelight   vigil   on   the   green   in  
town.  
Diane   Lanpher,   Representative   (D)  
of  Vergennes,  spoke  about  her  experience  
doing  the  sleep-­out  last  year  and  her  role  
“It  was  a  very  cold  night,  but  it  was  an  
eye-­opening   experience,”   Lanpher   said,  
recalling  her  sleep-­out  experience.  
a   lot  of   things   that   you  don’t  necessarily  
have.  I  didn’t  fear  for  my  safety  that  night.  
There  were  people  around.  We  had  access  
to  a  bathroom  that  most  people  wouldn’t.”  
Lanpher   recounts   waking   up   at   4  
o’clock   and   shivering   in   the   bathroom  
because   it   was   the   only   warm   place   she  
“I   had   to   ask  myself   in   the  mirror,”  
Lanpher   began,   “would   I   be   able   to   pre-­
pare  to  go  to  a  job  interview  in  two  hours?  
-­
vices  that  day?”  
Thus,  Lanpher  stated,  “people  in  that  
situation  need  our  help,  to  give  them  the  
step  up  …  we  need  to  do  the  wrap  around  
-­
ting   everything   else   that   they   need   in  
place.”  
Kesha   Ram,   Representative   (D)   of  
Chittenden,  who  is  currently  running  for  
Lieutenant  Governor,  also  spoke  to  those  
attending  the  vigil.  
Put  simply,  Ram  stated,  “we  have  too  
many  homeless  Vermonters.”  
To   expose   the   severity   of   the   situa-­
tion,  Ram  stated,  “right  now  we  have  peo-­
ple   who   sit   in   prison   because   they   can’t  
get  housing  on  the  outside.”  
she   acquired   while   working   as   the   legal  
director   for   Women   Helping   Battered  
Women   before   she   entered   municipal  
government.  
“We  watched  so  many  families  strug-­
was   for   one   night   or   in   the   long   term,”  
Ram  said.
Ram  also  discussed  the  work  she  has  
done  since  joining  the  legislature  and  her  
work  on  the  housing  committee  with  Lan-­
pher  and  others  the  last  three  years.  
“A   lot   of   our   programs   are   not   built  
well   to   support   families   and   individuals  
as  they  transition,”  Ram  explained.
“We’ve  sought  to  advance  a  lot  of  new  
and  creative  solutions   in   trying   to  create  
more   access   to   supportive,   service   rich  
housing,”  Ram  continued.
As  an  example,  Ram  detailed  how  the  
committee   has   sought   to   allocate  money  
spent   on  motels,   which   create   an   isolat-­
ing  housing  experience,   towards  housing  
that  is  supported  by  housing  trusts  or  into  
services  from  other  organizations.  
In   her   closing   remarks,   Ram   spoke  
about  the  need  to  view  homelessness  as  a  
human  right.  
“We   have   to   turn   the   conversation  
around  and  remember   that  everyone  de-­
serves  to  have  the  dignity  of  being  housed,  
of  being  supportive,  or  just  having  a  warm  
place  to  stay,”  Ram  said.  
Furthermore,   Ram   urged   her   audi-­
ence  to  remember  “anyone  who  is  home-­
less   is   someone  who  has   a   family,   had   a  
family,   deserves   dignity,   deserves   some-­
where  warm   to   stay,   deserves   friendship  
and  breaking   the   silence   of   the   isolation  
of  homelessness.”  
Participants   of   the   event   expressed  
their  passion  and  connection  to  the  issue  
of  homelessness.  
For   Fernanda   Canales,   principal   of  
Salisbury   Community   Schools,   and   her  
husband,  Chad  Chamberlain,  a  teacher  at  
Salisbury   Community   Schools,   this   was  
“I   think   we   encounter   families   who  
are  in  this  situation  time  and  time  again,  
and   I   just   felt   like   I   wanted   to   experi-­
ence  it,”  Canales  explained  as  to  why  they  
chose  to  participate.
Chamberlain  agreed  with  his  wife  and  
also  added  that  he  felt  that  families  in  his  
community  who  were  either  homeless  or  
struggling   with   homelessness   neglected  
to  reach  out  for  support.  
Canales   agreed   by   saying:   “A   lot   of  
times  there  is  a  stigma,  they  don’t  want  us  
to  know  that  they  are  living  under  certain  
circumstances.”
Bringing   awareness   to   the   issue   and  
approaching   the   situation  with  empathy,  
as  the  John  Graham  Shelter  is  committed  
to   doing,   will   help   Vermonters   become  
more  invested  in  the  cause  and  learn  how  
to  deal  with  the  issues  more  directly.  
Sleep-­Out  Helps  Combat  Homelessness  in  VT
By  Annie  Grayer
Local  Editor
Courtesy Yeager “Teddy” Anderson 
courtesy Annie Grayer
Courtesy Yeager “Teddy” Anderson
Dan  Adamek  ’18  works  part  time  at  the  John  
Graham  Shelter  and  helped  plan  the  event.
At  4  p.m.,  the  John  Graham  Shelter  hosted  a  vigil  on  the  green  in  town  to  kick  off  the  sleep-­
Elizabeth  Ready,  Director  of  the  John  Graham  Shelter,  addressed  those  who  attended  the  vigil.  
Courtesy Annie Grayer
Participants  of  the  sleep  out  set  up  their  tents  at  the  foot  of  Otter  Creek  Falls  in  Marbleworks.  
| December 10, 2015   4Local
 December 10, 2015 |   5Local
Although  Vermont  is  over  3,000  miles  
from  Paris,  Vermonters  are  not  letting  the  
distance   silence   their   voices   on   climate  
change   action.   Since   the  2015  United  Na-­
tions   Climate   Change   Conference   began  
in   Paris   last  week,   Vermonters   have   been  
engaged   in  many   capacities.   Some   rallied  
locally,   others   went   to   the   State   House,  
and   still   others,   including  Governor  Peter  
Shumlin,  were  invited  to  speak  in  Paris.
Right  here  in  Middlebury,  55  to  60  peo-­
ple  gathered  in  Triangle  Park  on  Saturday,  
Nov.  28,  just  two  days  before  the  start  of  the  
Paris  climate  summit.  People  attended  this  
rally   from   as   far   away   as  Montpelier   and  
people  are  watching  and  expecting  results  
from   the   climate  
summit   in   Paris.  
They   held   signs  
with   phrases   such  
as   “Middlebury  
Vermont   Sup-­
ports  Paris  Climate  
Talks”   and   “Cli-­
mate  Justice  Now!”  
One   more  
elaborate  sign  read,  
“This   pump   tem-­
porarily   closed   be-­
cause  Exxon-­Mobil  
lied   about   climate  
(#exxonknew).”  
The   protestor   was  
referring   to   the  
exposé   this   fall,  when  Exxon-­Mobil   inten-­
tionally  funded  climate  change  deniers  and  
hid   company   research   supporting   climate  
change  in  the  mid-­1980s.
On   Monday,   Nov.   30,   a   coalition   of  
environmental   groups   gathered   at   the  
State   House   in  Montpelier   to   deliver   180  
boxes—containing  25,241  postcards—from  
supporters  of  carbon  tax  in  Vermont.  Orga-­
nizers  of   this  event  planned  for   it   to  coin-­
cide  with  the  start  of  the  Paris  climate  talks,  
seizing  the  international  event  as  a  catalyst  
for  state-­level  climate  action.  
“Our  thoughts  are  with  the  global  lead-­
ers  who  are  making  important  decisions  for  
all  of  us.  But  we  can’t  leave  all  the  work  to  
them.  We  have  to  do  our  share  also,”  said  
Fran  Putnam,  the  chairwoman  of  the  Wey-­
bridge  Energy  Committee  and  a  member  of  
Energy  Independent  Vermont.
Last  year,   legislators   in   the  House   in-­
troduced  “carbon  tax”  bills,  proposing  a  tax  
on   fossil   fuels   sold   in   Vermont,   including  
gasoline,  oil  and  natural  gas.     The  bill  has  
met   strong   opposition   from   both   sides   of  
the  aisle.
Republican   Chairman   David   Sunder-­
land  believes  that  the  carbon  tax  bill  shows  
that  Democrats  in  Vermont  are  “profound-­
ly  disconnected  with  the  realities  of  strug-­
gling   Vermonters.”   Opponents   of   the   tax  
also  point  out  that  a  carbon  tax  will  cost  the  
consumer   the   same  amount,   regardless  of  
income,  and  will  not  affect  the  producers  of  
fossil  fuels.  The  tax  could  raise  gas  prices  by  
88  cents  over  the  next  10  years.  Proponents  
of   the   tax   insist   that   a   carbon   tax   could  
mean  lower  sales  tax  on  other  items.
The  proposed  
carbon   tax   bill  
calls   for   a   tax   on  
fossil   fuels   and  
the   creation   of  
an   Energy   Inde-­
pendence   Fund,  
which  would  help  
subsidize   home  
weatherization,  
solar   panels   and  
air   source   heat  
pumps.   The   pro-­
gram   would   also  
create   jobs   in   the  
process.
On   Dec.   3,  
about  150  people  attended  a  debate  on  the  
carbon   tax.  The  debate  pitted  Paul  Burns,  
executive  director  of  Vermont  Public  Inter-­
est  Research  Group   (VPIRG),   and  Profes-­
sor  John  Erickson,  from  University  of  Ver-­
mont’s  Rubenstein  School  of  Environment  
and  Natural  Resources,  against  Rob  Roper  
and  John  McClaughry,  President  and  Vice  
President  of  the  Ethan  Allen  Institute.  The  
institute   is   “Vermont’s   free-­market   public  
policy   research   and   education   organiza-­
tion,”  according  to  their  website.
Don   Randall,   President   and   CEO   of  
Vermont  Gas,   issued  a  statement  express-­
ing  support  for  climate  action  in  Paris.  He  
explained  that  increased  use  of  natural  gas  
in  Vermont  has  cut  carbon  emissions.
“The  decline  in  U.S.  carbon  emissions  
has   been   attributable   largely   to   the   dis-­
placement  of  higher-­emitting  fuels  by  natu-­
ral  gas,”  said  Randall.  “Here  at  home,  Ver-­
mont  gas  continues  to  bring  the  choice  and  
opportunity   of   cleaner,   more   affordable  
natural  gas  to  more  Vermonters,”  he  said.
He  concluded  his  statement  by  pledg-­
ing   to   “reduce   emissions,   increase   energy  
Vermonters’  engagement  with  the  Par-­
boundaries.   Governor   Shumlin   himself   is  
attending  the  Paris  climate  talks  as  a  panel-­
ist   to  discuss  Vermont’s   renewable  energy  
plans.  
“The  White  House  had  reached  out  to  
us   to   talk   about   what   states   are   doing   to  
make   a   difference,”   Shumlin   said.   “Ver-­
mont’s  got  a  great  story  to  tell.”
On   Dec.   2,   Shumlin   was   on   a   panel  
called  “The  Subnational  (State  and  Provin-­
cial)  Foundation  for  Action”  hosted  by  the  
Georgetown  Climate  Center.    The  panel  in-­
cluded  other   leaders   from  places   in  North  
America   that   are   creating   clean   energy  
policies,   including  Quebec,   California   and  
Washington.
Shela   Liton   and   Senowa   Mize-­Fox,  
representatives   of   the   Vermont   Workers  
Center   in  Brattleboro   and  Burlington,   are  
also  attending  the  Paris  climate  talks.  Lin-­
ton  and  Mize-­Fox  are  part  of  the  100-­plus  
person  delegation  called  “It  Takes  Roots  to  
Weather   the  Storm,”  a  collection  of  grass-­
roots   leaders  from  dozens  of  communities  
in  the  U.S.  and  Canada  that  have  been  im-­
pacted  by  climate  change.
“From  Paris   to  Montpelier,  we’re   see-­
ing   politicians   push   false   solutions   to   cli-­
mate  change  like  fracking  and  carbon  trad-­
ing,”  Mize-­Fox  said  in  a  news  release.  “We  
need  to  recognize  the  leadership  and  strate-­
gies  coming  from  social  movements  at  the  
grassroots,   who   understand   the   intercon-­
nections  between  racial,  gender,  economic  
and  climate  justice  and  are  calling  for  sys-­
tem  change,  not  climate  change.”
Lastly,   as   the   Paris   climate   summit  
buses  reserved  by  350Vermont  and  head  to  
Boston   on  Dec.   5.   There   they  will   partici-­
pate   in  a  rally  “to  call   for  bold  climate  so-­
lutions  that  create  jobs,  justice  and  climate  
action  together,”  Central  Vermont  Climate  
Action  stated  in  a  press  release.
While  the  Paris  climate  talks  are  a  good  
catalyst   for   international   climate   action,  
the  negotiations  will  by  no  means  result  in  
a  comprehensive  solution  or  an  end  point.
“As   the   United   Nations   Climate   Con-­
ference   closes   in   Paris,”   Central   Vermont  
Climate   Action’s   press   release   states,   “we  
know  we  will  need  to  keep  building  a  mas-­
sive  grassroots  movement   for   real   climate  
solutions  to  move  away  from  fossil  fuels  to  
renewable  energy  sources.”
We  met  Erin  and  Hannah,  co-­founders  
of  the  North  End  Honeys,  in  Bristol  in  Oc-­
“screaming   honky   tonk”   duo   with   croon-­
ing  harmonies  and  smooth  strummed  gui-­
tars.  We  stopped  to  chat  as  the  two  blonde  
friends  started   to  pack  up   their  van.  They  
kindly  propped  open  their  back  door  with  
a  lone  crutch  and  welcomed  us  into  conver-­
sation.  
The  North  End  Honeys   is   a   relatively  
recent   group  and   started  playing   together  
in   Burlington   just   about   six   months   ago.  
Hannah  had  heard  Erin  playing  at  a   local  
spot   and   said   she   knew   that   they   had   to  
make  music,  it  all  unfolded  rather  quickly.    
“We   didn’t   know   each   other,   but   we  
were   like,   ‘Let’s   go  on   tour!’  That  was   the  
-­
pening  now  and   it’s   just   so  weird  because  
we   weren’t   friends   at   all.      It   was   like   the  
friendship  music  relationship  of  going  on  a  
getting  married—it’s  gonna  be  sick!’”  Erin  
laughed,   nudging   Hannah,   who   gave   a  
smirk  in  return.    
The   duo   had   to   develop   depth   faster  
than   most   friendships   in   order   to   sing,  
write   and   drive   for   days   on   end   together.  
pretty  backwards,”  Hannah  added.  “We’re  
complete   opposites   and  we   rushed   into   it  
not  knowing.    I  didn’t  know  how  his  brain  
worked,  and  he  didn’t  know  about  mine.”  
The   two  also  both   articulated   the   im-­
portance  of  having  music   as   the   center  of  
their  bond.    
“All  of  my  closest  friends  are  probably  
due  to  music,  Hannah  being  one  of  them,”  
Erin  said.    “And  for  me,  performing  is  one  
of  the  only  times  when  my  brain  is  calm.”    
Hannah   nodded,   agreeing   as   she   ex-­
panded  on  Erin’s  ideas,  “It’s  one  of  the  only  
things  that  I  really  love  and  I  know  it’s  not  
going  anywhere.    Cause  you  can  love  some-­
body   and   they   can   leave,   or   you   can   love  
certain  things  and  they  can  break,  but  I’m  
going  to  be  able  to  play  music  forever.”  
Sitting   in   the   back   of   their   van,   one  
could   see   the   history   of   their   band   build-­
ing  amidst   the  clutter  of  papers  and  stack  
of  guitar  cases.    
We  noticed  how  they  worked  together  
in  dialogue,  supporting  each  other  through  
playful  banter  and  more  serious  musings.    
It  was  clear  that  Hannah  and  Erin  are  
two  songwriters  learning  to  write  on  a  page  
together,   rather   than   try   to  pull   the  other  
onto   his   or   her   own.      “We’re   balancing   it  
out,”  Erin  explained.    “We’re  pushing  each  
other   to   grow   a   little   bit   in   the   ways   we  
haven’t   worked   on   so  much.   This   sounds  
kind   of   cliché   or   whatever,   but   Hannah’s  
pushing   me   to   move   a   little   a   faster   and  
I’m  teaching  her  to  slow  down  a  little  bit.    I  
think  we  have  a  really  good  thing  going  on.”  
As  we  listened,  we  found  lessons  of  true  
things  and  not  being  afraid  to  get  up  and  go  
for  it.    Needless  to  say,  the  Honeys  had  our  
hearts.    So,  look  out  for  this  dynamic  duo;;  
they’re  coming  to  Middlebury  in  January!  
Wendy Walcoff
Hannah  (left)  and  Erin  (right)  formed  their  band,  The  North  End  Honeys,  six  months  ago.
The North End Honeys: The Beginnings of a Band
By  Wendy  Walcoff
Contributing  Writer
By  Alessandria  Schumacher
Local  Editor
Climate  action  supporters  gather  to  show  their  support  for  productive  policy-­making  in  Paris.
Courtesty  addison independent
Vermont  Engages  with  Paris  Climate  Talks
“The   White   House   had  
reached   out   to   us   to   talk  
about  what  states  are  do-­
ing   to   make   a   difference  
...   Vermont’s   got   a   great  
story  to  tell.”  
Peter Shumlin
Governor of Vermont
| December 10, 2015 
opinions
editorial board 
The  Opinions  pages   of  The  Middlebury  Campus  
provide   a   forum   for   constructive   and   respectful  
dialogue  on  substantive   issues.  With   this   in  mind,  
The  Campus  reserves  the  right  to  deny  publication  
of  all  or  part  of  a  submission  for  any  reason.     This  
includes,   but   is   not   limited   to:   the   making   of   as-­
sertions   based   on   hearsay;   the   relation   of   private  
conversations;  the  libelous  mention  of  unverifiable  
events;   the   use   of   vulgar   language   or   personal   at-­
tacks.  Any  segment  of  a  submitted  article  that  con-­
tains   any   of   the   aforementioned   will   be   removed  
before  publication.  Contributors  will  be  allowed  to  
reference   prior   articles   published   in   the   Opinions  
section  or  announcements  for  the  public  record.  If  
a   reference   is   made   to   prior   articles,   the   submis-­
sion  will   be   considered  a   letter   to   the   editor.     The  
Campus   will   not   accept   or   print   anonymous   let-­
ters.  The  opinions  expressed  by  contributors  to  the  
Opinions  section,  as  well  as  reviews,  columns,  edi-­
torial   comics   and   other   commentary,   are   views   of  
the   individual   contributors   and  do  not  necessarily  
reflect  the  opinions  of  the  newspaper.  The  Campus  
welcomes  letters  to  the  editor  at  250  words  or  less,  
or  opinions  submissions  at  800  words  or  less.  Sub-­
mit  works  directly  to  the  Opinions  Editors,  Drawer  
30,  campus@middlebury.edu  or  via  the  paper’s  web  
site  at    www.middleburycampus.com.  To  be  consid-­
ered  for  publications,  submissions  must  be  received  
by  5  p.m.  Sunday.  The  Campus  reserves  the  right  to  
edit  all  submissions.
The   Middlebury   Campus   (USPS   556-­060),   the  
student   newspaper   of  Middlebury  College,   is   pub-­
lished   by   The   Middlebury   Campus   Publications.  
Publication  is  every  Thursday  of  the  academic  year,  
except  during  official   college  vacation  periods  and  
final   examinations.   Editorial   and   business   offices  
are   located   in   Hepburn   Hall   Annex,   Middlebury  
College.   The   Middlebury   Campus   is   produced   on  
Apple  Macintosh  computers  using  Adobe  InDesign  
CS5  and  is  printed  by  the  Press  Republican  in  New  
York.   The   advertising   deadline   for   all   display   and  
classified  advertising  is  5  p.m.  Friday  for  the  follow-­
ing  week’s  issue.  Mailing  address:  The  Middlebury  
Campus,  Drawer   30,  Middlebury   College,  Middle-­
bury,  Vt.,  05753.  Business  phone:  (802)  443-­5737.  
Please   address   distribution   concerns   to   the   Busi-­
ness   Director.   First   class   postage   paid   at  Middle-­
bury,  Vt.,  05753.
A  Call  for  Compassion
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Claire  Abbadi
MANAGING EDITOR
Leah  Lavigne
BUSINESS MANAGER
Wyatt  French
NEWS EDITORS 
Christian  Jambora,  Eliza  Teach,  Phil  Bohl-­
man,  Caroline  Agsten  
OPINIONS EDITORS 
Kate  Hamilton,  Erin  Van  Gessel,  Sara  
Hodgkins,  Francesca  Haass  
SPORTS EDITORS 
Joe  MacDonald,  Alex  Morris,  Emily  Bustard  
Andrew  Rigas
LOCAL EDITORS 
Harry  Cramer,  Alessandria  Schumacher,  
Annie  Grayer
FEATURES EDITORS 
Emilie  Munson,  Hye-­Jin  Kim,  
Jack  Apollo  George
ARTS AND SCIENCE EDITORS 
Elizabeth  Zhou,  Toby  Aicher,  Oakley  Haight  
PHOTOS EDITORS 
Rachel  Frank,  Anahi  Naranjo,  Michael  
O’Hara,  Anthea  Viragh  
DESIGN EDITOR
Cordelia  Prouvost
CARTOON EDITOR
Nolan  Ellsworth
ONLINE EDITORS
Maggie  Cochrane,  Jerrica  Davy  
COPY EDITOR
Sarah  Sicular
THE CAMPUS VOICE HOST
Nathaniel  Wiener
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR
 Nathaniel  Wiener
VIDEO EDITOR
Jason  Zhang
To  say  cultural  appropriation  is  a  chal-­
lenging   topic   to   address   in   a   way   that  
does  justice  to  all  perspectives  would  be  
an   understatement.   We   cannot   resolve  
this   issue.   We  
will  fail  to  engage  
perfectly  or  prop-­
erly.   But   we   will  
make   a   compas-­
sionate   attempt  
to   engage   on   this  
issue   and   offer  
our   thoughts   as  
an   editorial   board,   not   because   it   is  
easy   to   do,   or   because   a   resolution   can  
be  found  in  1,000  words,  but  because   it  
is   our   responsibility   to   try.   And   that   is  
the  sentiment  that  we  wish  to  convey  in  
this   piece;   as   a   community,   sometimes  
we   must   address   difficult,   painful   top-­
ics  with  weighty  historical   legacies,   and  
when  we  do,  we  hope  to  address  these  is-­
sues  with  compassion.
We  must   begin   by   asserting   that   cul-­
tural   appropriation   is   real.   That   fact   is  
not   up   for   debate.   While   people   of   ev-­
ery   race   can   appropriate,   the   harm   is  
greater  when  those  with  the  most  power  
do   so.  This,   due   to   the  historical   legacy  
of   racism,  means  white  people.  Regard-­
less  of  the  intentions  of  the  student  who  
donned   a   sombrero   in   Proctor,  Middle-­
bury   serves   as   a   venue   through   which  
nationwide   systematic   racism  may   play  
out  in  many  ways,  cultural  appropriation  
being  one  such  way.
As   a   current-­day   American   presiden-­
tial  candidate  –  one  who  is  leading  in  the  
polls   for   the   Republican   nomination   –  
asserts,  “When  Mexico  sends  its  people,  
they’re   not   sending   their   best...   They’re  
rapists.   And   some,   I   assume,   are   good  
people.”   Donald   Trump’s   comments   il-­
lustrate  that  this  issue  is  not  about  a  hat  
—  it’s  about  the  history  of  mistreatment  
of   marginalized   cultures.   The   issue   of  
cultural  appropriation  is  now  at  the  fore-­
front   of   (many   of)   our  minds.   Students  
have   spoken   up   and   the   administra-­
tion  has   facilitated   those  conversations.  
Town   hall   meetings   have   been   held.  
Many   students   attended,   though   many  
more  did  not.
We   have   begun   to   engage,   and   that  
engagement   is   critical.   Although   it   is  
important  to  “engage,”  we  must  ask  our-­
selves   –   “in   what   way?”   One   incident  
with   one   student   and   a   sombrero   has  
come   to   represent   the   issue   of   cultural  
appropriation  on  our  campus.  By  honing  
in  on  this  one  individual,  we  are  pinning  
the  culpability  for  racism  at  Middlebury  
on  one  person  when  many  of  us  –  the  in-­
stitution  included  –  are  to  blame.
Some   members   of   our   community  
have   proven   unwilling   to   engage   at   all,  
dismissing  the  topic  as  trite  or  insignifi-­
cant.  We  ask   these  students   to  question  
the  foundation  of   their  convictions.  The  
students   whom   the   town   hall   meetings  
would   benefit   the   most   are   the   ones  
who   are   perhaps   least   likely   to   attend.  
Our   community   must   learn   how   to   not  
be   racist   rather   than   simply  how   to  not  
appear   racist.   This   task   is   not   a   chore;  
it   is   a   vital   and   overdue   opportunity.  
In   the   New   York   Times   Magazine   ar-­
ticle   “White  Debt,”   Eula  Biss  writes,   “A  
guilty   white   person   is   usually   imagined  
as   someone   made   impotent   by   guilt,  
someone   rendered   powerless.   But   why  
not   imagine   guilt   as   a   prod,   a   goad,   an  
impetus   to   action?”  White   students   can  
engage  with  challenging  issues  –  includ-­
ing   cultural   appropriation   and   systemic  
racism  –  in  a  way  that  facilitates  the  cre-­
ation  of   a  more   just   and  equitable   soci-­
ety.  We  would  go  so  far  as  to  assert  that  
they  must.
We   have   all   heard   the   argument   that  
free   speech   gives   students   the   right  
to   appropriate.   We   feel   compelled   to  
bring   up   the   difference   between   what  
one   can   do   and   what   one   should   do.  
As   Jelani   Cobb   said   in   an   article   in   the  
New  Yorker  entitled  “Race  and  the  Free-­
Speech   Diversion”,   “This   is   where   the  
arguments  about   the   freedom  of   speech  
become  most   tone  deaf.  The   freedom  to  
offend   the  powerful   is  not  equivalent   to  
the   freedom   to   bully   the   relatively   dis-­
empowered.”  While  our  country  enables  
its  individuals  to  engage  in  whatever  sort  
of  discourse  they  might   like,  at  an  elite,  
informed   institution   such   as   Middle-­
bury,   let   us   hold   ourselves   to   a   higher  
standard   of   speech   –   one   that   respects  
and  acknowledges  the  power  dynamic  at  
play.
When  we  first  started  school,  we  were  
taught   to   be   kind.   Somewhere,   in   the  
midst  of   lofty  rhetoric  about  freedom  of  
speech  and  microaggressions,  that  basic  
lesson  was  lost.  So  let’s  find  it  again.  We  
can  respect  experiences  we  don’t  under-­
stand.  We  can  reach  out  and  learn  more  
and  admit   faults  and  move  forward.  We  
can   be   kind.   Good   intentions   can   be  
flawed   intentions.   Inappropriate  behav-­
ior  can  come  from  well  intentioned  peo-­
ple,  but  that  is  not  an  excuse.
We  hope  you  read  the  pieces  we  have  
quoted  –  and  more,  and  we  hope  you  at-­
tend   the   town   hall   meeting   this   Friday  
(2:45pm   in   Mead   Chapel.)   There   are  
voices   –   on   campus   and   beyond   –   that  
deserve   and   need   to   be   heard,   for   they  
all  can  inform  our  understanding  of  this  
difficult  but  crucial  issue.  We  must  read  
and   listen   with   compassion.   We   must  
continue   to   inform   ourselves   and   not  
let   the   momentum   we   have   generated  
die   out.  We  must   continue   to   strive   for  
increased   understanding,   respect   and  
awareness  on  our  campus.
editorial
The  editorial  
represents  the    
editorial  board  of  The  
Middlebury  Campus.
End the Culture of Doing
   One   student   at   the   stress   forum   last  
Wednesday  said  that  the  goal  while  pursu-­
ing  a  degree  at  Middlebury  is  to  optimize  
“perfect”   balance   between   schoolwork,  
clubs,  and  social  time.  It  means  if  I  don’t  
maximize  my  daily  activities,  I  might  lose  
out  on  what  I  could’ve  done.
It  seems  that  students  here  are  too  con-­
cerned  with  doing  to  engage  in  the  act  of  
being.   It   has   become   all   about   making  
deadlines,  attending  talks,  and  optimizing  
our  schedules.  The  search  to  maximize  ev-­
ery  aspect  of  each  day  becomes  an  obses-­
sive  hobby.  We  get  a  rush  when  we  cross  
off  the  next  item  on  our  to-­do  list.  It  feels  
good  to  have  things  in  control.
But  soon  the  task  becomes  our  master.  
When  the  measure  of  a  good  day  in  the  li-­
brary  is  how  productive  we  are,  we  think  
of  ourselves  more  as   robots   than  as  peo-­
ple.  The  time  we  spend  on  things  becomes  
an  equation  to  be  solved.  In  our  search  for  
When  we  get  caught  up  in  the  activities  
and  tasks  and  things  which  we  can  say  “I  
did,”  we  lose  sight  of  what  it  means  to  be  
here.   The   residential   liberal   arts   college  
is   a   space   where   shared   learning   occurs  
at  all  hours  of   the  day  and  all   corners  of  
campus.  What,  then,  if  we  took  four  years  
of  residency  here  for  what  they  are?  What  
if   we   could   decide   our   days’   events   not  
around  the  tasks  we  have  to  do  but  around  
the   people  we  wish   to   see,   the  meals  we  
wish   to   have,   and   the   stories  we  wish   to  
hear?  I  think  then  we  would  be  happy.
We  students  are  the  most  populous  part  
of   the   community.   We   are   roommates,  
teammates,  and  classmates  to  each  other;  
we  are  neighbors  in  the  physical  makeup  
of   the   campus.   At   its   heart,   the   residen-­
tial   liberal   arts   college   offers   a   mutual  
living–learning  experience.   In  our   inher-­
ent  proximity,  we  have  the  opportunity  to  
focus  not  on  doing  more  but  on  living  with  
meaning,  which   comes   from  community,  
collaboration,  and  coexistence.
When  we  begin  to  realize  each  of  us   is  
interconnected,  when  we   take  ownership  
of   our   collective   experience   and   realize  
our   individual  gain   in  doing   things   is   far  
less  meaningful  than  our  collective  power  
in  living  together,  then  we  have  embraced  
-­
cause  your  living  is  part  of  mine.  And  with  
that   realization,   all   our   individual   strug-­
gles  become  one.
Reader Op-Ed
Ethan  Brady  ‘18  is  
from  Bernardsville,  NJ
I  completely  stand  behind  this  week’s  
editorial.   Cultural   appropriation   is   real  
on   this   campus   and   the   voices   of   those  
who   have   been   offended   need   to   be  
heard  and  validated.  The  editorial’s  call  
for   increased   understanding,   empathy  
and  awareness  is  an  important  one  that  
hopefully   going   forward,   we   as   a   com-­
munity  can  collectively  address.
However,   what   the   editorial   fails   to  
acknowledge   is   how   our   community  
should   handle   and   discuss   instances   of  
cultural   appropriation   going   forward.  
To  begin  with,  there  is  a  clear  difference  
between  someone  who  is  a  racist  and  an  
incident   of   cultural   appropriation,   like  
wearing   a   sombrero.   Although   the   for-­
mer   is   undoubtedly   inexcusable,   I   am  
suggesting  that  the   latter  does  not  war-­
rant  the  same  treatment.  While  wearing  
a  sombrero  is  insensitive,  and  fails  to  re-­
alize  the  implications  of  doing  so,  it  does  
not  inherently  make  someone  racist.  
In  instances  of  cultural  appropriation,  
what   is  most   important  to  acknowledge  
is   that   offended   parties   are   completely  
entitled   to   their  anger.   It   is  not   the   job  
of  those  who  feel  offended  to  explain  to  
their   offenders   why   they   feel   the   way  
they   feel   and   the   argument   that   those  
who   feel   offended   are   overly   sensitive  
should  be  eliminated  from  our  collective  
discourse.  
However,   we   need   to   somehow   bal-­
ance   between   recognizing   the   harm  
done   and   those   affected   while   also   re-­
fraining   from   labeling   someone   per-­
manently.   Pushing   the   student   that   we  
have  collectively  labeled  “sombrero  girl”  
into   the   periphery   of   our   community  
will  not  make  the  larger  issue  of  cultural  
appropriation   go   away.   It   could   even  
alienate   someone   to   the   point   where  
they  no   longer  want  to   learn  from  their  
actions.  Those  who   commit   acts   of   cul-­
tural   appropriation   should   feel   shame  
and   remorse,   but   should   the   also   feel  
shunned?   If   the   goal   is   to   address   and  
eliminate  cultural  appropriation  on  this  
campus,  then  we  must  think  about  what  
types   of   conversations   will   foster   the  
most  change  and  reach  the  silent,  indif-­
ferent  and  negligent  voices  that  we  must  
reach.   I   think   the   town   hall  meeting   is  
a   perfect   way   to   facilitate   this   type   of  
engagement.   I   hope   conversations   like  
these  continue.
Notes From the Desk
Annie  Grayer  ‘17.5  is  
from  Harrison,  NY
Pushing Through the Discomfort 
After  Carbon  Neutrality,  Climate  Justice
RUBI  Saavedra
     So  great   is   the  sadness  of  our  times.  
The  recent  shootings  in  Colorado  Springs  
and   San   Bernadino   brought   to   light   a  
disturbing   fact;   in   the  United  States   this  
year  there  have  been  more  days  with  mass  
shootings   than  not   in   the  United   States.  
From  Beirut  to  Kenya  to  Lebanon  to  Paris  
to  Syria,  the  global  community  is  no  less  
spared   from   violent   attacks   grounded   in  
racial,   cultural   and   religious  discrimina-­
tion,  the  need  for  resources  and  the  desire  
for  power.
Our   own   campus   environment   mir-­
rors  the  turbulence  of  the  world,  confirm-­
ing  once  and  for  all  that  we  do  not  in  fact  
live  in  a  bubble.  Just  think  —  if  we  are  so  
separated  from  the  rest  of  the  world,  why  
does  our  campus  possess  the  same  forms  
of  ingrained  racism  and  widespread  men-­
tal   health   concerns   that   permeate   the  
“outside?”   Whether   we   want   to   believe  
it   or  not,  we  are   firmly  grounded   in   this  
world   and   if   we   are   to   garner   any   hope  
for  addressing   these  challenges,   it’s  high  
time  we  open  our   eyes   and  acknowledge  
the   structures   of   injustice   upon   which  
they’re  based.
This  is  essentially  the  mission  of  Mid-­
dlebury’s   divestment   campaign.   Put   an-­
other  way,  we  at  DivestMidd  seek  nothing  
if   not   to   raise   awareness  of   the   rampant  
yet  often   ignored  human  rights  violation  
of  unprecedented  proportion:  climate  in-­
justice.
You  may  ask  –  what  is  climate  justice?  
In   short,   over   the   last   300   years,   devel-­
oped  nations  industrialized  via  fossil  fuel  
extractive  economies.  By  some  disturbing  
fate  of  geography,  the  result  of  this  indus-­
trialization  –  floods,  drought,  rising  seas  
–  have  disproportionately  affected  poorer  
nations  in  the  global  south.
The   same   goes   for   the   home-­front.  
The  consequences  of  the  fossil  fuel  indus-­
try’s   actions   here   in   the  U.S.   –   in   terms  
of   pollution   and   economic   vulnerability  
spurred  by  the  all-­consuming  boom-­and-­
bust  nature  of  extraction  –  are  dispropor-­
tionately  placed  on  poorer  Americans  and  
people  of  color.
And   while   rising   sea   levels,   drought  
and  warming  temperatures  –  not  to  men-­
tion  the  imperialistic  practices  of  the  fos-­
sil  fuel  industry  itself  –  have  moved  into  
developing   countries   and   stripped   the  
world’s  least  resourced  and  most  margin-­
alized  communities  of   their   lands,   liveli-­
hoods  and  cultures.  The  wealthier   coun-­
tries  who  caused  these  devastating  effects  
have  done  next  to  nothing.  The  future  of  
our   planet   and   global   peace   are   threat-­
ened  as  a  result.
And   nowhere   is   this   more   poignant  
than   in   Syria.   Beginning  
in   2007,   Syria   entered   a  
period   of   severe   drought.  
This   period   of   draught  
caused   the   price   of   food  
to  double  and   forced  mil-­
lions   of   small   farmers   to  
abandon   the   countryside  
for   Syrian   cities   already  
overcrowded   with   more  
than   a   million   similarly  
desperate  Iraqi  refugees.
Syria’s   representative  
to  the  UN’s  Food  and  Ag-­
riculture   Organization  
feared   the   situation   was  
contributing   to   a   “perfect  
storm”   that   could   desta-­
bilize   the   country,and  
desperately   pleaded   for  
foreign  aid.  Yet,  the  Unit-­
ed  States  and  the  rest  of  the  global  com-­
munity  remained  largely  unmoved  by  the  
Syrian’s   appeal.  And  while   the   atrocities  
of  Bashar  al-­Assad’s  regime  likely  trump  
the   destabilizing   effects   of   the   drought  
in   terms  of   causing   the  war   in  Syria,   it’s  
probably   “not   a   coincidence,”   as   Secre-­
tary   of   State   John  Kerry   recently   noted,  
that   the  war  was  preceded  by   four   years  
of   failed   rains,  which   scientists   cite   as   a  
result  of  human-­induced  climate  change.
Upon  accepting  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize  
in  2004,  Wangari  Maathai,  the  first  Afri-­
can  woman  and   the   first   environmental-­
ist   to   receive   the  prize,   proclaimed   that:  
“there   comes   a   time   when   humanity   is  
called  to  shift  to  a  new  level  of  conscious-­
ness,  to  reach  a  higher  moral  ground.”  At  
no   time   has   that   shift   been  more   neces-­
sary   than   now.   Our   actions   to   promote  
global  peace  and  environmental  steward-­
ship  must  match  the  gravity  of  the  injus-­
tices  at  hand.
Thus,   as   we   move   closer   to   accom-­
plishing  the  goal  of  carbon  neutrality,  let  
us   celebrate   this   truly   incredible   accom-­
plishment,  which  I  may  say  was  a  project  
originally   conceived   of   and   designed   by  
a   group   of   student   environmental   activ-­
ists.  And  then  let  us  go  forward  with  the  
awareness   that   the   severity   of   our   time  
demands  that  we  move  beyond  a  singular  
focus   on   our   own   “carbon   footprint.”   In  
this  way  we  are  called  to  a  greater  level  of  
responsibility  to  the  global  community  –  
the  cause  of  climate  justice.
Much  of  this  work  begins  with  aware-­
ness   about   what   exactly   constitutes   cli-­
mate   injustice.   In  
this   pursuit,   Di-­
vestMidd   is   work-­
ing   closely   with  
President   Patton  
and  other  members  
of   the   administra-­
tion   to   bring   a   se-­
ries   of   speakers   to  
campus   to   educate  
the   community   on  
how   we   can   better  
align   our   invest-­
ments  with  our  en-­
vironmentally   and  
globally   minded  
values   and   take  
new   actions   to   ad-­
dress   structures   of  
social  and  econom-­
ic   oppression   that  
have  paved  the  way  for  climate  injustice.
Our  hope  is  that  these  forums  will  spur  
a  broad  campus  conversation  on  how  we  
can   better   work   to   address   the   climate  
crisis  by  shifting  the  paradigm  of  our  con-­
ception  of  environmentalism  to  ensure  a  
just   transition   towards   a   sustainable   fu-­
ture.
The   movement   we   imagine   calls   for  
planetary   awareness   –   the   realization  
that   we   are   all   inextricably   linked.   We  
seek  to  address  the  root  structural  causes  
of   climate   injustice   –   rampant   inequal-­
ity,   the   pervasive   notion   that   some   lives  
matter  more  than  others  and  the  idea  that  
the  wealthiest  can  continue  to  deplete  our  
world’s   finite   resources   at   a   tragic   pace  
and   treat   the   atmosphere   like   a   garbage  
dump.  It  is  no  coincidence  that  six  of  our  
world’s  top  10  wealthiest  corporations  are  
involved  in  fossil  fuel  extraction.
Some  may  question  whether  this  move-­
ment  will  be  successful.  Can  we  sustain  a  
global   climate   justice   movement,   essen-­
tially  a  global  movement  for  justice  at  its  
core?   A   part   of  me   fears   the   task   is   too  
large  for  us  to  hold.  Even  feminist  leader  
Gloria   Steinem   conceded   that   women’s  
liberation  would  necessarily  have  to  wait  
until   black   power   was   won,   though   we  
still  seem  to  be  waiting  for  both  to  arrive  
today.   From   the   Chartists   and  Owenites  
in   Industrial  England   to   the  Communist  
revolution   to   Occupy   just   a   few   years  
back,  movements   that   have   sought   such  
large  scale  structural  changes  often  fail  to  
achieve  their  goals.
But  a  larger  part  of  me  fears  even  more  
that   we   don’t   have   a   choice   not   to   try  
and  build  this  movement,  no  matter  how  
much  we  may  fail  in  the  process.  The  seas  
will   rise,   disease   –   spurred   by   warmer  
temperatures   –   will   spread   rapidly   into  
already   vulnerable   regions,   the   rich   will  
continue   to  profit   from   the  extraction  of  
the  poor’s   land  and   labor  and   the  global  
south   will   find   the   consequences   of   cli-­
mate  change  exacerbated  and  even  more  
difficult  to  overcome  through  adaptation.  
The   global   north   is   also   now   feeling   the  
effects  of  climate  change  to  an  increased  
degree.   This   is   everyone’s   fight.   This   is  
not  charity.  Undoubtedly,  we  must  try  to  
build   a   successful   climate   justice   move-­
ment.
The   gravity   of   our   call   becomes   even  
more  urgent  upon  the  realization  that  the  
leaders   charged   with   protecting   human  
society   and   the   planet   are   doing   –   this  
seems  to  be  a  trend  –  next  to  nothing.  The  
UN  climate  conference  in  Paris  will  likely  
conclude  –  for  the  21st  time  since  1992  –  
without  a  binding,  and  therefore  effective,  
commitment  from  the  world’s  most  pow-­
erful  countries,  who  also  happen  to  be  the  
largest   emitters.   This   is   because   world  
leaders  know  a  binding  treaty  is  impossi-­
ble  considering  Senate  Republicans  in  the  
U.S.  –   largely   financed  by   the   fossil   fuel  
industry  –  have  vowed  to  block  a  binding  
treaty  and  any  monetary  commitment  to  
aid  the  most  affected  and  least  resourced  
countries  in  efforts  to  mitigate  the  effects  
of  climate  change.
As   an   institution   of   higher   education  
and   a   self-­proclaimed   environmental  
leader,   we   are   called   to   inhabit   the   full-­
est   conception  of   these   identities.  Let  us  
see  the  climate  crisis  for  the  human  rights  
violation  that  it  is,  and  match  the  urgency  
of  this  crisis  through  grassroots  mobiliza-­
tion   around   education,   political   change,  
economic   redistribution,   restorative   jus-­
tice,   socially   responsible   investment  and  
yet   unborn   ideas   that   will   enable   us   to  
transition   towards   a  more   just   and   sus-­
tainable  world.
philosophie
Sophie  Vaughan  ’17  is  
from  Oakland,  CA
America’s Gun Epidemic: Considering the Facts
In   light   of   the   consistent   gun-­related  
violence  plaguing  our  country,   it   is  valu-­
able  to  contrast  Vermont’s  gun  laws  with  
other  states,  as  well  as  consider  America’s  
policies  compared  to  those  of  other  devel-­
oped  nations.   Tragedy   after   tragedy,   the  
U.S.   continues   to   struggle   with   imple-­
menting   a   solution   to   this   senseless   vio-­
lence.  The  rigidity  of  our  political  system  
has  historically  prevented   the  reform  we  
need,  not  to  mention  the  fact  that  our  Con-­
stitution  promises  the  right  to  bear  arms  
to  all  Americans.  Instead  of  providing  an  
exact   prescription   for   how   to   proceed,   I  
turn  to  the  facts  for  some  enlightenment.  
As  a  Vermonter  and  an  American,  it  is  my  
duty  to  understand  how  our  laws  may  be  
perpetuating  this  violence.  By  putting  our  
policies  in  context,  it  becomes  exceeding-­
ly   clear   as   to  why   there   have   been  more  
shootings  than  days  this  year.    
Many  consider  Vermont  to  be  the  state  
with  the  fewest  firearm  laws  in  the  coun-­
try.  Like  other  states  with  liberal  gun  pol-­
icies,  no  permit  is  required  to  purchase  or  
possess  a  rifle,  shotgun,  or  handgun.  Ver-­
mont  is  one  of  only  four  states  that  allows  
concealed  carry  without  a  permit.  As  long  
as  you  don’t  intend  to  injure  someone,  it  
is  entirely  within   the   law   to  carry  a  gun.  
What  makes  Vermont  unique  is  its  age  re-­
quirement  for  concealed  carry;  Vermont-­
ers  as  young  as  sixteen  can  carry  a  weap-­
on,  even  without  parental  permission.  In  
the   wake   of   the   Newtown  massacre,   the  
Washington  Post   noted   that   “a  Vermont  
teenager  aged  16  can’t  legally  go  to  an  R-­
Rated   movie   alone   or   join   the   military,  
but  he  can  buy  a  handgun  and  carry  it  in  
his   jeans   and   be   completely   within   the  
limits  of  the  law.”  What’s  more,  it  is  law-­
ful  to  possess,  purchase  or  sell  a  machine  
gun   that   is   legally   registered   in   compli-­
ance   with   federal   regulations.   No   other  
state  in  the  country  recognizes  Vermont’s  
concealed  carry  reciprocity  permit.  Com-­
paratively,   twenty-­two   states   recognize  
California’s  permit  and  twenty-­seven  rec-­
ognize  New  Hampshire’s.    
To   get   a   sense   of   how   relaxed   Ver-­
mont’s   laws   are,   I   turned   to   my   home  
state   of   California,   which   is   known   to  
have   moderate   restrictions   on   firearms.  
It   is   unlawful   to   carry   a   loaded   rifle,  
shotgun  or  handgun   in  public  places.  To  
obtain   a   machine   gun,   Californians   can  
technically  apply  for  a  permit  through  the  
Department   of   Justice,   but   is   common  
knowledge   that   the   Department   refuses  
to   grant   such   permits.   Clearly,   Vermont  
is  an  outlier  in  its  liberal  gun  policies.    
On  a  broader  level,  it  is  helpful  to  con-­
trast  U.S.  law  with  the  policies  of  its  peer  
nations.   It   is   easy   to   make   the   connec-­
tion  as  to  why  our  country  has  a  shooting  
epidemic.   The   U.S.   has   the   loosest   gun  
control   laws   in   the  developed  world.   So,  
it’s   not   surprising   that   we   also   have   the  
highest  rate  of  gun-­related  homicide.  The  
U.S.   gun-­related   murder   rate   is   nearly  
twenty  times  that  of  the  next  twenty-­two  
developed   nations   –   combined.   In   addi-­
tion,  the  per  capita  ownership  is  the  high-­
est  in  the  world.  On  the  other  end  of  the  
spectrum,  Japan  is  known  to  be  the  devel-­
oped  world’s  strictest  nation  on  firearms.  
In  2008,  the  US  experienced  over  twelve  
thousand  firearm  homicides,  whereas  Ja-­
pan  experienced  only  eleven.  To  obtain  a  
gun  in  Japan,  you  must  attend  an  all-­day  
class,  pass  a  written  exam,  pass  a  shoot-­
ing  range  class,  pass  a  mental  test,  pass  a  
drug   test   and   complete   a   rigorous   back-­
ground  check  for  a  criminal  record  or  as-­
sociation  with  extremist  groups.  Once  you  
own  your  new  gun,  you  must  provide  the  
police   with   documentation   of   the   loca-­
tion  of  the  firearm  in  your  home  and  you  
must   lock   and   store   the   ammo   and   gun  
separately.   The   police   will   then   inspect  
the   gun   once   per   year   and   you  must   re-­
take  the  class  and  exam  every  three  years.  
Whereas  the  US’s  firearm  framework  be-­
gins  with  the  right  to  bear  arms,  Japan’s  
law  states   that  no  person  shall  possess  a  
firearm.   Of   course,   history   and   cultural  
differences  can  account  for  these  two  dis-­
tinct  approaches.  However  you  feel  about  
the  right  to  own  a  gun  or  Japan’s  policies,  
consider   this;   from   2004   to   2014,  more  
than  2,000  people  on  the  terror  watch  list  
were  able  to  purchase  guns  in  the  United  
States.  
Solving  our  gun  epidemic  will   require  
thoughtful   policy   and   cultural   changes.  
Making   these   changes   won’t   be   easy.  
While   it   is   unclear   how   and   when   this  
process  will  take  place,  what  is  very  clear  
is  the  cause  to  our  problem:  unbelievably  
lenient   policies   that   are   supported   by  
profit-­driven   corporations   like   the  NRA.  
No   more   prayers   from   our   politicians;  
let’s   pay   attention   to   these   astounding  
facts  and  institute  reform.  The  causation  
is  undeniable:  if  Americans  can  easily  ac-­
cess  guns,  the  massacres  will  continue.  
THE LO-DOWN
Lauren  Alper  ’16  
is  from  Mill  Valley,  CA
december 10, 2015 |  7opinions
Three   weeks   ago,   I   called   for   Mid-­
dlebury  to  take  action  in  combating  the  
Syrian   refugee   crisis.  While   President  
Patton’s   administration   has   not   yet  
a c k n ow l -­
edged  this,  
both   our  
c o m m u -­
nity   and  
the   wider  
higher   education   community   have.  
Last   week,   Jeff   Holland   ’19   wrote   an  
op-­ed   publicly   supporting   this   moral  
mission.   He   agreed   with   both   facets  
of   the   twofold   proposal   –   the   idea   of  
subsidizing  Syrian  refugee  students  in  
already-­partnered  universities  and  full  
scholarship   and   transportation   grants  
for   selected   refugee   students   to   Mid-­
dlebury  itself.  He  also  pointed  out  the  
wider   value   of   doing   our   part   in   this  
world  crisis.  He  wrote,  “When  we  [take  
action],   hopefully   other   colleges   and  
universities  will  follow  suit,”  an  impact  
which   cannot   be   understated.   A  mass  
movement   of   American   higher   educa-­
tion   would   dramatically   improve   the  
global   situation.   We   are   an   example-­
setter;  nothing  we  do  exists  in  vacuum.  
By  outrightly  not  taking  humanitarian  
initiative,   or   even   delaying   it,   we   sig-­
nal   to   other   colleges   and   universities  
that   remaining   passive   is   acceptable.  
We  signal  that  squatting  on  privilege  –  
on  our  hill  –  disengaged  from  the   less  
fortunate  is  okay.
Other   institutions   of   higher   edu-­
cation   have   taken   action   already.   As  
noted   three   weeks   ago,   twenty   differ-­
ent   colleges   and   universities   in   the  
United   States   are   already   part   of   the  
moral  initiative,  including  Bryn  Mawr,  
Emory,   Eastern   Michigan,   Miami  
and   Brown.   Since   then,   in   only   three  
weeks   the   movement   has   accelerated.  
More   colleges   and   universities   have  
actively   joined   the   movement,   while  
Middlebury  has  not.  Trent  University,  
to   our   north,   has   announced   that   it  
will   welcome   its   first   Syrian   refugee  
student   next   year.   The   University   of  
New  Brunswick  also  stated  that  if  they  
receive   a   formal   request   for   refugees  
to  be  housed  on   its   campus,   it  will   do  
its   best   to   fulfill   that   demand.   While  
both   are   Canadian,   and   thus   subject  
to   less   stringent   barriers   at   a   federal  
level,  the  movement  has  also  expanded  
in  the  United  States.  Reverend  John  I.  
Jenkins,  president  of  the  University  of  
Notre  Dame,  publicly  welcomed  Syrian  
refugees   to   the  country  on  Thanksgiv-­
ing.  His  words  do  not  extend  to  actual  
movement  in  Notre  Dame’s  institution  
to   help   refugees,   but   such   a   declara-­
tion   by   a   high-­profile   member   of   the  
community   of   higher   education   illus-­
trates  action  regardless.
While  Middlebury  has  not  yet  moved  
on   this   issue,   we   as   a   community   can  
change  this.  We  will  not  send  the  mes-­
sage   that  we   are   content   to   remain   in  
our   bubble.   There   is   both   awareness  
and  support  of  refugee   issues  on  cam-­
pus,   even   beyond   Holland.   Amnesty  
International   has   been   the   promi-­
nent   leader  of   the   conversation.  Their  
project   as   an  organization   this   year   is  
centered   on   the   Syrian   refugee   crisis.  
The  fruits  of  their  labor  have  been  evi-­
dent  periodically,  like  when  the  library  
front  transformed  with  signs  and  post-­
ers  displaying  facts  about  the  humani-­
tarian  nightmare  of  Syrian  migration  a  
month  or  two  ago.  
Other   refugee-­focused   organiza-­
tions  also  are  taking  action.  Last  week,  
an  organization  on   campus   concerned  
with  North  Korean   human   rights   sent  
out  its  first  e-­mail  to  people  who  signed  
up   for   the  e-­mail   list   at   the  beginning  
of   the   year   about   a   preliminary  meet-­
ing.   The   club,   along   with   the   Chinese  
Club  and  Asian  Students  in  Action,  all  
advertised   an   event   where   Liberty   in  
North   Korea   (LiNK)   shared   its   work  
rescuing   refugees.Non-­student   orga-­
nizations   like   the   Rohatyn   Center   for  
Global   Affairs   have   also   expressed  
deep   concern,   evident   in   the   hosting  
of   an   international   panel   on   the   issue  
a   month   ago.   We   can   safely   say   that  
there   is   support   for   moral   action   to  
help   refugees   in   both   official   college  
departments   (i.e.   RAJ)   and   across   at  
least   four   different   student   organiza-­
tions.
I   welcome   all   students,   faculty,   or-­
ganizations   and   departments   to   en-­
gage  in  this  conversation.  Talk,  argue,  
discuss.  Both  in  publications,  like  Mid-­
dbeat,  beyond   the  green   and  our   very  
own   Campus,   and   among   each   other.  
For  this  purpose,  posters  have  sprout-­
ed  up  advertising  “go/refuge.”  Go/ref-­
uge   leads   to   a   document   showcasing  
our  moral  duty.   It   includes  a  petition.  
This  is  the  platform  for  those  who  sup-­
port  this  initiative  but  do  not  have  the  
time   to   write   an   article   to   have   their  
voices   heard.   If   you   support   the   idea  
of  the  College  helping  the  Syrian  refu-­
gees,  sign  it.  It  is  time  for  us  to  act.  
  8 | December 10, 2015 opinions
Go/Refuge
Poverty Prose
Travis  Sanderson  ‘19  
is  from  Las  Vegas,  NV
staff writers for fall 2015
Reader Op-Ed 
Maggie  Caputi  ‘16  
is  from  Brunswick,  ME
The   First   Amendment   is   arguably  
the   most   defining   piece   of   the   United  
States’   Constitution;   “defining”   in   the  
sense  that  it  effectively  provides  a  foun-­
dation   for  
the   Ameri-­
can   ideal  
of   liberty,  
which  is  cen-­
tral   to   our  
country’s   political   identity.   The   First  
Amendment  affords  us  the  opportunity  
to   speak   freely   and  voice  our  opinions  
without  punishment.  It  empowers  us  to  
take   ownership   of   those   opinions   and  
express   ourselves.   People   have   fought  
and   died   to   defend   and   preserve   this  
right   but   we   often   take   this   right   for  
granted,   exercising   it   carelessly,   even  
unsafely.   Its   absoluteness,   while   nec-­
essary,  may   also   be   its   crux;   the   hurt-­
ful,   the  defamatory  and  the  untrue  are  
not  out  of  bounds.  People  often  equate  
their   right   to   speak   freely   as   the   right  
to   offend   others.   This   isn’t   illegal,   but  
such   an   interpretation   ignores   social  
responsibility.   Although   we   have   the  
right   to   speak   freely,   it’s   not   always  
right  to  do  so.
We   need   to   interpret   free   speech   as  
a   responsibility   in   addition   to   a   right.  
The   initial   intent   behind   the   First  
Amendment  was  to  ensure  that  citizens  
could   safely   express   opinions   about  
their   government   without   fear   of   cen-­
sorship   or   punishment.   Our   modern  
understanding   of   the   free   speech   is  
almost   entirely   disconnected   from   its  
original   purpose;   we   are   using   it   as   a  
justification   for   saying   whatever   we  
want   and,   in   doing   so,   we   ultimately  
compromise  the  integrity  of  the  right.  
Speaking   freely   and   speaking   re-­
sponsibly   are   not   mutually   exclusive.  
In   order   to   have   engaging   and   mean-­
ingful  discussions,  we  sometimes  need  
to   monitor   our   language   for   the   sake  
of   respect,   but   this   doesn’t   mean   we  
need  to  censor  our  opinions  altogether.  
Additionally,   while   it’s   important   to  
monitor   what   we   say   and   how   we   say  
it,  it’s  just  as  important  that  we  make  a  
conscious  effort  to  understand  what  we  
hear  and  how  we  hear  it.  At  the  begin-­
ning  of  the  year,  the  Campus  published  
an   editorial   titled,   “The   Coddling   of  
the  Middlebury  Mind,”   in   an   effort   to  
encourage   members   of   the   Middle-­
bury   community   to   “learn   to   disagree  
without  shutting  down,  refusing  to  lis-­
ten  and   labeling.”   If   speaking   freely   is  
the  First  Amendment,   listening  openly  
should   be   Amendment   1.5.  When   oth-­
ers   speak,  we   need   to   listen   attentive-­
ly,   even   if  we  don’t   agree.  By  plugging  
our  ears,  we  don’t  get  rid  of  the  things  
that  make  us  uncomfortable  -­  we  avoid  
them.
While   we   have   the   right   to   free  
speech,   we   also   have   an   obligation   to  
consider   our   audience.   When   we   con-­
tribute   to   conversations   –   whether  
public   or   private   -­   we   need   to   respect  
those  with  whom  we  engage.  However,  
conversations   aren’t   conversations   if  
nobody’s  listening.  When  people  speak,  
it’s  because  they  have  something  to  ex-­
press,  and   they  want  others   to  hear   it.  
We  should  challenge  ourselves  to  listen  
to   those   voices   and   try   to   understand  
and  learn  from  them,  just  as  we  would  
hope   that   others   would   listen   to   us  
when  we  voice  our  own  thoughts.
Responsibility of Free Speech
Ruminations on Clickshare and Art
I’ve   been   trying   to   write   an   article  
about   my   experience   watching   Click-­
share   (the   faculty-­produced   show  writ-­
ten   by  Midd   alum   Lucas   Kavner   ’06.5)  
last   Wednesday   night.   I   left   the   play  
feeling  isolated,  frustrated,  and  shaken.  
While  my  peers   laughed  I   found  myself  
more  and  more  disturbed  by   the   choic-­
es  both   the  playwright  and   the  director  
made   in   the   construction   of   this   story.  
Since  Wednesday  night,  however,  I  have  
had  many  different  conversations  —  in-­
cluding  a  conversation  with  the  director  
—  which  have  shifted  my  understanding  
of  those  
choices.  
I   have  
t a l k e d  
to   peo-­
ple  who  
think  the  play  is  brilliant,  to  people  who  
were  as  uncomfortable  as   I  was,  and   to  
those  who  could  understand  my  feelings  
but   did   not  mirror   their   intensity.   And  
so,   instead   of   writing   a   burning   piece  
filled   with   self-­righteous   fury,   which   I  
was  inclined  to  do,  I  am  going  to  present  
some   thoughts   that   will   hopefully   lead  
to   important   questions   and   conversa-­
tions.  It’s  important  to  know  that  I  don’t  
present  these  thoughts  lightly.  I  present  
them  because  they  are  vitally  important  
to   justice   and  equity   in  our   community  
and  our  world.  
I  have  written  many  iterations  of  this  
letter,   and   I   think   the  best  way   to   start  
this  conversation  will  be  to  focus  on  just  
one  of  my   concerns   regarding   the  play.  
This  concern  was  born  out  of  the  choice  
to   cast   a   man   in   the   role   of   Milano,   a  
role   that   was   originally   written   for   a  
woman.   Throughout   the   show,   Milano  
is  referred  to  using  “she/her”  pronouns;  
the  actor   (Alexander  Burnett,   ’16)  wore  
a   long   dress   and   wig,   presenting   as  
feminine.   I   was   extremely   curious   and  
concerned   about   this   choice.   Through-­
out   the   course   of   conversations   about  
the   play,   I   have   heard   several   reasons  
posed   for   that   choice.   Some   thought  
that  it  was  simply  funnier  that  way.  Hu-­
mor  is  important,  but  what  about  a  man  
wearing   woman’s   clothing   is   so   funny  
to  us?  That  feels  crude  at  best,  at  worst  
overtly   sexist   and   transphobic.   Profes-­
sor   Draper,   the   director,   told   me   that  
casting  Burnett  gave  Milano  a   formida-­
bility   and   age   that   would   be   harder   to  
capture  with  a  20-­year  old  actress.  This  
was  a  reason  that  made  sense  to  me,  and  
was   fascinating   from  a  gender  perspec-­
tive,   as   in   many   places   post-­menstrual  
women  (middle-­aged  women)  are  given  
traditionally  male   roles   (in   some  ways,  
seen  as  men).  Another  reason  given  was  
that   Burnett’s   portrayal   gave   a   certain  
bizarreness   to   the   character;   again,   I  
must   ask   why   that   is   true,   and   what  
that  means  in  how  we  understand  those  
in   our   community   and   in   the   broader  
world   who   have   what   might   be   under-­
stood   as   “non-­normative”   relationships  
with   gender.   Draper   also   suggested   to  
me   that  Milano  was  not   in   fact   a  wom-­
an,   but   a  man  who   chose   to   present   as  
a  woman.  He  then  clarified  that  Milano  
was  not   in  “drag.”  As  we  spoke   further,  
it  became  clear  that  the  complexity  of  a  
statement   like   that,  and   the  complexity  
of  the  way  gender  operates  as  an  identi-­
ty  category  in  general,  was  missing  from  
the  conversation.  
My  concern  is  rooted  in  the  story  that  
is  most  often  told  about  transwomen  in  
popular   narratives,   which   is   that   they  
are   men   “pretending”   to   be   women,  
that   they   are   deceptive,   that   they   are  
“bizarre,”  and  most   importantly,   that   if  
they   are   not   these   things,   it   is   because  
they   “look   like   women”   (ie,   they   have  
boobs,   a   vagina,   and   a   traditionally  
feminine  face).  At  best,  this  is  extremely  
invalidating  and  disrespectful.  At  worst,  
narratives  like  these  contribute  to  the  21  
transwomen  killed   in   the  United  States  
just   this   year.   My   concern   is   that   the  
Middlebury  theater  department  entered  
into   a   conversation   that   they   were   not  
fully  equipped   to  have,  and   they   lacked  
the  information  to  know  what  questions  
they  should  be  asking  in  the  first  place.  
I   think   as   artists,   we   spend   a   lot   of  
time   talking   about   how   powerful   our  
work  can  be  as  an  agent  of  “good.”  Music  
heals,   theater   transforms,   stories   will  
save  us.  I  believe  this  completely.  But  I  
don’t  think  we  spend  enough  time  talk-­
ing  about   the  ways  art   can  destroy.  We  
don’t   spend   enough   time   fearing   how  
easily  we  tell  stories  that  are  oppressive,  
that   conform   to  mainstream   narratives  
of  who  is  valuable,  who  is  loveable,  who  
is  in  power,  who  can  be  a  hero,  who  can  
be   a   villain,   and   who   will   always   lose.  
And   sometimes,   when   we   are   trying   to  
tell   a   story   that   will   break   down   walls  
and   reconstruct   the   world,   or   when  
we   are   trying   to   bring   a   story   that   was  
shoved  to  the  back  forward  to  the  light,  
we  lose  something  in  the  subtleties  and  
completely  mess  up.  But  when  we  mess  
up,  people  get  hurt.  Maybe  not  physical-­
ly,  maybe   not   even   today,   but   in   small  
and   meaningful   ways.   So   I   appreciate  
that   Clickshare   complicated   notions   of  
gender   in   their   play.   I   hope   in   the   fu-­
ture,   they   come   better   equipped   and  
with  a  little  more  caution.  
Reader Op-Ed 
Rebecca  Coates-­Finke  ‘16.5  
is  from  Zuni  Pueblo,  NM
DECEMBER 10, 2015 |  9opinions
This   fall,   I   submitted   an   application  
to  the  Small  Concerts  Initiative  and  was  
given  a  grant  
to   bring  
hip-­hop   art-­
ist,   Chris  
Felner,   aka  
“Felly,”   to  
Middlebury.    His  show  was  scheduled  for  
last  Friday,  and  ultimately  he  performed  
for   over   550   students.      However,   just  
prior  to  his  arrival  in  Vermont,  Chris  was  
accused   in  a  Middlebury  Campus   op-­ed  
of  being  a  cultural  appropriator  because  
of  his   skin   color,   the  way  he   talked   and  
the  sound  of  his  music.
Elizabeth  Dunn,  the  author  of  the  op-­
ed,   is   certainly   entitled   to   her   opinion  
and,   while   I   don’t   agree   with   all   of   her  
views,   I   fully   respect   her   right   to   share  
them  with  our  community  and  beyond.  
But   after   spending   the   weekend   with  
Chris,  I  felt  compelled  to  respond  to  her  
piece,   which   I   believe   not   only   unfairly  
tarnished  our  guest,  but  also  misses   the  
point  of  artistic  endeavors  and  their  role  
in  our  community.
When  I  picked  him  up  from  the  airport  
on   Thursday   after   his   eight-­hour   cross  
country   trip,   Chris   had   already   gotten  
wind  of  the  op-­ed.    I  expected  him  to  be  
upset   that  he  was   facing  a  growing  pro-­
test  at  the  school  where  he  was  about  to  
perform.      I   was   wrong.      Instead,   Chris,  
who   turned   out   to   be   a   down-­to-­earth,  
positive,   optimistic   kid,   was   interested  
in   Elizabeth’s   perspective   and   wanted  
to   speak   with   her.      He   told   me   he   had  
“nothing   but   love   for   her   for   express-­
ing  her   opinion   and  being   so   convinced  
of   something.   But,”   he   noted,   “anyone  
convinced   of   something   should   be   open  
to  hearing  another   side.”     And  while  we  
immediately  reached  out  to  Elizabeth  af-­
ter  Chris’  arrival  on  campus,  we  unfortu-­
nately  did  not  hear  back  from  her  in  time  
to  arrange  a  meeting.    That  was  certainly  
an  opportunity  lost.
For   those   of   you   who   don’t   know   his  
music,   Felly   uses  African   and   Jamaican  
rhythms  and  roots  from  African  and  Ja-­
maican   culture   in  his   songwriting.     Yes,  
it’s   true  that  Felly   is  not  African-­Ameri-­
can  and  he  is  not  Jamaican.    Yes,  it’s  true  
that   he   comes   from   a   privileged   back-­
ground  and  might  not  have  the  same  ex-­
periences   as  many   African   American   or  
Jamaican  musicians.      But   if   we   cherish  
diversity,   don’t   we   want   cultures   to   in-­
fluence   each   other?      Don’t   people   from  
different  backgrounds  deserve  equal  op-­
portunities   to   express   their   inner   cre-­
ativity   and   artistic   inspiration?   Should  
Eric  Clapton  be  prohibited  from  singing  
the  Delta  Blues  because  he  has  a  British  
accent?   Transcendent   musicians   cross-­
ing  cultural  divides   is  musical  apprecia-­
tion,  not  cultural  appropriation.
Yet  the  editorial  expressed  deep  skep-­
ticism  over  Felly’s   “supposed”  Rastafar-­
ian   connection.   It’s   interesting   to   note  
that   Bob   Marley,   one   of   the   musicians  
most   associated   with   “Rastafarianism”,  
was   half   white   and   half   black.   The   op-­
ed  wrote,   “Rastafarianism   is   black.   It   is  
exclusive…”   Does   that   mean   there   was  
an   element   of   cultural   appropriation   in  
Marley’s  music?
   Unquestionably,   Chris   is   not   “cul-­
turally”   Rastafarian.      He   has,   however,  
spent   lots   of   time   in   Jamaica,   and   has  
cultivated  multiple  friends  on  the  island.  
He’s   led   four   separate   service   trips   in  
poor  areas,  and  visited  other  times  sole-­
ly   to   hang   out   with   his   local   Jamaican  
friends.      Chris   explained   to   me   that   he  
loves  the  way  the  Rastafarians  “preached  
love  and  unity,”  and   that   it’s  his  goal   to  
infuse  his  music  with   those   same  quali-­
ties.      Notably   though,   Chris   does   not  
limit   his   musical   exploration   solely   to  
Jamaican  music.  Chris  mines  many  other  
cultures   to   expand   his  musical   outlook,  
including   those   from   Brazilian,   African  
and  European  cultures.
Elizabeth   also   wrote,   “Felly   doesn’t  
seem  especially  interested  in  interacting  
with   actual   black  people…   likely   it’s   be-­
cause  black  people  aren’t  cool.”     I’m  not  
at  all  clear  on  how  based  on  the  viewing  
of  one  music  video  she  reached  this  stark  
conclusion,  but  the  assertion  is  complete-­
ly  at  odds  with  the  person  I  got  to  know  
this  weekend.    In  the  face  of  unexpected  
controversy,   Chris   showed   himself   to  
be   open,   outgoing,   sincere   and   accept-­
ing.  The  whole  weekend  Chris  interacted  
with  a  diverse  group  of  students  here  and  
started  conversations  with  everyone  try-­
ing  to  understand  their  perspectives.  Yet  
he’s  being   labeled  a  racist.     As  an  aside,  
Elizabeth   might   be   interested   to   know  
that  two  of  the  musicians  who  appear  on  
Felly’s  most   recent  album  were  African-­
American,  including  one  who  grew  up  in  
Jamaica   and   just   happens   to   be   one   of  
his  closest  friends.
One  of  the  first  sentences  of  the  op-­ed  
wrote,  “Felly,  those  who  were  responsible  
for  bringing  him  here  and  those  planning  
to  attend  his  concert  are  unaware  of  the  
systematic  racism  black  people  face,  and  
how  even  seemingly   innocuous  or   insig-­
nificant   actions,   like   going   to   a   concert,  
reinforce  discrimination.”    As  the  person  
responsible  for  bringing  Felly  to  campus,  
I  take  issue.    I’ve  never  met  Elizabeth,  so  
I  don’t  know  from  whom  she’s  getting  her  
information  about  my  awareness,  or  lack  
thereof,   of   the   systematic   racism   black  
people   face.     But   I  do  know  that  I  enjoy  
music  and  when  I  proposed  to  bring  Fel-­
ly  here,   it  was  specifically  because  I  rel-­
ished  the   idea  of  bringing  a  musician  to  
Middlebury   who   could   bring   together   a  
wide  array  of  people  for  a  shared  experi-­
ence.  A  human  experience.
The  editorial   also  noted   that   “consid-­
ering   Middlebury   College’s   own   history  
with  appropriation,   it’s  no   surprise   that  
Felly   was   chosen   as   our   visiting   artist”.  
Our  Spring  concert  last  year  was  T-­Pain.  
Middlebury  College  was  also  the  first  col-­
lege   in  America   to   graduate   an  African-­
American  student.
Of   course,   I   believe   cultural   appro-­
priation  is  an  issue,  and  needs  to  be  ad-­
dressed.    This,  concert,  and  Felly,  did  not  
deserve  to  be  mired  in  controversy.  Like  
Dwayne  Scott  (D.  Scott,  opener  for  Felly)  
said  in  front  of  the  enthusiastic  audience,  
“I   want   to   address   a   recent   article   that  
has   summoned   a   lot   of   mixed   feelings  
and  caused  my  own  background  singers  
to  cancel  performing  with  me.  We,  as  art-­
ists,  are  just  trying  to  share  and  express  
our  art  with  y’all.  Don’t  make  things  con-­
troversial   that   don’t   need   to   be   contro-­
versial.   I  don’t  have  an   issue  with  Felly.  
We’re   backstage   kicking   it.   So   when   he  
comes  out  on  stage,   support  his  art  and  
make  the  most  noise  possible.  Show  love  
y’all.”
After   a   terrific   weekend   and   perfor-­
mance,  Chris  wanted  me  to  deliver  a  mes-­
sage  to  Elizabeth:  “I  have  this  same  love  
for  you  regardless  of  the  negative  words  
you  have  thrown  at  me.  I’m  sorry  you  feel  
this  way,  but  I  hope  you  can  see  my  side.  
I’ll   keep   fighting   for  unity  while  you   try  
to  do  the  same  through  your  methods.  I  
take  pride  in  the  fact  that  I’ve  been  able  
to   bring   in   hundreds   of   people   (Black,  
White,  Asian,  etc.)  to  my  shows  to  come  
together  for  the  simple  love  of  music.”
I  admire  Chris  as  a  young  artist  follow-­
ing  his  dream,  and  I  admire  Elizabeth  for  
her  willingness  to  express  her  views  in  an  
open  forum.    Discourse  is  healthy,  and  in  
a   college   environment,  particularly  nec-­
essary.   But   we   must   all   accept   that   as  
a   community,   we   will   never   be   able   to  
come  to  a  complete  agreement  on  any  is-­
sue,   and   instead   resolve   to   respect   each  
other  as  individuals.  It’s  my  fervent  hope  
that  artists  of  all  stripes  can  and  will  con-­
tinue   to   draw  on   cultural   traditions   not  
their  own,  as  they  broaden  their  own  ho-­
rizons,  as  well  as  ours.  Let’s  knock  down  
the   walls   and   come   together,   not   build  
them  and  grow  farther  apart.
  
Inviting Cultures On Our Campus
Reader Op-Ed 
Alex  Deutsche  ‘18  
is  from  Princeton,  NJ
“Have  you  been  feeling  depressed  or  down  for  most  
of   the   day   nearly   every   day?   Are   you   experiencing   a  
loss  of  pleasure   in   activities   you  usually   enjoy?”  After  
a  full  summer  of  conducting  phone  interviews  in  a  neu-­
roscience   lab   that   studies   depression,   these   questions  
are  burned  into  my  memory.  And  so  are  the  answers  to  
these  questions   that   I   received.  This  experience   led   to  
my   firmly  held  belief   that  many  people  are  experienc-­
ing  extreme  emotional  pain  and  so  much  of  this  pain  is  
being  hidden.
There   is   a   misconception   about   mental   health   on  
this  campus.  There  have  been  pervasive  conversations  
about   stress   —   particularly   with   respect   to   academic  
performance  —  and  wellness  of  the  student  body.  How-­
ever,  much  of  this  conversation  misses  the  mark.
Mental   health   is  
about   the   subjective  
experience   of   the   in-­
dividual.   There   are  
a   myriad   of   mental  
health   problems   —  
anxiety   disorders,   ma-­
jor   depressive   disorder,   bipolar   disorder,   to   name   a  
few  —  with  a  myriad  of  potential  causes  including  loss,  
trauma,  possibly  genetics  and  stress.  Notice  that  stress  
is  just  one  of  the  potential  causes.  Academic  stress  has  
come  to  dominate  our  community’s  conversation  about  
mental  health,  and  it  is  only  a  piece  of  the  puzzle.
Generalizations   and   comparisons   disregard   this  
very  important  aspect  of  the  concept  of  mental  health.  
Therefore,  we  need  to  shift  the  conversation  not  to  what  
is   causing   the  general   stress  of   the  campus  but   rather  
what   is  causing   the  stress  of   the   individual.  Each  per-­
son  has  a  unique  background  and  personality  disposi-­
tion.  Although  it  is  important  to  discuss  the  culture  in  
which   we   students   exist   on   this   campus,   there   is   not  
enough  discussion  about  the  fact  that  mental  health  is  
individualized.   The   assumption   of   homogeneity   is   an  
inaccurate  assumption.
The  other  problem  that  I  have  commonly  seen  in  my  
conversations   with   peers   on   this   campus   is   the   prob-­
lem  of  comparisons,  a  problem  that   is  exactly  counter  
to  the  concept  of  mental  health.  It  could  be  that  one  in-­
dividual  with  a  significant  trauma  history  develops  no  
PTSD,  but   an   individual  with  a   genetic  predisposition  
and   no   precipitating   event   develops   significant   ma-­
jor  depressive  disorder.  Many  people   feel  guilty  about  
seeking  help  when  they  feel  they  have  not  had  a  signifi-­
cant   event   to   cause   their  mental  health  problems.  We  
should   not   be   mak-­
ing   generalizations  
or   comparisons.  
Rather,   we   should  
be  focusing  on  giving  
individuals   the   tools  
to  tackle  their  highly  
individualized   men-­
tal  health  problems.
Part   of   this   will  
entail   reducing  
stigma   on   campus.  
Whenever  I  sit  in  the  
waiting  room  in  Par-­
ton  in  the  counseling  
office,   I   always   no-­
tice   the   immediate  
air  of  embarrassment  
when   another   stu-­
dent   walks   in.   Peo-­
ple   are   uncomfort-­
able  and  ashamed   to  
openly   acknowledge  
their   struggles   with  
mental  health.
This   is  partly  why  
I  believe  academic  stress  has  become  a  central  part  of  
the  conversation  on  campus.  Academic  stress  is  some-­
thing   that   almost   everyone   experiences   and   that   it   is  
socially  acceptable  to  discuss.  However,  people  are  ex-­
ceedingly  uncomfortable  when  it  comes  to  talking  about  
social   anxieties   or   family   problems   or   other   forms   of  
stress.  Therefore,  academic  stress  is  receiving  a  dispro-­
portionate  amount  of   attention.      I   also   think   that   this  
emphasis  on  the  academic  stress  of  students  is  creating  
a  divide  between  students  and  faculty  members  within  
the  community.  In  reality,  faculty  members  experience  
their   own   stressors   and   mental   health   problems   that  
should  be  included  in  the  dialogue.
We  need  to  take  a  step  back  and  look  at  how  we  are  
approaching   mental   health   on   this   campus.   Rather  
than   jumping   at   the   chance   to   make   generalizations  
about   academic  
stress   causing   men-­
tal   health   problems,  
we   need   to   have  
more   conversations  
about  the  experience  
of   individuals.   The  
Grid   is   a   step   in   the  
right   direction   with  
a   more   holistic   ap-­
proach   to   student  
wellness,  but  there  is  
still  more  work  to  be  
done.   The   Grid   is   a  
solutions-­based   ap-­
proach   to   a   problem  
with  root  causes  that  
have   yet   to   be   fully  
determined.   Groups  
such   as   the   Student  
Wellness   group   and  
Resilience   should  
be   broadcasted,   and  
students   should   be  
encouraged   to   en-­
gage   in  an  open  dia-­
logue.   This   is   a   key   part   of   the   problem  –   there   is   so  
much  going  unsaid  about  things  people  go  through  on  
this  campus,  things  that  reach  far  beyond  just  academ-­
ic  stress.     People  are  embarrassed  and  scared  to  share  
their   experience,   and   this   is   the   aspect   of   our   culture  
that  we  need  to  address.  We  need  to  put  more  emphasis  
on  the  concept  that  mental  health   is  about  the  experi-­
ence  of  the  individual.  
Reconceptualizing  Mental  Health
charlotte fairless
Reader Op-Ed 
Maddie  Hoar  ‘17.5  
is  from  Wellesley,  Mass.
|  December 10, 2015 10 Features December 10, 2015 |  11features
          This  year,  a  US  national  security  report  labeled  
climate  change  as  “an  urgent  and  growing  threat  
to  our  national  security.”  While  climate  change  is  a  
natural  occurrence,  there  is  much  evidence  to  show  
that  humans  have  greatly  increased  the  rate  of  climate  
change.  This  increased  rate  is  largely  due  to  the  increase  
of  atmospheric  greenhouse  gases,  released  by  human  
activity.  Greenhouse  gases  essentially  trap  heat  in  
the  lower  atmosphere,  which  contributes  to  a  rise  in  
temperatures.  Climate  change  is  a  global  issue,  one  that  
will  affect  every  corner  of  the  earth.  The  College  has  
been  one  of  many  institutions  of  higher  education  to  
take  a  leading  role  in  addressing  climate  change.
A  Goal  of  Carbon  Neutrality
          On  May  5,  2007,  the  Trustees  adopted  the  Resolution  
on  Achieving  Carbon  Neutrality  by  2016.  Carbon  
requires  that  an  institution  “remove”  as  much  carbon  
dioxide  equivalent  from  the  atmosphere  as  it  emits.
          In  the  resolution,  the  Trustees  wrote  that  “a  goal  of  
carbon  neutrality  for  Middlebury  College  by  2016,  while  
challenging,  is  feasible  through  energy  conservation  
innovations,  educational  programming  and  learning,  
and  offset  purchases  after  all  other  feasible  measures  
have  been  taken.”  With  2016  right  around  the  corner,  it  
is  time  to  consider  where  the  College  is  on  its  quest  for  
carbon  neutrality,  and  what  can  still  be  done  to  further  
its  environmental  mission.
          The  Climate  Action  Plan  (CAP),  adopted  in  2008,  
targeted  heating  and  cooling,  electricity,  vehicles,  
the  College  could  reduce  net  emissions  to  progress  
towards  carbon  neutrality.  At  the  time  of  the  report,  
heating  and  cooling  made  the  largest  contribution  to  
emissions  at  89  percent,  travel  and  vehicles  came  in  a  
distant  second  at  nine  percent,  and  electricity  and  waste  
accounted  for  only  one  percent  of  emissions  each.  Since  
the  CAP  went  into  effect,  the  College  has  made  strides  to  
reach  carbon  neutrality  and  reduce  emissions  in  each  of  
these  areas.
Waste      
          Emissions  from  decomposing  waste  comprised  
only  one  percent  of  the  College’s  total  emissions  in  
2008.  These  emissions  result  from  waste  decomposing  
greenhouse  gases.
          All  of  the  College’s  waste  is  already  sorted  in  
the  recycling  center,  recycling  as  much  as  possible.  
Recommendations  to  further  reduce  waste  included  
practices  into  the  residential  life  system,  and  creating  
or  recycling  center  to  develop  an  understanding  of  the  
waste  generated  by  the  College.
          To  address  emissions  from  waste,  the  College  has  
increased  signage  promoting  sustainable  practices  on  
campus  and  conducted  campaigns  to  raise  student  
awareness  about  waste.  However,  the  student  body  
is  still  largely  unaware  of  the  College’s  waste  because  
the  waste  management  is  so  far  removed  from  
students.  Though  educating  the  student  body  would  be  
valuable,  the  low  level  of  emissions  from  waste  have,  
understandably,  ensured  that  it  is  not  a  top  priority.
Vehicle  Emissions
          Vehicle  emissions  and  emissions  from  travel  make  
up  another  nine  percent  of  the  College’s  greenhouse  
gas  emissions.  Travel  and  vehicle  usage  are  necessary  
for  the  function  of  the  College,  and  so  these  emissions  
technology.  To  reduce  emissions  from  travel,  the  CAP  
advised  increasing  education  about  the  impacts  of  
travel,  stressing  videoconferencing  as  an  alternative  to  
          Since  2008,  the  College  has  seen  an  increase  in  
greenhouse  gas  emissions  from  waste  and  air  travel,  but  
a  decrease  in  emissions  from  mobile  combustion  (which  
include  road  vehicles  and  construction  equipment).
          In  2007,  the  College  estimated  that  it  generated  137  
metric  tons  of  carbon  dioxide  equivalent  (MTCDE)  due  
to  solid  waste.  By  2014,  that  number  had  increased  
slightly  to  153  MTCDE.  Emissions  from  air  travel  
increased  more  dramatically  over  this  same  period,  
from  1381  MTCDE  in  2007  to  2346  MTCDE  in  2014.  
Emissions  from  mobile  combustion  have  decreased  from  
408  to  370  MTCDE.
it  is  admirable  that  emissions  from  waste  and  mobile  
a  much  larger  contributor  to  the  College’s  emissions,  
though,  and  yearly  emissions  have  increased  by  almost  
1000  MTCDE  since  2007.
          The  College  has  certainly  made  progress  since  
2007,  but  student  awareness  about  emissions  is  still  
lacking  and  emissions  from  air  travel  have  increased  
dramatically.
Electricity
          Emissions  from  purchased  electricity  accounted  for  
only  one  percent  of  the  College’s  overall  emissions  in  
percent.  This  increase  in  percentage  was  largely  due  to  
a  decrease  in  net  emissions  from  heating  and  cooling.  
However,  emissions  from  purchased  electricity  did  rise  
from  676  MTCDE  in  2007  to  864  tons  in  2014.
          Of  the  22  million  kilowatt  hours  of  electricity  the  
College  uses  each  year,  20  percent  is  cogenerated  on  
campus  by  turbines  connected  to  the  central  heating  
plant.  The  remaining  80  percent  of  the  College’s  
electricity  is  purchased  from  Green  Mountain  Power  
(GMP).  This  purchased  electricity  accounts  for  the  
greenhouse  gas  emissions  from  electricity,  because  
the  electricity  the  College  purchases  from  GMP  is  not  
necessarily  from  carbon  neutral  sources.
          Until  2013,  70  percent  of  Vermont’s  power  came  
from  nuclear  energy,  which  is  carbon  neutral.  Much  of  
the  rest  of  the  state’s  electricity  came  from  hydropower,  
another  source  of  clean  energy.  The  Vermont  Yankee  
nuclear  power  plant,  which  supplied  most  of  Vermont’s  
nuclear  power,  shut  down  in  late  2014.  The  Entergy  
Corporation,  which  operated  the  power  plant,  cited  
economic  reasons  for  closing  the  plant.  Consequently,  
GMP  has  had  to  purchase  electricity  from  other  sources.
          GMP  predicts  that  only  55  percent  of  its  fuel  mix  
in  2015  will  be  renewable,  coming  from  nuclear  and  
hydroelectric  sources.  The  other  45  percent  will  consist  
mainly  of  “system”  power,  which  comes  from  various  
sources,  including  fossil  fuels.  In  calculating  carbon  
emissions  from  purchased  electricity,  the  College  must  
consider  the  ultimate  source  of  its  electricity.
          Since  2007,  carbon  emissions  due  to  purchased  
electricity  at  the  College  have  risen  by  188  MTCDE,  
nearly  30  percent.  Though  only  a  small  contribution  
to  the  College’s  overall  carbon  emissions,  the  College  
should  continue  to  investigate  ways  to  reduce  these  
emissions.  To  help  reduce  net  emissions  from  
electricity,  the  CAP  recommended  conservation  as  well  
as  investigating  alternative  energy  sources,  such  as  wind  
and  solar  power.
          In  2012  the  College  installed  a  small  143kW  
demonstration  solar  system  near  McCardell  
Bicentennial  Hall,  which  consists  of  34  solar  trackers.  
hours  annually:  one  percent  of  the  College’s  total  
electricity  consumption.  The  system  generates  enough  
electricity  to  power  Forest  Hall.
          Solar  power  is  inherently  renewable,  and  thus  an  
excellent  option  to  offset  the  College’s  energy  usage.  
However,  current  solar  technology  is  not  conducive  to  
power  generation  at  the  scale  necessary  for  the  College.  
The  College  should  continue  to  pursue  conservation  and  
other  efforts  to  reduce  overall  electricity  usage.
Heating  and  Cooling
          The  largest  contribution  to  the  College’s  carbon  
emissions  comes  from  heating  and  cooling.  In  2008,  
heating  and  cooling  constituted  89  percent  of  the  
College’s  emissions.  Most  of  the  emissions  came  
from  the  combustion  of  no.  6  fuel  oil  to  heat  and  cool  
buildings;;  the  College  was  burning  about  2,000,000  
gallons  per  year,  which  released  23,877  MTCDE  in  
combustion  of  no.  fuel  oil,  and  623  from  propane.
          The  CAP  clearly  stressed  the  need  to  use  carbon  
neutral  fuel  sources  to  heat  and  cool  the  campus  if  the  
College  is  to  reach  carbon  neutrality  by  2016.
          The  College’s  $12  million  biomass  plant,  opened  in  
2009,  was  a  major  step  toward  reducing  net  emissions  
from  heating  and  cooling  the  College.  The  biomass  
plant  burns  wood,  which  the  College  considers  a  
carbon  neutral  fuel  source  because  the  same  amount  of  
carbon  dioxide  is  absorbed  by  the  trees  as  is  released  
of  burning  wood.  The  heat  generated  from  this  
combustion  is  used  to  make  steam,  which  is  piped  
throughout  the  campus  to  meet  the  College’s  heating  
and  cooling  needs.
          While  the  net  emissions  from  the  biomass  plant  
emissions  from  the  plant  are  somewhat  lower  than  
those  from  burning  fuel  oil,  and  emissions  resulting  
from  chipping  and  transporting  the  wood  to  the  
biomass  facility  are  not  factored  into  the  assessment  of  
carbon  neutrality.
          Unfortunately,  the  biomass  plant  is  not  large  enough  
to  meet  all  of  the  College’s  heating  and  cooling  needs.  
In  addition  to  biomass  combustion,  the  College  still  
burns  640,000  gallons  of  no.6  fuel  oil  each  year.  To  
address  this  issue,  the  College  is  undergoing  a  switch  to  
approval  of  the  VT  Gas  Addison  Rutland  Natural  Gas  
to  natural  gas,  and  is  produced  by  the  digestion  of  
organic  waste.
          A  spur  on  the  new  natural  gas  pipeline  from  
Colchester,  VT  to  the  Addison  and  Rutland  area  will  
fuel  oil  is  very  important  because  the  College  considers  
greatly  reduce  the  College’s  net  emissions  from  heating  
and  cooling.
          The  College  has  also  made  strides  to  reduce  
emissions  from  heating  and  cooling  by  improving  
In  2007,  a  survey  of  buildings  at  the  College  
indicated  that  53  percent  of  the  square  footage  
on  campus  performed  well  below  current  energy  
code  standards.  Since  then,  the  College  has  had  
two  buildings  receive  Leadership  in  Energy  and  
House.
          The  College’s  efforts  have  resulted  in  a  66  
percent  reduction  in  net  emissions  from  stationary  
combustion  sources,  such  as  boilers,  heaters  and  
ovens,  since  2007.  From  2013  to  2014,  the  College  
emitted  a  net  of  only  8,996  MTCDE  due  to  stationary  
combustion,  as  compared  to  26,509  MTCDE  in  2006  
to  2007.  However,  biogenic  emissions  —  those  due  to  
combustion  of  biologically  based  materials  (wood)  —  
from  2013  to  2014  were  21,658  MTCDE.  This  is  not  
counted  in  the  College’s  assessment  of  net  emissions  
from  stationary  combustion  because  it  is  considered  
carbon  neutral.  Though  the  College  may  exclude  these  
emissions,  the  carbon  neutrality  of  biomass  combustion  
is  disputed  by  many.
Our  Carbon  Footprint
          In  2014,  the  College  reported  gross  emissions  of  
8,996  MTCDE  from  stationary  combustion,  370  from  
mobile  combustion,  864  from  purchased  electricity,  
2,346  from  air  travel,  and  153  from  solid  waste.  This  
amounts  to  total  emissions  of  12,729  MTCDE.  The  
College  also  included  reductions  of  10  MTCDE  due  to  
purchase  of  renewable  energy  credits  (RECs),  550  from  
carbon  offsets  purchased,  and  9,905  MTCDE  from  
amounted  to  a  reported  net  emissions  of  2,264  MTCDE.
          The  College’s  many  efforts,  especially  the  switch  
decrease  the  net  carbon  emissions  for  2016.  If  
necessary,  the  College  can  purchase  carbon  offsets  in  
order  to  meet  its  goal.  In  assessing  its  greenhouse  gas  
emissions,  the  College  employs  a  custom  tool  tailored  
to  its  needs.  It  is  worthwhile  to  note  that  other  methods  
of  assessing  emissions  may  yield  drastically  different  
results.
          Carbon  neutrality,  though  an  important  step  for  the  
College,  is  by  no  means  an  end  goal.  As  2016  draws  
closer,  it  is  time  to  begin  discussion  of  the  next  steps.  
The  College  should  continue  to  demonstrate  leadership  
by  further  reducing  its  environmental  impact.
          The  College’s  quest  for  carbon  neutrality  came  about  
because  of  the  actions  of  a  dedicated  group  of  students,  
faculty,  and  staff,  who  challenged  the  College  to  adopt  
an  ambitious  goal.  Those  students  have  long  since  left  
Middlebury  and  ventured  into  the  world;;  now,  it  is  our  
turn  to  take  up  the  mantle,  and  push  the  College  to  new  
heights.
          It  is  easy  to  look  at  the  issue  of  climate  change  
and  give  up  because  it  is  so  daunting,  but  every  great  
change  begins  with  small  actions.  It  is  unrealistic  to  
expect  that  everyone  will  consider  the  gravity  of  this  
issue  and  take  action.  I  hope,  however,  that  we  will  
continue  to  consider  the  impact  of  our  actions,  from  
reducing  the  use  of  vehicles  to  turning  out  the  lights.  As  
you  go  about  your  daily  life,  take  a  moment  to  consider  
the  following  question:  What  can  you  do  to  live  more  
sustainably?  Every  action,  no  matter  how  small,  makes  
a  difference.  
Carbon  Countdown:  Neutral  By  The  New  Year?
What  is  No.  6  Fuel  Oil?  
The  lowest  grade  of,  and  historically  
cheapest,  liquid  fuel  available  due  
to  its  high  percentage  of  residuals  
(i.e.  water,  sulfur,  mineral  soil).  
It  is  used  mainly  in  power  plants  
combustion.  
The  College's  Solar  Farm  produces  
electricity  to  power  Forest  Hall.    
Graphics  by  Cordelia  Prouvost  and  Emma  Hatheway
Photos  courtesy  of  College  Communications  
Article  by  Forrest  Wallace
66%  reduction  in  net  
emissions  from  stationary  
combustion  sources  (such  as  
boilers,  used  to  heat  and  cool  
campus)  since  2007.
Air  travel  emissions  
increased  by  1000  mectric  
tons  of  carbon  since  2007
89%  of  greenhouse  
gas  emissions  came  
from  heating  and  
cooling  in  2008
By  Hye-­Jin  Kim
Features  Editor
By  Nicole  Hoehle
Contributing  Writer
Planet X is in the early stages of human 
development. Should it adopt communism 
or capitalism?
round of the 2015 Oxford Inter-Varsity 
Debating Competition. On the weekend 
of Nov. 13, the Middlebury Debate Society 
sent its three most experienced debaters 
to compete in this prestigious event. The 
society is a student-run organization that 
brings together students who love to argue 
for and think about both sides of a polar-
izing issue.
This fall, the Society sent students to 
England to compete at the Oxford Tour-
nament, Cambridge Tournament and 
Cambridge Women’s Tournament. These 
three events are among the most esteemed 
debate competitions in the world, bring-
countries. 
The competitions are held in the British 
Parliamentary Style, a common form of ac-
ademic debate. In this format, debaters are 
presented with the topic, called a “motion,” 
roles, the “opening government,” “open-
ing opposition,” “closing government,” or 
“closing opposition.” In this short period of 
time, each student prepares a seven-minute 
speech that they will use to try and sway the 
judges. Debaters need to be ready to argue 
for or against any motion that is thrown 
their way. 
Elizabeth Lee ’17 is president of the 
Middlebury Debate Society and attended 
all three of the international competitions. 
“What you really have to do is learn a lot 
about what’s going on in the world right 
now and understand the most prominent 
theories in philosophy,” she explained. 
Staying up to date with current events is 
key when preparing for a competition. “The  
Economist is the debater’s favorite news 
source,” Lee added.
The motions that were considered at 
these events spanned such diverse topics as 
the feminist movement, climate engineer-
ing and whether or not Western democra-
cies should abandon an Olympics hosted by 
Russia. 
“One idea that I really liked [debating] 
was a right to emigration,” Lee recalled. 
Students discussed whether a government 
should pay for people to immigrate to a dif-
-
selves. The central question became wheth-
er or not the failure to fund such a trip 
would be comparable to forcing someone 
to stay somewhere they don’t want to be. “If 
you have a fundamental disagreement with 
the country you’re living in, presumably 
you should be able to leave that society,” 
From Dec. 27 to Jan. 4, the Middlebury 
Debate Society will be sending students to 
the World Universities Debating Champi-
onship. This is the largest debate tourna-
ment in the world and some of the best de-
baters from every continent will compete. 
Last year it was hosted in Selangor, Malay-
sia and this winter it will be in the historical 
port city of Thessaloniki, Greece. Over 70 
“Getting to know people from all over 
the world that share your passion for de-
bate is great,” Lee added. There are some 
prepare for the competition, of course. 
At several universities in England, for ex-
ample, a debate society comes with it’s 
own exclusive union, grand chamber, and 
tournaments is that societies like these will 
encounter groups that are less formal in 
their approach. There is more than one way 
to argue persuasively. “Staying in the U.S., 
you don’t realize that there are so many dif-
ferent styles of debate, and that they are all 
The Middlebury Debate Society also 
participates in events closer to home. About 
once a week the students attend a domes-
tic debate tournament. And during J-term, 
Middlebury will be hosting it’s own event. 
The 2016 Middlebury Debate Invitational 
will take place the weekend of Jan. 16 and 
will include college teams from all over the 
East Coast.
No previous debating experience is 
needed to join the Middlebury Debate Soci-
ety. Getting involved with the organization 
can be a rewarding experience for those 
who want to think about today’s biggest 
questions as well as those who are more 
interested in the competitive aspect. Lee 
explained, “It’s a lot of work, but it’s really 
worth it. We have a really great community. 
We put on social events and are trying to 
Society is currently working with President 
Laurie Patton to plan a joint event that 
would encourage controversial conversa-
tions.
If you are someone looking forward to 
debating today’s most pressing questions 
around the dinner table this holiday sea-
son, the Middlebury Debate Society might 
be just the place for you.
Debate  Society  Takes  Their  
Arguments  Across  the  Globe
Well here it is, the final issue of the 
semester. And just like that you no lon-
ger have time to do all of those things 
you said you were going to do. So much 
for getting your life together. The time 
is approaching to escape with your 
sanity, that remaining portion of your 
dignity and whatever a night of cram-
ming all the readings you “forgot to do” 
can get you on your exams. 
This semester I feel as if I’ve cov-
ered all of the issues that needed dis-
cussing, totally no exaggeration. 
I’ve covered the ever-pressing 
topics of vegan riblets, Ross smooth-
ies, Battell Bathtubs, BannerWeb and 
many other undeniable priorities of 
Middlebury College life. 
Ok, but in all honesty, how is my 
column still a thing? 
To quote the always wise Bob and 
Bob from Office Space, “What would 
you say you do here?” Well to be totally 
honest, I have no idea. I guess I write 
500 words a week, so there’s that. 
I spend every column venting 
about minor inconveniences that in 
no way actually matter. Does it matter 
that the mailboxes are a little bit fin-
icky? Not at all. Do you have to eat the 
vegan riblets? Nope. And I mean really, 
have you ever had to take a bath in Bat-
tell? I sure hope not… If you did, then 
please report back that you are, in fact, 
still alive. 
My theme isn’t even original. I 
stole it shamelessly from the writers of 
Last   Week   Tonight. You would think 
that I could have at least come up with 
a significantly different title than John 
Oliver’s “How Is It Still a Thing,” but 
no. As I stated in the first column of the 
year, I prefer to think of myself as ef-
ficient rather than lazy, so I just threw 
Midd in there and called it a day. Bril-
liant. So much for creativity!
If you did, in fact, ride it out and 
read all of my columns (I’m looking at 
you, Mom), thanks and congrats. 
You have made it through over 
5,500 words of a mediocre satirical 
column that has a strange obsession 
with arbitrary percentages and refer-
ences to mediocre movies forgotten 
by 67 percent of their viewers within 
one week of watching. (Pro tip: check 
out the 2006 animated film Barnyard, 
starring the illustrious Kevin James as 
a bull with udders, for an example.)
I’m going abroad in the spring, so 
the quality of writing and reporting in 
this paper is going way up. 
But before I do so, I will bring the 
maturity of the  Campus back down to 
a middle school level one time during 
J-term when the car column makes its 
triumphant return for one last GLau-
rie Ride. That’s right, in a rare lapse of 
judgment, President Patton has agreed 
to drive with me to McDonald’s. It will 
be the pinnacle of my journalistic ca-
reer. Stay tuned. 
By  Charlie  Ascher
Senior  Columnist
btv: meet the team fueling your internet habits 
 12 features  | december 10, 2015
 It has been said: “Home is where 
the wifi connects automatically.”  Yes, 
while it’s convenient being able to 
speed google French conjugations en 
route to an in-class exam, I wouldn’t 
describe the middle of Battell Beach as 
“home.”
But the ubiquitous (and free) cam-
pus wi-fi is arguably one of the more 
under-appreciated college perks.  
Students rave about the unlimited 
meal plan and 4:00 Proc all the time. 
But when the dining halls close at 8 
P.M. (and when you can no longer pro-
crastinate by eating copious amounts 
of soft-serve), there is no feeling more 
glorious than curling up in bed and 
watching the black screen glow red: 
Netflix.
According to Billy Sneed, the Inter-
net Technology Services (ITS) Manager 
for Central Systems and Network Ser-
vices, internet usage peaks at 1.2 GB 
per second each evening. Not surpris-
ingly, usage decreases on Friday and 
Saturday, and peaks again by Sunday 
afternoon. In order to protect against 
a network outage (can you imagine… 
it would be near apocalyptic for all the 
Type-A personalities on this campus), 
the College relies on two different in-
ternet service providers, Level3 and 
FirstLight.
The total annual cost to provide 
optical-fiber internet for the Vermont 
campus, including Bread Loaf, is about 
$250,000.
Although Sneed noted this was 
more costly than contracting with a 
single provider, he said, “But how 
much is it going to cost if it goes out?”
Other challenges unique to main-
taining an internet network in rural 
Vermont is the diverse and mountain-
ous terrain where the optical fibers 
must be installed, according to Jim 
Stuart, the Associate VP for ITS. The 
lack of quality providers in the region 
that can meet the College’s huge band-
width requirements are also limiting, 
added Chris Norris, ITS Director of Se-
curity and Infrastructure.
There are currently 400 network 
access points (router-like devices) on 
campus. Balancing this with the num-
ber of banned personal routers is trou-
blesome. “The presence of additional 
acces points deployed by personally 
owned wi-fi routers could cause inter-
ference and disrupt services for every-
one,” said Stuart, noting that each ac-
cess point has to operate on a unique 
airwave frequency for optimal perfor-
mance.
The decision to eliminate “Midd_
unplugged” and switch to “Middle-
buryCollege” that requires users to log-
in using their College account raised 
concerns about privacy last spring. 
Should students streaming movies il-
legally be worried? What about ac-
cessing the “darknet,” an anonymous 
isolated network often used for black 
market transactions?
“We don’t snoop on an individual’s 
network activity,” assured Norris. Ac-
cording the Student Handbook, logs 
are only accessed to aid on-going in-
vestigations, to fulfill a subpoena, or 
address a notice for copyright infringe-
ment sent to the College by a third-par-
ty, such as Sony Entertainment.
According to Stuart, “Midd_Un-
plugged” was dropped to increase 
overall network security rather than to 
monitor student usage.
“People were leveraging wireless as 
their primary mode of communication. 
More business activities were taking 
place over the wireless network than 
has in the past,” said Stuart. “It be-
came that much more critical that we 
secure the wireless network.” 
From its start as a single coax ca-
ble running old-school Ethernet from 
Voter to Warner Hall in the late 1980s, 
it is evident that the College’s network 
has improved and evolved dramatically 
to keep up with the ever-increasing de-
mand of students and professors. So 
whether you’re streaming “Masters of 
None” or researching a paper for your 
class on “Cultural Appropriation of 
Model Minorities,” don’t forget to send 
a quick thanks to the College’s hard-
working ITS team.
How  is  it  Still  a  
(Midd)  Thing?  
middlebury debate society
Elizabeth Lee ’17 practices at the 2015 Oxford Inter-Varsity Debating Competition. 
Of all the ways to be romantically in-
volved with someone for less than ten min-
utes, speed dating is perhaps the most so-
cially acceptable. 
Even so, when I discovered that the 
Student Government Association was host-
ing a speed-dating event, I was a little bit 
skeptical as to how it would turn out. In a 
social scene where the height of romantic 
sentiment is often expressed through a 
kids abbreviate this to “DFMO”) in an At-
water suite, it seemed a little naive to be-
lieve that students would choose to spend 
two hours on a Friday night awkwardly 
mumbling to each other in a lighted room. 
Still, the event intrigued me – partially 
because of the aforementioned reasons, 
partially because I obviously had no other 
plans and partially because I have felt pain-
fully unlovable ever since Erin McDowell 
rejected me in ninth grade. 
So I walked to Coltrane Lounge on Fri-
day night with my laptop in tow, in search 
of the perfect story, and maybe even some 
companionship for my own lonely soul. 
Ever the polite party guest, I showed up 
to the event 45 minutes early, where I met 
Georgia Grace Edwards ’18, the second-
term SGA senator who organized the event. 
The room had two huge circles of 
chairs set up to face each other, the idea be-
ing that students sit across from each other 
for a three-minute “date” and then rotate to 
somebody else, 15 times. Conceptually, it’s 
a lot like Tinder, only you’re forced to swipe 
right every time and you don’t look as good 
because it’s real life.   
When I asked Edwards about what 
made her decide to host a speed-dating 
-
tors.
because I’ve noticed this feeling on campus 
where people are feeling lonely a little bit,” 
she said, before laughing and mentioning 
that if I’ve been on Yik Yak at all this semes-
ter I will know what she is talking about. 
Edwards went on to talk about the 
hookup culture here on campus and how 
she feels events like this one can help to 
-
ment to meet new people.
 “I really am passionate about people 
and my favorite events are campus are the 
ones where it’s a lot of discussion between 
people,” she said. “My vision is for this to 
provide an alternate space for people to 
meet that’s not just an Atwater suite.”
-
ing into Coltrane in excited little pockets, 
the air abuzz with the nervous excitement 
that comes with not knowing exactly what’s 
about to happen. 
Turnout was high, with over one hun-
dred students in attendance. As more and 
had to be set up, scooted back and pushed 
together in an attempt to accommodate all 
of these potential 
lovers. 
I stole a seat 
in the corner, 
where I spoke 
to two students, 
Elizabeth and 
Laura, about their 
expectations for 
the evening.
Laura men-
tioned that, as 
hoped to meet 
some people out-
side of her com-
mons. When I asked Elizabeth if she hoped 
the evening would bring some kind of ro-
mantic connection she blushed and said, 
“Well, I do believe in fate.”
By this point, Edwards was standing 
on a table at the front of the room, ready 
to get the ball rolling, so I suggested that 
I could get their opinions on how the night 
went, to which Elizabeth responded coolly, 
“Do you want me to just give you my num-
ber?”  
After a quick explanation of how the 
dating rotation would work, the timer start-
How was my speed dating experience? 
A little awkward, to be sure, in part because 
I had to explain to each person I spoke to 
why I was writing down what they said on a 
laptop and in part because Mohammed, the 
young man seated next to me, was such a 
smooth talker that when girls had to rotate 
to me their disappointment was palpable. 
Still, I was able to talk to over 15 students, 
and their insights provided a remarkably 
balanced perception of the Middlebury dat-
ing scene.
Except for one, all of the students I 
spoke to said that they came to the event 
simply to meet new people.
evening, put it, “This has gotten a lot of 
awesome people together who might not 
otherwise have met each other.”
Even though most students didn’t 
come to speed dating with the intent of 
seriously dating someone, I felt that I had 
responsibility as a journalist to question 
them about their romantic lives. Out of the 
15 students I asked, 11 said that they would 
be interested in seriously dating someone 
here at Middle-
bury, but most 
of them took a 
little prodding to 
admit it, usually 
saying something 
along the lines 
of “Well, I mean, 
I’m not looking 
for anything, but 
if, like, I random-
ly meet the most 
perfect person in 
the world than I 
wouldn’t, like, not 
date them.”  
After eventually admitting that she 
wouldn’t mind dating someone here at the 
College, Kate, another one of my dates, 
stated, “Most people really do want a re-
lationship, they just don’t want to call it a 
relationship.”
 When asked about hookup culture, 
the general consensus seemed to be that 
students felt a little bit threatened by the 
inherent expectation involved. Though 
nobody felt that total monogamous com-
mitment was necessary to college life, most 
people were grateful that events like this 
one gave them a chance to meet people in 
a safe setting. 
As Olivia, one student I spoke to, put it, 
“This event is nice because all of the lights 
are on and it’s not sketchy. It’s nice because 
it’s not Atwater.”
 When the event ended at 9:15 p.m., 
students continued to happily linger, chat-
ting and exchanging numbers and specu-
lating as to whether or not Felly’s show 
would actually be protested later that night. 
Edwards addressed the crowd one 
last time, making it clear that she hoped 
to make speed dating a regular occurrence 
and asking them to please let her know if 
they had any feedback for future events. 
edu if you have any questions or potential 
ideas). After noting the impressive turnout, 
Edwards ended the evening with a quick 
word of closure.
“Feel free to hang out,” she said warm-
ly, “I hope you found friends, baes or what-
ever else you were looking for.”
13featuresdecember 10, 2015   
SGA  Speed  Dating:  The  Grilled  Cheese  
Sandwich  to  Your  Atwater  Suite  Hangover?
georgia grace edwards
By  Cole  Merrell
Contributing  Writer
Over 100 students went to Coltrane Lounge on Friday night to shake up their love lives and meet new people at a Speed Dating event. 
Wellness  Tip  of  
the  Week  
By  Wellness  Leaders
Contributing  Columnists
A  Holistic  View  at  Health
Putting in multiple hours of work at a 
time? Break it up! Studies show that 
taking a break every 15-25 minutes 
can help you be more productive and 
efficient in the long run. Taking a short 
walk, chatting with a friend, getting 
some tea, power napping, or watching 
a few YouTube clips can actually mean 
better work.
Mental  Health  News:
- On Thursday, Dec. 10, Crossroads is host-
ing a Harry Potter Marathon from 10 a.m. 
to 8 p.m. Come watch your favorites of the 
series!
- On Friday, Dec. 11, yoga classes of various 
beginning at 10 a.m. 
georgia grace edwards
Most people who went to the speed 
dating event hoped to meet new people. 
“Most  people  really  do  
want  a  relationship  they  just  
don’t  want  to  call  it  a  rela-­
tionship.”
Kate
student who attended speed  dating 
FORTH ‘N GOAL SPORTS
388-­3444
Enter to win a $50 gift card online at middleburyshop.com
Like Us On
MIDDLEBURY SALE!
OR
MORE
Everything Middlebury!20% OFF
Fri., Sat. & Sun.  –  May 9th, 10th & 11th,  Sat.        -­  Dec.  11    2t ,  &   3th
CARTOONS
nolan ellsworth and KAti Baughman
Emily COx
KAITLYND COLLINS
WIN HOMER
VAASU TANEJA
BOONE MCCOY-CRISP
arts Sciences
As   the   last   house   lights   dimmed   in  
the  dance  theater  of  the  Mahaney  Center  
for  the  Arts  (MCA),  the  audience  quickly  
hushed   their   conversation   in   anticipa-­
tion   of   the   Fall   Dance   Concert’s   first  
number.  The  spectators  –  a  healthy  mix  
of   students   and   community  members   –  
waited  quietly  as  the  performers  shuffled  
onstage  under  the  cover  of  darkness.  
The   Friday   and   Saturday   perfor-­
mances  (Dec.  4-­5)  were  the  culmination  
of   the   semester   for   Visiting   Assistant  
Professor   of   Dance   Scotty   Hardwig’s  
Intermediate/Advanced   Dance   1   class,  
which  is  made  up  of  all  dance  majors  or  
joint   dance   majors.   Each   student   had  
choreographed  a  piece  for  the  concert.  
Hardwig  used  a   two-­pronged   learn-­
ing  approach  in  his  intensive  course.
“[The  students]  have  been  through  a  
semester  of   technique  practice,  but  also  
learned   compositional   skills   and   tools,”  
he  said.
The  first  piece  of  the  show,  “Growth  
Variations,”   featured   all   nine   student  
choreographers.  
“‘Growth   Variations’   is   a   collection  
of   composition   studies   that   [the   chore-­
ographers]  have  made  over  the  course  of  
the   semester   that   I’ve   directed   and  wo-­
ven  together  into  a  longer  study,”  Hard-­
wig  explained.  “These  studies  that  we’ve  
collected   over   the   course   of   the   semes-­
ter   are   really   a   testament   to   how  much  
they’ve   grown   as   performers.   It’s   really  
striking  to  see  how  they  evolve,  especial-­
ly  in  their  technical  practice.”    
In   addition   to   this   series   of   stud-­
ies  and  the  nine  student-­choreographed  
pieces,   a   group   of   dancers   performed   a  
“newcomer’s   work”   entitled   “Between  
Two  Meanings.”   An   annual   facet   of   the  
Fall   Dance   Concert,   the   “newcomer’s  
work”  is  a  work  choreographed  by  a  fac-­
ulty   member   or   student   who   has   never  
performed   in   the   dance   theater   or   in   a  
dance  show  before.
The   dances   of   the   night   ranged  
widely   in   terms   of   themes,   costumes  
and   even   the   performers’   movements.  
Some   pieces   relied   on   abrupt,   jerky  
movements;;   others   saw   dancers   sweep-­
ing  smoothly  across  the  stage.  In  “Coral  
Reef,”  performers  draped   themselves   in  
fishing   nets,  while   the   opener,   “Growth  
Variations,”  showcased  dancers   in  more  
flexible,  all-­purpose  attire.  The  styles  of  
music  in  the  show  were  also  varied,  with  
at   least   several   of   the   dances   incorpo-­
rating   multiple   songs   with   a   variety   of  
genres   and   tempos.   Even   the   manner  
in  which   the  performers  bowed  was   tai-­
lored  to  their  piece,  with  many  foregoing  
a   traditional   bowing   technique   in   favor  
of  a  quick,  recognizable  movement  from  
their  dance.  
A  crucial  part  of  the  preparation  for  
the   show   was   the   feedback   and   assess-­
ment  process.  Spread  out  over  the  course  
of   the   semester,   each   of   the   three   feed-­
back   performances   allowed   dance   pro-­
fessors  and  a  guest  dancer  and  choreog-­
rapher,  Liz  Lerman,  to  help  the  students  
shape  their  pieces.  
The   feedback   that   the   choreogra-­
phers   received   prompted   and   encour-­
aged  large  changes  to  their  dances.  
“It’s  not  really  an  easy  thing  to  take  
feedback   and   large   changes,   particular-­
ly   with   an   art   form   that   deals   with   the  
body…   [where]   there’s   a   lot   of   vulner-­
ability  and  a  lot  of  investment,”  Hardwig  
commented.  
Matea  Mills-­Andruk  ’18.5  performed  
in   two   of   the   dances,   although   she   was  
not   a   member   of   the   Intermediate/Ad-­
vanced  Dance  1  class.  Observing  the  cri-­
tique  process  taught  her  a  huge  amount  
about  the  process  of  creating  a  piece.  Ac-­
cording   to  her,   it   seemed   that   “the  pur-­
pose   of   the   showing  was   to   get   familiar  
with  the  feedback  and  for  the  choreogra-­
phers  to  watch  the  dancers.”  
The  Friday  night  performance  of  the  
Fall   Dance   Concert   was   quite   impres-­
sive.  It  was  obvious  that   the  performers  
and   choreographers   had   put   significant  
time   into   perfecting   their  work   and   en-­
suring  that  the  interactions  between  the  
performers   were   seamless.   Some   of   the  
pieces,  such  as  “Desde  la  Sacha”  and  “It  
is…”   shined   in   particular   for   their   level  
of   energy   and   catchy   rhythms.   Others,  
like   the   eye-­opening   “Things   Invisible  
Mostly   to   Ourselves,”   were   upfront   in  
the  way  they  tackled  difficult   issues  like  
racism.  
A   fellow   audience   member,   Mad-­
die   Hampton   ’18,   concurred,   “I   think  
the   individual   pieces   reflect   an   extreme  
amount   of   thought   and   an   amazing   un-­
derstanding   of   movement   as   a   medium  
to  provoke  discussion.”  
The   show   as   a   whole   did   feel   a   bit  
lengthy,   lasting  almost   two-­and-­a-­quar-­
ter  hours.  This  was  necessary  for  such  a  
sizable  compilation  of  works,  which  rep-­
resented  a  wide  range  of  aesthetics.  
Hardwig   summed   up   the   concert  
well,   saying  that   the  performances  were  
all   about   “coming   into   the   theater   and  
enjoying   the   pleasure   of   watching   the  
body   in  motion,  watching  choreography  
…   tapping   into   deeper   questions   about  
what  it  means  to  be  human.”
Diverse  Aesthetics  in  Fall  Dance  Concert  
By  Will  Simpson
Contributing  Writer
Rachel Frank
Students  from  Scotty  Hardwig’s  Intermediate/Advanced  Dance  1  class  choreographed  nine  pieces  for  the  Fall  Dance  Concert.
Vocal Recital
Peck   and   Beth   Thompson   cap   off   a   semester   of   vocal  
study  with  an  evening  of  songs  and  arias.  Accompanied  
by  Cynthia  Huard,  piano.  Sponsored  by  the  Department  
of  Music.  Free.
12/12, 8 P.M. MCA CONCERT HALL
To Kill a Man
Jorge   is   a   tranquil,  middle-­class   family  man  whose  
neighborhood  has  been  overrun  by  a   fringe  class  of  
street   thugs.   His   comparatively   fortunate   existence  
makes  him  the  target  of  their  intimidation  one  night  
and  a  hulking  outlaw  robs  him  of  his  insulin  needle.  
12/12, 3 & 8 P.M. DANA AUDITORIUM
Vermont Choreographers’ Showcase
Enjoy  an  evening  of  new  dance  works  by  Ver-­
mont  choreographers  Erika  Lawlor  Schmidt,  
Paula  Higa,   The  Montpelier  Movement   Col-­
lective   and   surprise   guests.  The   evening  will  
improvisation  and  dynamic  choreography.
12/11, 7 P.M. MCA DANCE THEATER
don’t
miss
this
Rachel Frank
The  two-­hour  show  featured  a  diverse  array  of  themes,  costumes  and  movements.
|  December 10, 2015 arts SCIENCES16
Before   the   musical   began,   director  
Maria   Flanders   ’18   spoke   to   the   audi-­
ence  crowded  inside  Hepburn  Zoo.  Along  
with   a   kind   reminder   to   silence   our   cell  
phones,  she  implored  us  to  recognize  the  
ability   that   seemingly   inconsequential  
chance   encounters   have   to   change   our  
lives.   The   show   that   followed,  Ordinary  
Days,   with   music   and   lyrics   by   Adam  
Gwon,   poignantly   explored   these   mo-­
ments.
Running  from  Dec.  3  to  5,  Ordinary  
Days   was   performed   by   four   members  
of   the  Middlebury  College  Musical  Play-­
ers.  The  story,  in  which  almost  all  of  the  
dialogue  is  sung,  follows  the  lives  of  four  
young  people  as  they  weather  the  storms  
of  relationships,  graduate  school  and  fiz-­
zling  careers.  It  all  begins  on  a  busy  street  
corner,   where  Warren,   played   by   Logan  
Wahl  ’19,  attempts  to  hand  out  artsy  fly-­
ers  to  passersby  in  New  York  City.  As  one  
woman   passes,   she   accidentally   drops   a  
notebook.
This   simple   moment   spirals   into   a  
strange  and  unlikely   friendship  between  
Warren   and   Deb,   portrayed   by   co-­pro-­
ducer  Hannah  Johnston  ’15.5,  after  War-­
ren  reaches  out  to  Deb  in  order  to  return  
her   notebook.   The   two   characters   could  
not   be   more   different:  Warren   is   undy-­
ingly  optimistic,  whilst  Deb,  a  struggling  
graduate   student,   is   fiery  and  defensive.  
Yet   as   they   get   to   know   each   other,   the  
nuances   of   their   struggles   find   their  
way   to   the   surface,   and   both   characters  
change  for  the  better.
At  the  same  time,   thirty-­somethings  
Claire   and   Jason,   played   by   Liana   Bar-­
ron  ’18  and  Peter  Dykeman-­Birmingham  
’18.5,  must   grapple  with   the   tensions   of  
the  next  stage  of  their  relationship:  mov-­
ing  in  together.  Interactions  between  the  
two   of   them   reach   a   fever   pitch,   forcing  
them   to   confront   their   fears   and   uncer-­
tainties.   By   the   end,   the   strength   they  
find  in  each  other  proves  great  enough  to  
overcome  the  pain  of  the  past.
The  relatable  circumstances  that  the  
four  characters  struggle  with  –  relation-­
ship   problems,   academic   confusion,   un-­
certainties  about  the  future  and  the  feel-­
ing  of  facelessness  in  a  vast  and  crowded  
world  –  remind  us  of  the  power  that  our  
actions   can   have   over   those   around   us.  
The  musical  is  effective  in  demonstrating  
how  seemingly  inconsequential  moments  
can  coalesce  into  bright  and  powerful  life  
transformations.
Flanders   echoed   this   sentiment   in  
describing  her  experience  as  a   first-­time  
director.  
“I   feel   so   lucky   to  have  been  part  of  
the   sweetest,   most   mutually   supportive  
team  of  cast  and  crew  for  this  show,”  she  
said.   “They   have   been   random,   chance  
encounters,   but   wow,   have   they   had   an  
impact  on  my  life  story.”
Even   with   a   strong   sense   of   back-­
stage   camaraderie,   however,   there   were  
a   few  challenges   in  putting   the  show   to-­
gether.  
“Logistics  were  tough,”  Flanders  not-­
ed.  “We  had  trouble   initially  with  secur-­
ing  the  rights  [to  the  play],  and  of  course  
it  is  hard  to  schedule  with  all  the  activities  
Middlebury  students  are  involved  in.  One  
of   the  biggest  obstacles  was   figuring  out  
the   accompaniment.   We   ended   up   with  
half   live   and   half   recorded   tracks   at   al-­
most  the  last  minute,  so  our  pianist  [Glo-­
ria  Breck   ’18]  and  the  cast  and  crew  had  
to  quickly  adjust  to  new  sound  dynamics,  
tempos,   timing   and   organization.   Be-­
cause  everyone   is  amazing,   they’ve  done  
a  great  job  of  pulling  through.”
The  songs  themselves  did  most  of  the  
talking,  serving  as  a  bold  vehicle  of  emo-­
tion  for  the  characters’  struggles.  The  set  
list  grappled  with  a  unique  array  of  expe-­
riences,  from  feeling  invisible  to  wanting  
to  be   anywhere   else  but  here,   from  pro-­
cessing  pain  from  the  past  to  letting  go  of  
hopes  for  the  future.
For   Johnston,   the   show  marked   the  
moving  end  to  her  undergraduate  theatre  
work.
“This  musical   is  especially  pertinent  
to  me  as  I  prepare  to  graduate  this  com-­
ing   February;;   it’s   a   reminder   to   take   a  
step   back,   take   a   breath   and   remember  
that   things   are   going   to   work   out,   one  
way  or  another,”  she  said.  “I  think  Ordi-­
nary  Days  has  a  message   that  speaks   to  
a  lot  of  Middlebury  students  –  it’s  impor-­
tant  for  us  to  remember  that  it’s  not  just  
impressive  end-­goals  that  matter.  It’s  im-­
perative  that  we  enjoy  where  we  are  now  
and  what  we’re  doing  along  the  way.  The  
musical  sings  a  message  of  perspective.”
With  its  sharp  humor  and  sometimes  
painfully   relatable   storyline,   Ordinary  
Days   implores   the   audience   to   consider  
the  fine  line  between  the  momentary  and  
the  momentous.  Even  if  we  never  have  a  
chance  to  see  the  lives  we  affect,  the  most  
ordinary   acts   in   the  most   ordinary   days  
can  cause  the  most  beautiful  changes.
By  Finne  Murphy
Contributing  Writer
Chance  Meetings  Shine  in  Ordinary  Days
The  four-­person  cast  of  Ordinary  Days  sang  their  way  through  the  sights,  sounds  and  strifes  of  New  York  City  living  (Dec.  3-­5).  
Dartmouth   Professor   of   Biochem-­
istry   Jon   Lull   spoke   last   Friday,   Dec.   4  
about   his   research   using   fatty   acids   to  
treat   cholera   and   other   gastrointestinal  
bacterial   diseases,  which,   combined,   kill  
100,000  people  every  year.
Cholera  is  caused  by  Vibrio  cholerae  
bacteria   and   is   spread   through   contami-­
nated   drinking   water.   Before   the   germ  
theory   of   disease,   it  was  believed   in  Eu-­
rope  that  Cholera  was  a  “bad  air”  that  em-­
anated   from   rotting   organic   matter   and  
made   people   sick.   John   Snow,   a   father  
of   epidemiology,   first  discovered   its   real  
method  of  transmission  when  he  mapped  
Cholera  outbreaks  in  London  and  noticed  
their   association   with   certain   drinking  
wells   (he   also   surprisingly   found   that   it  
was   safest   to   live   in   or   near   a   brewery;;  
bacteria  can’t  grow  in  beer  and  it  was  the  
safest  thing  to  drink  before  basic  sanita-­
tion).
Cholera   is   most   prevalent   in   cities  
with  poor  sanitation  and  outbreaks  often  
occur  after  natural  disasters.
“Most   of   the   time   we   don’t   get   it  
because   we’re   drinking   purified   drink-­
ing  water,”  Lull  said.  “But  what  happens  
sometimes,  particularly  in  developing  ar-­
eas,  if  there’s  a  monsoon  or  a  natural  di-­
saster  or  an  earthquake  like  in  Haiti,  the  
water  supply  and  sewage  lines  get  mixed  
together   and   you   can   get   a   cholera   out-­
break.”
People   in   affected   areas   often   have  
little   access   to   antibiotics   and   can   die  
from   severe   dehydration   resulting   from  
diarrhea.   Jon   Kull   proposed   a   novel   so-­
lution   to   treating   Cholera:   use   natural  
products  high  in  monosaturated  fats  like  
sea   buckthorn   and   synthetic   analogs   of  
fatty   acids.   These   chemicals   would   be   a  
cheap   substitute   to  antibi-­
otics   in   areas   without   ac-­
cess   to   them.   His   decades  
long  work  on  Cholera  viru-­
lence   proteins   led   him   to  
discover   that   fatty   acids  
can   help   prophylactically  
prevent  Cholera.
Lull   is   a   structural  bi-­
ologist   and   primarily   re-­
searches   the   structures   of  
proteins   –   the   molecules  
that  are  the  active  workers  
of   a   cell   and   carry   out   its  
essential   functions.   When  
he   first   joined   the   faculty  
at   Dartmouth,   a   colleague  
from   the   Darmouth   Medical   School   ap-­
proached  him  and  asked  him  to   find  the  
structures   of   proteins   in   Cholera   that  
make   it   toxic.   Lull   agreed   (coincidently,  
he   remembered   that   audience   member  
Mary   Lothrop,   Middlebury’s   CCI   direc-­
tor   of   health   profession   advising,   was  
his  first  researcher  and  worked  with  him  
when  he  began  the  project).
Lull’s   most   exciting   results   have  
come  from  studying  the  ToxT  protein,  the  
master  regulator  of  Cholera  toxicity.  Not  
all   cholera  bacteria   are  pathogenic;;   they  
need   to   have   insertions   of   two   different  
packages  of  genes  that  lead  to  the  deadly  
effects   of   cholera,   and   one   of   the   inser-­
tions   contains  ToxT.  ToxT   regulates   two  
important  genes  that  make  cholera  dead-­
ly:  the  cholera  toxin  gene  and  the  cholera  
toxin  coregulated  pilus  structure.
“The   cholera   tox-­
in   gene   is   what   actually  
makes   you   sick,”  Lull   said.  
“Your   intestinal   cells   take  
it  up  and   the  cholera   toxin  
causes   ion   transporters   to  
open  up  and  pump  ions  out  
into   your   intestine.   Water  
follows  and  you  die  of  mas-­
sive   dehydration   in   a   cou-­
ple  of  days.”
Jon   Lull   studied   the  
ToxT  protein  and  found  its  
structure  using  a  technique  
called   X-­ray   crystallogra-­
phy.   In  X-­ray   crystallogra-­
phy,  a  protein  is  precipitat-­
ed   into  a  crystal  and  X-­rays  are  directed  
at   its   crystal.  The  pattern  by  which   light  
bounces   off   gives   valuable   information  
about   a   molecule’s   structure.   When   he  
looked  at  the  structure,  he  noticed  some-­
thing  unexpected.
“What   was   very   surprising   was   the  
presence   of   a   small   molecule   tucked   in  
a   small   pocket   of   the  middle  of   the  pro-­
tein,”  Lull  said.  “And  I  remember  looking  
at   it   for   the   first   time   and   thinking   this  
can’t   be   an   amino   acid…   it   looks   like   a  
fatty   acid.  And   sure   enough   it  was.   Like  
most  surprises  in  science  in  retrospect  it  
turned  out  to  be  not  so  much  a  surprise.”
He  discovered  that  the  fatty  acid  was  
palmitoleic   acid.   When   the   fatty   acid   is  
bound   to  ToxT,   it  has  difficulty   express-­
ing  the  two  deadly  cholera  toxin  genes.
One   night,   during   dinner   with   his  
wife,   Lull   came   to   a   sudden   realization  
about  the  implications  of  his  discovery.
“It  was  one  of  those  scientific  epiph-­
any   moments   and   I   said,   ‘Oh   my   God,  
I   know   how   to   cure   cholera’   –   we   give  
people  fatty  acids  and  this  prevents  them  
from  getting  cholera,”  Lull  said.  “It  seems  
obvious  now,  but  no  one  had  said  that  yet  
at  this  point.”
Lull   has   since   experimented   on   us-­
ing   different  monosaturated   fats   to   pre-­
vent  cholera.  In  one  mouse  study,  control  
mice  died  on  average  24  hours  after  being  
exposed   to   cholera.   The   treatment  mice  
who   prophylicatically   received   palmi-­
toleic   acid   survived   significantly   longer  
than  the  control  mice  and  were  still  alive  
after  the  conclusion  of  the  experiment  48  
hours  after  being  infected.
Lull   is   currently   pushing   for   clini-­
cal  trials  to  treat  patients  with  sea  buck-­
thorn,  a  plant  produced  in  large  amounts  
in  China   that   is   high   in   palmitoleic   acid  
and  working  on  creating  synthetic  chemi-­
cals  that  could  be  more  effective  than  pal-­
mitoleic   acid   in   treating   Cholera.   If   his  
project   comes   to   fruition,  we  could  have  
a  new  drug  in  our  arsenal  to  help  prevent  
and  treat  cholera.
Speaker  Proposes  New  Cholera  Therapy
By  Toby  Aicher
Arts  &  Sciences  Editor
“It  was  one  of  
epiphany  
moments  ...  we  
can  give  people  
fatty  acids  and  
that  prevents  
them  from  getting  
cholera”
John Lull
Dartmouth Professor of Biochemistry
Eliza Margolin
Clickshare,   a   new  play   by  Lucas  Ka-­
vner   ’06.5,   premiered   this   weekend   at  
the   Seeler   Studio   Theatre   at   the   Mah-­
aney  Center  for  the  Arts  (MCA).    Directed  
by   Associate   Professor   of   Theatre   Alex  
Draper  and  featuring  an  original  company  
composed  entirely  of  current  Middlebury  
students,  Clickshare   proved   a   deft   satire  
painted   pitch-­black   –   a   raucous   send-­up  
of   new   media,   hero-­worship   and   corpo-­
rate  culture.
Clickshare   was   developed   this   sum-­
mer   at   MIDDSummer   Play   Lab   before  
it   was   brought   on   as   a   faculty   show   this  
fall,   undergoing   additional   tweaks   at   the  
beginning  of   this  semester.     Taking  place  
a   news-­aggregate   site   in   the   style   of  The  
   or   Buzzfeed,   Clickshare  
charts   the   experiences   of   new-­hire   Ash-­
ley  as  she  adjusts  to  her  new  position  and  
stumbles   across   a   potentially   paradigm-­
shifting  news  story.
up   culture   of   our   times,   Kavner   readily  
digs  to  its  roots,  unearthing  the  lunacy  of  
-­
share  that  Kavner  creates  is  a  world  as  rich  
as  Alice’s  Wonderland,  possessing  its  own  
similarly  irrational  logic  and  populated  by  
its  own  cast  of  colorful  characters.
And  yet,  much  of  the  setting’s  strength  
stems   from   the   blurring   of   what   is   real  
and  what  is  imagined.    Before  developing  
Clickshare,  Kavner  spent  some  time  work-­
ing  at  The   ,  an  experience  
-­
tion  of  Clickshare.    The  high-­pressure  cli-­
mate,  the  unhinged  corporate  culture  and  
the  ludicrous  premise  of  Clickshare  will  all  
be  eerily  familiar  to  anyone  who  has  spent  
some  time  working  within  the  start-­up  set.
Satire  comes  almost  too  easily  to  such  
a  world  –  Clickshare  drips  with  caricature,  
willing  to  veer  into  territory  that  is  shock-­
ing   in   its   absurdity.      Yet   Kavner’s   script  
is  perfectly  paced,  each  element  carefully  
balanced.      Larger-­than-­life   characters  
are  offset  by  the  goofy  earnestness  of   the  
play’s   central   band   of   heroes;;   wild   con-­
spiracy  plots   and   apocalyptic   undertones  
are  rooted   in  a  highly  realistic   recreation  
of  start-­up  culture.    Dialogue  is  sharp  and  
unyielding,  but  makes  room  for  painfully  
realistic   asides   and   rewarding   banter.  
Clickshare
but  is  so  lucidly  paced  that  the  audience  is  
never  left  behind,  able  to  enjoy  the  surface  
pleasures   of   its   plot   machinations   while  
contending  with  the  complex  implications  
at  the  play’s  core.  
The   cast   makes   remarkable   work   of  
Clickshare -­
as   new   girl   Ashley,   alternatively   earnest  
and  willing  to  succumb  to  the  darker  forc-­
es  that  govern  Clickshare  and  the  culture  
out   the   subtleties   of   veteran   Clickshare  
players,  respectively  embodying  charming  
slacker  Colin  and  neurotic  pragmatist  Zak.
Of   the   eccentric   members   of   Click-­
share’s   hierarchy   with   which   our   heroes  
-­
-­
parts   charm   and   empty-­headedness,   an  
apt   symbol   of   the   simultaneously   attrac-­
tive  and  idiotic  Clickshare  itself.    Burnet’s  
Milano   is   revelatory,   the   force   around  
which   the  production  revolves.  An   image  
in  blue  slip  and  blonde  wig,  Milano   is  all  
sly   smile,   assertive   gait   and   untraceable  
accent.   Ethereal   and   impressive,   Milano  
is   the   face   of  Clickshare,   its   grand   ideals  
in   near-­human   form.      She   is   a   TedTalk,  
a  graduation  speech,   incarnate.     The   jux-­
taposition   between   such   a   high-­minded  
-­
periences  of  the  four  loggers  at  the  center  
of   the   play   powerfully   dismantles   many  
of  the  notions  of  progress  and  humanism  
that  Silicon  Valley  and  its  ilk  often  invoke.  
And   yet,  Milano   is   resolutely   attrac-­
tive   and   admirable.      As   the   play’s   dark  
center   is   slowly   teased   out,   perhaps   the  
greatest  mystery   remaining  by   the  end   is  
that   of   Milano.   Is   she   the   icy,   gleaming  
face   of   evil,   impressive   cheekbones   and  
all,  or   is  she  merely  the  projection  of  our  
own   aspirations   and   desires,   a   waking  
dream?
These  and  other  contradictions  make  
ambiguity.      The   audience   is   left  wonder-­
ing:   are   these   companies   suffused   with  
poor   intentions?   Are   we   as   consumers  
the   drivers   of   their   success   or   victims   of  
their   manipulations?   While   Clickshare  
undoubtedly   prompts   such   questions,   it  
thankfully   avoids   professing   a   political  
agenda.    Questions  raised  are  questions  to  
be  mulled  over  well  into  the  future.
As   director   Alex   Draper   suggests,   “I  
think   that   the   crisis   that   it’s   addressing,  
which   is   pretty   substantial,   is   not   imme-­
diately  new,  nor  is  it  going  to  go  away  any-­
time  soon.”
Yet   perhaps   by   its   very   traditional  
theater   format,   Clickshare   offers   some  
optimism  in  our  age  of  overwhelming  digi-­
-­
get   out   of   our  houses   to  be  near   live  hu-­
man   beings   and   hear   them   tell   a   story,”  
says  Draper.    “My  optimistic,  aspirational  
view  is  that  theater  is  not  threatened  at  all,  
AlejandrA Chavez
The  faculty  show  follows  the  employees  of  Clickshare,  a  new-­aggregate  site,  and  recounts  the  challenges  and  crises  they  face.
By  Luke  Linden
17arts SCIENCESDecember 10, 2015|  
Clickshare  Satrizes  Corporate  Culture
If   mystery   and   suspense   are   your  
genres  of  choice,   -­
by   Stieg   Larsson   is   a   must-­
read.   A   tense,   unpredictable   novel   with  
frightening   characters   and   a   crafty   plot,  
this   book   has   become   an   international  
sensation.   Originally   published   in   Swe-­
den  under  the  title   -­
,  meaning   ,  the  
book  has   been   translated   and  published  
worldwide,   followed   by   its   two   sequels,  
film   adaptations   in   both   Swedish   and  
English  and  a   graphic  novel   adaptation,  
published   by  DC  Comics.  Although   crit-­
ics’   reviews  have  been  somewhat  mixed,  
the  novel’s  sheer  popularity  speaks  to  its  
power  to  capture  an  audience.
The   story   opens   with   Mikael   Blom-­
kvist,   a   journalist   hired   by   retired   CEO  
Henrik  Vanger  to  look  into  the  cold  case  
of   his   grandniece   Harriet’s   disappear-­
ance.   Henrik   believes   Harriet   was  mur-­
dered  by  a   family  member.  After  uncov-­
ering   new   evidence   which   puts   him   on  
the  trail  of  the  killer,  Blomkvist  requests  
assistance  with  his  research  and  is  joined  
by  Lisbeth  Salander,  the  eponymous  girl  
with   the  dragon   tattoo.  She   is  an  excep-­
tional   computer   hacker,   extremely   anti-­
social   and,   when   need   arises,   unapolo-­
getically   violent.  Since   she  was  declared  
legally  incompetent  as  a  child,  she  has  a  
legal  guardian  –  placing  her  in  a  position  
of  dependency  which  she  resents.
What   ensues   is   a   familiar   mystery  
story  full  of  unexpected  twists  and  turns.  
Larsson   successfully   takes   tropes   that  
the  “locked  room”  mystery  set-­up  –  and  
keeps   them  exciting,  making   the   ending  
unpredictable.   He   achieves   the   perfect  
balance   of   the   mystery   novel   by   giving  
you   just   enough   information   that   you  
feel   like   you   should   be   able   to   figure   it  
out,   while   obscuring   enough   to   make  
sure  you’re  still  surprised  when  the  twist  
happens.   As   with   any   good   mystery,  
Blomkvist   and   Salander   discover   there  
are  far  more  skeletons  in  the  closet  than  
just  Harriet’s   ¬   both   proverbial   and   lit-­
eral   ones.  As   they   delve   deeper   into   the  
history  and  secrets  of  the  Vanger  family,  
they  discover  murders  spanning  decades  
as  well  as  danger  in  the  present.
As  good  as  the  suspense  and  mystery  
is,  stay  away  from  this  book  if  you  do  not  
do  well  with   violence   in  media.   Larsson  
does  not  shy  away  from  revealing  the  ug-­
liest  side  of  human  nature.  His  characters  
are   intelligent   and   enjoyably   complex,  
but  many  of  them  are  also  incredibly  vi-­
cious  and  have  no  qualms  about  causing  
physical  harm.  The  story  takes  many  dark  
and  unpleasant   turns   and   leaves  behind  
bloodied   corpses   in   the   process   -­   other  
characters  move   forward  with  a  horrify-­
ing   lack   of   remorse.   Larsson’s   graphic  
descriptions  of  kidnapping,  murder,  rape  
and   torture   sometimes   make  
  look  positively  tame.  It  creates  a  
definite  atmosphere  for  the  book,  making  
the   characters   gritty   and   self-­sufficient,  
while   dragging   the   ugliest   realities   into  
the   spotlight.   Just   don’t   read   it   if   you  
aren’t   prepared   to   hear   a   story   where  
savagery  and  retribution  are  everywhere.
Despite   all   the   violence,   the   book   is  
not   devoid   of   emotion   or   happiness.   In  
fact,  without  spoiling  too  much,  I  can  say  
that  part  of  the  ending  seems  almost  too  
happy,  slightly  out  of  place  in  a  book  with  
so   much   darkness.   Still,   the   relation-­
ship   between   Blomkvist   and   Salander  
remains   intriguing:   they   are   definitely  
the   most   developed   and   most   interest-­
ing  characters  in  the  book  and  thus  their  
partnership   creates  many   of   the   novel’s  
high-­points.   The   pair   have   some   genu-­
inely   touching   moments   that   feel   like  
gasps  of  air  of  human  goodness,  although  
they   certainly   clash   against   one   another  
from   time   to   time   as  well.   Through   and  
through,   they   challenge   each   other   and  
are  both  better  for  it.
Although   the   announced   mystery  
is   Harriet   Vanger’s   disappearance,   the  
character  of  Lisbeth  Salander  is  the  true  
enigma  of   this  novel.  From  her   first   en-­
trance,  Larsson  raises  a  number  of  ques-­
tions   about   her   backstory.   What   could  
have  led  to  her  current  personality?  Why  
does   an   apparently   brilliant   though   an-­
ti-­social   woman   need   a   legal   guardian?  
How  much  of  a  criminal  is  she?  The  hints  
we  are  given  are  murky  at  best  and  often  
raise   more   questions   than   they   answer.  
Blomkvist   is   more   often   the   reader’s  
point  of   view  character   and   typically  we  
follow   his   revelations   and   deductions  
more   than   Salander’s   –   yet   Salander   is  
the  character  who  captures  more  interest  
and  imagination.  Larsson  does  ultimate-­
ly   reveal   more   of   her   backstory   in   his  
sequels,     
and  
,  but  for  this  book,  Salander  remains  
mostly  indecipherable.
  
may   not   be   for   everyone,   but   if   you’re  
looking   for   an   intense,   scary,   enigmatic  
you,  disturb  you  and  ultimately  leave  you  
breathless  and  dying   to  know  what  hap-­
pens  next.
The Girl with the dragon Tatoo
b0oking it
By  Gabrielle  Owens  
After   a   hot   3-­0   start   to   the   season  
that   featured   a   beatdown   over   Oneonta  
St.   and   two  nail-­biting   victories   against  
Hartwick  and  at  in-­state  opponent  John-­
son   St.,   the   Middlebury   women’s   bas-­
ketball   team   suffered   its   first   loss   this  
season   at   Skidmore,   63-­60.   After   beat-­
ing   the  Thoroughbreds   last   year   by   just  
three   points,   the   Panthers   had   hoped  
they  could  repeat   the  same  feat,  but  ex-­
cessive   turnovers   proved   to   be   Middle-­
bury’s  downfall.
The   Panthers   trailed   for   all   but   29  
seconds   of   the   first   half,   eventually   en-­
tering   halftime   down   32-­26   after   a   9-­6  
Skidmore  run  right  before  the  half.  
The  Thoroughbreds  stretched  the  lead  
to  10  multiple  times  in  the  third  quarter,  
but  Middlebury  refused  to  die.
A   15-­3   run   early   in   the   fourth   quar-­
ter   gave   Middlebury   a   late   one-­point  
lead,  56-­55,  with  4:09  to  play.  With  both  
teams   locking   down   on   the   defensive  
end,  points  were  hard  to  come  by  down  
the  stretch.  Skidmore’s  Veronica  Moceri  
hit  a  three-­pointer  to  give  the  Thorough-­
breds   the   lead   once   more,   but   Rachel  
Collins   ’18  nailed  a   jump  shot   to   tie   the  
game  at  58.
Moceri   came   up   huge   for   Skidmore  
once   again,   hitting   a   three-­pointer   to  
go   up   three   with   51   seconds   left   in   the  
fourth.   Catherine   Harrison   ’19   then   hit  
two  quick   free   throws   to  bring   the  Pan-­
thers  within  one  before  fouling  to  extend  
the   game.   Skidmore   made   what   could  
have   been   a   deadly   mistake,   turning  
the   ball   over   with   13   seconds   to   play.  
Middlebury  got  a   look  at  a  go-­ahead   la-­
yup   with   eight   seconds   remaining   but  
could   not   capitalize.   Skidmore’s   Kelly  
Donnelly   hit   two   free   throws   to   make  
it   a   three-­point   game   once   again.   Pan-­
ther   point   guard   Sarah   Kaufman   ’18  
had   a   chance   to   tie   the   game   and   send  
it  to  overtime,  but  her  desperation  three  
point  attempt  missed  the  mark.
  The  Middlebury  team  that  got  off  the  
bus   in   Saratoga   seemed   to   have   been   a  
different   team   than   the   one   that   went  
undefeated   in   the   month   of   November.  
The   Panthers   turned   the   ball   over   an  
insane  28   times  and  Skidmore  was  able  
to  convert  those  miscues  into  32  points.  
Middlebury   far   surpassed   its   average  of  
19.0  turnovers  per  game  with  that  mark.  
Additionally,   Skidmore’s   bench   out-­
scored  Midd  28-­6.
Kaufman  led  all  scorers  with  20,  while  
Harrison  added  12,  and  both  Eileen  Dal-­
ey   ’18  and  Collins  had  nine  for  the  Pan-­
thers.
First-­year   phenom   Harrison   contin-­
ued   her   unbelievable   collegiate   start  
grabbing   a   career-­high   14   rebounds.  
Harrison  is  now  averaging  14.0  points  a  
game  and  11.3  rebounds  a  game.  She  also  
is   shooting   an   impressive   61.5   percent  
from   the   field.   Harrison   and   Kaufman  
form  a   formidable  1-­2  punch.  The   latter  
is  averaging  17.8  points  per  game  and  is  
automatic   from   the   line,   shooting   83.3  
percent.  
The  Panthers   look   to  get  back  on   the  
winning   track  Saturday,  Dec.   11   in   their  
home   opener   against   Plattsburgh   State  
at  2  p.m,  and  will  play   seven  games  be-­
tween  today  and  the  first  day  of  the  Win-­
ter  Term,  including  some  holiday  season  
action  at  the  NYU  Holiday  Classic  Janu-­
ary   2   and   3.  Everything   leads   up   to   the  
first   weekend   of   conference   play   which  
will  be  at  home  for  the  Panthers  as  they  
square   off   against   Wesleyan   and   Conn.  
College  on  Friday,  Jan.  8  and  Saturday,  
Jan.  9.
|  December 10, 201518 sports
Men’s  and  Women’s  Squash  Triumphant  at  Hamilton
On   Saturday,   Dec.   5,   the   men’s   and  
women’s   squash   teams   headed   to   Clin-­
ton,  New  York  to  take  part  in  matches  at  
Hamilton   College.   The   women’s   squad  
bounced  back   from  a   tough   loss   to  Cor-­
nell   on  Nov.  21   to  defeat  Hamilton  6-­3,  
and   the   men’s   team   dominated   both  
their   opponents,  Hamilton   and   Hobart,  
9-­0.
“Cornell  was   our   opening  match   and  
our   first   trip   traveling,   so   getting   back  
into  the  swing  of  things  as  well  as  getting  
rid   of   all   the   nerves   and   anxiety   of   our  
opening   match,   was   a   big   thing,”   said  
Tiffany  Hau  ’16,  a  team  captain.
With   the   women’s   squad’s   win   over  
Hamilton,   the   fourteenth-­ranked   Pan-­
thers   continued   their   streak   of   domi-­
nance   over   the   Continentals,   defeating  
them   for   the   fourth   consecutive   time  
in   three   years.   Middlebury   swept   all  
matches   in   the   second   through   seventh  
slots  on  the  ladder.  Bea  Kuijpers  ’19  and  
Alexa   Comai   ’19   provided   the   Panthers  
with   strong   performances   as   they   both  
captured  their  first  victories  of  their  col-­
lege  careers,  (11-­2,  11-­3,  11-­6)  and  (11-­8,  
11-­5,  11-­8)  respectively,  and  captains  Zoe  
Carey   ’16   and   Hau   provided   the   Pan-­
thers  with  a  punch   in   the   top-­middle  of  
the  ladder,  winning  their  matches  in  the  
third  and  fourth  spots,  (12-­10,  11-­9,  11-­2)  
and  (11-­6,  11-­1,  11-­5).
“I’ve  really  been  working  on  my  men-­
tal   game,”  Carey   said.   “During   the  Cor-­
nell  match,  once  I  convinced  myself  that  
I   could  win,   I  was  better  able   to   stay   in  
points  and  give  her  a  good  fight.  I  was  a  
bit  more  shaky  due  to  nerves  going  into  
the   Hamilton   match   against   Lillie   Si-­
mourian,  but  I  won  the  big  points  when  I  
had  to  and  became  more  confident  as  the  
match  progressed.”
Getting   stronger   going   into   January  
will   be   a   key   for   the   Panthers’   overall  
success   going   forward.   They   play   im-­
portant   matches   against   Bates,   ranked  
fifteenth-­nationally,   and  Brown,   ranked  
eleventh-­nationally,  on  Jan.  8  and  16  re-­
spectively.
“We’ve  been   training   really  hard  and  
our  team  has  been  really  building  confi-­
dence  as  the  season  is  progressing,”  Hau  
said.   “It’s   definitely   always   tough   hav-­
ing  the  holiday  break  for  winter  sports,”  
Carey  said.
“We   have   been   training   hard   to   im-­
prove  our  overall  level  of  fitness,”  Carey  
added.   “I   know   this   will   show   through  
during   our   matches   against   Bates   and  
Brown.”
On   the  men’s   side   this   weekend,   the  
Panthers   swept  both  Hamilton  and  Ho-­
bart   9-­0.   The   team   dropped   only   two  
games  in  its  defeat  of  Hamilton  and  only  
three  against  Hobart.
The  middle  of  the  ladder  continued  to  
be   a   strength   for   the   Panthers.   Against  
Hamilton,   Harrison   Croll   ’16   bounced  
back   from   losing   his   first   game   to   take  
the  next  three  and  the  win  (9-­11,  11-­2,  11-­
6,   13-­11).  Henry   Pearson   ’17   dominated  
in   the   sixth   slot   (11-­3,   11-­3,   11-­2),  while  
first-­year  Robert  Rohrbach   ’19  earned  a  
win   in   the  ninth   spot   (11-­4,   11-­1,   12-­10)  
his  first  collegiate  action.
In  the  match  against  Hobart,  co-­Cap-­
tain  David  Cromwell  ’16  (11-­7,  14-­12,  13-­
11)  and  Wyatt  French  ’17  (11-­1,  11-­4,  11-­6)  
swept   their  opponents   to  continue   their  
winning   ways   in   the   second   and   third  
slots  respectively.
Will  Kurth  ’18  continues  to  stand  out  
at  the  bottom  of  the   ladder  for  the  Pan-­
thers   throughout   the   early   part   of   the  
season,   sweeping  both  of  his  opponents  
(11-­4,  11-­7,  12-­10)  and  (11-­3,  11-­6,  13-­11).
“I  was  more  fit  than  Dietz  and  I  knew  
if   I   could   focus   on   implementing   my  
game  plan  I  would  beat  him,”  Kurth  said.  
“When  I  think  too  critically  about  a  part  
of  my   swing   or  my  movement   during   a  
match,   I   tend   to   mess   up   strategically.  
This   past   weekend,   I   stopped   worrying  
about   the   technicalities   and   just   played  
my  game.  I  felt  like  my  old  self  and  won  
defiantly.  It  gives  me  confidence  to  work  
super  hard  from  now  until  January.”
Although   he   may   show   up   lower   on  
the   lineup   card   than   last   season,   Kurth  
provides  insurance  for  the  Panthers  that  
they  will  win  their  matches  at  the  bottom  
of  the  ladder.
“It’s   important   not   to   think   selfishly  
and  think  of  this  as  a  good  thing,”  Kurth  
said.   “It  means   other   guys   on   the   team  
have   raised   their   game.   My   team   has  
confidence  that  I  will  win  my  matches  at  
the  eighth  position,  and  I  plan  to  do  just  
that.”
The  squash  teams  are  off  until  the  end  
of  the  break  when  they  travel  to  Maine  to  
take  on  Bates  on  Friday,  Jan.  8  and  Col-­
by  and  Hamilton  on  Saturday,  Jan.  9  to  
start  the  critical  stretch  of  their  season.
“Bates,   Bowdoin   and   Colby   will   be  
grueling   matches   that   demand   focused  
preparation   and   training,”   Kurth   said.  
“We   are   looking   forward   to   the   chal-­
lenge,   especially   for   another   chance   to  
beat  Bates.”
Women’s  Hockey  Wins  One,  Ties  One  
Against  Conn.  College  in  Doubleheader
Women’s Basketball Loses Road Heartbreaker
right   past   the   posts   to   bring   the   score  
even.
Six  minutes  later,  Middlebury  had  two  
chances  to  take  the  lead,  first  with  a  slot  
shot  by  Jessica  Young  ’18  and  a  rebound  
hook  by  Aiello,  but  neither  player  could  
find  the  back  of  the  net.
   The   rest   of   the   third   period   was  
scoreless,  although  Middlebury  was  dan-­
gerous  on   the  puck.  The   ladies  had  sev-­
eral   textbook   setups   that   they   failed   to  
complete.  A  Panther  power  play  came  at  
13:52   on   which  Middlebury   was   unable  
to  capitalize.  Connecticut  nearly  took  the  
win  with   less   than   a  minute   of   play   re-­
maining,   but   Panther   goaltender   Kiana  
Verplancke   ’19   blocked   the   scoring   bid  
and  the  rebound  went  wide.
  In  overtime,  Winslow  had  a  chance  to  
score  the  game-­winning  goal,  but  missed  
the   puck.   Julia   Wardwell   ’16   powered  
a   shot   from   the   left   circle   that   Chester  
gloved.   Midway   through   overtime,   the  
Panthers  looked  poised  to  score,  control-­
ling   the   puck   in   the  Conn  College   zone.  
Winslow   passed   to  Wulf,   but   she   could  
not   track   it   down.   Young   had   a   power-­
ful  shot  that  missed  near  the  post.  Haley  
LaFontaine  ’18  sent  a  wrist  shot  that  ca-­
reened  just  wide.
“The   effort   is   there,   we   just   need   to  
find  more  ways  to  score,”  Wardwell  said.  
“I   think   it’s   absolutely   possible   if   we  
keep  working  hard  and  continue  to  shoot  
the  puck.”
Connecticut   had   an   excellent   chance  
at   scoring   with   27   seconds   left,   but   the  
puck  went  flying  just  over  the  net.
   Both   goaltenders   put   up   a   strong  
showing:   Verplancke   made   22   saves   in  
her   collegiate   debut   for   the   Panthers,  
while   Katherine   Chester   made   31   for  
the  Camels.  Middlebury  had  32  shots  on  
goal,  compared  to  23  for  Conn  College.
“Chester   defended   her   net   well.   We  
had   a   lot   of   good   opportunities   to   bury  
the  puck  but  unfortunately  we  could  not  
capitalize,”   Wardwell   said.   “We   played  
with  a  lot  of  hustle,  which  was  great,  but  
we  will   keep   pushing   ourselves   in   prac-­
tice  to  get  better  both  individually  and  as  
a  team.”
In  the  NESCAC  rankings,  Middlebury  
(3-­0-­1)  dropped  just  behind  Amherst  (4-­
0),  who  muscled  out  a  win  against  Trin-­
ity.   The   Panthers   are   still   ranked   third  
nationally,   behind   number   two   Elmira,  
who  defeated  them  last  week.
Middlebury   returns   to   the   ice   next  
Saturday  with  a  home  game  against  Cas-­
tleton  at  3  p.m.
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20
the middlebury
great  eight
8
swimming and diving 
I  know  they’re  still  training,  
but  this  ranking  was  
necessary  based  on  how  other  
teams  did.  
1
RANKING TEAM
Emily’s Excellent Eight
2
Squash
The  men’s  and  women’s  teams  
won  24  of  the  27  games  they  
played  last  weekend.
women’s hockey 
They  held  off  Conn.  College  to  
keep  a  4-­1-­1  overall  record.
3
men’s basketball
Tney  made  up  for  their  loss  to  
Skidmore  in  Tuesday’s  game.
4
6
Women’s basketball
Hopefully  they  can  bounce  
back  after  losing  to  Skidmore.
5
concussions
They  are  just  horrible.
men’s Hockey
They  also  did  well  last  
weekend,  have  lost  one  more  
game  than  the  women’s  team.
7
this weather 
I’d  really  like  it  to  snow  at  
some  point  before  I  go  home  
for  break.
By  Alex  Deutsch
Staff  Writer
By  Will  Case
Senior  Writer
49
18
Seconds   were   remaining   in   regulation  
when  Vincent  Gisonti   ’18  scored  the  game-­
tying  goal  against  Conn  College  on  Friday.
Points   on   7-­13   shooting   for   women’s  
basketball’s   Sarah   Kaufman   ’18   in   their  
loss  to  Skidmore  on  Saturday.
Victories  in  18  matches  for  the  men’s  
squash  team  on  Saturday  against  
Hamilton  and  Hobart.  
Points  for  Hockey’s  Maddie  Winslow  
’18  this  season,  good    for  a  tie  for  third  
in  the  NESCAC  so  far  this  seaoson.
20 
7
by the Numb3rs
Seconds  between  Michael  
McGean  ’17  and  the  second-­
Saturday  against  Amherst.
7.45
After  entering  the  third  period  of  both  
of  this  weekend’s  games  trailing  their  op-­
ponents,   the   Middlebury   men’s   hockey  
team  stayed  unbeaten  in  the  NESCAC  by  
coming  from  behind  to  tie  Conn.  College  
2-­2   and   defeat   Tufts   3-­2   on   Friday   and  
Saturday  Dec.  4-­5.
The   Panthers   traveled   to   Connecticut  
College  for  their  first  away  NESCAC  game  
of  the  season,  hoping  to  avenge  their  1-­0  
loss  to  the  Camels  in  the  PrimeLink  Great  
Northern  ShootOut  the  week  before.
They  struck  first  at  around  18  minutes  
into   the   first   period   when   Mark   Lyman  
’19  got   the   rebound  off  Mike  Najjar   ’17’s  
shot   and  put   it   home   for   his   first   career  
goal.
The   Camels   came   back   to   take   a   2-­1  
lead   in   the  second  period  with   two  goals  
from   Joe   Birmingham   assisted   by   Joe  
Giordano.   Birmingham   knocked   in   a   re-­
bound  just  over  halfway  through  the  peri-­
od  to  tie  the  game  and  drove  his  go-­ahead  
goal  in  from  the  slot  with  1:49  remaining  
in  the  period.
Down   2-­1   with   51   seconds   left   in   the  
contest,  Head  Coach  Neil  Sinclair  pulled  
goaltender   Liam   Moorfield-­Yee   ’16   for  
the  extra  attacker  to  try  to  tie  the  game  at  
two.  Ron   Fishman   ’16   received   the   puck  
at  the  blue  line  and  passed  it  to  Max  Gre-­
enwald   ’16.  Greenwald   sent   the  puck   to-­
wards  the  far  side  where  Vincent  Gisonti  
’18  then  redirected  it  into  the  back  of  the  
net  for  the  game-­tying  goal.
  “I  saw  Vinny  on  the  back  door,”  Gre-­
enwald  said.  “I  shot  it  at  his  stick,  he  de-­
flected  it  and  it  went  in.”
The   game   went   to   overtime,   but   nei-­
ther  team  could  score  and  the  game  end-­
ed   in   a   2-­2   tie.   Moorfield-­Yee   made   35  
saves   to  move   to   0-­1-­1   for   the   season   in  
his  second  consecutive  start,  while  Conn  
College’s  Jonah  Conlin,  after  shutting  out  
the  Panthers  last  game,  saved  36  shots.
Middlebury  was  back  on  the  ice  the  fol-­
lowing  night  at  Tufts.  Neither  team  could  
get  it  going  offensively  in  the  first  period,  
and  it  ended  tied  at  zero.
At  the  9:34  mark  of  the  second  period,  
Gisonti  was  whistled   for   a   tripping   pen-­
alty,  giving  the  Jumbos  a  one-­man  advan-­
tage.   Tufts’  Nick  Balboa   drove   home   his  
first  career  goal  1:14   into   the  power  play  
to   move   his   team   ahead   1-­0.   Less   than  
two   minutes   later,   Stephen   Bell   fired   a  
shot  and  careened  in  to  punch  his  own  re-­
bound  into  the  net.
For  the  second  straight  game,  the  Pan-­
thers’   opponent   outscored   them   2-­0   in  
the  second  period  to  take  a   lead   into  the  
final  20  minutes  of  regulation.
“In  both  games  we  had  a  strong  start,  
a   bad   second   period,   and   a   great   third  
period,”   Greenwald   said.   “We   can   defi-­
nitely   improve   our   second   period.   We  
have  come  out  and  played  down  to  other  
teams’  levels.”
Greenwald   took  matters   into   his   own  
hands   at   the   beginning   of   the   third   pe-­
riod.  2:40  in,  he  got  to  a  loose  puck  first  
and   skated   towards   the  net  before   firing  
one  past  the  Tufts  netminder  for  the  Pan-­
thers’  first  goal  of  the  game  and  his  first  of  
the  season.  Paul  Falvey  ’16  tied  the  game  
four  minutes  later,  sneaking  his  shot  from  
the  circle  just  under  the  crossbar.
With   a   little   over   one   minute   left   in  
regulation,   Zach   Haggerty   ’16   gathered  
the   puck   in   the   neutral   zone   and   sped  
into  the  Tufts  zone.  He  ripped  a  shot  that  
Tufts   goalie   Nik   Nugnes   blocked,   but   it  
rebounded   to   Cameron   Romoff   ’17,   who  
beat  Nugnes  for  the  game-­winning  goal.
The  Panthers  outshot  the  Jumbos  20-­
10  in  the  third  period  and  52-­35  overall.
Stephen  Klein   ’18   got   the   start   in   net  
for   Middlebury   and   made   33   saves,   in-­
cluding   a   couple   after   Romoff’s   goal   to  
preserve  the  lead,  to  move  to  2-­1-­1  on  the  
season.
“[Klein]  has  been  playing  great  for  us,”  
Greenwald   said.   “Both   guys   [Klein   and  
Moorfield]  have  been  playing  well.  I  think  
coach  sees  that  and  is  rewarding  both  of  
them  for  their  hard  work  and  their  great  
play.”
With   the   win,   the   Panthers   move   to  
2-­2-­2  overall   and  2-­0-­2   in   the  NESCAC.  
They  will   put   their  undefeated   record   in  
the   conference   on   the   line   this  weekend  
when   they   travel   to  Hamilton   and   fifth-­
ranked  Amherst  on  Friday  and  Saturday  
Dec.  11-­12.
december 10, 2015| 19SPORTS
Lord Jeffs outswim Middlebury in first dual meet on road
Middlebury   men’s   and   women’s   swim-­
ming   and   diving   traveled   to   Amherst   Col-­
lege’s  Pratt  Pool  last  Saturday,  Dec.  5  to  race  
of   the   season.   Both   the   Panther   men   and  
women  fell  to  their  hosts,  emerging  from  the  
meet  with  very  similar  scores  of  173.5-­111  and  
177.5-­111.5,  respectively.
“Dual   meets   are   always   a   great   oppor-­
tunity   to  get  up  and  race  while  we’re   in   the  
middle  of  our  training,”  women’s  co-­Captain  
Lily  Sawyer  ’16  said.
Isabel  Wyer  ’18,  Liza  MacCowatt  ’19,  Me-­
for   the  200  medley   relay,   and   their   time  of  
1:50.50   secured   second   place   for   the   Pan-­
thers.
less   than   three   seconds   behind   Amherst’s  
1000  free.
touching  the  wall  just  0.12  and  0.07  seconds  
behind  the  top  two  Amherst  swimmers,  while  
-­
breaking  0.16  seconds  behind  Lord  Jeff  Char-­
-­
ish  for  the  Panthers.
Wyer  left  her  competitors  in  the  200  free  
Stimson   touched   the   wall   just   1.10   sec-­
’19   captured   third   in   the   IM  event  with  her  
2:18.48-­second  swim.
long  time  last  year,  so  they  came  back  with  a  
vengeance,”  said  Maddie  Pierce  ’16,  Sawyer’s  
co-­captain.  “[However,]  we  came  off  a  tough  
week  of  training,  and  the  team  performed  re-­
ally  well  given  that.”
Wyer  later  won  the  400  free  relay  in  a  com-­
bined  time  of  3:41.96.
-­
plained   that   “Coach  Rueppel   sees  meets   as  
extensions  of  training,  so  our  goal  was  to  race  
hard,  have  fun  and  not  worry  about  times.”
On   the  men’s   side,   the   Panthers’   ‘A’   en-­
try   —   made   up   of   Paul   Lagasse   ’16,   Jack  
McLaughlin  ’18,  Brendan  Leech  ’19  and  Bry-­
an  Cheuk  ’16  —  won  the  400  free  relay  with  a  
time  of  3:14.04.
Individually,   Michael   McGean   ’17   tied  
Lord  Jeff  Connor  Haley  to  win  the  1000  free  
-­
in  the  men’s  500  free.  McGean  sealed  his  win  
by  7.45  seconds  with  a  time  of  4:50.94,  while  
Rosenthal   rounded   out   the   podium   with   a  
5:00.90.  
Connor  McCormick   ’18  won   the  200  IM  
with  a  time  of  2:04.03.
Cheuk’s  21.86   in   the  50   free  earned  him  
seconds  after  the  winner,  and  his  48.84  in  the  
100  free  secured  him  second  in  that  race.
Leech  and  Andy  Grant  ’17  earned  overall  
points  for  Middlebury,  swimming  a  2:02.84  
in   the  200  backstroke  and  a  2:05.66   in   the  
200  IM  respectively  to  place  second  in  each  
of  those  events.
In   the   diving   portion   of   the   meet,   both  
-­
board  to  earn  points  for  the  Panthers,  while  
DeNunzio  led  the  competition  in  the  3-­meter  
“Overall,   both   the   women’s   and   men’s  
teams  had   great   swims   this   past  weekend,”  
NESCAC  rival.”
-­
tices  a  few  weeks  ago,  Head  Coach  Bob  Ruep-­
pel   pointed   out   that,   “Not   looking   too   far  
ahead  is  the  key  with  such  a  long  season.”
“Right  now,  [we]  are  focused  on  putting  in  
the  work  for  the  last  few  weeks  on  campus  be-­
fore  we  head  off  to  Florida  for  training  camp  
[in  late  December  and  early  January],”  Pierce  
said.
Before   the   teams   leave   campus   for   their  
short   winter   break,   the   Panthers   will   host  
season  this  Saturday,  Dec.  12  at  1  p.m.
Men’s Hockey Stages Two NESCAC Comebacks
80-63 L
2-1 (OT)W 
3-2 W 
9-0 W
 men’s basketball   vs.  Skidmore  
men’s ice hockey vs.  Conn.  College
women’s ice hockey vs.  Conn.  College
Men’s squash vs.  Colby
panther sc0reboard
Women’s basketball vs.  Skidmore     60-63 L
This   new   team   is   still  working  
out   some   of   the   kinks,   clear   in  
A  clutch  goal  with   less   than  a  
minute  left  on  the  clock  earned  
a  comeback  victory.
Early  signs  of  concern  for  the  
Panthers.
Not  quite  the  5-­1  performance  
from  pre-­season,  but  still  solid  
from  the  Lady  Panthers.    
a  scared  Hamilton  team.
YES
are  really  lowering  my  effort  in  ed’s  
picks.
MCCAFFREY
I  have  never  heard  of  any  of  these  
people  so  I’m  just  copying  Rigas.
YES
If  I  said  no,  there  would  probably  be  
serious  repercussions.  (You  know  
NO
I  dare  to  be  different.  Peace  out  
all,  have  a  great  break.
editors’ picks
YES
Home  court  advantage!
HENRY
I  really  don’t  follow  football  closely  
enough  to  know  these  things.
YES
I  mean,  that’s  11  games.  I’d  be  very  
surprised  if  they  won  all  of  them.
YES
They  won  this  meet  last  year  too.
Emily Bustard (51-58, .468)
Joe macdonald (74-86, .463)
Alex Morris (81-78, .509)
Andrew Rigas (24-15, .615)
Women’s Basketball:
Will the Panthers (3-1) win their 
home opener vs. Plattsburgh St. 
(4-2) on Friday?
NBA pick’em: Do the Warriors 
lose over winter break?
CFB pick’em: Does Deshaun 
Watson, Derrick Henry, or 
Christian McCaffrey win the 
Heisman on Saturday night?
Men’s Swimming: Can Midd       
Saturday)?
YES
Things  are  moving  in  the  right  
direction  for  the  program.  Unlike  
my  editor’s  picks  that  will  never  
recover.
HENRY
Always  go  with  ’Bama.  But  don’t  
draft  him.  Crimson  Tide  backs  don’t  
usually  fare  well.
YES
Just  swim  better.
NO
But  they  WILL  lose  before!  
Friday,  Dec.  11  at  Boston.  And  
C’s  again  in  April.
YES
I  hope  Pepin  Gym  is  rockin’  for  the  
home  opener.
MCCAFFREY
The  guy  just  broke  Barry  Sanders’  
single  season  all-­purpose  yards  
record  for  pete’s  sake.
YES
This  is  as  good  a  chance  as  it’s  
gonna  get  for  them.
YES
Although,  my  bet  is  on  them  
breaking  the  Bulls’  win  record.
By  Andrew  Rigas
Sports  Editor
By  Emily  Bustard
Sports  Editor
The  Middlebury  men’s   basket-­
ball   team  has  begun   to   claw   their  
way   back   towards   a   .500   record  
by   stomping   Johnson   St.   for   the  
-­
day,  Dec.  3   and  beating  Castleton  
St.   in   Middlebury’s   home   opener  
on   Tuesday,   Dec.   8,   sandwiched  
at  Skidmore  on  Saturday,  Dec.  5,  to  
Middlebury   once   again  had   an  
easy  time  dispatching  the  Badgers  
of  Johnson  St.,  using  its  consider-­
-­
bounding  a  winless  Johnson  team  
of   the  gate   for  Middlebury,  as   the  
Panthers  jumped  out  to  a  7-­0  lead  
pointer   from   leading   scorer   Matt  
The  Panthers   scored  50  points  
in  the  second  half  on  the  way  to  a  
-­
-­
ing   and   5-­7   from   beyond   the   arc.  
eight  boards.
Middlebury’s   next   contest   at  
Skidmore,   who   beat   NESCAC  
-­
ment  and  returned  two  All-­League  
players   including   Co-­Liberty  
League   Player   of   the   Year   Aldin  
tougher.   The   Panthers   caught   a  
break  with  Medunjanin  out  for  the  
-­
come  the  Thoroughbreds.
Panthers  went  into  halftime  with  a  
The   Thoroughbreds   began   the  
the  lead  by  one,  lost  it  on  a  couple  
of   layups   from  McCord   and  Hilal  
Volpe   drained   a   three-­pointer   to  
Skidmore   kept   Middlebury  
at   bay   for   the   rest   of   the   game,  
left,  but  failing  to  put  the  Panthers  
away.
The  Thoroughbreds   led  by   just  
fed   Dahleh   for   a   three-­pointer   to  
exactly  one  minute  to  play.  At  the  
Rupkus  hit  a  pair  of  free  throws  to  
go  back  up  by   four.  The  Panthers  
missed.   Daley   was   able   to   corral  
the  rebound  and  put  it  back  up  and  
in,   drawing   the   Panthers   within  
two  once  again.  Rupkus  once  again  
-­
other  pair  of  free  throws  for  Skid-­
more.   Middlebury   closed   the   gap  
play   the   old-­fashioned   way,  mak-­
ing  a  lay  up  and  calmly  sinking  the  
free  throw,  but  Skidmore  just  could  
not   miss   from   the   line,   as   point  
guard  Royce  Paris  made  two  more  
free  throws  for  the  Thoroughbreds.  
to  make  a   layup  to  make  it  78-­77,  
but  once  again  it  was  Rupkus  who  
made   two   more   free   throws   to  
left,   the  Panthers  needed  a   three-­
pointer,  but  the  last-­ditch  attempt  
missed   the   mark,   and   Skidmore  
sank  two  more  free  throws  to  close  
had   down   the   stretch   to   get   a  
seconds,”  Head  Coach  Jeff  Brown  
said.   “Our   group   plays   with   grit  
and  determination.”
The   Panthers   coasted   to   their  
fourth   win   of   the   season   with   a  
fastbreak  points.
“We   weren’t   as   successful   as  
we  wanted   to  be   in  our   transition  
game   [against   Skidmore],”   Coach  
Brown  said.
eight  assists  to  the  mix.  St.  Amour  
continued   his   hot   shooting   with  
four   three-­pointers,   including   a  
75-­footer   right   before   halftime,  
Middlebury  plays  just  one  more  
game   before   the   long   Christmas  
The   Middlebury   women’s  
two-­game   homestand   against  
Connecticut   College   this   week-­
end   at   Chip  Kenyon   ’85  Arena,  
  On  Friday  night,  Middlebury  
-­
Middlebury   controlled   the  
ice  but  not   the  scoreboard  dur-­
ing   the   first   period,   putting  
goal   but  making   none   of   them.  
shots   during   a   Panther   power  
sent   back-­to-­back   shots   a  min-­
ute   later,   but   the   Connecticut  
netminder  let  none  through.
The  Camels  scored  first,   just  
before   the   end   of   the   period.  
The   Panthers   responded   early  
in  the  next  period  when  Maddie  
-­
the   lead   with   a   shot   from   the  
right.
Conn   College   answered   late  
in   the   third   period   with   a   goal  
on   the   rebound   to   tie   the  game  
loose  puck   in   the  high   slot   and  
sent   a   rocket   to   the   upper   cor-­
ner   of   the   net,   securing   a   win.  
Watson   came  off   the   ice  with   a  
goal  and  two  assists  for  the  Pan-­
thers.
   “The   game   was   a   back   and  
forth   battle   in   regards   to   scor-­
ing,   with   both   teams   capital-­
izing   on   momentum   shifts,”  
a  really  good  job  of  maintaining  
possession   and   controlling   the  
-­
ing   for   being   the   beginning   of  
team.”
   The  Camels   could   not   capi-­
talize   on   any   of   their   three  
power   plays.   The   Middlebury  
throughout  the  game,  taking  33  
shots  on  goal  compared  to  Con-­
   On   Saturday,   the   Panthers  
game  for  both  teams.
Middlebury   dominated   the  
first   period,   leading   Connecti-­
shots   into  a  goal.  The  Panthers  
-­
but   Connecticut’s   goalie,   Kath-­
erine  Chester,  stopped  both.
  Each  of  the  teams  scored  its  
goal   in   the   second   period,   two  
minutes  apart   from  each  other.  
The   Camels   were   first   on   the  
scoreboard   with   a   shot   by   Lily  
-­
-­
tempt  that  was  blocked  by  Con-­
necticut’s   netminder,   but   Kelly  
20
MEN’S AND WOMEN’S 
SWIMMING FALLS TO 
AMHERST IN DUAL 
MEET
PAGE 19
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
LOSES FIRST GAME OF THE 
SEASON ON THE ROAD AT 
SKIDMORE.
PAGE 18
Women’s  Hockey  
Defeats  Camels
in
sid
e
sp
or
ts
Last gasp
Jeff Patterson
sports
Men’s Basketball Bests VT Rivals
-­
SEE WOMEN’S HOCKEY, PAGE 18
By  Joe  MacDonald
Sports  Editor
By  Ethan  Brady
Senior  Writer
